56 Directors Remuneration Report Continued Set out below in full is the Policy Report which was approved by shareholders at the AGM on 8 May 2014.
The Policy Report has been included for reference purposes and has been printed verbatim from last years report.
The information contained in it is therefore accurate as at 6 March 2014.
The Committees intention is to put its Policy to a binding vote every three years, unless there are any changes requiring shareholder approval.
To determine the elements and level of remuneration Policy Report appropriate for each Executive Director, the Committee Executive Directors considers benchmark remuneration data for selected Policy Effective Date comparable companies and seeks to ensure that an This section describes the Committees policy on the appropriately significant proportion of potential pay is remuneration of Directors.
The policy will be put to performance related and that total pay opportunity is shareholders for approval at our AGM in May 2014 and will consistent with appropriate superior levels of pay for come into effect from the date of the AGM.
intends that this policy will remain in effect for a period of three years unless there are changes requiring shareholder The policy of the Committee is to set performance conditions approval.
Following approval at the AGM, remuneration for annual bonuses and long-term incentives which are payments and payment for loss of office to Directors can only appropriately stretching but fair given the environment be made if they are consistent with this policy or otherwise in which the Group operates and internal and approved by an ordinary resolution of the shareholders.
Current Policy on Remuneration While the Boards normal practice is to operate within the The objective of the Groups remuneration policy is that above parameters, it will take account of individual Executive Directors should receive appropriate remuneration circumstances and tailor remuneration packages accordingly.
for their performance, responsibility, skills and experience.
In cases of material variance, it would seek to take account of Remuneration packages are designed to enable the Group to major shareholders views.
attract and retain key employees by ensuring they are remunerated appropriately and competitively and that they Executive Directors remuneration currently comprises an are motivated to achieve the highest level of Group annual salary, a performance-related bonus, a share-based performance in line with the best interests of shareholders.
long-term incentive scheme, pension contributions and other They are also structured with due regard of risk so no Director benefits as explained below.
is encouraged to take inappropriate risks because of the level of potential variable rewards.
The table summarises the policy for each element of pay: Element and Link to Strategy Maximum Operation Basic Salary To provide a core level of Salaries may be adjusted and any Executive Directors salary levels are agreed on joining and thereafter 1 remuneration to enable the increase will ordinarily be in reviewed annually on 1 July each year.
Company to attract and retain percentage terms in line with skilled, high-calibre executives those across the Group.
The Committee considers both the nature and the status of the to deliver its strategy.
Companys operations and the responsibilities, skills, experience and Percentage increases beyond performance of each Executive Director.
The Committee compares the those granted to the wider Groups remuneration packages for its Executive Directors and workforce may be awarded in employees with those for Directors and employees of similar seniority in certain circumstances such as companies whose activities are comparable with the Group.
The where there is a change in Committee also takes into account the progress made by the Group, responsibility, progression in the contractual considerations and salary increases across the rest of the 2 role, experience or a significant Group which for 2013 were generally around 3%.
increase in the scale of the role and or size, value and or complexity of the Group.
1 Given the new arrangements put in place for Executive Directors in relation to the combination with Cinema City International, no salary increases will be made in July 2014.
2 Stephen Wiener has a contractual right to an annual salary increase in line with RPI, which was in place prior to the Companys listing in 2007.
Going forward, and in respect of new appointments, it is the Committees policy not to agree any guaranteed minimum increases.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 57 Element and Link to Strategy Maximum Operation Pension To provide market-competitive Monthly employer contribution of All employees, including Executive Directors, are invited to participate retirement benefits.
20% of basic salary or in the form in a Group Personal Pension Plan which is a money purchase plan.
Company contribution for Executive Directors is 20% of base salary.
Executive Directors may choose to opt out of the Group scheme and instead receive a cash pension allowance equivalent to 20% of base salary.
The Companys pension contribution may be conditional on the Executive Director contributing up to 5% of his base salary to the pension scheme.
Executives may make pension contributions under salary sacrifice arrangement.
Savings as a result of such an arrangement may be shared with the Executive Director in the form of an additional pension contribution.
Other Benefits To provide market-competitive The cost to the Group of providing Benefits in kind for Executive Directors currently include the provision benefits and support the health such benefits will vary from year of a company car or car allowance, private mileage, life insurance, and safety of individuals.
to year in accordance with the permanent health insurance, private medical cover and, for the Chief cost of insuring such benefits.
Benefits are tailored to the individual circumstances of Directors to ensure that overall packages are attractive and additional benefits may be introduced where appropriate.
A limited flexible benefits scheme operates for all employees including Directors and the intention is to expand it over a period of time.
Annual Bonus To incentivise the annual Maximum opportunity for The level of bonus is based primarily on overall Group performance in delivery of financial and Executive Directors of 100% meeting its primary financial objectives in EBITDA for the financial operational targets.
The level of bonus is determined by a matrix of budgeted EBITDA and personal performance levels.
The weighting of measures is circa 80% budgeted EBITDA and 20% personal performance.
The Committee seeks to ensure that the budget is challenging and so there is a clear link between the short-term Group performance and payout under the arrangements.
No bonus is payable if a minimum threshold of 90% 2012: 95% of budgeted EBITDA is not achieved.
At this level assuming good performance against individual objectives, a bonus of 30% of maximum opportunity would be payable.
The maximum bonus level is only payable if both 110% of budgeted EBITDA and exceptional performance against individual objectives was achieved.
The personal element is determined by the achievement of individual strategic objectives, which vary year from year to ensure that objectives are aligned with the business plan.
Individual objectives vary from year to year but our policy is to set goals which relate to the achievement of the business strategy.
Examples include ensuring a strong pipeline of new cinema sites and maintaining good financial controls.
The choice of these measures reflects the Committees belief that any incentive compensation should be tied both to the overall performance of the Group and to those areas of the business that the relevant individual can directly influence.
The performance measures and targets are reviewed annually to ensure alignment to strategy.
Bonuses are paid in cash following the approval of the Group Annual Report.
Where a Director leaves and is considered a good leaver, he will be paid on the usual payment date a proportion of any bonus entitlement, which would have otherwise accrued, reflecting that part of the bonus period which was actually worked.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 58 Directors Remuneration Report Continued Element and Link to Strategy Maximum Operation The Cineworld Group Performance Share Plan PSP To encourage sustainable The maximum award to an Annual awards of conditional shares or nil-cost options are made to profitability over a period of individual in any year under the Executive Directors and members of the Senior Management Team at time aligned to the overall plan rules is 200% of base salary.
the discretion of the Committee.
objective of achieving sustainable growth.
However, the Remuneration Awards may vest after three years subject to continuing employment Committee does not currently and the achievement of stretching three-year EPS growth performance intend that awards to Executive conditions which are aligned with the Groups strategy of delivering Directors should exceed 150% of long-term growth.
The Committee will review and calibrate the EPS growth targets on an If it is considering changing this annual basis for each award to ensure they are sufficiently stretching in approach, it will consult with key light of both internal and external performance expectations.
Threshold shareholders before doing so.
performance is generally intended to align to the performance of the relevant market and or our competitors level.
If the stretch performance level is achieved, we would expect to have significantly out-performed the relevant market and for term and against our competitors.
At the threshold performance level, 30% of an award will vest.
At the stretch level of performance, 100% of an award will vest.
Between these levels, vesting will be determined on a straight-line basis.
On vesting, participants will also receive additional shares or a cash sum equivalent to the dividends that would have been paid on the vested shares in respect of dividend record dates occurring between grant and vesting.
At the discretion of the Committee, each participant in the PSP may have a proportional part of their PSP award replaced by an HMRC approved share option granted under the Cineworld Group Company Share Option Plan CSOP, up to the maximum value of options permitted by legislation currently 30,000.
Such awards are subject to identical performance vesting conditions as the PSP shares they replace.
The conditions applicable to awards may be varied in exceptional circumstances following the grant of an award so as to achieve their original purpose, but not so as to make their achievement any more or less difficult to satisfy.
Awards may also be adjusted to reflect corporate events, such as rights issues, to maintain a holders position, but not so as to enhance it.
It is the Committees intention to settle awards in shares, but the plan rules allow for flexibility to settle in cash if required.
Where vesting of any award granted would result in the Greidinger family the family of the new CEO and COO controlling shares carrying 30% or more of the voting rights of the Company then the Committee may instead make a cash payment equal to the market value of the shares comprised in the vested award.
The Cineworld Group Sharesave Scheme To enable Group employees to The maximum saving level Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Sharesave Scheme, become Cineworld is 250 a month over a which is an HM Revenue and Customs approved scheme open to all shareholders, encouraging three-year term.
employees of nominated Group companies.
alignment and rewarding for Group performance.
Under the Sharesave Scheme, employees are eligible to acquire shares in the Company at a discount of up to 20% of the market value at grant if they agree to enter into a savings contract for a three-year period.
Consistent with the relevant legislation, no performance conditions apply.
3 As a result of the combination with the cinema business of Cinema City International N. V. and in recognition of the increased size and international complexity of the combined business, the Committee has determined to increase the annual award level under the PSP for Executive Directors from 100% to 150% of salary.
Major shareholders have been consulted in relation to the adjustment of PSP award levels.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 59 Element and Link to Strategy Maximum Operation Share Ownership Guidelines To provide alignment between N A Each Executive Director is expected to build up, over a period of time, Executive Directors a holding in shares equal to 100% of their base salary.
In order to achieve this level of shareholding, Executive Directors are expected to retain 50% of any shares they acquire under the PSP or on the exercise of options, after allowing for the sale of shares to pay tax and other deductions, until such time as they have built up such a holding.
For the purposes of these guidelines, only beneficially owned shares will count towards the holding.
In any ten-year period, the number of shares which may be Satisfaction of Share Options and Share Awards issued under the PSP and under any employees share or Awards under the PSP, the Sharesave Scheme and the CSOP option scheme established by the Company may not described in the table above can be satisfied using new issue exceed 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the shares, shares held in treasury or shares purchased in the Company from time to time.
market in conjunction with the Cineworld Group Employee Benefit Trust the Trust, established by the Company on 24 March 2006 with independent trustees based in Jersey.
Resulting Total Pay Levels Under Different Scenarios If new issue shares are used, the following limits will be followed: The chart below illustrates how the potential future compensation of each of the Executive Directors may vary In any ten-year period, the number of shares which may be at different levels of performance and the percentage each issued under the PSP and under any other executive share or element may form together with the possible total value.
option scheme established by the Company may not exceed 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company from time to time.
2.5m 2,098,215 39% 2.0m 1,447,662 1.5m 1,407,662 1,337,382 39% 40% 19% 26% 27% 1.0m 928,912 888,912 18% 26% 19% 723,215 27% 27% 100% 54% 35% 28% 510,162 470,162 0.5m 100% 55% 35% 100% 53% 33% 0m Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum CEO COO CFO Fixed Elements Short-Term Variable Element Long-Term Variable Element For the purpose of this chart, the following assumptions have Fixed elements comprise base salary, pension and been made: other benefits.
Benefits levels are assumed to be the same as in 2013.
The base salary, bonus opportunity and PSP award levels For target performance, assumptions of bonus payout of are those for the Executive Directors following completion 67% of maximum and threshold vesting 30% for PSP have of the combination with the cinema business of Cinema been made.
City International N. V. as set out on page 58 of the 2013 No share price increase has been assumed.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 60 Directors Remuneration Report Continued For an internal appointment, any variable pay element Recruitment Remuneration Policy awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay New Executive Directors will generally be appointed on out according to its terms, adjusted as relevant to take into remuneration packages with the same structure and account the appointment.
In addition, any other ongoing elements as described in the policy table above.
On remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment appointment, base salary level will be set taking into account may continue.
a range of factors including market levels, experience, internal relativities and cost.
Annual bonus opportunity will be no Shareholders will be informed of any Director appointment greater than 100% of salary and the normal maximum award and the individuals remuneration arrangements as soon as under the PSP will be 150% of salary.
practicable following the appointment via an announcement to the regulatory news services and on our website.
For external appointments, although we have no plans to offer additional benefits, cash and or share-based elements on recruitment, the Committee reserves the right to do so Service Contracts when it considers this to be in the best interests of the The Groups policy in entering into service contracts with Company and shareholders.
Such payments will take account Executive Directors is to enable the recruitment of high-quality of remuneration relinquished when leaving the former executives and to obtain protection from their sudden employer and, to the extent possible, would reflect the nature, departure, whether or not to competitor companies.
In time horizons and performance requirements attaching to addition, service contracts are an important element in that remuneration.
If it is necessary in the circumstances, the maintaining protection for the Groups business and its Committee reserves the right to offer a longer initial notice commercially sensitive information.
In such a circumstance, this would reduce to a notice period of no greater than 12 months after A summary of the key terms of the Executive Directors the initial period.
The Committee may agree that the Company service contracts is set out below: will meet certain relocation expenses as appropriate or pay a disturbance allowance.
1 2 2 Stephen Wiener Philip Bowcock Moshe Greidinger Israel Greidinger Date of Contract 23 April 2007 16 November 2011 27 February 2014 27 February 2014 3 Notice Period 12 months 6 months 12 months 6 months Base salary Remuneration Base salary Base Salary Base salary Pension contribution Cash in lieu of Pension contribution Pension contribution Company car or Company car pension contribution Company car or and driver Car allowance car allowance car allowance Entitlement to Entitlement to Entitlement to Entitlement to participate in annual participate in annual participate in annual participate in annual bonus scheme bonus scheme bonus scheme bonus scheme Life assurance cover Life assurance cover Disturbance allowance Disturbance allowance Life assurance cover Life assurance cover Medical insurance Medical insurance Permanent health Permanent health Medical insurance Medical insurance Permanent health Permanent health insurance insurance insurance insurance Termination Company has right to Company has right to Company has right to Company has right to terminate on payment terminate on payment terminate on payment terminate on payment on pre-agreed basis on pre-agreed basis on pre-agreed basis on pre-agreed basis Non-Competition During employment and During employment and During employment and During employment and for 12 months thereafter for 6 months thereafter for 12 months thereafter for 6 months thereafter 1 Stephen Wiener resigned as CEO and a Director on the completion of the combination with the cinema operations of Cinema City International N. V. on 27 February 2014.
2 Appointed on the completion of the combination with the cinema operations of Cinema City International N. V. on 27 February 2014.
3 The Groups policy is to have notice periods for Executive Directors which are between 6 and 12 months.
The Executive Directors are, under the terms of their service contracts, entitled to an annual review of their base salary each year.
In the case of Stephen Wiener, a minimum increase in line with RPI had to be made.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 61 B.
Under the CSOP: Loss of Office Policy An option will normally lapse upon a participant leaving the The Companys policy is to endeavour to minimise any employment of the Group.
However, if a participant leaves payment on early termination by insisting on mitigation of the Group by reason of death, injury, ill health, disability, any loss where possible.
To allow the Company to terminate redundancy, retirement as at or after reaching 55 years an Executive Directors employment contract legally so it under Part A of the CSOP or any other reason as determined would not face a claim for wrongful termination although a by the Remuneration Committee or if the company or claim for unfair dismissal could still exist, its policy is to business for which he works ceases to be part of the Group, pre-agree arrangements which would apply on termination.
then unless the Remuneration Committee in its absolute Only the Company has the right to trigger such arrangements discretion otherwise determines, his option will become and it has complete discretion as to whether it does.
exercisable when he leaves on a reduced basis taking into account only that part of the three-year performance period Under the terms of their contracts, the Company may, in lieu which has elapsed.
An option, to the extent it becomes of giving notice, terminate an Executive Directors service exercisable, may be exercised during the period of six months contract by making a payment equivalent to 95% in the case after which, to the extent unexercised, the option shall lapse of Stephen Wiener and 100% in the case of the other automatically.
Executive Directors of base salary and contractual benefits for the notice period.
In this event, the Executive Director In the event of a change of control, scheme of arrangement would not be entitled to any bonus for the unworked portion or winding-up of the Company all options will vest to the of his notice period, but would be eligible for a pro rata bonus extent that any performance targets have, in the opinion of for the period up to the date of the termination of his contract.
the Remuneration Committee, been satisfied at that time, on a reduced basis taking into account only that part of the Where an Executive Director works their notice, pension, three-year performance period which has elapsed unless the benefits and bonus will continue to accrue as normal up until Remuneration Committee in its absolute discretion otherwise the date of the termination.
Any bonus entitlement will be determines.
Such options become exercisable for a limited paid as normal on a prorated basis.
Alternatively in the case of a takeover, with the agreement of the acquiring company, the participants may Leaving arrangements under the Share and Share Option exchange their options for equivalent options to acquire Schemes vary: shares in the acquiring company or its parent company.
Under the PSP: C. Under the Sharesave Scheme: An award will normally lapse upon a participant leaving the An option granted may normally not be exercised until the employment of the Group unless the Remuneration option holder has completed their savings contract and then Committee in its absolute discretion otherwise determines.
not more than six months thereafter.
However, if a participant Any such discretion would only be applied by the Committee leaves the Group by reason of death, injury, ill health, to good leavers where it considers that continued disability, redundancy, retirement on reaching 60 years or participation is justified by reference to past performance to any other contractual retirement age or if the company or the date of leaving or because of the prevailing business for which he works ceases to be part of the Group, circumstances.
In such cases, the award would become the option will become exercisable.
An option, to the extent it exercisable on the original vesting date on a reduced basis becomes exercisable, may be exercised during the period of taking into account only that part of the three-year six months 12 months in the case of death after which, to performance period which has elapsed and subject to the the extent unexercised, the option will lapse automatically.
satisfaction of performance conditions unless the Remuneration Committee determines other arrangements In the event of a change of control, scheme of arrangement are justified.
and or a winding-up of the Company, options may be exercised for a limited period of time.
Alternatively in the case In the event of a change of control, scheme of arrangement of a takeover, with the agreement of the acquiring company, or winding-up of the Company all awards will vest to the the participants may exchange their options for equivalent extent that any performance targets have, in the opinion of options to acquire shares in the acquiring company or its the Remuneration Committee, been satisfied at that time, on parent company.
a reduced basis taking into account only that part of the three-year performance period which has elapsed unless the Remuneration Committee in its absolute discretion otherwise determines.
An award, to the extent it becomes exercisable, may be exercised during the period of one month after which, to the extent unexercised, the award will lapse.
Alternatively, with the agreement of the acquiring company, the participants may exchange their awards for equivalent options to acquire shares in the acquiring company or its parent company.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 62 Directors Remuneration Report Continued Non-Executive Directors Letters of Appointment The dates of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors and their notice periods are as follows: Director Date of appointment Notice period Anthony Bloom Chairman 7 October 2004 1 month Martina King 2 July 2010 1 month David Maloney 22 May 2006 1 month Thomas McGrath 16 May 2005 1 month Rick Senat 2 July 2010 1 month Peter Williams 22 May 2006 1 month 1 Scott Rosenblum 27 February 2014 1 month 1 Arni Samuelsson 27 February 2014 1 month 1 Appointed on the completion of the combination with the cinema operations of Cinema City International N. V. on 27 February 2014.
The Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, do not Consideration of Employment Conditions have service contracts with the Company.
The terms and Elsewhere in the Company conditions of their appointment as Non-Executive Directors When considering salary increases for the Executive are set out in letters of appointment, which are subject to the Directors, the Committee takes into account average levels provisions of the Articles of Association.
of increase awarded to employees generally.
Salary increases will normally be broadly in line with those for other employees.
It is the Boards policy that the appointment of each Non-Executive Director is terminable on a short notice unless The Committee does not formally consult employees in their appointment is terminated by a resolution of the relation to remuneration policy for the Executive Directors.
shareholders in general meeting or if they fail to be re-elected However, the Company regularly carries out engagement by shareholders in general meeting when it aims to ensure no surveys which enable employees to share their views notice is necessary.
The Companys policy is that Non-Executive Directors receive Consideration of Shareholder Views in a fixed fee for their services as members of the Board and its Committees.
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in Developing Policy the Companys share incentives or otherwise receive The Committee is grateful that shareholders have been performance-related pay but may receive reimbursement for supportive of its policy in the past.
As appropriate, the travel and incidental costs incurred in furtherance of Committee will continue to engage and communicate with Company business.
shareholders regarding Cineworlds remuneration policy and take suitable action when required.
The level of fees is determined by the Board after taking into account appropriate advice except in the case of the In the last year, the Committee considered feedback from Chairman whose level of fee is determined by the some shareholders in relation to the setting of performance Remuneration Committee, in line with prevailing market targets for PSP awards.
For awards in 2013, it was decided to conditions and at a level that will attract individuals with the increase the thresholds for lower and upper end vesting from necessary experience and ability to make a significant those used for previous awards and to express targets in contribution to the Companys affairs.
No Director excess of RPI.
participates in discussions relating to the setting of his or her own remuneration.
Fee levels are reviewed on an annual basis.
Where a Non-Executive Director does not serve until the end of his or her term, the policy is to pay the fees due pro rata to the date of cessation.
By order of the Board Peter Williams Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 12 March 2015 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
