Strategic report Governance Financial statements James Fisher and Sons plc Strategy Strategy The Groups strategy is to leverage marine skills in areas of specialist expertise to a global market.
The Group has a range of entrepreneurially led businesses which are market leaders in their specific operational niche.
Our businesses operate in demanding environments where strong marine service and specialist engineering skills are valued and rewarded.
Our focus is to provide solutions to our customers in the less mature and fast growing markets where they value trusted and quality suppliers.
Our businesses providing such specialist services are expected to: be cash generative: have operating margins in excess of 10%: and provide returns on capital employed in excess of 15%.
Bolt-on acquisitions broaden the range of products and services that we provide.
Our acquisition strategy has focused on niche businesses with a strong entrepreneurial culture which fit well with our operating style and growth strategy.
As a cash generative Group with a strong balance sheet, businesses are usually acquired using existing cash resources.
Corvette warships In 2007James Fisher Marine Services JFMS signed a six month contract to look after three corvette warships at Barrow-in-Furness docks and prepare them for sale.
The ships were still under JFMS care seven years later, when in August 2014, the three 95-metre warships set sail for Indonesia to serve in that countrys navy.
Throughout this period JFMS has maintained the warships in a state of hot lay-up leaving a reduced crew in place to keep all systems running on minimum power, and taken them on demonstration sea voyages for potential buyers.
Since 2007, the warships had become a familiar part of the Cumbrian sky-line and more recently, a large accommodation unit and training facility was established by JFMS to cater for the influx of Indonesian Navy representatives during the transfer process, prior to the ships departure.
Arthur Todd, Corvette project director, commented: Were very proud to have been involved in a project of this scale and of how weve been able to extend JFMSs expertise into so many diverse areas, from caring for state-ofthe-art defence technology to the wellbeing of 160 overseas personnel.
