James Fisher and Sons plc Business model Business model Our business model comprises a number of high quality niche businesses offering a range of marine services predominantly to large multinational customers and governments on an international basis.
High quality marine services Entrepreneurial culture Our businesses are linked together by a set of common The Group has a decentralised management structure and marine service skills.
encourages managers to be responsible for making timely decisions in the best interests of their businesses but with The Group provides solutions to customers through the the back-up and resources of a larger group.
provision of specialist equipment which is coupled with the detailed knowledge of our people, who are industry experts Our businesses have strong, experienced management in their specific operations.
The equipment is often designed teams that are rewarded according to the success of and assembled by our people, who then operate it and their businesses.
An entrepreneurial culture means we are provide through-life support to our customers.
responsive to changes in the market and the competitive environment.
Whilst our expertise originates in the UK, the Group provides these solutions and support on an international Buy and build basis and focuses on servicing less mature markets.
Acquisitions are a key part of our business model Addressing such customer demands for quality and which broaden our product range and service portfolio, improvement entails the continuous development of deepen our management pool and potentially extend innovative products to maintain market leadership in our our geographical coverage for our large multinational areas of service.
James Fisher has acquired a number of owner managed companies with specific expertise.
The Groups global reach has facilitated the internationalisation of operations of these companies.
Subsequent strong organic growth has been achieved through investment in people, working capital and equipment.
