Strategic report Governance Financial statements James Fisher and Sons plc Directors report The Directors present their Annual Report and the Group audited financial statements for the year ended 31December 2014.
Principal activities James Fisher and Sons plc is incorporated as a public limited company and is registered in England with the registered number 211475.
Its registered ofce is Fisher House, PO Box 4, Barrow-in-Furness, Cumbria, LA14 1HR.
The principal activities of the Group are the provision of marine and specialist engineering services.
Strategic report A description and review of the Groups activities during the financial year and an indication of the likely future trends and factors that might affect the development and performance of the Group is described in the Strategic report on pages 1 to 22, which together with Board of Directors, Corporate governance report, the Audit Committee report, the Directors remuneration report and Directors responsibilities statement all form part of the Directors report.
The Directors report and Strategic report comprises the management report for the purposes of the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 4.1.
Results and dividends The Groups profit for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders of the parent was 40.1m 2013: 38.3m.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 14.9p per share 2013: 13.54p making a total of 22.0p per share 2013: 20.0p for the year.
The final dividend, if approved, will be paid on 8May 2015 to ordinary shareholders who were on the register on 10April 2015.
Post balance sheet events Since 31December 2014, the Group acquired High Technology Sources Ltd on 15January 2015 for 2.2m, The National Hyperbaric Centre Ltd on 10February 2015 for an initial cash consideration of 3.5m, and Subtech Group Holdings Pty Ltd on 2 March 2015 for an initial cash consideration of 3.4m.
Directors Charles Rice, Nick Henry, Stuart Kilpatrick, Malcolm Paul, Aedamar Comiskey, Michael Everard, David Moorhouse and Michael Salter all served as Directors of the Company during the year.
Directors interests The following are the beneficial interests of the Directors in the share capital of the Company: Holdings of ordinary shares of 25p each At 31December At 31December 2014 2013 Number Number Charles Rice 16,781 12,222 Nick Henry 139,657 126,013 Stuart Kilpatrick 15,289 2,289 Malcolm Paul 5,000 5,000 1 Between 31December 2014 and 2March 2015, there were no changes to the holdings of serving Directors: 2 No Director has an interest in the preference shares of the Company, or in the shares of any subsidiary undertaking: 3 At no time in the year did any Director hold a material interest in any contract with the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings other than the service contracts between each Executive Director and the Company.
Re-election of Directors The provisions within the Companys Articles of Association Articles require any Director who has held ofce for more than three years since his last appointment to offer himself or herself for re-election at the Annual General Meeting AGM and at least one third of the Board is subject to re-election at each AGM.
However, in accordance with the requirements of the Code in respect of FTSE 350 companies, all of the Directors offer themselves for re-election or election at the forthcoming AGM.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 47 James Fisher and Sons plc Directors report continued No contract in relation to the Groups business in which the Directors of the Company had an interest, existed at 31December 2014 or at any time during 2014.
Share capital The structure and details of the Companys share capital are set out in note 20 on page 85.
Ordinary shares The Companys issued ordinary shares are fully paid and rank equally in all respects.
Subject to rights attaching to existing shares, any share may be issued with such rights or restrictions as the Company may by advisory resolution determine, or if the Company has not so determined, as the Directors may determine.
In addition to those rights conferred by law the holders of ordinary shares of 25p each are entitled to receive dividends when declared, the Companys report and accounts, to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
These rights and obligations are set out in the Articles, copies of which can be obtained from the Company Secretary.
Other than those specic provisions set out in the Articles, there are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company or on the exercise of voting rights attached to them except that: certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws and market requirements relating to close periods : and pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, whereby certain employees of the Company require the approval of the Company to deal in the Companys shares.
Preference shares The 3.5% cumulative preference shares of 1 each carry a xed cumulative dividend of 3.5% per annum, payable in priority to any dividend on the ordinary shares and payable half-yearly in arrears on 30June and 31December.
The preference shares carry one vote for every 1 in nominal amount.
On a winding up of the Company the preference shareholders have a right to receive, in preference to payments to ordinary shareholders, repayment of the capital paid up on such shares plus any accrued dividend.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
During the year the Company did not purchase any of its own shares.
As at 31December 2014, the James Fisher Employee Share Ownership Trust, held 153,192 ordinary shares 2013: 154,170 of the Company in trust against future Company obligations for share incentive schemes referred to in this report.
The rights attaching to these shares are controlled by independent trustees, who may take into account any recommendation by the Company.
Financial instruments Information on the Groups financial risk management objectives and policies, including its exposure to credit risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk and foreign currency risk can be found in note 26.
Listing rules The information required by LR9.8.
4 R 1, 2 and 7 to 14 are detailed in this report and the requirements of LR 9.8.
R 4, 5 and 6 can be found in the Directors remuneration report on pages 33 to 46.
Additional information for shareholders The Articles may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
Directors are reappointed by ordinary resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
The Board can appoint a director but anyone so appointed must be elected by an ordinary resolution at the next general meeting.
Powers of Directors The powers of the Directors are determined by the Companys Articles, the Companies Act 2006 and the directions given by the Company in general meeting.
The Directors are authorised by the Articles to issue and allot ordinary shares, to dis-apply statutory pre-emption rights and to make market purchases of the Companys shares.
The Directors will be seeking to renew their authorities at the forthcoming AGM.
Any shares purchased may be cancelled or held as treasury shares.
Purchase of own shares At the AGM held on 1May 2014, the Company was given authority to purchase up to 2,504,951 of its ordinary shares until the date of its next AGM.
No purchases were made during the year by the Company.
48 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Substantial shareholders As at 23February 2015 the Company had been notied in accordance with Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following interests in its issued share capital: Ordinary Shares Preference Shares Shareholder No.
% Rowland Frederick Hart Jackson 8,895,763 17.75 non-beneficial Schroder Investment Management 5,409,638 10.80 Therapia Investments Limited 3,539,550 7.06 100,000 100.00 Montanaro Investment Managers 2,542,600 5.08 Aberdeen Asset Management Limited 2,113,664 4.22 22,501,215 44.91 100,000 100.00 Total number of shares in issue 50,099,015 100.00 100,000 100.00 Auditor A resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG LLP as auditor of the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Each Director in ofce at the date of approval of this Directors report confirms that: so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and he has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Policy on payment of suppliers It is the Companys and the Groups policy to agree to terms of payment at the start of business with each supplier and to adhere to these, subject to satisfactory performance by the supplier.
Where payment terms are not negotiated the Company endeavours to adhere to suppliers standard terms.
At 31December 2014 the Group and Company had an average number of 53 days and 49 days purchases outstanding in trade creditors respectively 2013: Group 54 days, Company 75 days.
Donations No political donations were made during the year 2013: nil.
Directors and ofcers liability insurance The Company maintains directors and ofcers liability insurance for the Directors and ofcers of the Company and its subsidiaries and, to the extent permitted by section 236 of the Companies Act 2006, the Directors may be granted indemnity by the Company pursuant to the Companys Articles.
Copies of the Companys Articles are available for inspection at the Companys registered ofce during normal business hours.
Directors conict of interest Stuart Kilpatrick, Group Finance Director, was appointed a trustee of the Groups Shore Staff Pension Scheme in 2012.
This role could give rise to a situation where there is a conict of interest and the Board has reviewed this and has allowed him to act as a trustee.
Were a conict to arise, Stuart Kilpatrick is required to excuse himself from participating in the relevant trustee discussion and decision making process.
Employment policies The Chief Executive officer is the Board member responsible for employee matters and he is assisted by the Group Head of Human Resources.
The Group values the diverse backgrounds of all its people and works to create an open atmosphere of trust, honesty and respect.
Harassment or discrimination, including that involving race, colour, religion, gender, age, disability, sexual orientation or any other similarly protected status, is not acceptable.
The Group is committed to providing equal employment opportunities for all of its people and all job applicants based on abilities of the employee and the needs of the business Group-wide.
It is Group policy to comply with all applicable laws governing employment practices and not to discriminate on the basis of any unlawful criteria.
Employment arrangements are intended to be fair, equitable and consistent with the skills and abilities of the employee and the needs of the business.
The Group also actively encourages the training of its employees through participation in industry training schemes.
Additionally, both in-house and external training is provided for staff.
The Group communicates with its employees principally through regular presentations by senior management and Annual Report and Accounts 2014 49 James Fisher and Sons plc Directors report continued by means of publication of a Company newsletter.
The Group also operates a number of option schemes and long-term incentive plans to encourage employees to participate in the ownership of the Company.
Employment of people with disabilities People with disabilities have equal opportunities when applying for vacancies.
In addition to complying with legislative requirements, the Group strives to ensure that disabled employees are treated fairly and that their training and career development needs are met.
For those employees who become disabled during the course of their employment, the Group will provide support, whether through re-training or re-deployment, so that they will continue to be employed, wherever practicable, in the same job, or if this is not practicable, every effort will be made to nd suitable alternative employment.
significant agreements change of control The Company is a guarantor of all of the Groups bilateral bank facilities which upon a change of control could be withdrawn.
The following contracts may terminate upon a change of control of the Company or its relevant subsidiary or associated undertaking: the Singapore Submarine Rescue Service Agreement dated 17October 2008, between James Fisher Marine Services Limited and First Response Marine PTE Ltd: and The Export Tanker Support Services Contract dated 3February 2012 made between BP Exploration Angola Ltd, and James Fisher Angola Limitada.
The rules of the LTIP, SRSOS and ESOS schemes set out the consequences of a change of control on the rights of participants under those schemes.
Participants are generally able to exercise their options on a change of control, provided that the relevant performance conditions have been satisfied.
Except as provided above, the Company is not party to any agreements which take effect, alter or terminate in the event of a change of control of the Company.
Furthermore there are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of ofce or employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that arise in the event of a change of control of the Company.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future performance, the financial position of the Group and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties are set out in the Strategic report.
The Groups primary sources of funding are bilateral facilities with a core group of banks.
These bilateral facilities, totalling 162.5m at 31December 2014 2013: 147.9m fall due for renewal over the next 5 years with none falling due for renewal by 31December 2015.
Compliance with banking covenants is reported half yearly and involves tests for the ratio of net debt: EBITDA, interest cover and xed charge cover.
No breaches in covenants were reported during the year.
The Group uses cash ow forecasts derived from budgets, forecasts and medium term planning to identify headroom under the covenant tests and having evaluated the on-going trading of the businesses, the Directors are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to continue to operate for the foreseeable future as a going concern.
As a result, the Directors consider it appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
UK Corporate Governance Code In accordance with the requirements of the September 2012 version of the Code, the Board has carried out a thorough review of the Annual Report and Accounts and the processes involved in compiling the accounts and is satisfied that the Annual Report and Accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Annual General Meeting The AGM of the Company will be held on 30April 2015.
The Notice of AGM is set out on pages 105 to116.
The Directors report on pages 47 to 50 and the Strategic report on pages 1 to 22 are hereby approved by the Board.
By Order of the Board Michael Hoggan Company Secretary 2March 2015 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
