Strategic report Governance Financial statements James Fisher and Sons plc Board of Directors Chairman Executive Directors Charles Rice Stuart Kilpatrick Nick Henry Chairman of the Board and Group Finance Director Chief Executive Officer Nominations Committee aged 52 aged 53 aged 61 Joined the Board in April 2004 and was Joined James Fisher in February 2003 as Joined the Group in July 2010 and was appointed as Non-Executive Chairman on Managing Director of James Fisher Tankships appointed to the Board as Group Finance 1 August 2012.
He has wide experience in Limited and was appointed Chief Executive Director in December 2010.
Stuart was commercial shipping having held a number of Officer in December 2004.
He worked for 20 formerly Group Finance Director of Empresaria commercial and operational roles with Overseas years for P&O Containers and P&O Ports, of Group Plc, and he previously held senior Containers Limited.
During the 1990s he was which 10 years were in senior management finance roles with Vodafone Group Plc, responsible for the development of P&Os Trans positions based in Singapore, Hong Kong, Charles Baynes plc and Elementis Group European logistics and services division and Australia, Netherlands and the Indian SubPlc.
Stuart is a member of the Institute of was appointed as a main board director of Continent.
His experience encompasses a wide Chartered Accountants of England and Wales The Peninsular and Oriental Steam Navigation range of commercial and operational roles, and qualified with BDO Binder Hamlyn.
Following a number including fleet management and information of other outside directorships, he is currently technology.
He is a member of the Supervisory Chairman of the Transport Research Foundation.
Board of the UK Chamber of Shipping.
Non-Executive Directors Malcolm Paul Aedamar Comiskey David Moorhouse Michael Salter Non-Executive Director Senior Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director CBE and Chairman of the Audit and aged 48 # aged 67 # Non-Executive Director Remuneration Committees aged 67 # aged 63 # Joined the Board in February Joined the Board in November Joined the Board in August 2013.
Joined the Board in August 2013.
Aedamar has been a Formerly Executive Chairman of Formerly Chief Operating Officer Institute of Chartered Accountants partner at Linklaters LLP since Lloyds Register and earlier in his at Abbot Group plc and earlier in England and Wales and was 2001 and was recently elected career, CEO of John Brown plc, in his career, CEO of Smedvig a founder and former Finance to the firms International Board.
Director of Trafalgar House plc Limited and General Manager of Director of WSP Group plc She specialises in international and Executive Vice President of Bawden Drilling UK Ltd. Michael between 1987 and 2009.
Prior and domestic mergers and Kvaerner where he had particular is a Non-Executive Director of SAR to that he was a Principal at acquisitions, joint ventures and responsibility for their engineering Gruppen AS and Director of ASV the corporate finance boutique fundraisings and is very involved and process businesses.
Financial Decisions and an equity in expanding Linklaters business currently a Non-Executive Director partner at Longcrofts, Chartered in Latin America.
Before joining of OAO Sovcomflot and Braemer Accountants.
He is currently Linklaters, Aedamar worked for Shipping plc as well as holding a Chairman of Anthesis Consulting two years as a consultant with number of senior voluntary posts.
Group, a private equity backed Accenture in Dublin, Chicago and He is also a life member of the international company providing Belfast.
UKs Foundation for Science and Audit Committee global clients with environmental Technology.
# Remuneration Committee and sustainable business Nominations Committee solutions.
