Advanced Electronic Solutions CRITICAL TECHNOLOGY FOR GATHERING AND PROCESSING INFORMATION Cobham Advanced Electronic Solutions provides customised application specific integrated circuits for medical, industrial and security applications.
From specification through production, design, layout and test, everything is performed in-house in class 100 clean rooms with world class foundry partners delivering production.
com 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT Highlights Provides critical solutions for communication on land, Sector revenue m Revenue growth at sea, and in the air and in space, by moving data through 500 off-the-shelf and customised products including radio 41 3 frequency, microwave, and high reliability microelectronics, 400 10% 410 antenna subsystems and motion control solutions.
372 300 This incorporates defence, wireless mobile and fixed broadband, X-ray imaging, medical, industrial, and point 200 of sale markets.
100 Revenue 0 2013 Acquisition Organic 2014 Total revenue increased by 38m due to an initial part year and currency growth contribution from the former Aeroflex Microelectronics translation Solutions business, which was partially offset by a significant adverse currency translation impact from the US dollar of 19m.
Organic revenue was 1% lower, a good performance Revenue by market % % of Group revenue notwithstanding the ongoing challenging conditions in US defence security, its primary market.
Maritime other 6% US defence security 85% 22% Commercial aerospace Organic revenue was impacted by reduced revenue from a general aerospace 5% number of mature production programmes, including for Non-US defence legacy electronic warfare and space related programmes, security 4% and lower revenue from foreign military sales.
These were mostly offset by growing revenue from next generation electronic warfare and radar programmes such as the Surface Electronic Warfare Improvement Programme and Joint Strike Fighter.
Revenue by geography % Asia 2% Trading profit Other EU 1% RoW 1% The Sectors trading profit increased by 1m, largely due to UK 1% the contribution from Aeroflex, although there was also an adverse impact from foreign currency translation.
Trading profit was also impacted by the lower volumes from mature production programmes, which tend to offer the Sector some of its highest margins.
The margin decreased to 15.6%, USA 95% also reflecting the factors above.
Developments impacting the future Sector trading profit m Cobham was part of the winning Raytheon team on 8 7 75 the US Navy AMDR programme, with work already underway.
A significant programme in its own right, 64 63 the win has also opened up opportunities on other programmes, leveraging Cobhams leading edge digital 35 receiver exciter technology, with at least one significant radar award scheduled for 2015: The Motion Control business, formerly part of the Aeroflex Microelectronics Solutions business, has 0 2013 Acquisition Net 2014 won an award on the Joint Polar Satellite System-2 and currency other Advanced Technology Microwave Sounder, a next translation generation weather forecasting satellite.
It has also won awards on the Joint US National Aeronautics and Space Administration Joint Propulsion Laboratory Mars 2020 programme, which will investigate the habitability of Mars.
F-35 Lightning II The Lockheed Martin F-35 Joint Strike Fighter has more than 100 Cobham components, including radar and self-protection modules as well as pilot personal safety equipment.
For further information visit us online at www.
com Cobham plc 25 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
