4 y. g o O l p o e n r h a c t i e o t n n a i l t e n x e c m e t l s l e e v n n c I e. 2 What We Do WE HAVE A TECHNOLOGY AND KNOW-HOW BASED BUSINESS MODEL 1.
Leading positions in our markets Highest ethical Cobham is focused at the tier 2 subsystems and standards tier 3 components levels of its markets.
It has a page 40 good understanding of the characteristics of these markets, where it focuses its technology investment.
The Groups leading market positions increases the returns it can deliver for its shareholders and ensures it can continue to invest in technology and in its employees.
Understanding of Safe working Talented environment and response to and engaged Tier 1 page 42 employees System of Systems customer needs page 41 Platforms Platform Systems & Tier 2 Signal Processing Managing Subsystems environmental impacts page 43 Tier 3 Circuits Our business model Our integrated business model depends on our deep understanding of how to successfully manage Cobham in action a leading edge and specialist technology business Cobham is marine and land launch partner with on a sustainable basis and on our close customer Inmarsat on the new GX satellite constellation, which relationships, which have been built up over many will offer customers faster download speeds globally.
This is combined with a focus on safety, It has developed and brought to market new ethics and on developing the skills and capabilities SATCOM antennas and terminals in the year, with of our employees.
the GX system expected to enter global service early in the second half of 2015.
Investing in skills and expertise In a technology led business, developing employee skills and capabilities are critical to the delivery of the Groups growth strategy.
Cobham has continued to build on the previously increased level of investment in learning and development.
com 4 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 3.
L e s n v e o i r t a i g s i o n p g t i e n k t r o a m n e g w n i d m a a e r L k. e 1 t s STRATEGIC REPORT Financial characteristics Trading margin See page 14 for information on our strategy and key performance indicators.
The business delivers above average See page 34 for information about our risks.
trading margins in its markets.
15.5% These are due to its differentiated 2013: 17.7% technology and know-how and its leading positions in its specialist Free cash flow after restructuring For further information visit us markets.
The business also has a online at www.
com relatively low capital intensity and, 114m when combined with its margin 2013: 155m characteristics, this has resulted over time in good cash generation.
Programme management leading edge technology and products and services into and operational excellence know-how new markets Investment in technology is crucial to Cobham The Groups technology often has application The business has, as anticipated, substantially maintaining and building its leading market in different end markets, with emphasis on growing concluded its successful Excellence in Delivery positions.
The Groups strategy of increasing revenue in commercial markets.
This should enable EiD programme.
The EiD programme has technology investment, positions it well to deliver the Company to produce sustainable growth through delivered significant improvements across a range revenue growth.
Cobham further increased its economic cycles, as it shifts its portfolio accordingly.
of operational and customer metrics, including Private Venture PV investment to 97m 2013: This organic leverage is supplemented by targeted productivity, on time delivery, quality and within the 88m, representing 6.7% of revenue 2013: 6.2%.
acquisitions, which bring complementary technology supply chain.
The Group is seeking to build on the This included an initial contribution from Aeroflex.
with application across adjacent end markets.
foundation EiD provides by driving a culture of continuous improvement across its operations.
PV investment Revenue from commercial markets The Groups EiD expertise is being leveraged into the Aeroflex integration programme.
97m 39% Total efficiency savings from EiD 2013: 88m 2013: 35% 100m Total R&D investment Cobham in action Cobhams fuel tank inerting technology, originally a technology used in military applications, is a safety There has been a focus on enhancing programme 198m related product that decreases the probability of and life cycle management capabilities, with a combustion of flammable material in aircraft fuel streamlined functional structure put in place, together 2013: 186m tanks.
It is gaining increased traction in large aircraft with a clearly defined career development path.
There transport markets and is being used on the Boeing has been increased training and development activity, Total Group R&D investment, including customer 787 wide body aircraft, which is now in full rate as this capability is critical to the future success of funded projects, was 198m 2013: 186m.
It has also been chosen for the Japanese the business.
increase in customer funded R&D was primarily Mitsubishi Regional Jet, which is expected to have driven by the Groups ongoing major development its first flight in the second quarter of 2015.
Cobham in action activity on aerial refuelling programmes.
During the year, Cobham has set up an internal See page 12 for more information.
project management training academy PPM Cobham in action Academy which has received accreditation from Cobham has successfully developed a suite of the Association of Project Management Practitioners.
complex valves for use on the Space Launch System SLS, which is NASAs first exploration-class vehicle Senior project and programme since the Saturn V took astronauts to the moon managers assessed 40 years ago.
These valves perform critical functions for the main propulsion system on the SLS.
45 See page 10 for more information.
2013: nil See pages 11 and 16 for more information.
Employees receiving training Training completed See page 41 for more information.
com Cobham plc 5 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Cobhams 80th Anniversary AT THE FOREFRONT OF INNOVATION FOR 80 YEARS 1980s Cobhams 1949 development of USAF B-50A the automatic 1948 achieves the first preserver inflation Cobham provides non-stop flight system increased equipment and around the world, US Navy aircrew personnel to using Cobhams survival rates after support the air-to-air refuelling 1961 ejection from Berlin Airlift.
US astronaut has 1982 used Cobham Cobhams 1934 regulators, air-to-air refuelling including Neil equipment plays Flight Refuelling Armstrong, the a vital role in the Limited formed first man to walk UKs Falklands 29 October.
1949 Hose and drogue method of aerial refuelling 1969 invented by Concordes first Cobham.
flight completed 1934 with 200 separate Sir Alan Cobham Cobham completes first assemblies.
aerial refuelled flight to Pakistan.
com 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 C O B H A M 1 STRATEGIC REPORT 2013 Cobhams cellular 2009 and public safety Two Cobham communications businesses architecture has honoured with been fitted to the the Queens Pentagon, Beijing award for Subway, Germanys innovation and Bundestag, The 1994 international Shard in London and Channel tunnel trade.
opened between 2008 France and Cobhams England including Sentinel contract Cobham operates communication maritime antennas.
surveillance aircraft which patrol over 25 million square kilometres of Australian waters, flying some 3,000 missions per year.
2010 Cobhams surveillance 2014 equipment is Cobham has used to keep the more than 250 lives of those components on attending the the International Oscars safe.
2003 Cobhams video transmission technology delivers spectacular video from Red Bull Air 2014 Race cockpits, even at 12g Cobham and 280mph.
2012 Cobham provided high definition, live action TV transmission from the worlds smallest Nano HD Ian Roman Volvo Ocean Race 2006 transmitter during The F-35 Joint the 2012 London 2013 Strike Fighters Olympics.
Cobham starts its first flight with partnership with over 100 Cobham the Volvo Ocean subsystems and Race, providing components, global SATCOM including at the and wireless heart of its radar in-race coverage.
com Cobham plc 7 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 9 3 4 - 2 0 1 4
