Our Markets OUR TECHNOLOGY IS USED GLOBALLY IN DEFENCE AND COMMERCIAL MARKETS Commercial organic growth Competitive position within our markets Driving long term demand in Cobhams main commercial Cobham operates in three broad end markets: commercial, markets is the increased need for bandwidth, as the desire which comprises aviation, marine and wireless and other to communicate increases, increasingly stringent safety 5% land markets: US defence security and non-US defence requirements and the demand for smaller and lighter security.
The proportion of Group revenue attributable products, which bring operational benefits for customers.
2013: 7% to each end market is shown in the charts below.
In addition, in commercial aerospace markets Cobham benefits from increasing aircraft production.
In its specialist Commercial markets aviation services markets, Cobham benefits from the Specialist commercial markets now make up the largest of increased outsourcing of airline flying operations and the Groups end markets, with Cobham successfully growing growth in labour demand from the natural resources its presence over a number of years.
This is aligned with a reputation for performance, commercial markets are marine SATCOM, commercial for exceptional safety standards and for the ability to aerospace, including large transport aircraft, regional and provide differentiated capabilities and know-how.
business jets, helicopters and smaller aircraft, and wireless and other land markets.
Across these markets it specialises Cobham leverages technology used in defence security in communications, in particular supplying products and markets into new commercial applications.
For example, the services for environments where the communication Groups fuel tank inerting technology was originally used on solution represents a technology challenge.
This safety related product decreases Cobham has significant and growing positions in specialist the probability of combustion of flammable material in aviation services, largely in Australia.
It is gaining increased traction in commercial large aircraft transport markets and is being used on the Boeing 787 wide body aircraft, which is now in full rate production.
It has also been chosen for the Mitsubishi Regional Jet, which is expected to have its first flight in the second quarter of 2015 and there are also airline retrofit opportunities beginning to become available.
com 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Gross Federal Debt % to GDP STRATEGIC REPORT Global defence expenditure US defence security market Non-US defence security markets growth estimates The US defence security market is continuing through its The generally subdued economic situation and outlook periodic down-cycle with continuing pressure on budgets and the high levels of public indebtedness in many -5% 0% 5% 10% due to high levels of Government indebtedness.
The Group countries, have continued to hold back defence and security MENA 4% 7% believes there are indications that the investment accounts, investment in Europe, notwithstanding increased internal Asia-Pacific 2% 4% which comprises spending on procurement and research, and external security tensions.
However, certain countries, development, testing and evaluation, are beginning to including in Eastern Europe, are starting to increase their Latin America 1% 3% stabilise with the adverse impact on Group revenue defence budgets, in part driven by the current politically Africa 1% 3% slowly moderating.
Europe -1% 2% However, there remains residual risk and uncertainty Elsewhere, particularly in Asia, the Middle East, Australia and in this market, with the potential for further significant parts of South America, defence investment has continued MENA Middle East and North Africa disruption and cuts in 2016 unless timely action is taken to increase.
This is driven by local and regional security Sources: Cobham analysis, SIPRI, IMF, Strategic Defense Intelligence by Congress to avoid the mechanism of Sequestration tensions and underpinned by economic growth.
Cobhams revenue in non-US defence security markets will The Groups leading edge technology, strong programme be driven in particular by growth in outsourced maintenance positions on high priority platforms and its strategy of and training for fixed and rotary wing aircraft and increased increasing technology investment positions it well to deliver production on non-US aerial refuelling programmes, primarily revenue growth once the down-cycle is completed.
It is the Airbus A400M, the Airbus A330 MRTT and the Embraer currently involved in the development or low rate initial KC-390 aircraft.
Cobham also benefits from export orders, production phases of a number of attractive long term won by larger US and non-US defence companies in programmes, including the US Air Force KC-46 aerial accessible markets around the globe, as its critical Main commercial end markets refuelling aircraft, the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter and the components and subsystems are used across a wide next generation Air and Missile Defence Radar AMDR and diverse range of platforms and programmes.
upgrade programme for the US Navy, among others.
Specialist Aviation During the year Cobham demonstrated significant progress Services The KC-46 development programme took an important step in its non-US defence security market, including the award forward just before the end of 2014 with the completion of of a significant new contract with the Australian Maritime its first flight.
Subsequent flights are scheduled for 2015, Safety Authority for airborne search and rescue, with flying which will include testing of its aerial refuelling capability, commencing in 2016.
This contract has a potential value Aerospace and the Group remains on track to participate in this.
of AUS$700m over its life, if all options are exercised.
Cobhams focused investment in priority areas of technology The aerial refuelling market, in which Cobham has a has continued to deliver results, with the Group increasing its leading position, has also remained active with Qatar, ship set on the F-35 aircraft by US$100,000 in the year, as Singapore and France all announcing in 2014 that they Marine SATCOM the customer looks to implement capability enhancements.
have chosen to purchase the Airbus A330 MRTT aircraft.
The increased ship set includes unique integrated microwave In addition, the Brazilian air force has ordered 28 KC-390 assemblies which will be used to upgrade the aircrafts aircraft, with this aircraft successfully undertaking its first electronic warfare system.
Wireless Communications US Defence Security market cycles US$bn 300 120% Gulf Vietnam Afghanistan War War Iraq conflicts 39% 250 100% 51% 200 80% 50% 150 60% 100 40% 50 20% 0 0% Procurement RDT&E Federal Debt as % of GDP Sources: Cobham analysis, DoD FY15 Green Book, DoD, OMB www.
com Cobham plc 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 FY54 FY56 FY58 FY60 FY62 FY64 FY66 FY68 FY70 FY72 FY74 FY76 FY78 FY80 FY82 FY84 FY86 FY88 FY90 FY92 FY94 FY96 FY98 FY99 FY02 FY04 FY06 FY08 FY10 FY12 FY14 Total Budget Authority
