Board of Directors Chairman Executive Directors Non-executive Directors 1.
Mike Wareing Non-executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director Senior Independent Non-executive Director BEng, CEng, FIMechE, FIEE Age 57 CMG, FCA, FCCA, MCSI Age 68 Age 61 Appointed: June 2012 Appointed: Director February 2010, Chairman May 2010 Skills and experience: Bob was with BAE Systems for Appointed: December 2010 Skills and experience: Johns executive career was built 13 years from 1999, serving as a member of the Executive Skills and experience: Mike worked for KPMG from 1973 in engineering companies within the Varity Group.
John has Committee of BAE Systems plc as Executive Vice President until 2009 when he retired.
Between 2005 and 2009, he was previously served as Non-executive Director of Northern for the global operations of the Product Sectors business for International Chief Executive Officer, KPMG: Chairman, Rock Asset Management between 2007 and 2010, BAE Systems, Inc. including Electronic Systems, Land and KPMG International Executive Team: and Chairman, KPMG Chairman of Marconi plc, later renamed Telent, and Armaments and Platform Solutions sector.
He has also held Iberoamerica Board.
He was formerly the Prime Ministers Chairman of National Express Group plc.
He was President a number of other senior operational and financial roles with Envoy for Reconstruction in Southern Iraq.
Mike retired from of Perkins Engines in the mid-1980s, and he went on to be BAE Systems.
Prior to this, Bob spent 18 years with General his role as Non-executive Director and Chairman of the President of Kelsey-Hayes, the automotive components Electric Company GE where he held numerous financial Audit Committee of Wolseley plc in November 2014. manufacturer.
He was subsequently Chief Executive of leadership positions, culminating in his role as CFO of the External appointments: Senior Independent Eastern Electricity, the largest regional electricity company military engines operation of the GE Aircraft Engines Group.
Non-executive Director and Chairman of the Audit in the UK at the time.
Following its acquisition by Hanson, Previously, Bob has served on the Board of Trustees for the Committee of Intertek Group plc, and Economic he was appointed Executive Chairman of Hanson.
John US National Defense Industrial Association and the Board of Development Adviser to the Government of Afghanistan.
retired from his role as Non-executive Chairman of NATS Visitors for the Clark School of Engineering at the University Committee membership: Chair of the Audit Committee National Air Traffic Services in August 2014. of Maryland.
and member of the Nomination Committee.
Committee membership: Chair of the Committee membership: Chair of the Executive Nomination Committee.
Alison Wood Chief Financial Officer, Executive Director Independent Non-executive Director BSc Hons, ACA MA, MBA Age 50 Age 51 Appointed: May 2013 Appointed: July 2011 Skills and experience: Simon was CFO of Senior plc, Skills and experience: Alison is engaged with a mix of the FTSE 250 international manufacturing group providing not for profit, investment and non-executive activities in the engineered products for aerospace, defence and UK and New Zealand.
She was formerly Global Director commercial industrial applications, a position he held from Corporate Development and Strategy for National Grid plc.
Previously Simon was CFO of Hanson North America Previously, she was Group Strategic Development Director and prior to that he was Financial Controller for Hanson plc for BAE Systems plc responsible for corporate strategy, for three years.
Simon spent nine years with Price mergers and acquisitions and strategic business Waterhouse, now PwC, in the UK and Canada, and four development across the UK and US.
She has held three years working in senior financial positions.
Simon served as a previous Non-executive Directorships: BTG plc from 2004 Non-executive Director of AIM listed Hamworthy plc from to 2008, THUS plc from 2007 to 2008 and GCHQ from September 2011 until its takeover in February 2012.
Simon 2009 to 2011. is a Chartered Accountant, holding a Bachelor of Science External appointments: Non-executive Director and degree in Mathematics, Operational Research, Statistics Senior Independent Director of e2v technologies plc.
and Economics from the University of Warwick.
Non-executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration External appointments: None.
Committee of Costain Group plc.
Non-executive Director Committee membership: Executive Directors for British Standards Institution, a Royal Charter company, Committee.
Committee membership: Chair of the Remuneration Committee and member of the Nomination Committee.
com 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Non-executive Directors 6.
Alan Semple Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director CBE, BA, BScEE, MScEE CBE, MBA, BSc, FREng, FInstP BA, CA Age 73 Age 54 Age 55 Appointed: January 2007 Appointed: May 2013 Appointed: February 2015 Skills and experience: Mark was, until his retirement Skills and experience: Jonathan is currently Chief Skills and experience: Alan is currently Director and at the end of 2006, Chief Operating Officer of BAE Systems Executive of Oxford Instruments plc, a leading provider Chief Financial Officer at John Wood Group plc, a role he plc and Chief Executive Officer of BAE Systems Inc. its of high technology tools and systems for research and has held since 2000 and will retire from during 2015.
Previously he was Viceindustry, a position he has held since 2005.
Prior to this he to this, he held a number of senior finance roles in the President, Programme Management with Litton Industries was the UK Managing Director of Vislink plc and has also Group from 1996.
Alan previously served as the Group and Chief Operating Officer of AEL Industries.
Mark was held management positions with BAE Systems and GEC Finance Director of GRT Bus Group plc from 1994 to 1995, a Non-executive Director of ATK Inc. Mark was also a Marconi Avionics.
A physics graduate from Imperial College one of two companies which merged to form FirstGroup Non-executive Director of Aeroflex Holdings Inc. until the London, Jonathan was made a CBE in 2012. plc.
Between 1987 and 1994, he was Finance Director at acquisition of the Group by Cobham plc in September 2014.
External appointments: Chief Executive of Seaforth Maritime Group Limited.
External appointments: Senior adviser of Veritas Capital Oxford Instruments plc.
External appointments: Chief Financial Officer of LLC and a management consultant.
Committee membership: Member of the Audit John Wood Group plc.
Committee membership: Member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Committee membership: Member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
Birgit Nrgaard Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Age 70 MA, MBA Age 56 Appointed: December 2008 Skills and experience: Mike served in the US Marine Appointed: April 2014 Corps for almost 39 years ending his career in 2007 as Skills and experience: Birgit, a Danish national, currently Commandant of the Marine Corps and a member of the holds a number of non-executive roles in the private and Joint Chiefs of Staff.
His numerous military assignments public sectors in the UK and overseas.
Birgits last executive included Commanding General, 1st Marine Expeditionary role was as both the Chief Executive Officer of Grontmij Carl Force, Deputy Director of Operations at the US European Bro, the Danish engineering consultancy group as well as the Command and Executive Assistant to the Director of Chief Operating Officer of Grontmij NV, the Dutch parent Central Intelligence.
He also served in a number of company.
An economics graduate from Copenhagen diplomatic missions including the presidential diplomatic Business School, Birgit has an MBA from INSEAD.
External appointments: Non-executive Director of IMI External appointments: President and CEO of the plc.
Birgit is a Non-executive Director at WSP Global Inc, a Admiral Nimitz Foundation in Fredericksburg, Texas, US, global consulting engineering company listed in Canada, Co-Chairman of the Commission on Energy and Geopolitics, DSV A S an international transportation company listed on Non-executive Director of SGI Corp. DynCorp International the Copenhagen stock exchange and Kvaerner ASA, an Inc. and Remington Outdoor Company Inc. and Outside engineering, procurement and construction company listed Manager on the Government Security Committee of in Norway.
She also holds board positions in private the Special Security Agreement of TE SubCom, a TE companies and public sector positions.
Committee membership: Member of the Remuneration Committee membership: Member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
com Cobham plc 45 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
