Aeroflex Case Study AEROFLEX: INCREASING OUR EXPOSURE TO ATTRACTIVE, COMMERCIAL MARKETS Microelectronic Solutions designs and manufactures high reliability circuits for growing medical markets, for use in scanners and ultrasound.
com 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT The acquisition of Aeroflex Overview Aeroflex enterprise value Aeroflex is a leading global provider of high performance subsystems and components.
The acquisition builds on Cobhams connectivity strategy, following the 2012 US$1.5bn Thrane & Thrane SATCOM acquisition and the 2013 Axell in-building wireless acquisition.
Approximately 60% of Aeroflex revenue is focused on microelectronics technology, typically for demanding and harsh environments including defence, in space, energy and medical applications.
The remaining 40% of its revenue is in technology led segments of the wireless and communications market for specialist test applications.
This revenue is predominantly generated in commercial Commercial revenue end markets.
The business has made significant investment in R&D, with the recent launch of a number of new and innovative technologies and it has good potential for 70% future revenue growth.
Why we bought Aeroflex The acquisition of Aeroflex is consistent with Cobhams strategy of having leading positions in attractive, high technology led commercial segments.
Aeroflex and Cobham have complementary products and customers in microelectronics, with good potential to generate revenue synergies.
Combining the Cobham and Aeroflex businesses will also generate an estimated US$85m of cost savings, driven by the significant physical overlap in the US.
Markets % of revenue Defence security 30% Commercial 70% Analysis of commercial markets % Avionics 11% Communications 51% Space 19% Medical & Energy 19% Company information as of year end 30th June 2013.
The 7100 digital radio test set is a single box solution for protocol performance and radio frequency testing of 4G high speed data cellular devices and components.
For further information visit us online at www.
com Cobham plc 19 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
