Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Market Overview Our current markets Our aggregator model works best The optimal market for JUST EAT is where eCommerce is in geographies with a fragmented established and where the high street is highly fragmented, takeaway restaurant market and consisting of lots of independent takeaway restaurants and few chains.
This has been key in choosing those territories in which high eCommerce adoption.
The UK, Denmark, France, Ireland, Italy and Spain are particularly strong examples of a highly fragmented takeaway market in which aggregators such as JUST EAT should thrive.
As might be expected, we experience some seasonal fluctuations in our order growth rates, particularly in the UK and Northern Europe where the seasons tend to be more pronounced, characterised by long cold winters and short days.
When it is cold and wet, more consumers choose to stay inside and order takeaway.
Who are our consumers The biggest demographic of JUST EAT consumers are families and students.
Families tend to place orders of higher value, as opposed to our student consumers who typically order more cheaply and for fewer people.
Lifestyles have shifted, with consumers looking for convenience options that fit with their increasingly busy daily routines.
This, combined with the growing variety of takeaway food, including increasingly healthier choices becoming available, has resulted in consumers embracing takeaway as a feature of their daily routine.
12 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Current market trends In recent years, the takeaway food market has been growing The markets in which JUST EAT currently operates were faster than GDP, with online ordering growing much faster estimated to represent a total annual takeaway order value for fuelled by the adoption of eCommerce and increased 1 delivery of 20.0 billion in 2013, of which the UK represented smartphone tablet penetration.
The online channel shift the largest amount at 4.4 billion.
experienced in the ordering of takeaway food is similar to the migration towards the use of the Internet by consumers in other This highlights the significant potential of scale in the online highly fragmented markets, such as holiday and airline bookings, takeaway delivery market.
In the UK, our core market, the most insurance, tickets for live entertainment, classified advertising recent survey from February 2015 now puts the market for the and restaurant bookings.
delivery of takeaway food at 5.5 billion.
The UKs phone and 1 According to Consumer Foodservice in the UK by Euromonitor and EIU.
collect market, which we are only now starting to address, adds an estimated further 2.6 billion, highlighting the scale of opportunity open to JUST EAT.
Clear Market Leader Europe Americas United Kingdom Denmark France Netherlands Canada Brazil 30% stake Launched Launched Launched Launched Launched Launched Mar-06 Aug-01 Dec-11 Jul-07 Aug-09 Aug-11 Market Position Market Position Market Position Market Position Market Position Market Position 2 #1 #1 #1 #2 #1 #1 Spain Ireland Switzerland Mexico Launched Launched Launched Launched Nov-10 Apr-08 Mar-11 Feb-15 Market Position Market Position Market Position Market Position #1 #1 #1 #1 Italy Norway Belgium Launched Launched Launched May-11 Dec-09 Apr-09 Market Position Market Position Market Position 2 #2 #1 #2 Source: JUST EAT management estimates excluding very small competitors considered immaterial in-market.
2 Canada and Norway exclude restaurant chains.
