Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Directors Report The Directors have pleasure in presenting their Annual Report Change of control and audited financial statements of the Company and the Group In the event of a takeover, a scheme of arrangement other than for the year ended 31 December 2014. a scheme of arrangement for the purposes of creating a new holding company or certain other events, unvested executive The Directors report contains certain statutory, regulatory and Director and employee share awards may in certain other information and incorporates, by reference, the Strategic circumstances become exercisable.
Such circumstances may Report and Governance Report included earlier in this document.
although do not necessarily depend on the achievement of performance conditions or the discretion of the Remuneration Strategic Report Committee.
The Company does not have any agreements with A fair review of the Groups performance during the period any Director or officer that would provide compensation for loss and of its position at the period end, including commentary of office or employment resulting from a takeover.
on its likely future development and prospects, is set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 41, while information on The Group has facility agreements with its bank lenders which principal risks and uncertainties and key performance indicators contain provisions giving those lenders certain rights on a is given on pages 36 to 39 and pages 26 to 27 respectively.
All change of control of the Company.
this information should be read in conjunction with this Report.
The Corporate Governance Report including the Directors Save as otherwise disclosed above, there are no other significant Remuneration Report summarise the Companys Governance and agreements to which the Company is a party that take effect, alter Directors remuneration arrangements.
The Corporate Social or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid.
Responsibility Statement on pages 40 and 41 summarises the Groups approach to business ethics, employee welfare and Financial instruments practice, health and safety, environmental and community Our risk management policies relating to price risk, credit risk, matters.
All these sections form part of this Directors Report liquidity risk, and cash flow risk, are detailed within note 38 of into which they are incorporated by reference.
the notes to the financial statements on pages 130 to 133.
In addition, the overall risk framework and strategy for the Group is Results and dividends included within the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 41.
The audited financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the period under review are set out on pages 86 Employment of disabled persons to 137 and pages 138 to 145 respectively.
The Company intends Our policy in respect of the employment of disabled people are to retain its earnings to expand the growth and development of set in the Corporate Social Responsibility report on pages 40 its business and, therefore, does not anticipate paying dividends to 41. in the foreseeable future.
Details of dividends paid during the year before the Companys IPO are set out in note 15 to the Employee consultation financial statements.
Details of on employee consultation set in the Corporate Social Responsibility report on pages 40 to 41.
2015 Annual General Meeting AGM An explanation of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM, Going concern and the recommendation of Directors in relation to these, is In adopting the going concern basis for preparing the financial included in the circular accompanying this Annual Report to statements, the Directors have made appropriate enquiries and shareholders.
Resolutions regarding the authority to issue shares have considered the Groups cash flows, liquidity position and are commented upon under the share capital later in this report.
borrowing facilities and business activities as set out on page 91 and in note 38 to the Groups financial statements on pages 130 The Companys AGM will be held at the Lincoln Centre, to 133 and the Groups principal risks and uncertainties as set 18 Lincolns Inn Fields, London, WC2A 3ED at 9.30am on out on pages 36 to 39.
Based on the Groups forecasts, the Directors are satisfied that Research and Development the Company, and the Group as a whole, have adequate We continue to dedicate resources to the development of new resources to continue in operational existence for the technologies, in order to improve the consumer experience and foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the financial statements have enhance our offering to our restaurant partners.
Expenses been prepared on the going concern basis.
incurred are capitalised when it is probable that future economic benefits will be attributable to the asset and that these costs can be measured reliably.
146 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Substantial shareholdings Certain key matters in connection with the Directors are At 16 March 2015, the Company had been notified in accordance shown below: with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the UK Listing The business of the Company is managed by its Directors who Authority, or was aware, that the following held, or were may exercise all powers of the Company subject to the beneficially interested in, 3% or more of the Companys shares at Articles of Association and UK legislation.
Directors of the that date: Number of % of voting Company are appointed either by the Board or by 1 Ordinary shares rights shareholders under the Companys Articles of Association and The Sara Marron Discretionary may resign or be removed in a similar manner.
2 Settlement the SM Trust 121,972,442 21.47% Biographical details of the current Directors are set out on Index Ventures V Jersey, LP 74,759,783 13.16% pages 44 and 45.
The Directors interests in the ordinary Munch S. A. R. L 50,972,104 8.97% share capital of the Company and any interests known to the Old Mutual Plc 28,251,522 5.00% Company of their connected persons are set out in the Report Index Ventures Growth I Jersey, LP 20,830,899 3.67% of the Remuneration Committee on page 78.
1 Total voting rights attaching to the issued share capital of the Company comprising The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity 568,246,694 Ordinary shares each of 0.01 nominal value, being the 568,246,694 Ordinary shares in issue.
provisions for the benefit of its Directors in relation to certain 2 STM Fidecs Trust Company Limited is the holder of registered legal title to the losses and liabilities that they may incur in the course of Ordinary Shares beneficially owned by the SM Trust.
acting as Directors of the Company, its subsidiaries or associates, which remain in force at the date of this report.
The Company received no notifications of interests indicating a different whole percentage holding at 31 December 2014.
No member of the Board had a material interest in any contract of significance with the Company or any of its Directors subsidiaries at any time during the year, except for their The Directors of the Company who served throughout the period interests in shares and in share awards and under their and up to the date of signing of this Annual Report except service agreements and letters of appointment disclosed in where noted were: the Report of the Remuneration Committee commencing on page 58.
John Hughes Chairman David Buttress CEO Share capital Certain key information relating to the Companys shares is Mike Wroe CFO shown below: Gwyn Burr appointed 12 March 2014 The Companys shares at the year-end comprised entirely Frederic Coorevits ordinary shares of 0.01 each which rank equally in all respects.
Andrew Griffith appointed 12 March 2014 The rights attached to the shares, in addition to those Benjamin Holmes conferred on their holders by law, are set out in the Henri Moissinac appointed 1 August 2014 Companys Articles of Association.
The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a Special Resolution of 1 Michael Risman appointed 12 March 2014 the shareholders.
Laurel Bowden resigned 1 October 2014 There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares or on the 1 Prior to his appointment as a director, Mr Risman acted as the primary representative exercise of voting rights attached to them, except: i where of the former corporate director of the Company, Vitruvian Directors I Limited which the Company has exercised its right to suspend their voting was a director of the company until 12 March 2014. rights or to prohibit their transfer following the omission of their holder or any person interested in them to provide the Company with information requested by it in accordance with Part 22 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act : or ii where their holder is precluded from exercising voting rights by the FCAs Listing Rules or the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers.
com 147 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Directors Report continued The Group operates employee share plans as set out in the b at any time following the Initial Period, where that Report of the Remuneration Committee commencing on page Shareholder Party does not hold at least 10 per cent of the 58 and in note 37 of the financial statements.
Shares held by Ordinary Shares.
the employee benefit trust trustees abstain from voting.
Each Shareholder Party has also agreed not to propose the Save as described above, shares acquired through the appointment of a further board representative or vote against Companys employee share plans rank pari passu with shares the election or re-election of a person the Board has put forward in issue and have no special rights.
for election or re-election as a director of the Company.
At the year end, the Company had authority exercisable by Corporate governance the Directors to issue up to 375,728,623 shares subject to The Company is committed to high standards of corporate certain restrictions.
The Company will seek to renew this governance.
Its application of the principles of good governance authority at the 2015 Annual General Meeting AGM.
in respect of the UK Corporate Governance Code for the period Save as described under the Board Representation Agreement under review is described in the Corporate Governance Report described below, the Company is not aware of any on pages 42 to 80. agreements or control rights between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of this voting rights.
Annual Report and the financial statements appears on page 149.
Further information regarding the Companys share capital Political donations including the changes to this during the year is set out in note 28 The Company did not make any political donations during to the financial statements.
Board representation agreement Greenhouse gas emissions On 2 April 2014 the SM Trust, Index Ventures and Vitruvian Reporting on greenhouse gas emissions is included in the Partners entered into an agreement with the Company which, Corporate Social Responsibility report on pages 40 to 41. entitles each such shareholder party and their respective permitted transferees together the Shareholder Parties and Related party transactions with Directors each a Shareholder Party to appoint one director to the Board On 24 March 2014, prior to the IPO, the Company called all the of the Company.
The initial appointees are Frederic Coorevits unpaid subscription amounts, totalling 13.2 million, in respect of SM Trust appointee, Benjamin Holmes Index Ventures certain shares issued under the JSOP.
In order to facilitate this, appointee and Michael Risman Vitruvian Partners appointee.
the Company made loans to participants of the JSOP and This entitlement shall lapse in respect of a Shareholder Party, Appleby Trust Jersey Limited totalling 5.3 million and 7.9 and such Shareholder Party shall procure that its appointee million, respectively.
The loans provided to the participants of the will resign: JSOP included loans to three Directors of the Company totalling 3.0 million.
During the year ended 31 December 2014 dividends a during the period commencing on the date of the agreement totalling 0.2 million 2013: nil were paid to Directors of the and expiring on the date falling two years thereafter, or if Company.
With the exception of the provision of the loans, the later, the date of the Companys annual general meeting held payment of dividends and their remuneration, there were no in 2016 the Initial Period, if: related party transactions with Directors during either 2014 i that Shareholder Party ceases to hold at least 5 per cent of or 2013. the Ordinary Shares: or Overseas branches ii on the occurrence of the Companys annual general The Company has no branches outside the UK.
meeting held in 2016, such Shareholder Party has ceased at any time during the Initial Period to hold at least 10 per Post balance sheet events cent of the Ordinary Shares: and Details of important events affecting the Company since 31 December 2014 are disclosed in note 41 to the financial statements.
148 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Directors responsibility statement Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report pages 44 to 45 confirm that, to the best of each persons and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law knowledge and belief: and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare the Annual Report, taken as a whole is fair, balanced and financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the understandable and provides the information necessary for directors have prepared the Group and Parent Company financial shareholders to assess the Companys and the Groups statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the performance, business model and strategy: European Union.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, and the Parent and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that Company financial statements in accordance with UK period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are Accounting Standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, required to: liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group and Parent Company: and select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: the Strategic Report and Directors Report include a fair review of the development and performance of the business make judgements and accounting estimates that are and the position of the Company and Group, together with reasonable and prudent: a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European they face.
Union have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and Disclosure of information to auditors Each of the Directors of the Company at the time when this prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis Report was approved confirmed that: unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
1. so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting and records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys 2. he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time taken as a Director in order to make himself or herself aware the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable of any relevant audit information and to establish that the them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS This confirmation is given in accordance with section 418 2 of Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets the Act.
of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other Auditors irregularities.
Deloitte LLP, the Groups auditors, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and, on the recommendation of the Audit Committee and in accordance with Section 489 of the Act, a resolution to re-appoint them will be put to the 2015 AGM.
On behalf of the Board Tony Hunter Company Secretary 16 March 2015 www.
