S St tra rat te eg gi ic c Corporate Financial R Rep epo or rt t Governance Statements Strategic Initiatives Improving Improving Improving the Consumer the Consumer the Consumer Experience Experience Experience 18 18 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements When ordering takeaway food for delivery, consumers are focused on three aspects: choice, delivery time and the quality of their food.
Continued innovation We will continue to invest in technology and product, both to ensure our platform scalability and to innovate our consumer offer and restaurant technology platforms.
During the year, we have been developing and piloting real-time order tracking, which will enable consumers to track their order through every stage from placement to delivery.
We remain excited about how this innovation will fundamentally change the consumer ordering experience and it is now being trialled in 11 restaurants.
Our focus in 2015 will be on addressing the challenge of scaling order tracking both technically and operationally across the JUST EAT network.
Better information Having better information is key in enabling consumers to make empowered choices.
Consumer reviews, which can only be placed by those who Progress have ordered, offer valuable insight into other peoples views on food quality, service and delivery.
At 31 December 2014, we had elsewhere 3.7 million reviews on our UK platform.
In addition to these reviews which are updated daily, we also include a link to the Food Standards Agency for access to historical regulatory data.
Once a postcode is entered, the Search Engine Results Page Denmark segment SERP lists the restaurants that are available to deliver.
There are four clearly labelled top-placement slots at the top of the We had over 230,000 restaurant reviews on the SERP.
All of the restaurants listed below these are ranked based Danish platform at the end of 2014. on the consumer rating they have received and distance from the consumer, placing the higher-rated restaurants at the top.
Other segment In 2014 we added drive distance to our SERP.
When using a web browser, the restaurant distances are shown next to the In Spain we successfully implemented saved cards restaurant name and rating.
Those ordering on a tablet device which enables consumers to securely store their can view the distances on a map.
Geo-location is now functional credit card details for ease of future ordering.
on the iPhone and Android apps and tablets.
How this links to our business model See page 15 www.
com 19 S St tra rat te eg gi ic c Corporate Financial R Rep epo or rt t Governance Statements Strategic Initiatives continued Bringing Bringing Bringing Greater Greater Greater Choice Choice Choice 2 20 0 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements The total number of contracted takeaway restaurants on Enhancing our offering to restaurants JUST EAT platforms has increased by 26% to 45,700 as at will drive loyalty from our existing 31 December 2014, compared with 36,400 at the end of the prior restaurant partner base and encourage year.
As we continue to broaden our offering to consumers, by adding collection-only restaurants and potentially growing our other restaurants to join.
Consumers directory-style listings of restaurant contact details, the number are focused on making informed choices of takeaway restaurants will no longer provide a clear underlying and by increasing our coverage we performance benchmark and ceases to be a valid KPI in its own will attract more consumers to the right.
There is now a greater focus on consumer order-driven metrics.
Further detail is provided within the Key Performance JUST EAT platform.
Technology advances Our vision is to be fully integrated into how a takeaway restaurant operates, moving away from traditional transaction methods.
This means not just facilitating JUST EAT orders but enabling us to offer our takeaway restaurant partners the right tools to manage their businesses.
In order to accelerate this initiative we completed the purchase of EPOS technology business Meal2Go, whose market-leading EPOS technology is specifically designed for the takeaway restaurant industry.
We have continued to adapt this technology, now called OrderPoint.
This level of technology will only be applicable to a proportion of restaurant partners, as it goes beyond the requirements of a small, independent establishment.
For those smaller restaurants, Progress we are developing a less complex, tablet-based ordermanagement platform called Orderpad.
Over 300 takeaway elsewhere restaurants have Orderpad trial units installed and as we develop it further, we plan to expand this number during 2015.
Coverage With the growing popularity of JUST EATs mobile apps, we Denmark segment anticipate that ordering for collection will become an increasing part of the Groups business.
Entering the collection-only market We have focused on the collection market and this offers significant growth opportunity.
The total phone and collect now represents 5% of the total Danish estate.
takeaway market in the UK alone is estimated at 2.6 billion, a significant proportion of which should be addressable by JUST EAT.
Other segment During the first half of the year we conducted a collection pilot We launched an online JUST EAT merchandise in Brighton, and based on the findings from this trial, have made store for restaurants in Spain and Ireland.
several improvements to the collection-specific capability offered on the JUST EAT platform.
Discounts have been offered on the connection fees paid by the restaurants to encourage early sign-up by collection-only restaurants as we build our offering to the consumer.
We have now signed over 1,000 collection-only How this links restaurants to the JUST EAT platform across the UK and are to our business planning further expansion in 2015. model See page 15 www.
com 21 S St tra rat te eg gi ic c Corporate Financial R Rep epo or rt t Governance Statements Strategic Initiatives continued Driving Driving Driving Channel Channel Channel Shift Shift Shift 22 22 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Building the brand Driving channel shift from traditional To encourage migration of consumers from offline to online telephone to online ordering continues ordering, we continue to build the JUST EAT brand through to be the focus for JUST EAT.
Even in the innovative campaigns such as the #minifistpump campaign launched in October 2014.
Consumers trust well-known brands UK, one of our more developed markets, with which they identify, helping make our business model highly over 70% of takeaway orders are still defensible as we become a more established brand in all of our placed using the telephone.
We now undertake television marketing in the overwhelming majority of our countries.
This channel shift represents the main opportunity for JUST EAT.
Consumer migration from offline to online ordering remains in its JUST EATs spontaneous brand awareness among UK takeaway early stages in the vast majority of our geographies.
consumers increased from 39% in December 2013 to 44% in 2 December 2014.
This measures the percentage of consumers We expect to see online ordering continue to grow, particularly for whom a given brand is the first that comes to mind in a with the increasing propensity of consumers to use their mobile category and demonstrates how brand investment increases devices to purchase goods and services.
We believe improving the consumer experience will help to drive further channel shift from traditional telephone to online ordering.
During 2014 our Active Users grew by 37% to 8.1 million, up from 5.9 million at 31 December 2013.
Mobile-led strategy Mobile penetration has increased significantly, due to the rise in popularity of smartphones and tablets.
In the UK, smartphone Progress penetration of households has increased to 68% from 51% between 2013 and 2014.
Similarly, tablet penetration has elsewhere 1 increased to 46% from 24% over the same time period.
Our mobile-led strategy has resulted in over 60% of JUST EAT UK orders now being placed using a mobile device.
This is coupled with evidence that shows that app users order more frequently.
Denmark segment We will continue to focus on this throughout 2015.
In the UK, orders can now be made through Android tablets and phones, Orders can now be made through Android phone iPhone, iPad or Windows 8 mobile, Kindle Fire tablets and of and tablets, iPhone and iPad.
The additional benefit of mobiles is that orders coming via app direct to JUST EAT rather than via search engines avoid search engine fees, the chance of competitor Other segment redirection and reduces the risks associated with changes in search provider algorithms.
We have increased the amount spent on marketing in Other by 90% during 2014 to build the brand internationally.
How this links to our business model See page 15 1 Source: Ofcom Technology Tracker.
