REGIONAL REVIEW NORTH AMERICA GROUP REVENUE 48% REVENUE BY SECTOR 5 1 4 3 1. BUSINESS & INDUSTRY 29% 2.
SPORTS & LEISURE 15% REVENUE ORGANIC REVENUE GROWTH UNDERLYING OPERATING PROFIT UNDERLYING OPERATING MARGIN 8,199m 6.8% 666m 8.1% OPERATING PERFORMANCE 2014 2013 Revenue m 8,199 8,150 Underlying operating profit m 666 657 Underlying operating margin 8.1% 8.1% Region as % of Group revenue 48% 47% Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 20 Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial statements Parent Company financial statements Shareholder information We have had another excellent year in our North American business.
Overall revenue of 8.2 billion 2013: 8.2 billion and organic revenue growth of 6.8% have been driven by strong new business wins and excellent retention rates.
Like for like volume has remained broadly flat.
Operating profit increased by 49 million on a constant currency Good organic revenue growth in the Education sector was driven by basis to 666 million 2013: 617 million.
Continued progress on increased participation and strong new business wins, including food efficiencies and leveraging of the overhead base have, in part, been contracts with McGill University in Canada, Rowan University and the reinvested in the business to support the high levels of organic growth.
New support service contracts include Operating profit grew 8% and margin improved by 5 basis points.
the Sacred Heart University as well as the provision of additional services to Texas A&M.
In the Business & Industry sector we have delivered good levels of net new business.
New wins include contracts with Amazon.
com, Our Sports & Leisure business has delivered double digit organic T-Mobile and SAP as well as the provision of support services to revenue growth through good net new business and high attendance United Technologies.
Like for like volume has remained broadly flat levels at sporting events.
New contract wins include the NHLs Phoenix in this sector.
Coyotes, the Columbus Clippers based at Huntington Field and Texas A&M Athletics.
Organic revenue growth in the Healthcare & Seniors sector was solid with good levels of new business wins.
In the food service business The ESS business, which provides food and support services in we have won new contracts with the Parkland Health & Hospital Alaska, Canada and the Gulf of Mexico, delivered solid organic System and Baptist Housing senior living in Canada.
service contracts include NYC Health & Hospital and the CJW Medical Centre.
North America remains our core growth engine.
Our business there is large and well diversified, and we see exciting structural growth opportunities.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 21 BUILDING ON A STRONG FOUNDATION Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial statements Parent Company financial statements Shareholder information NORTH AMERICA BUILDING ON A STRONG FOUNDATION The outsourcing culture in North America is vibrant and we have market leading positions across all sectors.
North America remains our core growth We have an excellent pipeline of contracts The growth of the business is underpinned engine.
Revenue has grown from $6 billion across all sectors.
Importantly, our largest by the successful sales and retention processes in 2004 to $14 billion in 2014, with an average sector, Business & Industry, continues to we have in place, such as the Strategic organic revenue growth rate of over 6% deliver strong growth and the number of Alliance Group.
This best practice retention per year, and our margin is now over 8%.
new businesses being created underpins our model, originally developed in the US In addition to organic growth, weve acquired confidence in the future.
For example, in the and now widely used across the Group, a range of businesses to expand our capability technology sector and the wider Silicon Valley is a semi-independent team that takes a in certain regions and services.
area, we have more than doubled the number pre-emptive approach to retaining contracts of clients we serve there over the last 10 years by engaging with clients early and proactively Our business is large and well diversified, and now feed around 90,000 people across renegotiating contracts.
In North America, and we see exciting structural growth 200 sites each day.
Food is core to their it has resulted in a retention rate above the opportunities.
The outsourcing environment working environment and the quality of Group average in 2014.
We will continue is healthy and, with less than 60% of the what we provide is exceptional.
to embed these processes further into the estimated $72 billion food service market business globally, helping us to unlock more currently outsourced, there is significant growth opportunities.
6m We serve six million meals a day across the US Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 23 REGIONAL REVIEW EUROPE & JAPAN GROUP REVENUE 34% REVENUE BY SECTOR 5 4 3 1 1. BUSINESS & INDUSTRY 55% 2 2.
SPORTS & LEISURE 10% REVENUE ORGANIC REVENUE GROWTH UNDERLYING OPERATING PROFIT UNDERLYING OPERATING MARGIN 5,716m 1.5 % 409m 7.2% OPERATING PERFORMANCE 2014 2013 Revenue m 5,716 6,039 Underlying operating profit m 409 420 Underlying operating margin 7.2% 7.0% Region as % of Group revenue 34% 34% Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 24 Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial statements Parent Company financial statements Shareholder information Over the year, we saw steady improvement in the economic conditions of certain markets in the region, although trading conditions in others remain difficult.
Overall, revenue in Europe & Japan totalled 5.7 billion 2013: 6.0 billion, an organic decline of 1.5%, half the rate of the previous year.
The investment in, and focus on, MAP 1 sales and retention processes The rate of like for like volume decline has slowed compared to 2013 are starting to deliver, with good levels of new business seen in the and the decline in organic revenue is now around half the level seen last UK, Spain and across the Nordics.
The exit of certain uneconomic year at 1.5%.
We have seen differing trends across the region.
In North contracts is now complete and has, as expected, impacted our and East Europe, like for like volume is broadly unchanged whereas retention rate during the year.
We have won contracts with the in the UK, Germany, the Netherlands and across Southern Europe Ville fide Cannes and the Philharmonie fide Paris and retained contracts although volumes remain negative, the trends are improving.
We have with Chelsea Football Club and Somerset House in the UK, ENI seen some increased pressure on like for like volume in France and Italy Group in Italy, Lundbeck in Denmark and The International School through the year, whilst trends in Japan remain unchanged.
Progress on operational efficiencies and cost reduction increased constant currency operating profit by 5 million, or 1.2%, to 409 million 2013: 404 million.
This equates to 20 basis points of operating margin progression to 7.2%.
The fundamentals of our business in Europe & Japan are good and we see many opportunities to drive growth in revenue and margin.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 25 FRESH THINKING TAILORING OUR MENUS FOR MEDICAL DIETARY NEEDS Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial statements Parent Company financial statements Shareholder information EUROPE & JAPAN WORKING WITH CLIENTS TO ENSURE CONSISTENT DELIVERY The food service market in Europe & Japan is large and underpenetrated.
The ongoing need for organisations to reduce their costs underpins the outsourcing proposition.
The fundamentals of our businesses in The ongoing need for organisations to take Europe & Japan are good.
Lower costs, an out costs is a keystone of the outsourcing improved offer and more effective sales and model and we therefore see significant retention processes are making us more structural growth potential.
With a lower cost competitive, building a better business on base and increased investment in sales and the solid foundations already in place.
This retention, we hope to be able to unlock more increased focus on MAP 1, client sales and outsourcing opportunities.
marketing, is starting to deliver with high Our success relies on us delivering the levels of new business, particularly in the UK, highest standards of quality and performance, Spain and the Nordic region, and improving whilst constantly striving to be the most underlying retention.
By adopting a more We still see many opportunities to drive systematic approach to our supply chain and growth in revenue and margin.
The better managing our labour and above unit potential food service market is estimated at overheads, were able to reinvest savings in approximately 100 billion and is currently the Group to drive organic revenue growth.
In some sectors, such as Healthcare & Seniors and Education, it is estimated to be less than 35% outsourced.
50% Proportion of food service market currently outsourced Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 27 REGIONAL REVIEW FAST GROWING & EMERGING GROUP REVENUE 18% REVENUE BY SECTOR 5 1 4 1. BUSINESS & INDUSTRY 40% 2.
SPORTS & LEISURE 2% REVENUE ORGANIC REVENUE GROWTH UNDERLYING OPERATING PROFIT UNDERLYING OPERATING MARGIN 3,143m 8.1% 226m 7.2% OPERATING PERFORMANCE 2014 2013 Revenue m 3,143 3,368 Underlying operating profit m 226 242 Underlying operating margin 7.2% 7.2% Region as % of Group revenue 18% 19% Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 28 Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial statements Parent Company financial statements Shareholder information We delivered good organic revenue growth throughout the year despite softening volumes in some markets.
Accelerated growth in the emerging markets, with strong levels of new business, was somewhat moderated by the slowdown in the Australian offshore and remote sector.
Therefore, the region as a whole delivered organic revenue growth of 8.1% with revenue of 3.1 billion 2013: 3.4 billion.
Overall, operating profit increased by 16 million on a constant Strong organic revenue growth in Turkey was driven by new business currency basis to 226 million 2013: 210 million.
As a result wins and like for like revenue growth.
New contracts include the food of our continued investment to support the many growth opportunities service provision for Aksa, a food and support service contract with BP in this region, operating margin at 7.2% was flat versus last year.
as well as the retention of Phillip Morris International and Bosch.
In line with expectations, Australia delivered flat organic Elsewhere in the region we have further developed our relationship revenue growth due to the slowdown in the offshore and remote with Chevron and have agreed a new international agreement, sector.
However, Education and Healthcare continue to see good retaining our Angolan business.
We have also won a large contract levels of new business with contract wins including a contract in South Africa to provide food to Netcare, a chain of 52 hospitals.
with Childrens Health Queensland to provide services at the India and China have again delivered good double digit growth, driven Lady Cilento Childrens Hospital.
by strong new business wins.
We have won food service contracts with In Brazil, new business wins remain excellent across all sectors, Intel and Capgemini in India and with Lenovo and Tencent in China, including food service contracts with Usiminas and Vale, and as well as several international schools including the International the pipeline remains encouraging.
Moderate pressure on volumes School of Beijing.
is being compensated by improved retention and an increase in first time outsourcing, and as a result, overall organic revenue growth is strong.
With continued focus on cost efficiencies the business is in an excellent position to drive future growth.
Elsewhere in LATAM we are also seeing good organic growth partly driven by several large new offshore and remote site contracts, including Bechtel in Chile.
With over 70% of the market currently estimated to be self operated, the structural growth trends are attractive and were seeing an accelerating trend to outsourcing.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 29 MAINTAINING HIGH STANDARDS IN DEMANDING ENVIRONMENTS Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial statements Parent Company financial statements Shareholder information We remain committed to maintaining the Given the demanding environments in which FAST GROWING & EMERGING highest standards across the Group.
we operate in parts of this region, maintaining the highest standards of health and safety Over the coming decades, fast growing and is non-negotiable and a clear differentiator MAINTAINING emerging economies are expected to see for our business.
A strong safety culture is a significant increase in their working important to our clients and is critical to the populations, income per capita and HIGH STANDARDS wellbeing of our colleagues and consumers.
Our exposure to these We operate a global Health, Safety and markets has almost trebled over the last Environmental HSE Management System decade and they now represent 18% of Group IN DEMANDING supported by policies, standards and metrics.
We have a strong presence in key This system underpins consistent operating markets such as Brazil and Turkey, and standards across all of the diverse markets ENVIRONMENTS we are growing rapidly in India and China.
The Corporate With over 70% of the market currently Responsibility Committee of the Board estimated to be self operated, the structural reviews the HSE policies annually, supported Health and safety dynamics are attractive and were seeing an by our global HSE forum, which brings accelerating trend to outsourcing.
As this together technical specialists from around is our number one continues, we would hope to see high levels the Group.
of growth maintained well into the future.
In operational priority The forum is responsible for defining policies, order to maximise these opportunities, were setting standards, measuring compliance investing in management and systems with and a clear differentiator and sharing best practice.
As a result of our a clear focus on quality, sustainable growth.
dedicated focus on health and safety, our for our business.
global Lost Time Injury Rate has improved by 51% compared to the 2008 baseline.
31% We have seen continuous improvement in Health & Safety performance in this region, resulting in a 31% reduction in lost time injuries during the last 12 months Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 31
