STRATEGY FOR GROWTH A STRATEGY TO DELIVER DISCIPLINED GROWTH AND OPERATING EFFICIENCIES FOCUS We have a consistent and sustainable ON FOOD strategy, committed to delivering shareholder value from the provision of Food is our core business and from where we derive three food and support services to a growing quarters of our annual revenue.
Our teams of award outsourced market.
Our principal aim is winning chefs, nutritional and health and safety experts to grow organically and with discipline.
allow our clients to focus on We supplement this growth with small their own business needs by outsourcing this responsibility infill acquisitions where they deliver new to us, and our size and experience allow us to help expertise or help to build scale in our them save money.
PROOF POINTS We estimate that the global food service market is around 200 billion, around 80% of which is either self operated or in the hands of small regional providers, presenting a significant structural growth opportunity see page 12.
HOW ARE WE DRIVING ORGANIC GROWTH?
MAP 1: CLIENT SALES AND MARKETING MAP 2: CONSUMER SALES AND MARKETING We have increased our investment in sales and retention teams A contributor to organic revenue growth is like for like volume across our geographies.
In North America we have delivered which is heavily influenced by the number of people at a exceptionally strong net new business and in the emerging markets clients site.
This reflects macroeconomic conditions and, in we have been able to harness the structural shift to outsourcing, particular, employment levels.
Whilst we continue to see economic growing significantly against a backdrop of tough economic conditions in some of our markets impact volumes, we are making conditions.
In Europe & Japan we are driving an improved organic good progress with intelligent marketing programmes and training performance through this increased MAP 1 focus with a pipeline schemes as we work hard to attract and satisfy our customer base of new business which gives us increased confidence in the future.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 16 Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial statements Parent Company financial statements Shareholder information GROWING SUPPORT GEOGRAPHIC SPREAD, ORGANIC GROWTH, ONGOING DRIVE SERVICES FAST GROWING AND SUPPLEMENTED BY FOR EFFICIENCIES EMERGING MARKETS INFILL ACQUISITIONS We also provide a range of Our international presence The main engine of growth is We generate savings through soft support services such as in over 50 countries gives organic and we are investing in adopting a systematic approach cleaning, reception and some us a good geographical mix the business to capture future to our supply chain and better building maintenance.
Our and diversifies our revenue growth opportunities.
Organic managing our labour and strategy differs by country sources.
It allows us to serve revenue is supplemented with above unit overheads.
These and by sector where attitudes multinational businesses, small to medium sized infill efficiencies enable us to grow to support services vary ensuring consistency of quality, acquisitions in food or support the margin and to reinvest significantly.
We are therefore service and standards across services where they add either in the significant growth increasing our capabilities in their organisations.
In the last capability or scale in our opportunities around the an incremental and low risk way 10 years, we have significantly existing markets.
In addition, the strong on a country by country basis.
grown our presence in those fast a disciplined approach to our cash flow this generates growing and emerging markets acquisition strategy based supports our progressive where we see sustainable on the returns we expect dividend policy and the growth opportunities.
significant shareholder value we expect to continue to deliver.
PROOF POINTS PROOF POINTS PROOF POINTS PROOF POINTS We are a leading provider Our revenue in the Fast Growing We have a strong track record Since our MAP framework of support services in the Defence, & Emerging region continues to of exceeding our acquisition was introduced in 2006, we Offshore & Remote sector where deliver growth above the Group financial criteria, with returns have increased the Group we continue to enjoy excellent average with the emerging above our cost of capital by margin by 250 basis points.
We also see markets growing at a double digit the end of the second year exciting opportunities in rate in 2014. of ownership.
Healthcare & Seniors, Business & Industry and Education.
HOW ARE WE GENERATING EFFICIENCIES?
MAP 3: COST OF FOOD MAP 4: IN UNIT COSTS MAP 5: ABOVE UNIT OVERHEADS Food makes up around one third of In unit costs are made up predominantly Having reduced costs considerably our costs.
In addition to the benefits of labour.
We focus on getting the right when MAP was first introduced by of our purchasing scale, we are able to people in the right place at the right time.
creating a simpler organisational model manage the cost of food by careful menu By using labour scheduling techniques with fewer layers of management and less management and through rationalising and improving productivity, we are able bureaucracy, we now strive to leverage the number of products we buy and the to deliver the right level of service in the those gains by maintaining costs at a suppliers we buy from.
constant level whilst still growing revenue.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 17
