BUSINESS MODEL DELIVERING VALUE We provide food and support services We do this by putting innovation at the to millions of people around the world.
forefront of everything we do, by sourcing the Delivering value to our customers, best ingredients responsibly and by making employees, our suppliers and ultimately health and safety a way of life, giving our to our shareholders is our priority.
customers confidence in the hygiene and provenance of their food and the safety of our working practices.
We aim to make a positive difference to the communities and environments in which we operate, acting responsibly to deliver sustainable results.
OUR PEOPLE Our people are at the INNOVATE SOURCE PREPARE PROVIDE heart of everything we Innovation is integral The suppliers we buy from We are committed to the Our award winning do, delivering world class to our business.
We are undergo a robust quality highest standards of food chefs create menus from service to our customers constantly striving to assurance process.
We hygiene and safe working the highest quality and working tirelessly to improve what we do, have global supply chain practices.
We also look to ingredients which are achieve our goals.
from more efficient standards in place to reduce our impact on the served by our highly ways of sourcing to ensure traceability and environment by focusing trained teams in the maintaining and provenance through each on efficient energy use, most efficient way.
Great enhancing best practice stage of the chain.
minimising water people give great service standards, delivering consumption and waste.
so the development of innovative solutions our people is one of our to our clients.
BENEFITS TO STAKEHOLDERS BENEFITS TO STAKEHOLDERS BENEFITS TO STAKEHOLDERS BENEFITS TO STAKEHOLDERS This gives our clients This ensures that we use We are reducing the Our consumers get and consumers greater the best ingredients, impact we have on the great tasting, nutritious choice and the highest responsibly sourced to environment whilst also food that exceeds level of service and keeps protect both our suppliers lowering the costs of our expectations.
Our Compass at the forefront and the environment operations, increasing the people are supported of innovation in the and gives our consumers sustainability of our results through training and food and support confidence in the and supporting the development, enabling services industry.
provenance and quality communities in which them to contribute to and of the food we provide.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 14 S Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial statements Parent Company financial statements Shareholder information E I C N E I C I F F E G N I T A C R O E P M O P E T I T I V By doing all of this in the most efficient way we ensure that we remain competitive which, in turn, underpins our core strategic goals to grow our business organically and to generate efficiencies.
SHAREHOLDER VALUE ORGANIC REVENUE GROWTH OPERATING EFFICIENCIES COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE Organic revenue is the foundation Our success relies on us delivering Achieving our goal of being the lowest of our strategy to deliver sustainable the highest standards of quality cost, most efficient provider of quality growth.
It is generated from winning and performance, whilst constantly food and support services underpins new contracts, retaining existing striving to be the most efficient our competitiveness and accelerates clients and increasing consumer provider.
The drive for efficiencies our growth in the global marketplace.
participation and spend in our has become an embedded part of our The increase in organic revenue restaurants.
As the trend to outsourcing culture.
As well as delivering good growth and efficiencies means we can accelerates around the world, we see levels of margin improvement, it invest in the business to support future exciting opportunities for growth enables us to reinvest in the exciting performance, therefore completing the in all our regions and sectors.
growth opportunities around virtuous circle.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 15 E A D V A H N T T W A O G R E G E U N E V E R C I N A G R O
