SECTORS AND SERVICES A WELL BALANCED AND DIVERSIFIED BUSINESS Our sectorised approach is a key differentiator.
GROUP REVENUE % In recognition that each sector has specific 5 requirements, we assign specialists to drive 4 tailor made solutions and operating efficiency.
1 3 For consumers, this means quicker access to sector focused best practices and market 2 leading innovations that are delivered by our teams, from award winning chefs to service 1. BUSINESS & INDUSTRY 40% 2.
DEFENCE, OFFSHORE & REMOTE 12% HEALTHCARE & SENIORS SPORTS & LEISURE EDUCATION Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 6 Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial statements Parent Company financial statements Shareholder information BUSINESS & INDUSTRY EDUCATION DEFENCE, OFFSHORE & REMOTE We provide a choice of quality, nutritious and From kindergarten to college, we provide fun, Through our established health and well balanced food for employees during their nutritious dining solutions that help support safety culture, we are a market leader working day.
In addition, where clients seek academic achievement at the highest levels.
in providing food and support services broader service offerings, the Compass Service Our simple set of commitments Eat, Learn, to major companies in the oil and gas Framework enables us to deliver a range of Live helps us to educate young people about and mining and construction industries, support services to the highest standard, at the how to have a happy, safe and healthy lifestyle operating in some of the most demanding best value, on an international scale.
while contributing to a sustainable world.
For our defence sector clients, we are a partner who meets the challenges of running efficient operations outside areas of conflict.
HEALTHCARE & SENIORS SPORTS & LEISURE We are specialists in helping hospitals in Operating at some of the worlds most the public and private sectors on their journey prestigious sporting and leisure venues, of managing efficiency and enhancing quality exhibition centres, visitor attractions and across a range of services.
With a significant major events, we have an enviable reputation presence in the growing senior living market, for providing outstanding hospitality and we also provide services to residential homes true service excellence.
and home meal delivery services.
BUSINESS & INDUSTRY DEFENCE, OFFSHORE & REMOTE Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 7
