KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS KPI METRICS We track our performance Our strategic priorities are driven by our goal to deliver shareholder value.
We use a number of financial KPIs to measure our progress against a mix of financial and including earnings per share.
Growing the business and driving ongoing efficiencies are integral to our strategy.
Our organic revenue non-financial measures, which we performance embodies our success in growing and retaining our believe best reflect our strategic customer base as well as our ability to drive volumes in our existing business and maintain appropriate pricing levels in light of input priorities of growth, efficiency cost inflation.
The operating profit margin is an important measure of the efficiency of our operations in delivering great food and support and shareholder returns services to our clients and consumers.
underpinned by safe and responsible working practices.
ORGANIC REVENUE GROWTH UNDERLYING OPERATING MARGIN Organic revenue growth compares Underlying operating margin divides the ORGANIC REVENUE UNDERLYING OPERATING the revenue delivered from continuing underlying operating profit before share GROWTH MARGIN operations in the current year with that of profit of associates from continuing % % from the prior year, adjusting for the operations by the revenue from impact of acquisitions, disposals and continuing operations.
2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 UNDERLYING FREE CASH FLOW RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED Underlying free cash flow measures cash Return on capital employed divides the generated by continuing operations, after UNDERLYING FREE net operating profit after tax NOPAT RETURN ON CAPITAL CASH FLOW EMPLOYED working capital, capital expenditure, by the 12 month average capital M % interest and tax but before acquisitions, employed CE.
NOPAT is calculated disposals, dividends and share as underlying operating profit from buybacks.
The cash impact of the continuing operations less operating European exceptional costs is excluded profit of non-controlling interests, net of from underlying free cash flow.
income tax at the underlying rate of the year.
CE is calculated as net assets, plus net debt, post-employment benefit obligations net of deferred tax, impaired goodwill, amortised goodwill and intangibles arising on acquisition, and less net assets of non-controlling interests and discontinued operations.
2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 18 760 5.4 834 4.3 4.1 741 18.2 6.9 19.1 7.1 19.3 7.2 Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial statements Parent Company financial statements Shareholder information Free cash flow measures the success of the Group in turning profit The importance of safety in everything we do is demonstrated by into cash through the careful management of working capital and three non-financial performance indicators that we use across our capital expenditure.
Maintaining a high level of cash generation is global business.
The Food Safety Incident Rate is key in helping us important as it supports our progressive dividend policy, while the to measure our food safety performance, and we use a universally return on capital employed demonstrates how we have delivered recognised indicator to measure our performance in delivering safe against the various investments we make in the business, be it working practices, the Lost Time Injury Rate.
Since 2008, we have operational expenditure, capital expenditure or infill acquisitions.
been focused on our carbon emissions to increase efficiency and we measure greenhouse gas emissions to assess our progress.
UNDERLYING BASIC EARNINGS ENVIRONMENT GHG INTENSITY PER SHARE RATIO UNDERLYING BASIC GHG INTENSITY RATIO Underlying basic earnings per share GHG intensity ratio relating to the top EARNINGS PER SHARE % divides the underlying attributable 20 countries which represent 93% of total PENCE profit from continuing operations by Group revenue.
the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year.
2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 FOOD SAFETY FOOD SAFETY HEALTH AND SAFETY LOST TIME INCIDENT PERFORMANCE INJURY PERFORMANCE REDUCTION IN FOOD REDUCTION IN LOST Cases of substantiated food safety Cases where one of our colleagues is SAFETY INCIDENTS TIME INJURIES incidents, including food borne illnesses.
away from work for one or more shifts as % % a result of a work related injury or illness.
