MARKET PERSPECTIVE OPPORTUNITIES FOR GROWTH THROUGH STRONG POSITIONS IN ATTRACTIVE MARKETS The outsourcing proposition remains compelling and we are seeing an acceleration in the trend to outsourcing in many of our markets.
The structural growth opportunities that this presents are exciting.
Compass operates in over 50 countries: countries where we can build scale and where the structural growth opportunities are attractive.
We deliver services in five sectors: Business & Industry, Healthcare & Seniors, Education, Defence, Offshore & Remote and Sports & Leisure.
We operate in the food and support services markets, which have an estimated combined market value of over 400 billion.
These markets are highly fragmented and underpenetrated, with the global food service market estimated to be less than 50% outsourced.
Outsourcing rates in some sectors, such as Healthcare & Seniors and Education, are significantly lower.
Business & Industry, whilst more penetrated at around 80%, still offers excellent growth potential as new businesses are created, the trend to outsourcing is already vibrant and the market large and highly fragmented.
The large international operators make up a small proportion of the total market, less than 20%, meaning that around 80% is either self operated or operated by small, local providers.
We see this as a significant opportunity.
As a large organisation, we are able to benefit from our scale, sharing best practice from around the world in areas such as HSE, health and wellness, and consumer offers.
It also enables us to optimise our purchasing, overheads and logistics and we are therefore able to offer excellent quality at a lower cost for our clients.
The combination of enabling an organisations management to focus on its core business and respond to the growing pressure on budgets has resulted in an acceleration in the trend to outsourcing.
Our international presence also enables us to establish partnerships with blue chip multinational institutions as they look for consistency of service across their operations and can trust in our reputation for first class delivery and responsible corporate practices.
We have a growing presence in the emerging markets where we began by partnering with these large multinational organisations and are now increasingly serving local businesses as well.
Our focus on health and safety has been an attractive element of our service in these markets and around the world.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 12 Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial statements Parent Company financial statements Shareholder information OUTSOURCING PENETRATION RATES FOR ADDRESSABLE FOOD AND SUPPORT SERVICES MARKETS 1 FOOD SERVICE 2 2 SUPPORT 1 SERVICES 1.
SELF OPERATED FOOD AND SUPPORT SERVICES MARKET SIZE 400bn Numbers relating to market size and penetration rates are based on management estimates and a range of external data Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 13
