Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial statements Parent Company financial statements Shareholder information GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT The Chairman, Paul Walsh, joined the Board as an independent CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT non-executive director on 1 January 2014 and succeeded Sir Roy Gardner The directors present their Annual Report and the audited consolidated who retired as Chairman at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries for the year ended AGM held on 6 February 2014.
Carol Arrowsmith joined the Board as an 30 September 2014.
This Corporate Governance Report and other statutory independent non-executive director on 1 June 2014. disclosures set out on pages 49 to 58 make up the Directors Report.
All of the non-executive directors are considered by the Board to be This Directors Report also contains information required to be disclosed independent of management and free of any relationship which could under the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules and under the Disclosure materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
To the extent necessary, certain information is The Board considers that each of the non-executive directors brings their incorporated into this Report by reference.
own senior level of experience, gained in each of their own fields, mainly in international operations.
UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE COMPLIANCE Responsibility for good governance lies with the Board.
The Board is Biographical details of the directors currently in office are shown on accountable to shareholders and is committed to the highest standards pages 46 and 47.
The Companys policy relating to the terms of of corporate governance as set out in the UK Corporate Governance appointment and the remuneration of both executive and non-executive Code 2010 and 2012 the Code.
The Code can be found on the Financial directors is detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report which is on Reporting Council FRC website at www.
Governance Report, together with the Directors Remuneration Report The Board meets regularly during the year as well as on an ad hoc basis, set out on pages 59 to 76, describes how the Board has applied the as required by business need.
The Board met eight times during the year main principles of good governance set out in the Code during the year and director attendance for each meeting is shown in the table on page 51. under review.
Each director also attends the AGM to answer shareholder questions.
The FRC published a revised Code on 17 September 2014, applicable RESPONSIBILITIES to financial reporting periods beginning on or after 1 October 2014.
Where possible, the Company has sought to reflect these revisions in its practices The Board manages the business of the Company and may, subject to the Articles of Association and applicable legislation, borrow money, and will aim to comply fully with the revised Code during 2014-2015. guarantee, indemnify, mortgage or charge the business, property and assets present and future, issue debentures and other securities and COMPLIANCE STATEMENT give security, whether outright or as a collateral security, for any debt, It is the Boards view that for the year ended 30 September 2014 the liability or obligation of the Company or of any third party.
The Board Company has been fully compliant with all of the principles set out in has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision, although its the Code applicable to this reporting period.
The Companys auditor, primary role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership and to review the KPMG LLP, is required to review whether the above statement reflects overall strategic development of the Group as a whole.
In addition, the the Companys compliance with the provisions of the Code specified for Board sets the Groups values and standards and ensures that it acts its review by the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and to report ethically and that its obligations to its shareholders are understood and if it does not reflect such compliance.
No such report has been made.
The Board may delegate any of its powers to any committee consisting of one or more directors.
HOW WE GOVERN THE COMPANY The Board has delegated day to day operational decisions to the Executive Our governance structure comprises the functions shown below, supported by the Groups standards, policies and controls, which are described over Board referred to on page 52. the following pages in more detail.
The Board has established a procedure for directors, if deemed necessary, to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
Every director also has access to the General CHAIRMAN Counsel and Company Secretary, who is charged with ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that good corporate governance and compliance are implemented throughout the Group.
Together with the Group Chief Executive and the General Counsel and Company BOARD Secretary, the Chairman ensures that the Board is kept properly informed and is consulted on all issues reserved to it.
Board papers and other information are distributed at times to allow directors to be properly CORPORATE AUDIT REMUNERATION NOMINATION briefed in advance of meetings.
In accordance with the Companys RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Articles of Association, directors have been granted an indemnity issued by the Company to the extent permitted by law in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
The indemnity would not provide GENERAL DISCLOSURE any coverage where a director is proved to have acted fraudulently or BUSINESS COMMITTEE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE dishonestly.
The Company has also arranged appropriate insurance cover BOARD in respect of legal action against its directors and officers.
The roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are separate and clearly defined, with the division of responsibilities set out in writing and THE BOARD agreed by the Board.
COMPOSITION As at 30 September 2014, and as at the date of this Report, the board of directors was made up of 10 members, comprising the non-executive Chairman, four executive directors and five non-executive directors.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 49 GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTOR EFFECTIVENESS AND TRAINING that, following the appointment of Paul Walsh as Chairman, a revised In accordance with best practice, the Chairman addresses the approach towards long term succession at Board level was being adopted.
developmental needs of the Board as a whole, with a view to further This has initially seen the appointment of Carol Arrowsmith as both an developing its effectiveness as a team, and ensures that each director independent non-executive director and Chairman of the Remuneration refreshes and updates his or her individual skills, knowledge Committee on 1 June 2014. and expertise.
It was also the view of the Board that each of the non-executive directors Meetings between the non-executive directors, both with and without brings considerable management expertise and an independent perspective the presence of the Group Chief Executive, are scheduled in the Boards to the Boards deliberations and they are considered to be independent of annual programme.
Board meetings are also held at Group business management and free from any relationship or circumstance that could locations to help all Board members to gain a deeper understanding of the affect, or appear to affect, the exercise of their independent judgement.
This also provides senior managers from across the Group with Overall, the Board considered the performance of each director to be the opportunity to present to the Board as well as to meet the directors effective and concluded that both the Board and its committees continue on more informal occasions.
to provide effective leadership and exert the required levels of governance and control.
The Board will continue to review its procedures, effectiveness Succession planning is a matter for the whole Board, rather than for a and development in the year ahead.
The Companys Articles of Association provide that one third of the directors retire by rotation each year and that each director will seek CONFLICTS OF INTEREST re-election at the AGM every three years.
However, in accordance with As part of their ongoing development, the executive directors may seek the Code, all directors submit themselves for annual re-election by one external non-executive role on a non-competitor board, for which shareholders.
New directors may be appointed by the Board, but are they may retain the remuneration in respect of the appointment.
In subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their order to avoid any conflict of interest, all appointments are subject to appointment, as is the case with Carol Arrowsmith who will seek election the Boards approval and the Board monitors the extent of directors at the AGM on 5 February 2015.
The Articles of Association limit the other interests to ensure that its effectiveness is not compromised.
number of directors to not less than two and not more than 20 save where shareholders decide otherwise.
Non-executive directors are normally Each director has a duty under the Companies Act 2006 CA 2006 appointed for an initial term of three years which is reviewed and may be to avoid a situation in which he or she has or can have a direct or extended for a further three years.
It is Board policy that non-executive indirect interest that conflicts or possibly may conflict with the interests director appointments should last for no more than nine years.
This duty is in addition to the obligation that he or A formal, comprehensive and tailored induction is given to all she owes to the Company to disclose to the Board any transaction or non-executive directors following their appointment, including visits arrangement under consideration by the Company.
The Companys to key locations within the Group and meetings with members of the Articles of Association authorise the directors to approve such Executive Board and other key senior executives.
The induction also situations and to include other provisions to allow conflicts of interest covers a review of the Groups governance policies, structures and business, to be dealt with.
The Board follows an established procedure when including details of the risks and operating issues facing the Group.
deciding whether to authorise an actual or potential conflict of interest.
Only independent directors i. e. those who have no interest in the Sir Ian Robinson is the Companys Senior Independent Director.
His role matter under consideration will be able to take the relevant decision, includes providing a sounding board for the Chairman and acting as an and in taking the decision the directors must act in good faith and intermediary for the non-executive directors, where necessary.
The Board believes that Sir Ian continues to have the appropriate experience, in a way they consider will be most likely to promote the Companys knowledge and independence to continue in this role.
Furthermore, the directors may, if appropriate, impose limits or conditions when granting authorisation.
The Chairman ensures that the Board maintains an appropriate dialogue with shareholders.
Although the non-executive directors are not formally Any authorities are reviewed at least every 15 months.
The Board required to meet the shareholders of the Company, their attendance at considered and authorised each directors reported actual and presentations of the interim and annual results is encouraged.
potential conflicts of interest at its July 2014 Board meeting and considers changes on an ad hoc basis throughout the year.
BOARD EFFECTIVENESS A performance evaluation of the Board and of its committees is carried out COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD annually to ensure that they continue to be effective and that each of the The Board has established a number of committees to assist in the directors demonstrates commitment to his or her respective role and has discharge of its duties and the formal Terms of Reference for the principal sufficient time to meet his or her commitment to the Company.
committees, approved by the Board and complying with the Code, are available from the General Counsel and Company Secretary and can also Last year, in compliance with the Code, the performance evaluation was be found on the Companys website at www.
Their conducted by independent external facilitators, EquityCommunications Terms of Reference are reviewed annually and updated where necessary.
Membership and details of the principal committees are shown on pages This year, an internal performance evaluation was conducted, taking into 51 and 52. account the principal themes which had emerged from the preceding The General Counsel and Company Secretary acts as Secretary to all external evaluation, notably enhancing the approach to the strategy Board committees.
formulation process and continuing to focus on succession planning.
Having conducted its evaluation, the Board noted that enhancement of timetabling and processes had been achieved during 2014, enabling more productive use of the Boards time for discussion of strategic issues, and Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 50 Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial statements Parent Company financial statements Shareholder information MEETINGS ATTENDANCE considers candidates from different genders and a wide range of The following table shows the attendance of directors at meetings of the backgrounds Board and of the Audit, Corporate Responsibility CR, Nomination and considers candidates on merit and against objective criteria ensuring that Remuneration Committees during the year ended 30 September 2014: appointees have sufficient time to devote to the position, in light of other significant commitments Audit CR Nomination Remuneration Name Board Committee Committee Committee Committee During the year, the Nomination Committee retained Egon Zehnder 1 International as recruitment consultants in respect of the search for a Carol Arrowsmith 3 of 3 1 of 1 1 of 1 1 of 1 2 of 2 suitable candidate to join the Board as an additional non-executive John Bason 8 of 8 4 of 4 3 of 3 2 of 2 4 of 4 director.
Egon Zehnder International is an independent executive search Dominic Blakemore 7 of 8 3 of 3 firm which has no other connection with the Company.
Carol Arrowsmith Richard Cousins 8 of 8 3 of 3 2 of 2 2 Sir Roy Gardner 3 of 3 1 of 1 1 of 1 was identified by the Nomination Committee as part of the external search Gary Green 8 of 8 process conducted by Egon Zehnder International.
She was subsequently Andrew Martin 8 of 8 recommended to the Board for appointment on the basis that she met Susan Murray 8 of 8 4 of 4 3 of 3 2 of 2 4 of 4 the criteria required, including having sufficient time to discharge the Don Robert 8 of 8 4 of 4 3 of 3 2 of 2 4 of 4 requirements of the role.
During the year, the Nomination Committee also Sir Ian Robinson 8 of 8 4 of 4 3 of 3 2 of 2 4 of 4 considered and recommended to the Board the reappointment of John 3 Paul Walsh 6 of 6 2 of 2 1 of 1 Bason for a further three year term.
In the year ahead, the Nomination Committee will continue to assess 1 Carol Arrowsmith joined the Board on 1 June 2014 2 Sir Roy Gardner retired from the Board on 6 February 2014 the Boards composition and how it may be enhanced and will consider 3 Paul Walsh joined the Board on 1 January 2014 diversity gender and experience and geographic representation and use independent consultants as appropriate to ensure a broad search for The table shows the number of meetings attended out of the number of suitable candidates.
meetings which each director was eligible to attend.
Directors who are not members of individual Board committees have also been invited to attend REMUNERATION COMMITTEE one or more meetings of those committees during the year.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for making recommendations There was one occasion where a director was unable to attend a meeting to the Board on remuneration policy for the Chairman, executive directors due to an unforeseen event.
The Remuneration Committee comprises Carol Arrowsmith Chairman NOMINATION COMMITTEE from 1 June 2014 and all of the other non-executive directors in office The Nomination Committees key objective is to ensure that the Board at the date of this Report.
Sir Ian Robinson was Chairman of the comprises individuals with the necessary skills, knowledge and experience Remuneration Committee until 1 June 2014.
The Remuneration to ensure that it is effective in discharging its responsibilities.
Committee met four times during the year and directors attendance The Nomination Committee comprises Paul Walsh Chairman, can be found in the table above.
Richard Cousins and all of the non-executive directors in office at the The Directors Remuneration Report is set out on pages 59 to 76 and date of this Report.
details the Remuneration Committees activities during the year and the The Nomination Committee meets on an as needed basis.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee met two times during the year and members attends the AGM to respond to any shareholder questions that might be attendance is set out in the table above.
raised on the Remuneration Committees activities.
The Nomination Committee reviews the structure, size and composition GENERAL BUSINESS COMMITTEE of the Board and its committees and makes recommendations with regard The General Business Committee comprises all of the executive directors to any changes considered necessary in the identification and nomination and meets as required to conduct the Companys business within clearly of new directors, the reappointment of existing directors and appointment defined limits delegated by the Board and subject to those matters reserved of members to the Boards committees.
It also assesses the roles of the to the Board.
existing directors in office to ensure that there continues to be a balanced board in terms of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity.
The Nomination Committee reviews the senior leadership needs of the Group CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE to enable it to compete effectively in the marketplace.
The Nomination The Corporate Responsibility Committees primary responsibilities Committee also advises the Board on succession planning for executive include health, safety and environmental practices, ethical business director appointments, although the Board itself is responsible for conduct, the promotion of employee engagement and diversity and succession generally.
The Company adopts a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for The Corporate Responsibility Committee comprises Susan Murray the appointment of new directors and senior executives with due regard Chairman, Paul Walsh, Dominic Blakemore, Richard Cousins, to diversity and gender.
Prior to making an appointment, the Nomination Mark White General Counsel and Company Secretary, Jane Kingston Committee will evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge, independence, Group Human Resources Director and all of the non-executive directors experience and diversity on the Board and, in the light of this evaluation, in office at the date of this Report.
The Corporate Responsibility will prepare a description of the role and capabilities required, with a view Committee met three times during the year and the director members to appointing the best placed individual for the role.
attendance is shown in the table above.
Our Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 is available at www.
com cr14 as well as on In identifying suitable candidates, the Nomination Committee: pages 40 to 45 of this Report.
uses open advertising or the services of external advisers to facilitate the search Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 51 GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT the Audit Committee may require reports on matters of interest in addition DISCLOSURE COMMITTEE to the regular items.
The Audit Committee met four times during the year The Disclosure Committee ensures accuracy and timeliness of public and members attendance at the meetings is set out in the table on page 51. announcements of the Company and monitors the Companys obligations under the Listing Rules and Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the The Audit Committee invites Paul Walsh Chairman, Richard Cousins UK Listing Authority.
Group Chief Executive, Dominic Blakemore Group Finance Director, Sarah Sergeant Head of Financial Reporting and Control and Trevor Meetings are held as required.
At the date of this Report, the Disclosure Gelnar Director of Group Internal Audit, together with senior Committee comprises Dominic Blakemore, Mark White, the Head of representatives of the external auditor, to attend each meeting although, Financial Reporting and Control and the Head of Investor Relations.
from time to time, it reserves time for discussions without invitees being present.
Other senior management are invited to present such reports as EXECUTIVE BOARD are required for the Audit Committee to discharge its duties.
The Executive Board is the key management committee for the Group and comprises the executive directors of the Company, Andrew Furlong The Chairman of the Audit Committee attends the AGM to respond Regional Managing Director, Central Asia, Middle East, Africa & to any shareholder questions that might be raised on its activities.
The Turkey, Philippe Op fide Beeck Regional Managing Director, Asia remuneration of the members of the Audit Committee and the policy with Pacific, Johnny Thomson Regional Managing Director, Latin America, regard to the remuneration of the non-executive directors are set out on Mark White and Jane Kingston.
The Executive Board meets regularly and is responsible for developing ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR the Groups strategy and capital expenditure and investment budgets and The matters reviewed and evaluated by the Audit Committee during the reporting on these areas to the Board for approval, implementing Group year are set out below: policy, monitoring financial, operational and customer quality of service FINANCIAL REPORTING performance, health and safety, purchasing and supply chain issues, the appropriateness of the interim and annual financial statements succession planning and day to day management of the Group.
including the announcements thereof to the London Stock Exchange with both management and the external auditor, including: AUDIT COMMITTEE at the Boards request, whether the Annual Report and Accounts, OBJECTIVES taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides The Audit Committees key objectives are the provision of effective the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys governance over the appropriateness of the Groups financial reporting, performance, business model and strategy including the adequacy of related disclosures, the performance of both the the clarity of disclosures and compliance with financial reporting internal and external audit functions, and the management of the Groups standards and relevant financial and governance reporting systems of internal control, business risks and related compliance activities.
requirements discussing the critical accounting policies and use of assumptions and The Audit Committees Terms of Reference can be found at estimates, as noted in section B of the accounting policies on page 87 of www.
this Annual Report, and concluding that the estimates, judgements and assumptions used were reasonable based on the information available COMPOSITION and had been used appropriately in applying the Companys The Audit Committee comprises all of the non-executive directors in office accounting policies at the date of this Report.
Members of the Audit Committee are appointed considering the nature and quantum of the purchasing income earned by the Board following recommendations by the Nomination Committee by the Group during the financial year.
It also assessed the extent to and the Audit Committees membership is reviewed by the Nomination which the amounts recognised required estimation and reviewed the Committee and as part of the annual Board performance evaluation.
recoverability of amounts accrued at the year end with reference to Each member of the Audit Committee brings relevant senior level financial aged analyses and subsequent cash receipts.
Nothing arose during the experience.
The expertise and experience of the members of the Audit course of this review to indicate that purchasing income had not been Committee are summarised on pages 46 and 47.
The Board considers that accounted for in accordance with the Group's accounting policies each member of the Audit Committee is independent within the definition the material areas in which significant judgements have been applied, set out in the Code.
The Audit Committees Chairman, John Bason, is namely: considered by the Board to have significant, recent and relevant financial the consideration of any goodwill impairment assessments and how experience as Finance Director of Associated British Foods plc.
The judgement largely relates to the assumptions underlying the calculation of the value in use of the cash generating All members of the Audit Committee receive an appropriate induction, units CGUs being tested for impairment, primarily the achievement which includes an overview of the business, its financial dynamics and of the three year business plan for the CGUs and the macroeconomic risks.
Audit Committee members are expected to have an understanding assumptions such as discount rates underpinning the valuation of the principles of, and recent developments in, financial reporting, process.
The Committee receives reports from management outlining including the applicable accounting standards and statements of the basis for the assumptions used.
Business plans are approved by the recommended practice, key aspects of the Companys policies, financing, Board.
In addition, the external auditor provides detailed written internal control mechanisms, and matters that require the use of assessments to the Audit Committee in this area judgement in the presentation of accounts and key figures as well as the the level of provisioning for contingent and other liabilities including role of internal and external auditors.
Members of the Audit Committee tax where management, accounting and legal judgements are undertake ongoing training as required.
The Committee discusses with management the key judgements made, including relevant legal advice.
The external auditor AUDIT COMMITTEE MEETINGS also reports on all material provisions to the Committee The Audit Committee meets regularly throughout the year and its agenda Going Concern is linked to events in the Companys financial calendar.
Each member of Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 52 Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial statements Parent Company financial statements Shareholder information OTHER MATTERS within the agreed policy and does not impair its objectivity or In addition to its key role in the financial reporting process, the Audit independence.
Following the change of external auditor, the Audit Committee also considered the following: Committee agreed that Deloitte LLP should continue to provide tax services to the Group and has amended its policy on the provision of Nov Jan May Sept non-audit services by the external auditor accordingly, to exclude such Items discussed 2013 2014 2014 2014 services.
Therefore, unless there is no other competent and available INTERNAL AUDIT provider, the external auditor should be excluded from providing the approval of the Groups internal audit plan and Company with general consultancy and all other non-audit services.
risk controls and the review of internal audit Engagements for non-audit services that are not prohibited are subject activity reports and updates, together with the to formal approval by the Audit Committee based on the level of fees rollout of key financial controls involved.
Non-audit services that are pre-approved are either routine in EXTERNAL AUDIT nature with a fee that is not significant in the context of the audit or are retendering process for the auditor audit related services.
appointment of KPMG LLP and associated terms and fees and handover process between Within the constraints of applicable UK rules, the external auditor has Deloitte LLP and KPMG LLP traditionally undertaken some due diligence reviews and other pieces approval and review of proposed audit plan of non-audit work.
The provision of non-audit services within such and procedures constraints and the agreed policy is assessed on a case by case basis so review of auditor effectiveness and that the best placed adviser is retained.
Principal non-audit services appointment provided by Deloitte LLP to 14 March 2014 and by KPMG LLP since review of the policy and update of provision 14 March 2014 approved by the Audit Committee during the year ended of non-audit services provided by the 30 September 2014 comprised assistance on tax matters in the case external auditor of Deloitte LLP, IT related services and due diligence advice in respect OTHER MATTERS of potential acquisitions.
litigation and contingent liabilities During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed Deloitte LLPs fees for operation of the Groups Speak Up whistleblowing policy its services during the year ended 30 September 2013, its effectiveness and country specific audit matters whether the agreed audit plan had been fulfilled and the reasons for any variation from the plan.
Its fees for non-audit work completed during the Regional and Group Governance Committeestructure and the outputs from 2012-2013 were also reviewed and agreed.
The Audit Committees usual thecommittee meetings formal evaluation process involving the use of questionnaires completed tax matters, including provisioning for potential by finance teams around the Group was incorporated within the agreed current tax liabilities and the level of deferred process for retendering the external audit.
tax asset recognition as well as compliance with statutory tax reporting obligations The Audit Committee also considered the robustness of the 2014 audit and the degree to which KPMG LLP was able to assess key accounting and audit judgements and the content of the management letter issued by the EXTERNAL AUDIT external auditor.
The Audit Committee concluded that both the audit and During the financial year ended 30 September 2014, following a retender the audit process were effective.
exercise which complied with best practice guidelines, KPMG LLP The total fees paid to KPMG LLP in the year ended 30 September 2014 succeeded Deloitte LLP as the Companys external auditor see Appointment were 6.1 million of which 1.9 million related to non-audit work, much of auditor below.
The Audit Committee applied the same rigour towards of which related to the period prior to their appointment in March 2014. its oversight, monitoring and other duties in respect of successive external The total fees paid to Deloitte LLP in the year ended 30 September 2014 auditors, as applicable and as set out below, throughout the period.
were 4.6 million 2013: 7.8 million all of which related to non-audit The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, implementation work 2013: 3.5 million.
Further disclosure of the non-audit fees paid and monitoring of the Companys policy on external audit.
The Audit during the year can be found in note 2 to the consolidated financial Committee reserves oversight responsibility for monitoring the auditors statements on page 96. independence, objectivity and compliance with ethical, professional and To ensure objectivity, key members of the audit team rotate off the regulatory requirements.
The Audit Committee recommends the Companys audit.
To safeguard the independence of the Companys appointment, reappointment and removal of the Companys external external auditor and the integrity of the audit process, the recruitment of auditor, and considers the risks associated with its withdrawal from the senior employees from the Companys auditor is not permitted for a period market in its risk evaluation and planning.
The Audit Committee also of at least two years after they cease to be involved in the provision of reviews the terms, areas of responsibility and scope of the audit as set out services to the Company.
in the external auditors engagement letter: the overall work plan for the forthcoming year, together with the associated fee proposal and cost effectiveness of the audit: any major issues which arise during the course APPOINTMENT OF AUDITOR of the audit and their resolution: key accounting and audit judgements: the As planned and discussed in last years Annual Report, following extensive level of errors identified during the audit: the recommendations made to due diligence and agreement of a detailed timetable and step plan, in 2013 management by the auditor and managements response: and the auditors the Audit Committee approved the issue of a formal Request for Proposal overall performance.
RFP for the appointment of the Companys external auditor, in accordance with the requirement under the Code that the audit should be The Audit Committee also ensures that key partners within the external put out to tender at least every 10 years.
Responses to the RFP were auditor are rotated from time to time in accordance with applicable UK received during December 2013, assessed against agreed criteria and rules.
The Audit Committee monitors the extent of non-audit work which presentations were made to the Audit Committee by shortlisted candidates the external auditor can perform, to ensure that the provision of those in January 2014.
The Audit Committee recommended to the Board that non-audit services that can be undertaken by the external auditor falls Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 53 GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT KPMG LLP be appointed as the external auditor in succession to INTERNAL CONTROL Deloitte LLP and, following approval by the Board, the appointment was The Audit Committee also reviews the integrity of material financial duly notified to shareholders and to the Financial Reporting Council and statements made by the Company.
The Audit Committee monitors became effective on 14 March 2014.
KPMG LLPs fees for the audit for and conducts a robust review of the effectiveness of the Groups internal the year ending 30 September 2014 were considered and agreed as part control systems, accounting policies and practices and compliance controls of the tender process.
KPMG LLP is also appointed or is being appointed including key financial controls as well as the Companys statements as auditor for the significant subsidiaries of the Group.
on internal control before they are agreed by the Board for each years Annual Report.
The Board retains overall responsibility for internal KPMG LLP has expressed its willingness to continue as auditor of control and the identification and management of business risk.
Separate resolutions proposing its reappointment and internal audit function is involved in the assessment of the quality of risk determination of its remuneration will be proposed at the AGM to be management and internal control and helps to promote and further held on 5 February 2015. develop effective risk management within the business.
Certain internal audit assignments such as those requiring specialist expertise continue DISCLOSURE OF RELEVANT AUDIT INFORMATION to be outsourced by the Director of Group Internal Audit as appropriate.
The directors confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no The Audit Committee reviews internal audit reports and considers the relevant audit information of which KPMG LLP is unaware and each effectiveness of the function.
director has taken all the steps that ought to have been taken as a director to be aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that In a Group where local management have considerable autonomy to run KPMG LLP is aware of that information.
and develop their businesses, a well designed system of internal control is necessary to safeguard shareholders investments and the Companys assets.
The directors acknowledge that they have overall responsibility for OUR STANDARDS the Groups systems of internal control and for reviewing the effectiveness The Company remains committed to the highest standards of business of those controls.
In accordance with the guidance set out in the Turnbull conduct and expects all of its employees to act accordingly.
The Groups Report, Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Speak Up policy an extension of the Code of Ethics now incorporated Code, and in the Code itself, an ongoing process has been established for within the Groups Code of Business Conduct which was launched in 40 identifying, managing and evaluating the risks faced by the Group.
This languages during 2011 and is available on the Companys website sets out process has been in place for the full financial year and up to the date on arrangements for the receipt, in confidence, of complaints on accounting, which the financial statements were approved.
risk issues, internal controls, auditing issues and related matters which would, as appropriate, be reported to the Audit Committee, and Speak The systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of Up is a standard review item on all internal audit work programmes.
failure to achieve the Groups strategic objectives, safeguard the Groups Copies of the Codes of Business Conduct and Ethics are available on the assets against material loss, fairly report the Groups performance and Companys website at www.
position and to ensure compliance with relevant legislation, regulation and best practice including that related to social, environmental and ethical The Audit Committee also receives updates on bribery and fraud activity matters.
The systems provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance in the business, if any, at least twice each year with individual updates against material misstatement or loss.
Such systems are reviewed by the being given to the Audit Committee, as needed, in more serious cases of Board to deal with changing circumstances.
alleged bribery, fraud or related activities.
The Groups anti-fraud policies are a subset of the Code of Business Conduct which does not tolerate any A summary of the key financial risks inherent in the Groups business is activity involving fraud, dishonesty or deception.
These policies, for which given on pages 37 to 39.
Risk assessment and evaluation are an integral the Audit Committee retains overall responsibility, set out how allegations part of the annual planning cycle.
Each business documents the strategic of fraud or bribery are dealt with, such as by the local human resources objectives and the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control.
or finance team, and the frequency of local reporting that feeds into the As part of the review, each significant business and function has been regular updates, which are presented to the Audit Committee.
Reporting required to identify and document each substantial risk, together with of these matters to the Audit Committee is managed and overseen by the mitigating actions implemented to manage, monitor and report to internal audit.
The Speak Up policy operates when the complaint is management on the effectiveness of these controls.
Senior managers are received through the whistleblowing channel and that policy will redirect also required to sign biannual confirmations of compliance with key the alleged fraud or bribery for investigation at the most appropriate level procedures and to report any breakdowns in, or exceptions to, these of the organisation which may, for example, be by a member of the local procedures.
Summarised results have been presented to senior human resources team or, on occasion, the Audit Committee itself.
management including to the Executive Board and to the Board.
These processes have been in place throughout the financial year ended Each year, the Audit Committee critically reviews its own performance 30 September 2014 and have continued to the date of this Report.
Taken and considers where improvements can be made.
together, these processes and the reports they generate, which are considered by the Audit Committee, constitute a robust assessment of key INTERNAL AUDIT risks and the internal controls that exist, designed to mitigate these risks.
The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the Groups internal The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal audit function and its relationship with the external auditor, including control for the year under review and a summary of the principal control internal audit resources, plans and performance as well as the degree to structures and processes in place across the Group is set out in this Report.
which the function is free of management restrictions.
Throughout the year, the Audit Committee reviewed the internal audit functions plans and CONTROL ENVIRONMENT its achievements against those plans.
The Audit Committee considered Whilst the Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of the results of the audits undertaken by the internal audit function and internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, it has delegated considered the adequacy of managements response to matters raised, responsibility for the operation of the internal control and risk management including the time taken to resolve any such matters.
programme to the Executive Board.
The detailed review of internal control has been delegated to the Audit Committee.
The management of each Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 54 Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial statements Parent Company financial statements Shareholder information business is responsible for internal control and risk management within its There is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders and this has own business and for ensuring compliance with the Groups policies and been extended to include private shareholders through the AGM.
Each business has appointed a risk champion whose primary with institutional shareholders and with financial analysts, brokers and role in such capacity is to ensure compliance by local management with the the media is controlled by written guidelines to ensure the protection of Groups risk management and internal control programme.
The internal share price sensitive information that has not already been made generally and the external independent auditors have reviewed the overall approach available to the Companys shareholders.
Contact is also maintained, adopted by the Group towards its risk management activities so as to when appropriate, with shareholders to discuss overall remuneration plans reinforce these internal control requirements.
The primary method of communication with shareholders is by electronic CONTROL PROCEDURES means, helping to make the Company more environmentally friendly The Board reviews its strategic plans and objectives on an annual basis by reducing waste and pollution associated with the printing and posting and approves Group budgets and strategies in light of these.
Control is of its Annual Report.
The Annual Report and Accounts is available exercised at Group, regional and business level through the Groups to all shareholders and can be accessed via the Companys website at Management and Performance MAP framework and monthly www.
The Groups annual and interim results are monitoring of performance by comparison with budgets, forecasts and also published on the Companys website, together with all other cash targets, and by regular visits to Group businesses by the Group Chief announcements and documents issued to the market, such as trading Executive and the Group Finance Director.
updates, interim management statements, interviews and presentations by the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
This is underpinned by a formal major risk assessment process which is an integral part of the annual business cycle.
Each of the Groups The Notice of Annual General Meeting is circulated to all shareholders at businesses is required to identify and document major risks facing their least 20 working days prior to such meeting and it is Company policy not to business and appropriate mitigating activities and controls, and monitor combine resolutions to be proposed at general meetings.
All shareholders and report to management on the effectiveness of these controls on a are invited to the Companys AGM at which they have the opportunity to biannual basis.
These reports, together with reports on internal control put questions to the Board and it is standard practice to have the chairmen and departures, if any, from established Group procedures prepared of the Audit, Corporate Responsibility, Nomination and Remuneration by both the internal and external auditors, are reviewed by the Group Committees available to answer questions.
The results of proxy voting for Finance Director and the Audit Committee.
Group companies also submit and against each resolution, as well as abstentions, are announced to the biannual risk and internal control assurance letters to the Group Finance London Stock Exchange and are published on the Companys website Director on internal control and risk management issues, with comments shortly after the meeting.
Further shareholder information is available on the control environment within their operations.
The Group Finance on pages 144 and 145.
Director summarises these submissions for the Audit Committee and the Chairman of the Audit Committee reports to the Board on any matters OTHER STATUTORY DISCLOSURES that have arisen from the Audit Committees review of the way in which DIRECTORS risk management and internal control processes have been applied.
Particulars of the directors in office at the date of this report are listed on The Board has formal procedures in place for approval of client contracts, pages 46 and 47.
In accordance with the Code, each director will retire capital investment and acquisition projects, with clearly designated levels and submit himself or herself for election or re-election at the AGM on of authority, supported by post investment review processes for selected 5 February 2015. acquisitions and major capital expenditure.
The Board considers social, Sir Roy Gardner stepped down as a director and as Chairman at the environmental and ethical matters in relation to the Groups business conclusion of the AGM on 6 February 2014.
As announced in June 2013, and assesses these when reviewing the risks faced by the Group: further Paul Walsh was appointed as a non-executive director from 1 January 2014. information regarding environmental and ethical matters is available on He became non-executive Chairman at the conclusion of the AGM on pages 40 to 45.
The Board is conscious of the effect such matters may have 6 February 2014.
As announced on 14 May 2014, Carol Arrowsmith on the short and long term value of the Company.
The external auditor joined the Board on 1 June 2014 and will seek election at the AGM on of the Company and the Director of Group Internal Audit attend Audit 5 February 2015.
Committee meetings and receive its papers.
The Report of the Audit Committee is set out on pages 52 and 53 and the Audit Committee RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS members meet regularly with the Director of Group Internal Audit and In the year ended 30 September 2014, the Group delivered a decrease the external auditor without the presence of executive management.
of 2.4% in Group underlying profit before tax from 1,188 million to There were no changes to the Companys internal control over financial 1,159 million and an increase of 59.1% in Group reported profit before reporting that occurred during the year ended 30 September 2014 that tax from 721 million to 1,147 million.
An analysis of revenue and have affected materially, or are reasonably likely to affect materially, the operating profit is set out in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements Companys internal control over financial reporting.
A Return of Cash, equating to 56 pence per share, was paid to COMMUNICATING WITH SHAREHOLDERS shareholders on 29 July 2014.
The Return of Cash and associated The Company places considerable importance on communication with Share Capital Consolidation are described further on page 56. its shareholders, including its private shareholders.
The Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director are closely involved in investor The Return of Cash is not included in the dividend table on page 56. relations and a senior executive has day to day responsibility for such matters.
The views of the Companys major shareholders are reported to the Board by the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director as well as by the Chairman who remains in contact with our largest shareholders and are discussed at its meetings.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 55 GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT A summary of the dividends on ordinary shares for the year ended The Company is not aware of any significant agreements to which it is 30 September 2014 compared with 2013 is shown below: party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover.
Year Dividend Pence per share More detailed information relating to the rights and obligations attaching 2013 Interim 8.0 to the Companys ordinary shares, in addition to those conferred by law, 2013 Final 16.0 are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, which are available on 2013 Total 24.0 the Companys website as well as on pages 24 and 25 of the Annual Report 2014 Interim 8.8 for the year ended 30 September 2007.
The 2007 Annual Report is 2014 Final recommended 17.7 available on the Companys website at www.
2014 Total 26.5 10.5% increase on 2013 REPURCHASE OF SHARES The 2014 interim dividend of 8.8 pence per share 2013: 8.0 pence was On 21 November 2012, the Company announced its intention to paid to shareholders on 26 June 2014. commence a 400 million share repurchase programme.
This programme was completed on 9 January 2014.
On 27 November 2013, Payment of the recommended final dividend, if approved at the AGM the Company announced its intention to commence a 500 million share to be held on 5 February 2015, will be made on 23 February 2015 to repurchase programme, to be executed over the 12 month period to the shareholders registered at the close of business on 23 January 2015.
This programme was temporarily suspended following shares will be quoted ex-dividend from 22 January 2015. announcement on 14 May 2014 of the 1 billion Return of Cash and During the year, the trustees of each of the employee benefit trusts which Share Capital Consolidation until after completion of this transaction on operate in connection with the Companys share plans waived their rights 29 July 2014.
The programme recommenced on 31 July 2014 and is now to receive dividends on any shares held by them.
Details of the trusts can expected to be completed by the end of 2015. be found on page 57 of this Report.
The amount of dividends waived From 1 October 2013 to 26 March 2014 21,352,881 ordinary shares during the year ended 30 September 2014 was 20,677 2013: 39,643. of 10 pence each were purchased and subsequently cancelled for a A dividend reinvestment plan is available to eligible shareholders.
Details consideration of 196 million including expenses representing 1.18% can be found on page 144. of the ordinary shares in issue on 1 October 2013.
From 31 July 2014 to 5 30 September 2014 8,200,000 ordinary shares of 10 8 pence each were SHARE CAPITAL purchased and subsequently cancelled for a consideration of 80 million including expenses representing 0.49% of the ordinary shares in issue GENERAL on 8 July 2014.
From 1 October 2014 to the date of this Report a further At the General Meeting GM held on 11 June 2014 members voted in 5 6,100,000 shares of 10 8 pence each of the Company representing favour of the Companys proposals to return approximately 1 billion 0.36% of the ordinary shares in issue on 1 October 2014 were purchased to shareholders by way of a cash payment of 56 pence per ordinary share and subsequently cancelled for a consideration of 60.6 million of 10 pence each held as at the record time of 6.00pm on 7 July 2014. including expenses.
The cash return was accompanied by a share consolidation whereby 5 shareholders received 16 new ordinary shares of 10 8 pence each in the At the AGM a special resolution will be proposed to renew the directors Company for every 17 ordinary shares of 10 pence each held at the record limited authority to repurchase ordinary shares in the market, last granted time.
This share capital reorganisation was effective and the new shares at the GM held on 11 June 2014.
The directors consider it desirable for were admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange from 8 July 2014. these general authorisations to be available in order to maintain an Full details of the Return of Cash and Share Capital Consolidation were efficient capital structure whilst at the same time retaining the flexibility set out in a Circular to shareholders dated 19 May 2014 which is available to fund infill acquisitions.
on the Companys website at www.
The authority sets the minimum and maximum prices which may be 5 At the date of this Report, 1,667,980,436 new ordinary shares of 10 8 pence paid and it will be limited to a maximum of 10% of the Companys issued each have been issued, are fully paid up and are quoted on the London ordinary share capital calculated at the latest practicable date prior to Stock Exchange.
In addition, the Company sponsors a Level I American the publication of the Notice of AGM.
Any purchases of ordinary shares Depositary Receipt programme with BNY Mellon, under which the will be by means of market purchases through the London Stock Exchange Companys shares are traded on the over the counter market in the form and any shares purchased may be cancelled or placed into treasury of American Depositary Shares.
in accordance with the Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003.
The Company currently holds no shares During the year ended 30 September 2014, 3,338,288 options were in treasury.
exercised and 1,333,578 awards released pursuant to the Companys share option schemes and long term incentive plans, resulting in the allotment ISSUE OF SHARES of 4,671,866 new ordinary shares.
A further 394,502 new ordinary shares At the AGM, the directors will ask shareholders to renew the authority have been allotted under these schemes since the end of the financial year last granted to them at the GM held in 2014 to allot equity shares to the date of this Report.
representing approximately one third of the issued ordinary shares There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the capital of calculated at the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the the Company other than certain restrictions which may from time to time Notice of AGM the section 551 authority and, in accordance with the be imposed by law, for example, insider trading law.
In accordance with Investment Management Association Allotment Guidelines, the directors the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, certain employees again propose to extend this by a further one third of the Companys are required to seek the approval of the Company to deal in its shares.
issued ordinary share capital provided that such amount shall only be used in connection with a rights issue.
If approved, the authority will expire no The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that later than 15 months from the date on which the resolution is passed, or at may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting rights.
the conclusion of the AGM to be held in 2016, whichever is the sooner.
The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 56 Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial statements Parent Company financial statements Shareholder information The limited power granted to the directors on 11 June 2014 to allot equity EMPLOYEE POLICIES AND INVOLVEMENT shares for cash other than pro rata to existing shareholders expires no later The Group places particular importance on the involvement of its than 6 May 2015.
Subject to the terms of the section 551 authority, the employees, keeping them regularly informed through informal bulletins directors recommend that this authority should be renewed.
If granted, and other in-house publications, meetings and the Companys internal this authority will give the directors the ability until the AGM to be held websites, on matters affecting them as employees and on the issues in 2016 to issue ordinary shares for cash, other than pro rata to existing affecting their performance.
Since 1996 those Group businesses in the shareholders, in connection with a rights issue or up to a limit of 5% of the European Economic Area EEA have been represented on the Compass issued ordinary share capital calculated at the latest practicable date prior European Council CEC which provides a forum for exchanging to the publication of the Notice of AGM.
In line with best practice, the information and engaging in consultation on the Groups performance and Company has not issued more than 7.5% of its issued ordinary share plans, and relevant transnational issues.
The Groups CEC Agreement capital on a non prorated basis over the last three years.
The directors have terminated in December 2012.
The Company is currently negotiating a no present intention to issue ordinary shares, other than pursuant to the new CEC Agreement through a Special Negotiating Body, comprising Companys employee share schemes, and this authority will maintain the employee representatives from each of the countries in which the Group Companys flexibility in relation to future share issues, including any issues operates within the EEA.
to finance business opportunities, should appropriate circumstances arise.
Permanent UK employees are normally invited to join the Companys Details of issues of new shares made during the year, together with details defined contribution pension scheme, Compass Retirement Income of options granted over unissued capital, are set out in note 24 to the Savings Plan CRISP, on the completion of two years service this consolidated financial statements on pages 124 to 126. includes any service that may have transferred across under the Transfer of Undertakings Protection of Employment Regulations 2006 TUPE.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS CRISP has a corporate trustee.
Following the retirement of its independent The following major shareholdings have been notified to the Company as chairman, Tony Allen, on 30 November 2013, Nigel Palmer, a current at 30 September 2014 and the date of this Report.
employee of the Group, was appointed chairman of the trustees.
The other five trustee directors are UK based employees of the Group, two of whom % of issued % of Compass Group have been nominated by CRISP members.
As at the date of this Report, 1 capital PLCs voting rights one further member nominated position is vacant.
Blackrock, Inc. 9.99 9.99 Those UK employees who transferred from the public sector under TUPE Massachusetts Financial Services Company 5.92 5.92 have been eligible to join the Compass Group Pension Plan the Plan, a defined benefit pension arrangement which is otherwise closed to new 1 At the date of disclosure.
However, under the Governments revised guidance for Fair Since the disclosure date, the shareholders interests in the Company may Deal for staff pensions the expectation is that the Group will now have changed.
participate in the relevant public sector pension scheme and close the Plan to future new entrants.
The Plan also has a corporate trustee.
Phillip The number of shares held by the directors as at 30 September 2014 can Whittome succeeded Peter Morriss as independent chairman on be found on page 75 of the Directors Remuneration Report.
There are a further six trustee directors, five of whom are either UK based employees or former employees of the Group three EMPLOYEE SHARE TRUSTS of whom have been nominated by Plan members, and the sixth is an The Compass Group Employee Share Trust ESOP and The Compass independent trustee director.
Group Employee Trust Number 2 CGET were established on The Company became subject to the automatic enrolment regulations 13 January 1992 and 12 April 2001 respectively in connection with the for its workforce in the UK on 1 November 2012, but deferred its staging Companys share option plans.
The Compass Group Long Term Incentive date for automatic enrolment of eligible employees to 2 January 2013 as Plan Trust LTIPT was established on 5 April 2001 in connection with permitted by the regulations.
Both the Plan and CRISP are compliant the Companys long term incentive plans.
Details of all incentive plans are arrangements under these regulations and have been registered as such.
set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 59 to 76.
The All new UK employees who meet the statutory requirements, and who trustees of the ESOP, LTIPT and CGET hold 38,743 2013: 144,413, are not immediately entered into the Plan or CRISP, are automatically 16,198 2013: 17,209 and nil 2013: nil ordinary shares of the enrolled into the National Employment Savings Trust NEST.
Groups compliance with the auto-enrolment regulations, and the The Compass Group Executive Option Share Trust and the performance of NEST, are kept under regular review by the Groups Compass Group Executive Share Trust were established on 15 and Pensions Autoenrolment Governance Committee.
22 February 2010 respectively in relation to the operation of share Permanent employees outside of the UK are usually offered membership incentive plans in Australia.
No ordinary shares are held by these trusts of local pension arrangements if and where they exist and where it is as at 30 September 2014 2013: nil.
appropriate to have Company sponsored arrangements.
AWARDS UNDER EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES Employees are offered a range of benefits, such as private medical cover, Details of awards made during the year and held by executive directors as depending on the local environment.
Priority is given to the training of at 30 September 2014 are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report employees and the development of their skills is of prime importance.
Employment of disabled people is considered on merit with regard only to the ability of any applicant to carry out the role.
Arrangements to Details of employee share schemes and grants made during the year ended enable disabled people to carry out the duties required will be made if 30 September 2014 to, and extant awards held by, employees are disclosed it is reasonable to do so.
An employee becoming disabled would, where in note 24 to the consolidated financial statements on pages 124 to 126. appropriate, be offered retraining.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 57 GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT The Group continues to operate on a decentralised basis.
This provides the DONATIONS AND POLITICAL EXPENDITURE maximum encouragement for the development of entrepreneurial flair, Charitable objectives support the Companys corporate responsibility balanced by a rigorous control framework exercised by a small head office strategy and have primarily focused on improving the environment, team.
Local management teams are responsible for maintaining high education, health and wellbeing, community engagement and responsible standards of health and safety and for ensuring that there is appropriate business practice.
Donations have included employee involvement through employee involvement in decision making.
Group charitable donations m EMPLOYEE DIVERSITY AND HUMAN RIGHTS Our Code of Ethics was developed in consultation with the CEC and the 2013 6.7 Institute of Business Ethics and sets out clear standards of behaviour that 2014 6.5 we expect all of our people to demonstrate and adhere to.
The Code of Since 2004, shareholders have passed an annual resolution, on a Ethics, which is part of our Code of Business Conduct, underpins our precautionary basis, to approve donations to EU political organisations and social, ethical and environmental commitments and sends a clear message to incur EU political expenditure as such terms were defined under the to our stakeholders of our commitment to responsible business practice.
then relevant legislation not exceeding a monetary limit approved by The 10 principles of the United Nations UN Global Compact, to which shareholders.
The Board has consistently confirmed that it operates a policy we are a signatory, underpin our own Code of Ethics.
This UN initiative of not giving any cash contribution to any political party in the ordinary encourages companies to make human rights, labour standards, meaning of those words and that it has no intention of changing that policy.
environmental responsibility and anti-corruption part of their business agenda.
Our annual Communication on Progress can be viewed at www.
No material amount of corporate funds or paid employee time has been unglobalcompact.
utilised during the year for political activities and, in accordance with the Companys Code of Business Conduct, employees must not engage in any Our people are instrumental to our success: we respect and value the form of lobbying or have contact with political representatives, government individuality and diversity that every employee brings to the Group.
employees or public interest groups unless they are doing so legitimately We base our relationship with our employees on respect for the dignity and adhering to internal control processes.
Further information regarding of the individual and fair treatment for all.
the Code of Business Conduct can be found on page 54 of this Annual As at 30 September 2014, there were 514,718 2013: 506,699 people Report and on the Companys website at www.
employed by the Group average number of employees including directors The directors propose to renew the authority granted at the AGM in 2014 and part-time employees of whom 288,242 were female 2013: 280,971 for the Group to make political donations and incur political expenditure and 226,476 were male 2013: 225,728.
Of these, 762 were senior as such terms are defined in sections 362 to 365 of the CA 2006 until the managers 575 male, 187 female 2013: 541 male, 182 female which Companys next AGM, which they might otherwise be prohibited from include members of our global leadership team and individuals who are making or incurring under the terms of the CA 2006 and which would not statutory directors of the corporate entities whose financial information amount to donations in the ordinary sense of the word.
It is proposed to is included in the Groups consolidated accounts in this Annual Report.
maintain the limit of such authority at 100,000.
In terms of the Companys Board, as at 30 September 2014 there were 10 directors, eight of whom were male and two female.
Prior to any appointment to the Board the Nomination Committee gives due regard to CREST diversity and gender with a view to appointing the best placed individual The Companys ordinary shares and sterling Eurobonds are in CREST, for the role.
the settlement system for stocks and shares.
We seek to create a positive, open working environment wherever we DISCLOSURES REQUIRED UNDER UK LISTING RULE 9.8.
Our employee policies are set locally to comply with local law There are no disclosures required to be made under UK Listing Rule 9.8.
4. within an overall Group framework and we monitor our employee satisfaction and engagement through a number of key performance SHAREHOLDER SERVICES indicators, details of which can be found on pages 44 and 45 of the Details of services provided to shareholders can be found in the Shareholder Corporate Responsibility section of the Strategic Report.
Information section on pages 144 and 145 and on the Companys website.
We also consider the concerns of wider communities where we operate, including national and local interests, utilising our relevant expertise to AGM help contribute to the wellbeing of communities which are appropriate The Notice of Meeting setting out the resolutions to be proposed at the to our business objectives.
Furthermore, the Group supports the rights of AGM to be held on 5 February 2015, together with explanatory notes, all people as set out in the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights is set out on pages 146 to 151 of this Annual Report and is also available at UN Declaration and considers carefully before doing any business in www.
The directors consider that each of the resolutions countries that do not adhere to the UN Declaration.
is in the best interests of the Company and the shareholders as a whole and recommend that shareholders vote in favour of all of the resolutions.
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS REPORTING On behalf of the Board The Company is required to state the annual quantity of emissions in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent from activities for which the Group is responsible, including the combustion of fuel and the operation of any facility.
Details of our emissions during the year ended 30 September 2014 are set out within the Corporate Responsibility section of the Strategic MARK WHITE Report on pages 42 and 43 and form part of the Directors Report General Counsel and Company Secretary disclosures.
Further details of the actions which the Group is taking to 26 November 2014 reduce emissions can also be found in our online Corporate Responsibility Compass Group PLC Report at www.
Registered in England and Wales No.
4083914 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 58 Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial statements Parent Company financial statements Shareholder information DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 2013-2014 REMUNERATION REVIEW ANNUAL STATEMENT The Committee has been considering the competitive positioning of DEAR SHAREHOLDER remuneration for the Companys executive directors for some time and has revisited this during the last 12 months.
The executive team is well INTRODUCTION established and under the leadership of Richard Cousins has delivered On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the 2013-2014 Directors great value to shareholders in the form of outstanding Total Shareholder Remuneration Report.
Return TSR growth 455% in the eight years since Richard Cousins I was delighted to be appointed to the Compass Group PLC Board and appointment as Group Chief Executive, a progressive dividend and the as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in June of this year.
thanks go to Sir Ian Robinson, who served as Chairman of the Committee This very strong performance means that Compass is now a much bigger from April 2013, for his support when I took over the role.
business and is far more valuable for shareholders.
But over the same In my first annual statement to shareholders, I would like to share with period both bonus opportunities and LTIP awards have remained you both the corporate performance and related incentive outcomes for unchanged at a maximum of 150% of salary, other than for Richard 2013-2014 and our thinking on our longer term approach towards Cousins who became eligible for an LTIP award at a maximum value executive remuneration.
We informed shareholders, when we published of 200% of salary in 2010. the Companys first remuneration policy last year, that we would present The combination of this level of growth and the Companys disciplined a policy statement designed to operate for three years at the forthcoming and conservative approach to remuneration has meant that our Annual General Meeting AGM, once we had reviewed our policy against remuneration policy now falls significantly short of the market norm the needs of the business and emerging reporting practice.
We believe that most of our executive directors are in the lower quartile against their peers we have now reached that point and below I have set out the context for the when we assess their total remuneration opportunity with companies of changes that you will see in the following Policy Report.
We are confident that our executives have and will continue to deliver great value to shareholders and that our performance measures are PERFORMANCE IN 2013-2014 relevant and appropriate, but the Committee now believes that this gap The success of your Company is driven by continued focus on growing in total opportunity is too great and that an adjustment to address this is revenue in a sustainable and profitable manner.
Accordingly, revenue and both in the best interests of shareholders and fair to our executive directors.
profit are key measures in our annual bonus plan.
I am pleased to report that the Company has continued to perform well against the challenging Maintaining our historic modest approach was at the centre of our economic environment in some of the Groups geographies.
North deliberations and featured clearly in our consultation with major America and Fast Growing & Emerging have seen further strong growth shareholders.
Accordingly, we believe it is appropriate to position our total and conditions in Europe & Japan have improved.
Organic revenue remuneration opportunity at a moderate but more competitive level by: growth is up by 4.1% and operating profit margin increased by increasing the annual incentive opportunity for our Group Chief 10 basis points compared with 2012-2013, to 7.2%.
We have a healthy Executive from 150% to 200% of salary, in line with that for other pipeline of new business across all regions and are well placed to capitalise FTSE 50 CEOs on exciting growth opportunities.
adjusting the LTIP award opportunity for all of our executive directors Cash flow generation remains central to the success of the business in terms by an increment of 50% of salary of both returns to shareholders and for investment for future growth and In addition, to reflect emergent best practice and align with shareholder therefore is included as a performance measure in both our long and short interests, any LTIP awards made with this increased opportunity will be term incentive plans.
To add focus on the efficient and targeted investment subject to a two year holding period post vesting.
The Committee will also of cash, Return on Capital Employed ROCE was added last year as be able to decide whether to grant dividend equivalents on LTIP awards a performance measure in the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
The during the vesting period for future awards and to enable the use of market inclusion of Health, Safety and Environment HSE measures in our purchased shares for satisfaction of LTIP awards on vesting, to give annual bonus plan for all our leadership team globally has emphasised the maximum flexibility for the future.
importance of this key business metric.
Finally, we will continue to seek to pay base salaries sensibly against the During the last 12 months, we have been able to reward shareholders market and to provide shareholders with as much visibility as we can for through sustained growth in dividends, our ongoing share buyback the year ahead.
All executive directors salaries will be reviewed in January programmes, and the 1 billion Return of Cash in July 2014. going forward and our expectation is that most directors will be eligible for The incentive outcomes, as presented in the Annual Remuneration pay awards in line with our employees in the relevant market.
We have Report on pages 59 to 76, reflect achievement against these key typically appointed new executive directors at pay levels below the market performance factors.
rate and then moved their pay up to reflect experience and performance in the role.
Dominic Blakemore was appointed as Group Finance Director in February 2012 and this was his first role as a PLC finance director.
Dominic has performed very well and so his pay was increased by 9.4% in January 2014.
We anticipate a further increment of 14.3% in his pay will be needed in January 2015 to reflect his role and performance and to align his pay better with that of his peers.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 59 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONCLUSION The principles underlying our executive remuneration philosophy remain unchanged, namely a moderate approach, which enables our executives remuneration to reflect business performance.
We believe that the proposed changes will align our executives total opportunity with the FTSE 50, where Compass now clearly sits, but remain in line with our overall modest approach, given the size, international reach and performance of the business.
The Committees intent is that this revised policy will be in place for at least three years and that shareholders will vote on it and the accompanying changes in the LTIP rules at the AGM next February.
I have joined Compass at an exciting time.
I believe that our modified approach to certain elements of executive remuneration will be in the long term interests of the Company and shareholders, and I look forward to participating in the implementation of our remuneration strategy for the future.
I recommend the following Governance Summary, Policy Report and Annual Remuneration Report to shareholders.
CAROL ARROWSMITH Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 26 November 2014 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 60 Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial statements Parent Company financial statements Shareholder information regular reviews of performance under Group-wide share plans GOVERNANCE SUMMARY and approval of any discretionary matters for individuals below executive director level THE COMMITTEE consideration of the treatment of awards under the Companys The Board sets the Companys Remuneration Policy and the share schemes in relation to the Return of Cash and Share Remuneration Committee the Committee is responsible, within the Capital Consolidation which completed in July 2014 authority delegated by the Board, for determining specific remuneration agreement to the replacement of future option awards to the wider packages and the terms and conditions of employment for the members leadership team across the Group by grants under the LTIP of the Executive Board, which comprises the executive directors and approved shareholder engagement programme for 2014 and other senior executives.
The Committee ensures that the members of reviewed the draft DRR for 2013-2014 the Executive Board are provided with the appropriate incentives to determination of the remuneration packages for the executive enhance the Groups performance and to reward them for their directors and the Chairman personal contribution to the success of the business.
The Committee annual review of Terms of Reference for the Committee reviews the remuneration arrangements for Group employees whose salaries exceed a specified level and administers the Companys share incentive plans.
The Committee also determines the Chairmans STRUCTURE AND CONTENT OF DRR remuneration, although the Board itself determines the level of fees paid As for last year, this DRR has been prepared on behalf of the Board by to the non-executive directors.
No directors are involved in determining the Committee in accordance with the requirements of the Companies their own remuneration.
The Committee maintains an active dialogue Act 2006 and the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups with shareholder representatives and its full Terms of Reference are set Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 Regulations.
out on the Companys website at www.
Because our financial reporting period ends on 30 September, we were one of the first companies last year to prepare the DRR in accordance The Committee consists entirely of independent non-executive with the new Regulations, while best practice was still emerging.
With directors, as defined in the UK Corporate Governance Code the this in mind we indicated our intention to submit our Remuneration Code.
On 1 June 2014, Carol Arrowsmith succeeded Sir Ian Policy for approval again this year, in order to take account of any Robinson as Chairman of the Committee.
During the year, the issues emerging from our consultations with shareholders and to reflect Committee comprised the following non-executive directors: any changes or developments as necessary, with the intent that the Carol Arrowsmith Chairman from 1 June 2014 Policy should then apply for three years.
To the extent that changes John Bason have been made since last year, these are highlighted clearly in the Susan Murray preceding Annual Statement and within the Policy Report itself.
The Don Robert next two sections of the DRR cover the following matters: Sir Ian Robinson Chairman to 1 June 2014 the Companys intended Remuneration Policy from 5 February 2015 Biographical details of the current members of the Committee are set for the next three years, including each of the components of out on pages 46 and 47.
The General Counsel and Company Secretary directors remuneration the Policy Report acts as the Secretary to the Committee.
The Committee met on four how last years policy approved by shareholders at the AGM occasions during the year and attendance details are shown in the table held on 6 February 2014 was implemented in the year ended on page 51.
Details of advisers to the Committee can be found on page 75.
30 September 2014 the Annual Remuneration Report The information set out on pages 59 to 76 of this DRR represents the SUMMARY OF COMMITTEE ACTIVITY DURING THE YEAR auditable disclosures referred to in the auditors report on pages 79 and The key activities of the Committee during the year ended 80 as specified by the UK Listing Authority and the Regulations, save 30 September 2014 were: for the total shareholder return graph, Group Chief Executives a review of the draft Directors Remuneration Report DRR for remuneration history and remuneration percentage change tables, 2012-2013 following consultation with major shareholders and a spend on pay table, details of advice provided to the Committee and review of the 2013 AGM voting results statement of shareholder voting.
determination of the extent to which the performance measures for the long term incentive and bonus plans were achieved SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT including the treatment of the exceptional costs of the European The voting outcome at the 6 February 2014 AGM in respect of the restructuring programme as well as approving the changed DRR for the year ended 30 September 2013 is set out on page 76 and performance criteria for the LTIP, following consultation with, reflected very strong individual and institutional shareholder support.
and approval by, shareholders During September 2014, major shareholders were consulted regarding annual review of directors share ownership against the changes to the Remuneration Policy to take effect following approval Companys agreed policy and guidelines by shareholders.
Shareholders will be invited to approve both our review of salary proposals for the Executive Board effective from Remuneration Policy for the year ending 30 September 2015 and beyond 1 January 2014 which will be a binding vote and the Annual Remuneration Report for determination of proposed bonus targets for 2013-2014 the year ended 30 September 2014 which will be a non-binding advisory determination of proposed targets under the LTIP and other vote, at the Companys AGM on 5 February 2015. incentive schemes operating below executive management level The Committee will continue to be mindful of the concerns of for 2013-2014 shareholders and other stakeholders, and welcomes shareholder review of the Companys remuneration practice to ensure that feedback on any issue related to executive remuneration.
the overall remuneration structure continues to promote the Companys long term business strategy Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 61 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT within the Group and is sensitive to these, to prevailing market and REMUNERATION POLICY economic conditions and to governance trends when assessing the level of salaries and remuneration packages of executive directors and other REMUNERATION POLICY AND COMPONENTS members of the Executive Board.
The Committee reviews the Companys remuneration philosophy and structure to ensure that remuneration supports the Companys The total remuneration package links corporate and individual strategic objectives, is in line with best practice and can fairly reward performance with an appropriate balance between short and long term individuals for the contribution that they make to the business.
In elements, and fixed and variable components.
The Policy is designed doing this we have regard to the size and complexity of the Groups to incentivise executives to meet the Companys key objectives, such operations and the need to motivate and attract employees of the that a significant portion of total remuneration is performance related, highest calibre.
based on a mixture of internal targets linked to the Companys key business drivers which can be measured, understood and accepted We have tried to develop our policy to maintain stability in the by both executives and shareholders with whom we consulted during executive team and to ensure appropriate positioning against our the year and appropriate external comparator groups.
Overall, we believe that our policy the Policy is now structured so that the executive directors are fairly rewarded, The Committee considers that the targets set for the different with the aim to keep reward at or around median, in line with components of performance related remuneration are both appropriate appropriate benchmarks for the markets in which the Company and sufficiently demanding in the context of the business environment operates.
We consider our approach to be moderate and that it will and the challenges with which the Group is faced as well as complying stand the test of time.
with the provisions of the Code.
The Group has more than 500,000 employees in over 50 different The Committee has the discretion to amend certain aspects of the Policy jurisdictions which means that formal consultation with employees in in exceptional circumstances as detailed below when considered to be respect of remuneration is impracticable.
However, the Committee in the best interests of shareholders.
Should such discretion be used, this considers general pay and employment conditions of all employees will be explained and reported in the DRR for the following year.
COMPONENT PARTS OF THE REMUNERATION PACKAGE The key components of executive directors remuneration for the period from 5 February 2015 and beyond the Policy Period are summarised below: Component and link to strategy Operation of the component Maximum opportunity Performance measures BASE SALARY Base salaries are reviewed annually with any Whilst there is no prescribed None.
Reflects the individuals increases normally taking effect on 1 January formulaic maximum, any increases role, experience and ofeach year.
Salaries are appropriately will take into account prevailing contribution.
Set at levels to benchmarked and reflect the role, job size and market and economic conditions attract and retain individuals responsibility as well as the performance and and the approach to employee pay of the calibre required to effectiveness of the individual.
Significant increases may occur when an executive director progresses in the role: gains substantially in experience: there isa significant increase in the scale of the role: has been recruited on a salary below the market median.
Where changes in responsibilities or significant variances to the market exist, these will be appropriately explained.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 62 Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial statements Parent Company financial statements Shareholder information Component and link to strategy Operation of the component Maximum opportunity Performance measures BENEFITS AND PENSION Benefits include, but are not limited to, The cost of providing these None.
To provide a competitive healthcare insurance for executive directors and benefits can vary in accordance level of benefits.
their dependants, limited financial advice, life with market conditions, which assurance and car benefit.
will, therefore, determine the maximum value.
These are offered to executive directors as part of a competitive remuneration package.
For the Companys defined contribution pension scheme or Executive directors are invited to participate cash allowance, the maximum inthe Companys defined contribution pension annual contribution is 35% of scheme or to take a cash allowance in lieu base salary.
ANNUAL BONUS The annual bonus is earned by the achievement The target award for executive Performance is measured Incentivise and reward of one year performance targets set by the directors excluding the Group over the financial year.
theachievement of Committee at the start of each financial year Chief Executive is 75% of base Performance measures stretching one year key and is delivered incash.
salary, with a further maximum of aredetermined by the performance targets set by 75% of base salary available for Committee each year and The Committee retains the discretion to adjust the Committee at the start enhanced performance.
0% of the may vary to ensure that they the bonus outcomes to ensure that they reflect of each financial year.
bonus pays out for below threshold promote the Companys long underlying business performance.
In particular, performance but increases on a term business strategy and adjustments may be made for acquisitions and straight line basis to target payout.
Bonus measures dependent on Adjusted Free Cash Flow AFCF are subject to Following consultation with major The bonus measures and the caveat that AFCF should not be affected by shareholders in 2014, and subject their percentage weightings Board approved capital expenditure or other to shareholder approval at the AGM may vary, depending upon special or irregular timing differences.
to be held on 5 February 2015, it adirectors area of is proposed that the target award responsibility.
A supplementary financial underpin also for the Group Chief Executive is applies such that the amount payable pursuant Bonus measures may 100% of base salary, with a further to the achievement of the non-PBIT measures include, but are not limited maximum of 100% for enhanced may not exceed the on-target payment unless to, profit, revenue and performance.
0% of the bonus the threshold Group PBIT measure has cash flow metrics.
Strategic pays out for belowthreshold been achieved.
performance but increases on a However, the overall The annual bonus is subject to malus and or straight line basis totarget payout.
metricswould always be clawback in the event of discovery of a substantially weighted to material misstatement in the accounts or in financial performance the assessment of a relevant performance measures.
condition or where the action or conduct of a participant amounts to fraud or serious Annual bonus targets are misconduct or has a detrimental impact on set with reference to the reputation of theGroup.
internal budgets and analyst consensus forecasts, with maximum payout requiring performance well ahead of budget.
Details of the specific measures applying to each element of the bonus for the year being reported on and the following financial year are shown in the Annual Remuneration Report on pages 70 and 71.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 63 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Component and link to strategy Operation of the component Maximum opportunity Performance measures LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN LTIP An annual conditional award of ordinary shares Following consultation with major Performance is measured Incentivise and reward in the capital of theCompany which may be shareholders, and subject to over three financial years.
executive directors for the earned after a single three year performance shareholder approval at the AGM Performance measures are delivery of longer term period, based on theachievement of stretching tobe held on 5 February 2015, AFCF, improvement in financial performance and performance conditions.
awards may be made with the ROCE and TSR, each shareholder value.
following maximum levels: Calculations of the achievement ofthe targets measure applying to one Share based to provide are independently performed and are approved Group Chief Executive: 250% third of an award.
alignment with shareholder by theCommittee.
In order to ensure continued Other executive directors: 200% Relative TSR is measured interests.
alignment between executive directors and For performance measures relative to the companies shareholders interests, the Committee also otherthan TSR, 0% of the comprising the TSR ADJUSTED FREE CASH FLOW reviews the underlying financial performance awardvests for below threshold comparator group at the AFCF ofthe Group and retains its discretion to adjust performance, increasing to 50% start of the period the The generation of cash is vesting if it considers that performance is vesting on a straight line basis constituent members of fundamental to the ongoing unsatisfactory.
forachievement of on target theFTSE 100, excluding success of the Group and the Subject to shareholder approval atthe AGM on performance, increasing to financial services use of AFCF as an LTIP 5 February 2015, in respect of awards made maximum vesting on a straight companies.
performance measure from 2014-2015 onwards, executive directors linebasis for achievement of directly aligns to this.
For awards made prior to will be required to hold vested LTIP shares net maximum performance.
7 February 2013, 50% of of any shares sold to meet tax and social security RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED The element of an award based on any award was based on liabilities for a period of two years post vesting.
ROCE relative TSR will vest in full for top AFCF over the three year In parallel, ROCE supports Dividend equivalents may be accrued on the quartile performance achievement performance period and the strategic focus on shares earned from any awards after the and 25% of that element of the 50% on the Companys growthand margins through 2015AGM.
award will vest if performance is at TSRover the same period ensuring that cashis the median.
Awards will vest on a relative to the companies Malus and clawback rules operate in respect reinvested to generate straight line basis between median comprising the TSR ofthe LTIP.
The Committee may decide at any appropriate returns.
and top quartile performance comparator group at the time before an award vests, or for a period of achievement.
No shares will be start of the relevant period.
three years after an award vests, that any RELATIVE TOTAL SHAREHOLDER released for this element of an participant will be subject to malus and or LTIP targets are set with RETURN TSR award if the Companys TSR clawback in the event of discovery of a material reference to internal The third performance performance is below the median.
misstatement in the accounts or in the budgets and analysts measure of TSR provides assessment of arelevant performance consensus forecasts, with direct alignment between condition, or where the action or conduct maximum payment requiring theinterests of executive ofaparticipant amounts to fraud or serious performance well ahead directors and shareholders.
misconduct or has a detrimental impact on of budget.
Details of the targets for Awards are delivered in shares.
However, the LTIP awards vesting and rules contain excepted provisions to deliver value granted are set out as in cash ifnecessary for example, because of required in the Annual securities laws, subject to the discretion of the Remuneration Report Committee, determined at any time up to onpages 72 and 73. theirrelease.
In the event of a change of control, any unvested awards will vest immediately, subject to satisfaction of performance conditions and reduction on a time apportioned basis.
NOTES TO THE REMUNERATION POLICY TABLE CHANGES FROM PRIOR REMUNERATION POLICY The Group Chief Executives annual bonus and LTIP opportunity have been increased to 200% previously 150% and 250% previously 200% of base salary respectively LTIP awards for the other executive directors have been increased to 200% previously 150% of salary The changes in incentive levels are proposed in order to maintain suitably competitive levels of remuneration for the senior executive population and following consultation with our largest shareholders In addition, a two year holding period has been introduced into the LTIP which commences at the end of the three year vesting period.
This has been introduced to further strengthen the long term alignment of the executives remuneration packages with shareholders.
It also helps facilitate malus and clawback if required The executive directors Remuneration Policy differs from that of other members of the Executive Board solely in respect of quantum of the various components and remuneration.
Members of the wider leadership team receive each of the components of remuneration awarded to the executive directors.
The wider employee population of the Group will receive remuneration that is considered to be appropriate in relation to their geographic location, level of responsibility and performance.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 64 Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial statements Parent Company financial statements Shareholder information CLOSED INCENTIVE PLANS SHARE OWNERSHIP GUIDELINES The LTIP described in the table on page 64 is the primary form of In order that their interests are linked with those of shareholders, equity incentive for executive directors.
There are no outstanding directors are expected to build up and maintain a personal awards to executive directors made prior to 2010 under the former shareholding in the Company.
long term incentive plan being The Compass Group Long Term Under the guidelines, the Group Chief Executive is required to hold Incentive Plan.
a personal shareholding equal to the value of twice his base salary.
Other executive directors are required to hold a personal shareholding DILUTION LIMITS equal to the value of one and a half times their base salary, and All of the Companys equity based incentive plans incorporate members of the Executive Board equal to the value of their base salary.
the current ABI Guidelines Guidelines issued by the Investment Non-executive directors are required to hold a personal shareholding Management Association on headroom which provide that overall equal to the value of their base fee.
dilution under all plans should not exceed 10% over a 10 year period For executive directors, the guideline shareholding may be achieved in relation to the Companys issued share capital or reissue of by retaining shares received as a result of participating in the treasury shares, with a further limitation of 5% in any 10 year Companys share plans.
The guidance specifically excludes the need period for executive plans.
to make a personal investment should awards not vest.
Non-executive The Committee monitors the position regularly and prior to the directors are expected to purchase shares equating to a minimum value making of any award, to ensure that the Company remains within of one third of their net of tax fee each year until the guideline is met.
Any awards which are required to be satisfied by market The required level of shareholding is expected to be achieved within purchased shares are excluded from such calculations.
No treasury a four year period, commencing on 1 October 2010 or on date of shares were held or utilised in the year ended 30 September 2014. appointment, if later.
As at 30 September 2014, the Companys headroom position, If the guideline is not met within this timeframe, then the Committee which remains within current Guidelines, was as shown in the will discuss with the director a plan to ensure that the guideline is met charts below: over an acceptable timeframe.
The granting of future LTIP awards to an executive director will be conditional upon reaching the appropriate 10% IN 10 YEARS 5% IN 10 YEARS threshold in the required timeframe.
Details of the interests of directors in shares and equity incentives are 4 set out on page 75 together with the extent to which each of the 3 1 3 directors has complied with the guidelines as at 30 September 2014.
ALL-EMPLOYEE 1.04% Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 65 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Each bar gives an indication of the minimum amount of remuneration ILLUSTRATIONS OF THE APPLICATION OF OUR payable, remuneration payable at target performance and REMUNERATION POLICY remuneration payable at maximum performance to each director The value and composition of the executive directors remuneration under the Policy.
packages for the year ending 30 September 2015 at below threshold, threshold par or target and maximum scenarios under the Policy to Each of the bars is broken down to show how the total under each be voted upon at the forthcoming AGM are set out in the charts below.
scenario is made up of fixed elements of remuneration, the annual bonus and the LTIP.
The graphs show an estimate of the remuneration that could be received by executive directors under the Policy set out in this Report.
RICHARD COUSINS DOMINIC BLAKEMORE ILLUSTRATION OF PACKAGE ILLUSTRATION OF PACKAGE Maximum 24% 34% 42% TOTAL 5.9M Maximum 28% 31% 41% TOTAL 2.6M Target 37% 27% 36% TOTAL 3.7M Target 43% 23% 34% TOTAL 1.7M Minimum 100% TOTAL 1.4M Minimum 100% TOTAL 0.7M 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 4.5 5.0 5.5 6.0 0.0 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 1 GARY GREEN ANDREW MARTIN ILLUSTRATION OF PACKAGE ILLUSTRATION OF PACKAGE Maximum 29% 30% 41% TOTAL 3.6M Maximum 29% 30% 41% TOTAL 3.2M Target 44% 23% 33% TOTAL 2.3M Target 44% 23% 33% TOTAL 2.1M Minimum 100% TOTAL 1.0M Minimum 100% TOTAL 0.9M 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 FIXED ELEMENTS OF REMUNERATION ANNUAL BONUS LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN The scenarios in the above graphs are defined as follows: Minimum Target performance Maximum performance FIXED ELEMENTS OF REMUNERATION Base Salary as at 30 September 2014 Estimated value of benefits provided under the remuneration policy Cash supplement in lieu of pension of 35% of basic salary ANNUAL BONUS 0% 50% 100% payout as a % maximum opportunity 2 LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN 0% 54% 100% vesting as a % maximum opportunity 1 Note that Gary Greens elements of pay are converted into sterling at an exchange rate of US$1.6579 1.
2 Based on AFCF and ROCE performance measures vesting at 50% of maximum and the TSR measure paying out at 62.5% of maximum midway between threshold and maximum payout.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 66 Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial statements Parent Company financial statements Shareholder information APPROACH TO RECRUITMENT REMUNERATION EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS SERVICE AGREEMENTS The Committee will apply the same remuneration policy during the It is the Companys policy that executive directors have rolling Policy Period as that which applies to existing executive directors when service contracts.
considering the recruitment of a new executive director in respect of all The current executive directors service contracts contain the key elements of remuneration, that is: salary, benefits, pension and short terms shown in the table below: term and long term incentives.
It is envisaged that the maximum level of variable remuneration which may be granted to a new executive SERVICE CONTRACT KEY TERMS BY PROVISION director would be within plan rules and identical to the intended policy Provision Detailed terms maximum opportunity for existing executive directors and the Group REMUNERATION Base salary, pension and benefits Chief Executive.
If shareholders approve the recommended new Company car or cash allowance Private health insurance for director and dependants maximum awards permissible under the LTIP, this would be 200% Life assurance and 250% of base salary in respect of the bonus and LTIP opportunity Financial planning advice per annum respectively.
However, in exceptional circumstances, the 25 days paid annual leave rules allow for a maximum of 400% of base salary to be utilised for the Participation in annual bonus plan, subject to plan LTIP opportunity.
rules Participation in LTIP, subject to plan rules Other arrangements may be established specifically to facilitate CHANGE OF No special contractual provisions apply in the event of recruitment of a particular individual, albeit that any such CONTROL a change of control arrangement would be made within the context of minimising the cost NOTICE PERIOD 12 months notice from the Company to the Company.
The policy for the recruitment of executive directors 6 months notice from the director 12 months from Richard Cousins during the Policy Period includes the opportunity to provide a level of TERMINATION Payment in lieu of notice equal to: compensation for forfeiture of bonus entitlements and or unvested long PAYMENT term incentive awards from an existing employer, if any, and the 12 months base salary Pension supplement additional provision of benefits in kind, pensions and other allowances, 10% of base salary in respect of benefits such as relocation, education and tax equalisation, as may be required All of the above would be paid in monthly instalments, in order to achieve a successful recruitment.
Any arrangement subject to an obligation on the part of the director to established specifically to facilitate recruitment of a particular mitigate his loss such that payments will either reduce, individual would be intended to be of comparable commercial value or cease completely, in the event that the director gains and capped as appropriate.
The quantum, form and structure of any new employment remuneration buyout arrangement will be determined by the Committee taking into RESTRICTIVE During employment and for 12 months after leaving COVENANTS account the terms of the previous arrangement being forfeited.
The buyout may be structured as an award of cash or shares.
However, the The historic policy on the payment of bonus on termination, which was Committee will normally have a preference for replacement awards to in place prior to June 2008, was the provision of a payment, at par or be made in the form of shares, deliverable no earlier than the previous target, of bonus in respect of the notice period, where the Company awards.
Where an executive director is appointed from either within exercised its right to make a payment in lieu of notice.
Messrs Cousins, the Company or following corporate activity reorganisation, the Green and Martins service contracts are based on this historic policy.
normal policy would be to honour any legacy arrangements in line After careful consideration, the Committee concluded that it would not with the original terms and conditions.
be in shareholders interests to migrate such contracts onto the policy The policy on the recruitment of new non-executive directors during in place since June 2008.
Dominic Blakemores service contract fully the Policy Period would be to apply the same remuneration elements as complies with the policy in effect from June 2008.
All executive for the existing non-executive directors.
It is not intended that variable directors service contracts impose a clear obligation to mitigate such pay, day rates or benefits in kind be offered, although in exceptional payment should departing executive directors take on new employment circumstances such remuneration may be required in currently or receive alternative remuneration.
The Committee believes the unforeseen circumstances.
obligation to mitigate adequately addresses the issue.
The Committee will include in future Annual Reports details of the All of the executive directors service contracts were entered into before implementation of the Policy as utilised during the Policy Period in 27 June 2012 and have not been modified or renewed on or after that respect of any such recruitment to the Board.
As such, remuneration payments or payments for loss of office that are required to be made under them are not required to be but are consistent with the Policy.
Whilst unvested awards will normally lapse, the Committee may in its absolute discretion allow for awards to continue until the normal vesting date and be satisfied, subject to achievement of the attendant performance conditions.
In such circumstances, awards vesting will normally be prorated on a time apportioned basis, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 67 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Any such discretion in respect of leavers would only be applied by Subject to a cap on the maximum amount of fees payable to any the Committee to good leavers where it considers that continued non-executive director of 125,000 per annum, an additional fee of participation is justified, for example, by reference to prior 22,000 per annum is payable where a non-executive director acts as performance to the date of leaving.
The malus and clawback Chairman of either the Audit or Remuneration Committee and provisions would continue to apply in the event that such discretion 12,000 is payable to the Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility was exercised.
An additional fee of 27,000 per annum is also payable for the director nominated as Senior Independent Director.
None of Service contracts outline the components of remuneration paid to the these additional fees have been increased with effect from 1 October individual but do not prescribe how remuneration levels may be 2014.
Non-executive directors are not eligible for pension scheme adjusted from year to year.
membership, bonus, incentive arrangements or other benefits, save The senior executives who are members of the Executive Board, and reimbursement of travel costs.
who are referred to in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements Non-executive directors have letters of engagement setting out their on page 97, have similar service contracts.
duties and the time commitment expected.
They are appointed for an The executive directors have served on the Board for the periods initial period of three years, after which the appointment is renewable shown below and have service agreements dated as follows: at three year intervals by mutual consent.
In accordance with the Code, all directors offer themselves for annual re-election by Length of Board service as at shareholders.
Details of non-executive directors appointments, which Date of contract 30 Sep 2014 are terminable without compensation, are set out in the table below, Dominic Blakemore 12 December 2011 2 years, 7 months together with the dates on which their appointments have been Richard Cousins 22 November 2007 8 years, 5 months formally revised: Gary Green 27 November 2007 7 years, 9 months Andrew Martin 27 November 2007 10 years, 6 months Total length of Original date of Letter of service as at Non-executive director appointment engagement 30 Sep 2014 CHAIRMAN Carol Arrowsmith 1 Jun 2014 14 May 2014 4 months The fee for the Chairman is reviewed annually by the Committee with John Bason 21 Jun 2011 10 May 2011 3 years, 7 May 2014 3 months any increase taking effect on 1 July.
In addition to his annual fee, the Chairman is paid a cash sum in lieu of provision by the Company of a Susan Murray 11 Oct 2007 11 Oct 2007 7 years 16 Mar 2010 car and chauffeur for use on Company business.
The Chairman is not 8 May 2013 entitled to any benefits in kind and is not eligible for pension scheme Don Robert 8 May 2009 8 May 2009 5 years, membership, bonus or incentive arrangements.
The Chairmans 8 May 2012 5 months appointment is terminable without compensation on six months notice Sir Ian Robinson 1 Dec 2006 1 Dec 2006 7 years, from either side.
21 Sep 2009 10 months 14 Nov 2012 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Date on which appointment was formally revised.
The fees for the non-executive directors are reviewed and determined by the Board each year to reflect appropriate market conditions.
No increase was effected during the year under review.
Following a benchmarking exercise carried out during the year, it was considered that an increase of 3.7% to the level of base fees for non-executive directors was appropriate for the year beginning 1 October 2014.
This is the first increase to non-executive director base fees since 2010.
The fees for the year ending 30 September 2015 now comprise a base fee of 84,000 per annum which includes membership of the Audit, Corporate Responsibility, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 68 Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial statements Parent Company financial statements Shareholder information PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN REMUNERATION ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT OF GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE REMUNERATION IN DETAIL FOR THE YEAR ENDED In the year ended 30 September 2014, Mr Cousins received 0.41% 30 SEPTEMBER 2014 salary and 6.45% bonus more than the equivalent amounts for the year ended 30 September 2013.
He received 4.55% less in taxable benefits in TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN TSR 2013-2014 than in the previous year.
The average percentage increases The performance graph below shows the Companys TSR for all full-time equivalent employees based in the UK were 1.3%, 72% performance against the performance of the FTSE 100 over the six and 4.3% respectively.
The UK employee workforce was chosen as the year period to 30 September 2014.
The FTSE 100 Index has been most suitable comparator group as Mr Cousins is based in the UK and chosen as a broad equity market index of which the Company has been pay changes across the Group vary widely depending on local market a constituent member throughout the period.
However, the nature of Mr Cousins global role and responsibilities makes meaningful comparisons with any group of TOTAL RETURN INDICES COMPASS V FTSE 100 employees difficult and due caution should be exercised in this regard.
SEPTEMBER 400 RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY The following table sets out the amounts paid in share buybacks, dividends and total employee costs for the years ended 30 September 2013 and 2014.
300 2014 2013 Change Dispersals m m % 1 Share buybacks 280 446 37.2 200 2 Dividends paid 444 404 9.9 3 Return of Cash 1,000 Nil n a 4 Total employee costs 7,794 8,131 4.1 100 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 1 56.3 million shares were repurchased during the year ended 30 September 2013 in completion of the 500 million buyback and under the 400 million buyback Compass FTSE 100 announced on 21 November 2012.
11.3 million shares were repurchased during the year ended 30 September 2014 in completion of the 400 million buyback programme announced on 21 November 2012 and 18.2 million shares were repurchased during the year ended 30 September 2014 under the 500 million buyback announced on 27 November 2013.
PAY FOR PERFORMANCE 2 The total dividend paid during the year ended 30 September 2013 was 404 million The Committee believes that the current and proposed executive and share capital in issue on that date was 1,804 million ordinary shares.
The total director remuneration policy and the supporting reward structure dividend paid during the year ended 30 September 2014 was 444 million and share capital in issue on that date was 1,674 million ordinary shares.
The full year provide a clear alignment with the strategic objectives and dividend per ordinary share for the year ended 30 September 2014 increased performance of the Company.
To maintain this relationship, the by 10.5%.
3 The Company returned 1 billion to shareholders in July 2014, accompanied by a Committee constantly reviews the business priorities and the share capital consolidation, comprising a return of 56 pence per ordinary share prior environment in which the Company operates.
The table below shows to such consolidation.
Richard Cousins total remuneration over the last six years and his 4 Total employee costs for continuing and discontinued operations, includes wages and salaries, social security costs, share-based payments and pension costs for all achieved annual variable and long term incentive pay awards as a employees, including directors.
The figure for 2013 included 59 million of percentage of the plan maxima.
Total salary costs in Europe & Japan have decreased due to a restructuring programme.
The average number of employees, including directors Annual variable and part-time employees in continuing and discontinued operations, was 514,718 element: Award LTIP vesting Single figure payout against rates against 2014 and 506,699 2013. of total maximum maximum remuneration opportunity opportunity Richard Cousins 000 % % 1 2014 6,298 87.3 100 2 2013 5,532 84.5 98.05 3 2012 4,867 71.8 100 2011 4,410 75.0 100 2010 5,614 96.0 100 2009 5,268 85.0 100 1 Includes LTIP indicative vesting amount of 3.643 million.
2 LTIP indicative vesting amount of 2.960 million was disclosed in the 2013 Annual Report.
3 LTIP indicative vesting amount of 2.451 million was disclosed in the 2012 Annual Report.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 69 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT DIRECTORS SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION The table below sets out in a single figure the total amount of remuneration, including each element, received by each of the executive directors for the year ended 30 September 2014.
2 Salary increases of 3% for Messrs Cousins and Green were implemented on 1 July 2014 and 1 January 2014 respectively.
Dominic Blakemore received a salary increase of 9.4% on 1 January 2014 in recognition of his progression in the role and gain in experience.
3 Taxable benefits comprise healthcare insurance, limited financial advice, life assurance and car benefit.
4 Details of the performance measures and weighting as well as achieved results for the bonus and LTIP components are shown below.
5 LTIP 2014: Amount shown is the vesting value as at 26 November 2014 the date of vesting of LTIPs that have become receivable as a result of the achievement of conditions relating to performance in the three years ended 30 September 2014, calculated in accordance with the Regulations.
6 LTIP 2013: Amount shown is indicative vesting value on 13 November 2013.
The value subsequently received by Messrs Cousins, Green and Martin, based on the closing share price on the day prior to release was 2,928,465, 1,689,922 and 1,317,798 respectively, equating to a total combined sum received of 5,936,185, or 64,000 less than the indicative value reported.
7 Pension: A supplement of 35% of base salary is paid in monthly instalments in lieu of pension participation.
The annual rate of base salaries of the executive directors for the year ended 30 September 2014 were: Director Base Salary Effective Date Increase Reason Dominic Blakemore 525,000 1 January 2014 9.4% Progression in the role: gain in experience Richard Cousins 994,465 1 July 2014 3% Benchmarked v comparator group Gary Green US$1,205,182 1 January 2014 3% Benchmarked v comparator group Andrew Martin 650,000 1 January 2014 Nil Benchmarked v comparator group The annual rate of base salaries of the executive directors from 1 January 2015 are: Director Base Salary Effective Date Increase Reason Dominic Blakemore 600,000 1 January 2015 14.3% Progression in the role: gain in experience Richard Cousins 1,014,354 1 January 2015 2% Benchmarked v comparator group Gary Green US$1,241,337 1 January 2015 3% Benchmarked v comparator group Andrew Martin 669,500 1 January 2015 3% Benchmarked v comparator group Non-executive directors receive fees only, which are shown on page 74, together with the Chairmans fees and benefits.
The aggregate total amount of remuneration received by all directors during the year ended 30 September 2014 is shown below: 2014 2013 000 000 Executive directors 16,579 13,818 Chairman and non-executive directors 1,002 940 Total 17,581 14,758 2013-2014 BONUS PERFORMANCE MEASURE OUTCOMES The financial targets for the bonus for the year ended 30 September 2014, and the extent to which they were achieved, were as set out below.
The achievement of targets is calculated on a straight line basis between Minimum and Par target and between Par target and Maximum.
As was the case for previous years, the measurement of the achievement of the AFCF and PBIT results is based on the underlying outcome achieved in the financial year, so that charges, such as those related to the European exceptional and goodwill impairment, are excluded.
1 Financial Measures Minimum Par target Maximum Achieved 2 PBIT 1,295m 1,321m 1,347m 1,353m 3 AFCF 782m 798m 814m 806m Revenue Growth 2.5% 3.5% 4.5% 4.2% 1 Financial measures for 2013-2014 bonus purposes are all set at 2014 budget rates, not actuals.
2 PBIT is underlying profit before interest and tax.
3 AFCF is adjusted free cash flow.
HSE Improvement 2013-2014 Target 2013-2014 achieved Target achieved Lost Time Injury Rate 5.91 4.95 Yes Food Safety Incident Rate 0.39 0.36 Yes Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 70 Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial statements Parent Company financial statements Shareholder information The resultant percentages against each of the bonus measures achieved by each executive director are shown below: Dominic Blakemore Richard Cousins Gary Green Andrew Martin % of performance % of performance % of performance % of performance Measure target achieved target achieved target achieved target achieved PBIT 55 55 55 55 60 60 55 55 AFCF 11.25 15 11.25 15 1 MAWC 15 15 15 15 2 ORG 21.08 25 21.08 25 25 25 22.7 25 3 3 4 HSE 0 5 0 5 2.5 5 Total 87.3 100 87.3 100 100 100 95.2 100 1 MAWC is 12 months average working capital balance.
2 ORG is organic revenue growth.
3 Messrs Blakemore and Cousins waived their entitlements to any bonus related to the achievement of HSE related targets to recognise that the Group had suffered two fatalities during the year, one in South Africa and the other in Mexico, which had occurred whilst each employee had been at work.
4 HSE for the North American business is measured through PBIT.
BONUS PAYOUT The outcome of the annual bonus for the year ended 30 September 2014 was due to the strong underlying financial performance aligned with the delivery of the Groups long term strategy.
The table below shows the resulting payout to each executive director in such capacity: 2013-2014 bonus payment as % of base salary Value of bonus Dominic Blakemore 130.99% 687,724 Richard Cousins 130.99% 1,302,699 Gary Green 150.00% US$1,807,773 Andrew Martin 142.80% 928,200 No discretion was applied by the Committee in respect of directors bonuses for the year under review.
The rules of the current annual bonus plan do not include any deferment of payment of any element of the same.
2014-2015 BONUS PERFORMANCE MEASURES The annual bonus elements for executive directors for the year ending 30 September 2015 are: Measure Dominic Blakemore Richard Cousins Gary Green Andrew Martin 1 1 2 2 PBIT 60% 60% 60% 55% AFCF 15% 15% 3 3 MAWC 15% 15% 4 4 5 5 ORG 20% 20% 25% 25% 6 HSE 5% 5% 5% Total 100% 100% 100% 100% 1 PBIT on a Group-wide basis.
2 PBIT split between Group PBIT and PBIT for region of responsibility Mr Green: 5% Group 55% Regional: Mr Martin: 5% Group 50% Regional.
3 MAWC for region of responsibility.
5 ORG for region of responsibility.
6 HSE for the North American business is measured through PBIT.
The Committee has set the targets for the annual bonus plan for the year ended 30 September 2015 but has chosen not to disclose the details in this Report as it is the opinion of the Committee that it may be seriously prejudicial to the interests of the Company to do so, and our major competitors do not disclose their targets or projected forecasts.
However, the specific targets and the extent to which the targets have been met will be disclosed in next years Report.
LONG TERM INCENTIVE AWARDS During the year ended 30 September 2014, executive directors received a conditional award of shares which may vest after three year performance periods which will end on 30 September 2016, based on the achievement of stretching performance conditions.
The maximum levels achievable under these awards are set out in the table below: 1 LTIP award Face value of award Director as a % of base salary 000 Dominic Blakemore 150% 719 Richard Cousins 200% 1,929 Gary Green 150% 1,120 Andrew Martin 150% 974 1 Face value of award as at the date of grant on 29 November 2013 based on the market price of 921.00 pence per share on that day.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 71 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT The table below sets out the performance measures for the awards: Definition of measure Weighting Adjusted FCF Adjusted FCF includes capital expenditure, net interest and net tax spend but excludes discontinued activities, acquisition spend, disposal proceeds, and unusual or irregular timing differences.
ROCE improvement The definition aims to measure the underlying economic performance of the Company.
ROCE is calculated using constant currency values for the underlying operating profit, net of tax at the underlying rate for the year, and after profit relating to non-controlling interests.
The capital employed figure excludes the post-employment benefit asset liability, net of deferred tax, impaired goodwill, amortised intangibles arising on acquisitions and the net assets relating to non-controlling interests.
TSR Performance compared to that of constituent members of the FTSE 100 excluding financial services companies.
TSR is the aggregate of share price growth and dividends paid assuming reinvestment of those dividends in the Companys shares during the three year performance period.
In setting the performance targets, the Committee considers internal budgets and the Groups strategic plan, market expectations and general economic conditions.
The table below shows the targets against which performance has been measured to determine the vesting of the grant of awards for the year ended 30 September 2014 and forms part of the Policy detailed in the Policy Report on pages 62 to 68.
TARGETS FOR AWARDS VESTED IN RESPECT OF THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2014 AFCF TARGET Level of performance Vesting % of each component AFCF Threshold 0% 2,360m Maximum 100% 2,478m TSR TARGET Level of performance Vesting % of each component Below Median 0% Median 25% Upper Quartile 100% The table below shows the targets against which performance will be measured to determine the vesting of the grant of awards for the year ending 30 September 2015 and forms part of the Policy detailed in the Policy Report on pages 62 to 68.
TARGETS FOR AWARDS PROPOSED TO BE MADE IN THE YEAR ENDING 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 AFCF AND ROCE TARGETS Level of performance Vesting % of each component AFCF ROCE Threshold 0% 2,231m 19.0% Par target 50% 2,348m 19.9% Maximum 100% 2,465m 20.4% TSR TARGET Level of performance Vesting % of each component Below Median 0% Median 25% Upper Quartile 100% Such awards are proposed to be made after the AGM on 5 February 2015.
The vesting of the shares under each performance condition is independent.
Therefore, the total vesting amount is based on the relevant percentage achievement for each performance measure.
Awards vest on a straight line basis between threshold and par and between par and maximum.
If performance under a component does not reach the threshold level, vesting for that component will be nil.
At the end of the performance period, the Committee will review the underlying financial performance of the Company and retain its discretion to adjust vesting if it considers that financial performance is unsatisfactory.
The Committee will review annually whether the measures and targets described above remain appropriate and challenging.
Calculations of the achievement of the targets will be independently performed and approved by the Committee.
The Committee will retain discretion to adjust for material events which occur during the performance period and will make full and clear disclosure of any such adjustments in the DRR, together with details of the achieved AFCF, ROCE and TSR performance, as determined by the above definitions, at the end of the performance period.
LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN PERFORMANCE As the AFCF and TSR performance measures were achieved in full at the end of the three year performance period, the LTIP awards made during the 2011-2012 financial year vested at 100%.
Shares will be delivered to individuals following the release of the preliminary results for the year ended 30 September 2014.
In this context, the European exceptional charge that was announced in the year ending 30 September 2012 impacted the outcome of the AFCF element of the award, as did the interest that was paid on the additional funding that was assumed by the Company in connection with the Return of Cash.
As these charges were determined to be in the best interests of shareholders, but their impact on AFCF was outside the control of management, the Committee decided to adjust the original AFCF targets to exclude the impact of these two matters as they both arose well after the award of the 2011-2012 LTIP had been made and each has produced significant returns for shareholders.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 72 Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial statements Parent Company financial statements Shareholder information 2011-2012 LTIP PERFORMANCE PERIOD ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2014 AND VESTED 26 NOVEMBER 2014 Performance conditions Value of shares TSR % vested AFCF % vested Number of Number of on vesting date 1 Director on maturity on maturity shares awarded shares vested 000 Dominic Blakemore 100% 100% 114,832 114,832 1,217 Richard Cousins 100% 100% 343,720 343,720 3,643 Gary Green 100% 100% 194,516 194,516 2,062 Andrew Martin 100% 100% 156,186 156,186 1,656 1 TSR ranking was 12th in its comparator group.
The table below sets out the percentage of each LTIP award made to executive directors within the last five years which has vested and the percentage of each extant award, had it vested on 30 September 2014: TSR % vested on maturity or ROCE % vested AFCF % vested Year of award Maturity date Performance conditions indicative vesting percentage on maturity on maturity 2009-2010 1 Oct 2012 TSR AFCF 100% n a 100% 2010-2011 1 Oct 2013 TSR AFCF 96.1% n a 100% 2011-2012 1 Oct 2014 TSR AFCF 100% n a 100% 2012-2013 1 Oct 2015 TSR AFCF ROCE 100% after 24 months 55% after 24 months 73% after 24 months 2013-2014 1 Oct 2016 TSR AFCF ROCE 87.5% after 12 months 50% after 12 months 21% after 12 months AFCF targets for each of the last three years are shown within note 25 to the consolidated financial statements on pages 126 to 130.
EXTANT EQUITY INCENTIVE AWARDS HELD BY EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Details of all existing equity incentive awards as at the date of this Report, including the awards conditionally made under the long term incentive plans to the executive directors in office during the year ended 30 September 2014, are shown in the table below.
One third of each award granted from 7 February 2013 is based on a three year AFCF target, one third on a ROCE improvement target and one third on growth in the Companys TSR relative to the FTSE 100, excluding its financial services constituents.
Aggregate gross gains realised by Messrs Cousins, Green and Martin were 5,936,185.03 in the year ended 30 September 2014.
The share price at the time of release of their awards was 919.50 pence per share.
The market price on 26 November 2014, the date of vesting of the award made on 25 November 2011, was 1060.00 pence per share.
All awards were granted for nil consideration.
The highest mid-market price of the Companys ordinary shares during the year ended 30 September 2014 was 1049.99 pence per share and the lowest was 822.78 pence per share.
The year end price was 996.50 pence per share.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 73 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT PENSIONS At 30 September 2014, there were no executive directors actively participating in any Compass Group defined benefit pension arrangements and none of the executive directors was accruing additional entitlement to benefit under any arrangements that existed prior to their appointment as executive directors.
Dominic Blakemore, Richard Cousins and Gary Green each receive a salary supplement equal to 35% of their base salaries in lieu of pension.
Andrew Martin has, since 6 April 2006, received a salary supplement equal to 35% of his base salary and has waived all rights to his final salary pension, money purchase pension and unfunded unapproved pension relating to his employment prior to that date.
EXIT PAYMENTS No executive directors left the Company during the year ended 30 September 2014 and therefore no payments for compensation for loss of office were paid to, or receivable by, any director 30 September 2013: nil.
No payments other than regular pension benefits which were commenced in previous years were made during the year ended 30 September 2014 to any past director of the Company.
No payment for compensation for loss of office was paid to Sir Roy Gardner when he retired as Chairman and as a director on 6 February 2014.
EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS Executive directors may take up one non-executive directorship outside of the Group subject to the Boards approval, provided that such appointment is not likely to lead to a conflict of interest.
It is recognised that non-executive duties can broaden experience and knowledge which can benefit the Company.
Dominic Blakemore, Richard Cousins and Andrew Martin received fees of 100,434, 56,000 and 60,000 during the year in respect of their directorships of Shire plc, Reckitt Benckiser Group plc and easyJet plc respectively, which they were permitted to retain.
Richard Cousins retired as a director of Reckitt Benckiser on 7 May 2014.
As at the date of this Report, Richard Cousins had been appointed a non-executive director of Tesco PLC with effect from 1 November 2014.
Any remuneration received by Richard Cousins in respect of this appointment will be reported in next years DRR.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION The Chairman, Paul Walsh, who succeeded Sir Roy Gardner as Chairman on 6 February 2014, had a letter of engagement dated 19 June 2013 in respect of his original appointment as a non-executive director for a period of three years from 1 January 2014.
Mr Walsh became Chairman at the conclusion of the AGM on 6 February 2014.
He received a base fee of 81,000 per annum initially, increasing to 475,000 per annum on his appointment as Chairman.
In addition, 50,000 plus VAT per annum is being paid in lieu of the provision by the Company of a car and chauffeur for use on Company business.
Following consideration by the Committee during the year ended 30 September 2014, the Chairmans fee of 475,000 per annum, which was set at the time of his appointment, was determined to be appropriate at the time of review and no increase was effected.
Details of amounts received by Paul Walsh and Sir Roy Gardner during the year ended 30 September 2014 are shown below: 2 Fees Benefits 2014 2013 Chairman 000 000 000 000 1 Paul Walsh 318 50 368 n a 3 Sir Roy Gardner 151 51 202 494 1 Non-executive director fee of 81,000 per annum prorated from 1 January 2014 to 6 February 2014 plus Chairmanship fee of 475,000 per annum prorated from 6 February 2014 to 30 September 2014.
2 Benefits include healthcare insurance, limited financial advice, life assurance and car benefit.
3 Chairmanship fee of 432,806 per annum prorated from 1 October 2013 to 6 February 2014.
Details of the fees paid to each of the non-executive directors in office for the year ended 30 September 2014 are set out below: 2014 2013 000 000 1 Carol Arrowsmith 34 John Bason 103 103 Susan Murray 93 93 Don Robert 81 81 2 Sir Ian Robinson 121 103 Total 432 380 1 Carol Arrowsmith joined the Board as a non-executive director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 1 June 2014.
2 Sir Ian Robinson became the Senior Independent Director and Remuneration Committee Chairman from 10 April 2013.
He stepped down as Remuneration Committee Chairman on 1 June 2014.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 74 Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial statements Parent Company financial statements Shareholder information SHARE OWNERSHIP GUIDELINES AND DIRECTORS INTERESTS IN SHARES In order that their interests are linked with those of shareholders, directors are expected to build up and maintain a personal shareholding in the Company as set out in the share ownership guidelines as described on page 65 of the Policy.
The Committee reviewed and noted that the guidelines were satisfied by all directors during the year.
The interests of the directors in office during the year ended 30 September 2014 in shares and share incentives are shown in the table below: Beneficial Conditional Shares held Shares held LTIP holdings LTIP holdings Compliance with as at 30 Sep as at 30 Sep as at 30 Sep as at 30 Sep Shareholding Shareholding 1 2 3 Director 2014 2013 2014 2013 required guidelines Carol Arrowsmith 4,035 n a n a n a 1 x John Bason 10,714 8,454 n a n a 1 x 4 Dominic Blakemore 285,586 207,496 1.5 x Richard Cousins 1,515,815 1,527,922 801,673 913,915 2 x Sir Roy Gardner n a 192,678 n a n a 1 x Gary Green 471,725 619,198 458,864 522,874 1.5 x Andrew Martin 611,764 650,000 387,414 426,421 1.5 x Susan Murray 12,234 13,000 n a n a 1 x Don Robert 28,235 30,000 n a n a 1 x Sir Ian Robinson 14,117 15,000 n a n a 1 x Paul Walsh 11,411 n a n a n a 1 x 1 Following the Return of Cash and associated Share Capital Consolidation of 8 July 2014 whereby 17 ordinary shares of 10 pence each were replaced by 16 new ordinary shares 5 of 10 8 pence each in the Company.
2 As a multiple of base salary or fee.
3 Requirement to achieve by 1 October 2014, or within four years of appointment, if later.
4 Dominic Blakemore was recruited to the Board in 2012 and is intending to build his share ownership in the Company progressively.
He is expected to receive approximately 60,000 shares in the Company following vesting of the 2011-2012 LTIP in November 2014 and after the payment of tax and social security liabilities.
Interests shown include the interests of connected persons.
There were no changes in directors interests between 30 September 2014 and 26 November 2014.
REMUNERATION OF OTHER SENIOR EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT A number of senior executives and the executive directors comprise the Executive Board.
These key management roles influence the ability of the Group to meet its strategic targets.
The Committee has regard to the remuneration level and structure of this group whose total remuneration including salary and other short term benefits, target or par bonus and the expected value of long term incentives is summarised in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements on page 97.
REMUNERATION ADVICE The Chairman and the Group Chief Executive, together with Jane Kingston Group Human Resources Director and Harriet Kemp Director of Group Reward & People Processes, are normally invited to attend each Committee meeting and provide advice and guidance to the Committee other than in respect of their own remuneration for which they are not paid a fee in addition to their salaries from the Company under their service contracts.
Details of the members of the Committee who served during the year ended 30 September 2014 are set out on page 61.
The Committee also has access to detailed external information and research on market data and trends from independent consultants.
During the year, the Company retained  LLP PWC to advise on compensation related matters, including undertaking a benchmarking exercise in respect of the remuneration of the Chairman and non-executive directors and of the Executive Board including the Group Chief Executive, for which they received total fees based on hours spent of 50,350 2013: 40,650.
Alithos Limited Alithos provided information for the testing of the TSR performance conditions for the Companys LTIP awards, for which they received fixed fees of 24,000 2013: 24,000.
They also provided the TSR performance graph for the Directors Remuneration Report, for which they received a fixed fee of 500 2013: 500.
Alithos was appointed by the Company in 2002 and PWC was appointed in 2007 renewed in 2011.
Both appointments were made with the approval of the Committee following a selection exercise.
Alithos did not provide any other advice or services to the Company during the year.
PWC provided services globally which comprised pension, expatriate, internal audit, merger and acquisition, due diligence, tax and other consultancy advice.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice it received during the year was objective and independent, based on the experience of its members generally, including Carol Arrowsmith, Chairman of the Committee, who was formerly a remuneration consultant with Deloitte LLP and Susan Murray who has recent experience of being a member of the remuneration committees of other quoted companies, including one as Chair of the committee.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 75 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT SHAREHOLDER VOTE ON 2013 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT The table below shows the voting outcome at the 6 February 2014 AGM for the 2013 Remuneration Policy binding vote and Annual Remuneration Report advisory vote : Number of votes % of Number of votes % of Total number of Number of votes 1 For & Discretionary votes cast Against votes cast votes cast Withheld Remuneration Policy 1,295,245,629 97.79 29,294,670 2.21 1,324,540,299 20,969,315 Annual Remuneration Report 1,298,778,448 99.11 11,674,740 0.89 1,310,453,188 35,058,273 1 A vote withheld is not a vote in law.
97.79% of the binding votes cast were for the approval of the Remuneration Policy, with 2.21% against with 1.58% of the total number of votes cast abstaining.
For the advisory votes cast for the Annual Remuneration Report, 99.11% were in approval of the Resolution, with 0.89% against with 2.67% of the total number of votes cast abstaining.
Extensive consultation with shareholder bodies and a number of large institutional investors was conducted during the year in connection with the proposed increase to maximum awards under and other changes to the LTIP which are subject to approval by shareholders, as detailed in the Annual Statement and the Policy Report on pages 59 to 68.
The Committee welcomed the endorsement of these proposals by shareholders and took steps, wherever practicable, to understand shareholders concerns when withholding their support.
At the AGM on 5 February 2015, shareholders will be invited to vote on the Policy contained in the Policy Report and on the Annual Remuneration Report for 2013-2014.
On behalf of the Board CAROL ARROWSMITH Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 26 November 2014 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 76 Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial statements Parent Company financial statements Shareholder information CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTENTS 98 Financing income, costs and related 126 Share-based payments gains losses 78 Directors responsibilities for 130 Business combinations consolidated and Parent Company 99 US disposals 131 Reconciliation of operating profit financial statements 99 Tax to cash generated by operations 79 Independent auditors report 101 Discontinued operations 131 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 102 Earnings per share CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 132 Contingent liabilities 104 Dividends 81 Consolidated income statement 133 Capital commitments 104 Goodwill 81 Analysis of operating profit 133 Operating lease and concessions 106 Other intangible assets 82 Consolidated statement of commitments 107 Property, plant and equipment comprehensive income 133 Related party transactions 108 Interests in associates 83 Consolidated statement of 133 Post balance sheet events 108 Other investments changes in equity 134 Exchange rates 85 Consolidated balance sheet109 Joint ventures 135 Details of principal subsidiary 109 Trade and other receivables 86 Consolidated cash flow statement companies 86 Reconciliation of free cash 111 I nventories flow from continuing operations 111 Cash and cash equivalents 87 Accounting policies 112 Short term and long term borrowings 114 Derivative financial instruments NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 119 Trade and other payables STATEMENTS 92 Segmental reporting 119 Provisions 120 P ost-employment benefit obligations 96 Operating costs 124 Share capital 97 Employees Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 77 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The Annual Report and Accounts complies with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR of the United Kingdoms Financial Conduct IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT AND THE Authority and the UK Corporate Governance Code in respect of the FINANCIAL STATEMENTS requirements to produce an annual financial report.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and Parent Company financial statements in accordance The Annual Report and Accounts is the responsibility of, and has been with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and Parent We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements and understandable and provides the information necessary for in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model law and have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial and strategy statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and the consolidated financial statements have been prepared in applicable law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Under company law the directors must not approve the financial the financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of their the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and the Annual Report and Accounts includes a review of the development Parent Company financial statements, the directors are required to: and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, select suitable accounting policies and then apply them together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that consistently they face make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been On behalf of the Board prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU for the Parent Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Parent Company financial statements prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless MARK WHITE it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent General Counsel and Company Secretary Company will continue in business 26 November 2014 The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The directors have permitted the auditor to take whatever steps and undertake whatever inspections it considers to be appropriate for the purpose of enabling it to give its audit opinion.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 78
