Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Market overview The parcel and letter markets are highly competitive.
In parcels, RoyalMail faces significant competition, in both theUK and Europe, from companies with established delivery capabilities and new entrants.
In letters, the current suspension of access price changes and unfettered direct delivery are a threat to the fundamental economics ofthe Universal Service.
6 UK parcels market not charge for the service, but delivery to PUDO spend.
This reflects the value that it delivers 4 E-retail continues to drive growth in the UK points often incurs an extra fee.
about the retail sales directly attributed to click parcels market.
Following market liberalisation in 2004, and collect is more limited, however.
Royal Mail 7 access mail competition for upstream letter Parcels sent from business-to-business B2B has teamed up with Post Office Limited POL to have long been a significant element of the collection and processing is now mature.
enable online purchases to be delivered to UK parcels industry.
B2B currently Thenumber of upstream letters handled by around 10,500 post offices nationwide, the represents just over athird of overall UK competitors has been relatively stable since largest PUDO network in the UK.
Weexpect B2B volume 2010-11. growth in the UK to be slightly above GDP UK letters market European parcels market growth in 2014-15.
Market volume breakdown 2013-14 The European parcels market is growing, The engine for parcel volume growth is driven by the same e-retail trends as the Type Volume bn business-to-consumer B2C through e-retail.
Thisgrowth is uneven across the EU, Non-access e. g. USO & Retail 5.6 The UK has one of the most developed e-retail in particular due to different economic Access 7.1 markets in the world, with around ten per cent performance and take-up of internet Addressed inland 12.7 of all retail sales conducted online.
This is shopping in differentcountries.
2 estimated to rise to 13per cent by 2017. International 0.6 Competition The UK has the highest e-retail expenditure Total addressed 13.3 There are three key types of parcel carriers 3 per capita in the world.
While historically they B2C and C2X consumer to all parties may have focused on different market Demand for letters has historically been currently accounts for nearly two-thirds of UK segments, thedividing line between B2B and 1 parcel volume.
Weexpect aggregated parcel closely linked to GDP growth.
This link still B2C, and between express and deferred, has volumes within the B2C and C2X segments will exists, but is now offset by a structural become blurred in recent years.
grow at approximately 4.5 to decline caused by the growth of email and the National posts.
These carriers generally 5.5 per cent for 2014-15. internet as a form of communication.
offer strong domestic B2C and C2X parcel Customers and competition Different types of letter are experiencing offerings in their home countries.
Some 8 We operate in a highly competitive market.
We continue to also have a wider presence across Europe.
Customers increasingly demand a choice of expect a decline in addressed letter volumes of 5 Integrators.
There are several well-funded reliable and convenient delivery options, four to sixpercent per annum.
multinational companies with varying withtracking information and easy returns.
Business letters are declining due to relatively degrees of presence in each country.
These There are many parcel carrier competitors mature technologies such as online banking.
companies were historically focused on and they are getting stronger, with improved Businesses perceive cost savings from mail providing premium B2B services.
service performance, greater convenience, reduction.
However, a significant proportion increased geographic coverage and leading Local carriers.
A number of these operators of the population would like a choice as to edge technology.
are part of alliances which allow them to how they receive household bills and offer a range of services across Europe.
Parcel carriers who historically focused on B2B statements without a penalty.
Royal Mail is a parcels are increasingly focusing on B2C.
While funding partner of the Keep Me Posted The gradual trend towards consolidation home delivery remains the most attractive campaign, a coalition of over 56charities, in the market has continued, with major fulfilment option, collection from a pick up point trade unions, consumer groups and business network operators acquiring smaller is also growing in popularity whether directly organisations, which aims to protect the businesses which fill geographic or service from a retailers store in-store click and collect consumers right to choose, without penalty, gaps.
This acquisition activity has recently or from a third party location such as a parcel how they receive important financial focused on targets specialising in e-retail shop or locker bank Pick Up Drop Off or PUDO information and statements from their or consumercollections.
Various market research studies service providers.
suggest that both forms of click and collect are Direct mail in the UK is worth 2.1billion growing fast, albeit from a low base.
We too with direct mail itself accounting for expect it to continue to grow.
96 per cent of approximately 12per cent of UK advertising retailers that offer in-store click and collect do 1 6 Royal Mail market estimates based on Triangle Management Services research.
Retail values exclude sales tax, current prices.
Upstream refers to the collection of letters from a customer or collection point and 3 BCG e-intensity index 2013. initial sortation.
After this, sorted mail is delivered to Royal Mail inward Mail Centres 4 Micros Multi-channel Retail Delivery Report 2014. for final mile delivery.
Royal Mail plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014 13
