Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Business risks The Corporate governance section describes in detail how the Group manages its risk from the Group Board level, its respective sub-Committees and through the organisation.
Further details can be found on pages 53 to 54.
The table below details the principal business risks, their current status and how the Group mitigates these risks.
Link to Principal risk Status Mitigation strategy Changes in customer preferences The letter and parcel markets are becoming Managing the more competitive, customer behaviours are decline in letters constantly evolving and our competitors are Being a successful responding quickly to these changing demands: parcels business Customer behaviour and Royal Mails No change as We are piloting Sunday afternoon opening at around 100 Being customer responsiveness to market: Changes in volumes are Delivery Offices later this summer, when we will also trial focused customer behaviour, and changes to the broadly consistent Sunday parcel deliveries to home addresses within the M25: markets in which the Group sells its products with expectations.
Managing the Parcelforce Worldwide will also launch a Sunday delivery and services, could result in reduced demand business service in June 2014 for online shoppers: for the Groups products and services and successfully impact our forecast rates of decline and growth We launched Mailmark barcode technology for our large of letter and parcel volumes respectively.
This increases our ability to track addressed letters through our network for these customers: There is a risk that our product offerings, and the customer experience we provide, may not We continue to focus on our advertising mail offering, both adequately meet evolving customer needs or on its own and in combination with other media, to ensure that we are unable to innovate or adapt our sustainable revenue streams through customer retention commercial and operational activities fast and acquisition: enough to respond to changes in the market.
We are working with the Keep Me Posted campaign to protect the rights of consumers to choose, without penalty, to receive communications such as bills and statements bypost: We continue to focus on meeting or exceeding our Quality of Service targets, and internal performance targets such as composite parcel delivery performance : Through our continued transformation programme, we are seeking to improve first time delivery rates.
This includes an emphasis on consistency and standardisation of key initiatives like Delivery to Neighbour across our operations: We continue to invest in technology to improve our service.
In April 2013, we introduced our tracked returns service.
We have also introduced enhanced delivery information for our Special Delivery and Tracked offerings and we have introduced Local Collect, our own click and collect service, in Post Offices: and We have extended our network operating hours for parcels processing for some of our business customers.
Economic environment: Historically, there has No change the We have robust econometric models in place to provide been a correlation between economic economic early warnings of changes to overall volumes and the conditions in the UK and Europe and the level of environment is profile of letter and parcel volumes.
We continually review letter and parcel volumes.
There is a risk that improving in line and upgrade these models to better anticipate the impact flat or adverse economic conditions could with expectations.
of price rises and reflect the increasingly deregulated impact our ability to stay profitable, either by market: and reducing letter and parcel volumes or by We continually review our cost base to ensure we are as encouraging customers to adopt cheaper efficient as possible.
service options for sending letters and parcels.
Royal Mail plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014 29 Business risks continued Link to Principal risk Status Mitigation strategy Cost management and business transformation Royal Mail must continuously become more Managing the efficient and flexible in order to compete business effectively in the letter and parcel markets: successfully Cost management: The success of the No change due to The initial phase of our transformation programme, which business strategy relies on effective control of effective included the modernisation of all of our Delivery Offices, the costs, and the delivery of efficiency and other management of automation of letters sorting and a revision of all delivery benefits from our transformation programme, non-people costs.
walks, is now largely complete: and whilst maintaining Quality of Service, safety, People costs We track progress and outcomes of all transformational and employee engagement.
growth mitigated revisions to operational practice on a weekly basis to by productivity ensure completion to time and the sharing of good practice improvements.
Quality of Service is a fundamental consideration prior to any change.
Non-people costs reduced due to tight cost control.
Reduced risk due Employee awareness and engagement: Our recent agreement with the CWU includes an Agenda to the award of Lack of employee engagement in relation to for Growth to deliver change at the right pace and to ensure Free Shares and transformation and understanding of the need we are working together towards agreed goals.
the new CWU for change could mean that we, or CWU, are agreement.
unable to execute the efficiency changes enabled by the pay deal.
Risk remains in The Directors remuneration report sets out the Groups Retaining and attracting senior place.
overarching approach to remuneration in its policy pages management: Any failure by the Group to 59 to 63.
The policy sets out that the overall remuneration retain or attract Directors and highly skilled package should be sufficiently competitive to attract, retain personnel could have a material adverse effect and motivate executives with the commercial experience to on its ability to manage its costs and transform run a large, complex business in a highly challenging the business.
There is a risk if it is not.
We are actively progressing and monitoring the IT No change as the IT transformation: Our current IT estate transformation programme.
This remains high risk due to programme is requires significant investment and the IT the significant scale and complexity of change, and the progressing as transformation programme is complex ongoing requirement for effective management of the expected.
and will take several years to complete.
Failure to improve our IT systems or successfully implement the IT transformation programme would increase the risk of security breaches and attacks, a material adverse effect on the Groups operations, and the risk that the IT systems might not be able to support the business plan.
Regulatory and legislative environment, including direct delivery The business operates in a regulated Managing the environment.
Changes in legal and regulatory decline in letters requirements could impact our ability to meet our targets and goals: Direct delivery and the Universal Service: Increased risk We have proposed changes to our access contracts to help In our liberalised postal market, other operators due to unfettered secure the provision of the Universal Service.
Certain of are able to offer direct delivery services by rollout of direct these proposed changes are subject to a Competition Act cherry picking easy-to-serve urban areas, delivery investigation by Ofcom.
Under the terms of Royal Mails without having to adhere to the same high competition and access contracts, the price changes subject to the delivery requirements and quality standards as Ofcom not bringing investigation are suspended pending the outcome of that Royal Mail.
forward a review investigation: and of the impact of The combination of mandated access, We are preparing a regulatory submission calling for Ofcom direct delivery on unfettered rollout of direct delivery and to bring forward its full review of direct delivery the USO.
structural decline in letters, poses a serious risk competition in the UK and how it will protect the Universal to the economics of the USO in the UK.
Service from the serious risk this presents.
Royal Mail plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014 30 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Link to Principal risk Status Mitigation strategy Any failure or delay by Ofcom in undertaking a review of direct delivery in the future, or any failure or delay in introducing appropriate regulatory safeguards to protect the Universal Postal Service, would be likely to undermine the Groups future ability to earn revenue necessary to ensure the sustainable provision of the USO.
VAT exemption: Mandated Network Access No change We consider that HM Revenue & Customs HMRC has services provided by Royal Mail are currently outcome of judicial correctly implemented VAT legislation in compliance with exempt from Value Added Tax VAT.
This VAT review European law and we are continuing to support HMRC in exemption is currently the subject of judicial proceedings defending the claim.
There is a risk that the VAT pending.
exemption on access services could be lost as a result of these proceedings, thus increasing the cost to those customers who cannot reclaim VAT.
In this case, end-users that use such network access services for distribution of their letters may accelerate their adoption of e-substitution or alternative means of communicating with their customers or switch to competing third party direct delivery services.
Increased risk Employment legislation: Changes to laws and We have processes and controls to ensure that we pay all Managing the due to evolution regulations relating to employment including of our people correctly.
If the law is changed or elements business of case law.
the interpretation and enforcement of those relevant to the particular circumstances of Royal Mail are successfully laws and regulations could, directly or reinterpreted by English courts, then we will need to adapt indirectly, increase the Groups labour costs, to these as appropriate.
which, given the size of the Groups workforce, could have an adverse effect on the Group.
There is emerging European case law which may provide new guidance in relation to the interpretation of the Working Time Directive, which subsequently would need to be considered by the English courts in relation to the implementation of that directive through the Working Time Regulations 1998 and UK employers compliance with it.
Industrial relations There is extensive trade union recognition in Managing the respect of our workforce in the UK: business successfully Industrial action: There is a risk that one or Reduced risk due We have reached an agreement with the CWU on an more material disagreements or disputes to the new CWU Agenda for Growth, including a new legally binding between the Group and its trade unions could agreement.
agreement, to promote industrial stability and provide result in widespread localised or national employee protections.
The agreement represents a joint industrial action.
aspiration to radically improve industrial relations and create a can-do culture in the interests of customers, Widespread localised or national industrial employees and the Company: and action would cause material disruption to our business in the UK and would be likely to result We continue to engage with both Unite and the CWU at all in an immediate and potentially ongoing levels across the business, and there is constant visibility of significant loss of revenue for the Group.
issues, action taken and potential risks.
Widespread localised or national industrial action may cause Royal Mail to fail to meet the Quality of Service targets prescribed by Ofcom, leading to enforcement action and fines.
Royal Mail plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014 31
