Directors report The Directors present their report together agents or advisers do not accept or assume Forthis purpose the Articles provide that, with audited financial statements for the year responsibility to any other person to whom where a proxy is given discretion as to how ended 30 March 2014. this document is shown or into whose hands to vote on a show of hands, this will be itmay come and any such responsibility or treated as an instruction by the relevant Strategic report liability is expressly disclaimed.
member to vote in the way that the proxy To enable the assessment of how the decides to exercise that discretion: and Directors have performed their duty to The Annual Report and Financial Statements promote the success of the Company, the contain certain forward-looking statements On a poll, every member has one vote per Companies Act 2006 requires the Directors to with respect to the operations, performance share held by him, her or it and he, she or set out in this report a fair review of the and financial condition of the Group.
By their itmay vote in person or by one or more business of the Group during the year, the nature, these statements involve uncertainty, proxies.
Where he, she or it appoints more position of the Group at the end of the year since future events and circumstances can than one proxy, the proxies appointed by and a description of the principal risks and cause results and developments to differ him, her or it taken together shall not have uncertainties facing the Group.
The more extensive voting rights than the forward-looking statements reflect knowledge member could exercise in person.
Information fulfilling these requirements and information available at the date of can be found in the following sections of In the case of joint holders of a share, the vote preparation of this Annual Report and the Strategic report and are incorporated of the senior who tenders a vote, whether in Financial Statements and the Company by reference.
person or by proxy, shall be accepted to the undertakes no obligation to update these exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders forward-looking statements.
Nothing in this and, for this purpose, seniority shall be Annual Report and Financial Statements Index Page determined by the order in which the names should be construed as a profit forecast.
stand in the register in respect of the Business model 14-15 Dividends jointholding.
Strategy for delivering objectives 16-17 The Directors recommend a final dividend No member shall be entitled to vote at any of 13.3pence per Ordinary Share, payable Results 04-05 general meeting or class meeting in respect of on 31July 2014 to shareholders whose any share held by him, her or it if any call or Financial assets and liabilities 104-106 names appear on the register of members other sum then payable by him, her or it in on 4July 2014.
This will amount to the total Business risks 29-31 respect of that share remains unpaid or if a dividend for the year.
member has been served with a restriction Corporate responsibility 32-37 Political donations notice as defined in the Articles after failure Greenhouse gas emissions 36 No political donations were made during the to provide the Company with information year and the Company intends to continue concerning interests in those shares required Disabled employees 34 its policy of not making such donations for to be provided under the Companies Act Our people 33-35 the foreseeable future.
Currently, all issued shares are fullypaid.
Going concern 78 Future developments Possible future developments are described in Voting instructions may be submitted Our strategy on pages 16 to 17 and Business electronically at www.
co. uk by Disclosure and Transparency Rules risks on pages 29 to 31 of the Strategic report.
The Strategic report and the Directors report Share capital Employees allocated Free Shares under the together include the management report As at 30 March 2014, the Companys issued required by the Disclosure and Transparency Employee Free Shares Offer, which are held in share capital comprised 1,000,000,000 Rules DTR4.1 of the UK Financial Conduct trust by the trustee of the Royal Mail Share Ordinary Shares of one penny each, as set Authority Disclosure and Transparency Rules, Incentive Plan, are entitled to exercise any outin note 27 to the accounts on page 116. the Directors having consulted with the voting rights in respect of such Free Shares management on such matters.
byinstructing the trustee how to vote on Rights and obligations attaching theirbehalf.
toshares Corporate governance statement Voting The Disclosure and Transparency Rules Deadline for voting rights Subject to the provisions of the Companys require certain information to be included Full details of the deadlines for exercising Articles of Association the Articles and to inacorporate governance statement in the voting rights in respect of the resolutions to be any special rights or restrictions as to voting Directors report.
Information that fulfils the considered at the Annual General Meeting to attached to any class of shares in the Company requirements of the corporate governance be held on 24 July 2014 will be set out in the of which there are none, members will be statement can be found in the Corporate Notice of Annual General Meeting AGM.
entitled to vote at a general meeting as follows: Governance report on pages 47 to 57 and Special rights isincorporated into this Directors report On a show of hands, every member present There are no persons holding securities that byreference.
in person has one vote and every proxy carry special rights with regard to the control present who has been duly appointed by Disclaimer of the Group.
one or more members will have one vote, The purpose of this Annual Report and except that a proxy has one vote for and Financial Statements is to provide information one vote against if the proxy has been duly to the members of the Company.
The Annual appointed by more than one member and Report and Financial Statements have been the proxy has been instructed by one or prepared for, and only for, the members of the more members to vote for and by one or Company, as a body, and no other persons.
more other members to vote against.
The Company, its Directors and employees, Royal Mail plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014 44 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Dividends and distribution Initial Public Offering the IPO, the Board was Substantial shareholdings The Company may by ordinary resolution authorised subject to certain limitations to As at 30 March 2014, the Company had been from time to time declare dividends not allot shares in the Company and to grant notified, in accordance with the Disclosure and exceeding the amount recommended by the rights to subscribe for or to convert any Transparency Rules, of the following interests Board.
Subject to the Companies Act 2006, security into shares i up to an aggregate in the Companys Ordinary Share Capital: the Board may pay interim dividends, and also nominal amount of 3,333,333 less the any fixed rate dividend, whenever the financial amount of any allotment made under ii below % of voting position of the Company, in the opinion of the and ii up to an aggregate nominal amount of Shareholder Number of shares rights Board, justifies its payment.
If the Board acts 6,666,666 in connection with an offer by in good faith, it is not liable to holders of way of a rights issue less the amount of any Postal shares with preferred or pari passu rights allotments made under i above.
Such Services forlosses arising from the payment of authorities apply until the end of the first Holding interimorfixed dividends on other shares.
Annual General Meeting of the Company or Company 299,840,000 29.98% Alldividends shall be apportioned and paid the close of business on 31 December 2014 if Equiniti prorata according to the amounts paid up earlier the Expiry Date.
The Directors will be Share Plan onthe shares.
seeking a new authority for the Directors to Trustees allot shares and to grant subscription and Dividend waivers Limited 84,437,195 8.44% conversion rights to ensure that the Directors The trustee of the Royal Mail Share Incentive continue to have the flexibility to act in the GIC Private Plan will not receive any dividends other than best interests of shareholders when Limited 41,022,465 4.10% any special dividend declared by the Board on opportunities arise by issuing new shares or Free Shares which it has not been possible to granting such rights.
There are no current The position has not changed as of award to, or which have been forfeited by, plans to issue new shares except in connection 30 May 2014. participants in the plan.
The Board was Amendment to the Companys Articles Transfer of shares also given authority to allot equity securities ofAssociation Subject to the Articles, any member may for cash or to sell Ordinary Shares as treasury Any amendments to the Companys Articles transfer all or any of his or her certificated shares for cash subject to certain limitations, may be made in accordance with the shares by an instrument of transfer in any such authority to apply until the Expiry Date.
provisions of the Companies Act 2006 by usual form or in any other form which the Purchase of own shares by the Company way of special resolution.
The instrument of By a resolution passed by the selling transfer must be signed by or on behalf of the Indemnity of Directors shareholder on 25 September 2013, the transferor and in the case of a partly-paid To the extent permitted by the Companies Board was authorised to purchase up to a share the transferee.
Acts, the Company may indemnify any maximum number of 100,000,000 of its Director or former Director of the Company or The transferor of a share is deemed to remain Ordinary Shares pursuant to certain any associated company against any liability the holder until the transferees name is limitations, such power to apply until the entered in the register.
and may purchase and maintain for any Expiry Date.
The Company did not repurchase Director or former Director of the Company any of its Ordinary Shares during the year The Board can decline to register any transfer or any associated company insurance against ended 30March 2014. of any share which is not a fully paid share.
The Board may also decline to register a The Directors require express authorisation transfer of a certificated share unless the Appointment and replacement from shareholders to purchase our own instrument of transfer: ofDirectors shares.
Accordingly, at the 2014 AGM, the Unless otherwise determined by ordinary Directors will seek authority to make market i is duly stamped or certified or otherwise resolution of the Company, the Directors shall purchases of up to a maximum of ten per cent shown to the satisfaction of the Board to be no fewer than two and no more than 15 in of issued share capital.
At the present time the be exempt from stamp duty and is number.
As the UK Government was the Group has no plans to exercise this authority.
accompanied by the relevant share Companys sole shareholder prior to certificate and such other evidence of the Treasury Shares and Employee Benefit privatisation, the Secretary of State for right to transfer as the Board may Trust Business, Innovation and Skills appointed reasonably require: As at 30 March 2014, the Company did not the Chairman.
All other Directors were hold shares in Treasury and there has been ii is in respect of only one class of share: and appointed by the Company with the nochange to the number of shares held in Secretary of States consent.
iii if to joint transferees, is in favour of not Treasury during the period under review.
more than four such transferees.
Following privatisation, Directors may be Inaddition, the Company does not have appointed by the Company by ordinary anEmployee Benefit Trust in place.
Registration of a transfer of an uncertificated resolution or by the Board.
share may be refused in the circumstances set out in the uncertificated securities rules as There is also an agreement in place with defined in the Articles and where, in the case Postal Services Holding Company Limited of a transfer to joint holders, the number of PSH which grants PSH the right to nominate joint holders to whom the uncertificated share one Non-Executive Director for appointment is to be transferred exceeds four.
to the Board for so long as PSH together with its associates is entitled to exercise or Authority of the Directors to allot shares to control the exercise of ten per cent or more By resolutions passed by the selling shareholder on 25 September 2013 in preparation for the Royal Mail plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014 45 Directors report continued of the voting rights exercisable at a general Change of control Going concern meeting of the Company.
The following agreements contain provisions These consolidated financial statements have permitting exercise of termination or other been prepared on a going concern basis.
The In accordance with the Code, all Directors of rights in the event of a change of control.
financial performance and position of the the Company, with the exception of Mark Group, its cash flows and its approach to Higson, are subject to election at this years The Mails Distribution Agreement with Post capital management are set out in the AGM and will be subject to annual re-election Office Limited provides for the supply of Financial review on pages 23 to 28.
Mark Higson will resign certain services to the Group and allows for Board has reviewed the Groups projections from the Board following this years AGM.
arequest for renegotiation of terms in the for the next 12 months and the Directors have event of a change of control of either party A Director appointed by the Board or PSH a reasonable expectation that the Group has where such change of control is likely to have holds office only until the next AGM and is adequate resources to continue in operational a material adverse effect on the party not then eligible for election by the shareholders.
existence for at least 12 months.
undergoing the change of control.
The Companys Articles provide that, at each Audit information AGM, all those Directors who have been in The Outsourcing Agreement with CSC The Directors confirm that, so far as they are office at the time of the two preceding AGMs Computer Sciences Limited covers the aware, there is no relevant audit information and who did not retire at either of them, or provision of a wide range of IT goods and as defined in section 418 of the Companies who have held office with the Company, other services and allows for termination of the Act 2006 of which the auditor is unaware and than employment or executive office, for a agreement by either party on a change of that each Director has taken all reasonable continuous period of nine years or more at the control of the other in certain circumstances.
steps to make themselves aware of any date of the AGM, shall retire from office and The agreement with Capgemini UK plc covers relevant audit information and to establish may offer themselves for re-appointment services for the Groups e-Business web that the auditor is aware of that information.
The Board has, however, platform and allows the Group to terminate decided to follow the Code as referred to This confirmation is given and should be the agreement on change of control above so that all Directors are subject to interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Capgemini.
of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Services Agreement with British In addition to any power of removal conferred By Order of the Board Telecommunications plc BT allows by the Companies Act, the Company may by BT to terminate the agreement on a special resolution remove any Director before change of control of Royal Mail to one of the expiration of his or her period of office.
Directors and their interests The New Facilities Agreement with various Emily Pang The Directors of the Company during the year financial institutions provides the Group with Company Secretary are given on pages 38 to 40.
Details of the two term loan facilities and a revolving credit 6 June 2014 interest of the Directors and, where applicable, facility for general corporate and working their Connected Persons in the Ordinary Royal Mail plc capital purposes and repayment of previous Shares of the Company and of Long Term 100 Victoria Embankment debt.
The agreement contains provision on a Incentive Plan Awards over Ordinary Shares London change of control of the Group for negotiation of the Company are set out in the Directors EC4Y OHQ of the continuation of the agreement or remuneration report on pages 58 to 69. cancellation by a lender.
Company number 08680755 There are procedures in place to deal with Branches any conflicts of interest and these have As a global group our interests and activities operated effectively.
are held or operated through subsidiaries, Powers of the Directors branches, joint arrangements or associates The business of the Company will be managed which are established in, and subject by the Board who may exercise all the powers to the laws and regulations of, many of the Company, subject to the provisions of different jurisdictions.
the Companys Articles of Association, the Companies Act 2006 and any ordinary resolution of the Company.
Financial risk management The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies and the main risks arising from the Groups financial assets and liabilities are summarised in note 14 to the accounts on page 99.
See the financial risks and related hedging contained on page 27 of the Financial review in the Strategic report.
Royal Mail plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014 46
