Key performance indicators Our KPIs are divided into People, Customer and Financial segments, as represented in our business model and our Corporate Balanced Scorecard.
Further details relating to the link between our KPIs and Executive Remuneration can be found in the Directors remuneration report on page 65.
To reflect the significant changes that took place during 2013-14, we have revised our KPIs.
We have removed Second Class Quality of Service.
We have replaced Delivery Office modernisation and delivery hours reduction with a broader KPI on collection, processing and delivery productivity.
Finally, we have added a composite parcels quality of service measure, to reflect the increasing importance of parcels to our business.
KPI and strategic link s Measured by Key activities in the year People Safety Lost Time Accident Frequency We have delivered a very good safety performance in the year, further reducing the Rate: the number of work-related amount of time lost to accidents and making Royal Mail a safer place to work.
We accidents resulting in an absence have established assessments for 93 per cent of delivery routes.
We are continuing on the next day or shift per to increase the identification and risk mitigation of significant risks on those routes, 100,000 hours worked.
so we take action where appropriate.
Improving road safety is a key priority.
A Head of Health and Safety has been appointed in Parcelforce Worldwide to develop a safety leadership culture.
We also ran our annual Road Safety Week campaign in More information: November 2013, raising safety awareness through videos, posters, RMTV and see Corporate responsibility, managers briefings.
Topics ranged from seatbelts and stationary objects to driver distractions and winter driving.
page35 Employee engagement An annual survey by Ipsos MORI Approximately 150,000 eligible UK employees were awarded Free Shares as part of measuring involvement, alignment the privatisation.
Approximately 15,000 employees bought shares in the Company at and loyalty of colleagues through the same time.
We have agreed a new industrial relations framework with the CWU a number of questions, including: and are developing and embedding a more collaborative, can-do culture.
As part of our what our people think about Royal town hall programme, members of our senior management team have addressed Mail, their understanding of our thousands of colleagues at almost 60 meetings.
An ongoing face-to-face strategy andtheir place in communications programme will ensure colleagues understand our strategy and their More information: achieving our strategic objectives.
see Corporate responsibility, page33 Customer focus An annual survey by Ipsos MORI Christmas is a key trading period for us.
Planning began early to ensure we delivered measuring howfocused our a high quality service for our customers we did.
We recruited 21,000 seasonal people are on delivering workers to support our postmen and women.
Ten parcel sort centres were opened to improvements in customer manage increasing volumes over the period.
We offered extended opening hours and service.
Sunday deliveries to improve our customers delivery and collection options.
We are completing our Customer and You training for approximately 2,000 employees and are deploying a new programme to refurbish enquiry offices.
More information: see Corporate responsibility, page33 Customer First Class Quality of Service An independent, audited measure Our regulatory Quality of Service targets are amongst the highest of any major of Quality of Service for First European country.
We delivered a strong performance at both the national and local Class retail products, which may level.
This included meeting or exceeding the minimum target of 91.5 per cent for 1 be adjusted for force majeure.
First Class delivery in 114 out of 118 post code areas.
This improved performance was achieved against a backdrop of one of the largest industrial transformation programmes undertaken in the UK in recent history.
Our programme to standardise More information: best practice and drive up first time delivery will support continued high Quality of see CEOs review, page11 Service delivery.
Customer satisfaction Average business customer We maintained very good levels of customer satisfaction amongst our business satisfaction scores on a number customers.
A customer satisfaction questionnaire is completed by a sample of of issues, including price, service business customers every month.
During the year, we established a programme to quality and customer experience.
redesign key customer journeys, to improve the experience from posting to issue More information: resolution.
We increased our emphasis in customer service centres to focus on the see CEOs review, page11 first time resolution of issues for customers.
1 This accounts for the impact of factors which are beyond Royal Mails control, such as weather.
Strategic links key This icon is used throughout Being a successful parcels business this document to indicate reporting against a KPI Managing the decline in letters Being customer-focused Royal Mail plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014 18 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information KPI and strategic link s Measured by Key activities in the year Customer continued Composite Parcels quality An internal measure for all retail Our composite parcels KPI looks at delivery performance for regulated and parcel products in the Royal Mail non-regulated products across our entire portfolio.
We saw very significant progress ofservice core network.
Results are in our performance this year.
We provided handheld scanners for all delivery rounds, presented as a proportion of items providing significantly more management information and better customer service.
which are delivered by their service We are now seeking to improve first time delivery rates through standardisation of specification and combined into a best practice, especially for key initiatives like Delivery to Neighbour.
see CEOs review, page11 Customer complaints Number of complaints captured We achieved significant improvements in the level of customer complaints over the by our Customer Service team.
We saw reductions in all major categories except Something for You cards.
We completed the rollout of a new complaint resolution tool to enable Delivery Offices to access complaints and are re-engineering how we handle undelivered parcels in enquiry offices.
We are establishing a major programme in Operations to identify More information: areas of best practice and standardise them across the network.
see CEOs review, page11 Financial Group revenue Group revenue.
Overall revenue growth was driven by increases in parcel revenue in both GLS and UKPIL, offset by an expected decline in addressed letter volumes driven by e-substitution.
UKPIL parcel revenue growth was driven by size-based pricing and growth in account parcel volumes and Parcelforce Worldwide.
GLS also saw strong More information: revenue growth, driven by increased volumes.
see Financial review, page23 Productivity for collection, Percentage change year-on-year This measure demonstrates whether the business is getting more or less productive in the number of weighted items in collecting, processing and delivering letters and parcels across the UKPIL processing and delivery per gross hour paid in Delivery network.
It takes into account the change in volume and mix of letters and parcels, Units and Mail Centre Units with the latter having a materially different workload.
delivery and processing including Continued progress includes the Mail Centre rationalisation and implementation of More information: regional logistics and collections.
Our priority is standardisation, continued tight cost control see Financial and business and leveraging the efficiency benefits offered by our ongoing transformation performance highlights, programme.
page5 Total UK costs Total costs for UK businesses Total UK costs before transformation costs increased by one per cent.
People costs before transformation costs.
increased by four per cent, mainly due to the three per cent pay award, higher pension charges and the move to a shorter working week.
Non-people costs reduced by three per cent largely due to cost management and procurement savings programmes.
More information: see Financial Review, page23 Group operating profit Group operating profit before Overall revenue growth for both UKPIL and GLS resulted in an increase in Group transformation costs.
operating profit before transformation costs.
More information: see Financial Review, page24 Free cash flow Free cash flow.
Free cash flow has increased due to improved trading performance and lower investment spend.
More information: see Financial review, page26 Royal Mail plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014 19
