OUR STRATEGY AND BUSINESS MODEL Our strategy Our overall strategic aim is to create long-term value for our Shareholders, customers and other stakeholders.
We will do this by focusing primarily on the growing quality end of the markets in which we operate and by establishing meaningful and long-lasting relationships with our major customers.
This will be achieved through a combination of product development and high service levels.
We will continue to invest in quality facilities and the latest equipment so that we operate as efficiently as possible and to provide a safe and secure working environment for our employees.
Our long-term growth strategy is focused on consolidating existing market positions, developing new products channels in our core UK food market and growing our international operations and customer base.
Growth will continue to be driven by organic initiatives and targeted acquisitions.
Our objective To be a leading supplier of premium, fresh and added-value food products with a focus on operational e ciency and delivering innovative quality products to our customers Our growth strategy Our growth strategy is underpinned by six coordinated, creative and sustainable strategic priorities: MARKET PENETRATION Gain market share in existing categories tiers: ORGANIC INITIATIVES 1 moveinto adjacent tiers: addnew customers: develop adjacent categories AND TARGETED ACQUISITIONS INNOVATION Develop new and innovative products that give our customersarealpoint of di erence 2 UK CONSOLIDATION Penetrating more customers andmorecategories CHANNEL DEVELOPMENT Sell products through multiple channels: retail, food-service, manufacturing, wholesale, convenience, food on the move and online 3 UK DIVERSIFICATION SUPPLY CHAIN Ensure a robust supply chain with focus on security, integrity, Developing new products 4 integration, di erentiation, alignment and low cost sourcing BRANDS Develop new and existing brands to further di erentiate ourpremiumtier products 5 INTERNATIONAL Growing our international INTERNATIONAL Grow European and worldwide markets for traded, operations andcustomerbase primary, added-value and branded products 6 The markets in which we operate are competitive both in terms of pricing from fellow suppliers and the retail environment in general.
The UK food retail market is known to be amongst the most competitive in the world.
Despite this, Cranswick has a long record of increasing sales and profits through a combination of investing in modern efficient factories, developing a range of quality products and making value-added acquisitions.
Implementing Cranswicks strategy is assessed through a number of financial and non-financial KPIs summarised on pages 10 and 11.
Performance in the year under review and objectives for 2014 15 are discussed in more detail on pages 16 to 18.
The principal risks and uncertainties, which might impact achievement of the Groups strategic objectives and mitigating actions, are set out on pages 12 to 14.
8 Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2014 Y T I L I B A Corporate Governance Shareholder Information Strategic Report Financial Statements N I A T S I M N G U Y N S V T I O E C T E I R T O R G C U R T O R A E I S D A P L C A C T A A C A I E C O O L L H H E N R N I U C E T A N H V C I I L R S S G O T N E U H E M A S & U E S N W N R Q E T Our business model Our business model is centred on our four key values: Quality, Value, Innovation and People.
These values are supported by a robust operational framework, as shown below: Our four key values 1 QUALITY Continued focus on taste, heritage andauthenticity, whilst maintaining thehighest level of customerservice 2 VALUE Improving operational e ciency and 1 2 maximising returns oninvestment 3 4 3 INNOVATION Delivering innovative quality products toourcustomers 4 PEOPLE Empowered, dedicated and enthusiastic people with a shared vision operating inasafe and secure workplace Cranswicks operations are focused on the production and supply of food products.
We operate entirely in the UK, although a small but increasing proportion of sales are exported.
We produce a range of high quality, predominantly fresh products including fresh pork, sausages, bacon and cooked meats for sale to the high street food retailers.
We also supply a range of pre-sliced, pre-packaged charcuterie products for sale to these same customers, together with a range of pre-packed sandwiches predominantly for food service outlets.
More recently the Group has launched a range of artisan pastry products to a number of its retail customers from its new, purpose-built facility in Malton, North Yorkshire.
The Group operates from twelve highly efficient well invested food production facilities across the UK.
Continued investment ensures that these facilities have sufficient capacity headroom to meet Cranswicks growth aspirations, that they operate as efficiently as possible and that they provide a safe and secure working environment for the Groups workforce.
Supply chain security and integrity is a crucial component of our business model.
Robust technical and traceability systems ensure that our products are responsibly and sustainably sourced from suppliers whose values are aligned to our own.
We also own our own pig breeding and rearing operations which are capable of supplying 15 to 20 per cent of our British pig requirements.
This gives us even greater supply chain transparency, security and efficiency.
For further information on our supply chain model, see page 3.
The business is under the control of stable, experienced and talented operational management teams supported by a skilled workforce.
We offer training and specialist support where needed to ensure that our people feel empowered, dedicated and enthusiastic with a shared vision for the long-term success and development of our business.
