DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors submit their report and the audited accounts of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2014.
Dividends 2014 2013 Interim dividend per share paid on 24 January 2014 10.0p 9.4p Final dividend per share proposed 22.0p 20.6p Total dividend 15.7m 14.5m Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, the final dividend will be paid in cash or scrip form on 5 September 2014 to members on the register at the close of business on 4 July 2014.
The shares will go ex-dividend on 2 July 2014.
Distributions, capital raising and share repurchases The proposed final dividend for 2014 together with the interim paid in January 2014 amount to 32.0 pence per share which is 6.7 per cent higher than the previous year.
Share capital increased by 434,357 shares.
The increase comprised 243,021 of shares issued relating to share options exercised during the year and 191,336 of shares issued in respect of scrip dividends.
Directors and their interests Details of the Directors beneficial interests in the ordinary shares of the Company and in share options over the ordinary share capital of the Company are included in the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 46 to 57.
In accordance with the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors, apart from John Worby and Bernard Hoggarth, will stand for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Major Shareholders The Company has been informed of the following significant holdings of voting rights in the ordinary shares of the Company: At 31 March 2014 Number of shares % of issued share capital Invesco Perpetual 12,735,640 26.01 Legal & General Investment Management 2,330,789 4.76 Wellington Management 2,006,353 4.10 Schroder Investment Management 1,753,837 3.58 Jupiter Asset Management 1,708,127 3.49 NBIM 1,672,229 3.42 Fidelity Management & Research 1,603,277 3.27 Subsequent to the year end the Group was notified that as at The Directors of Cranswick plc have received limited authority to 7 May 2014 Invesco Perpetual had reduced its shareholding to disapply Shareholders pre-emption rights in certain circumstances, 22.35 per cent and that Woodford Investment Management had to authorise the Company to buy back a proportion of the Companys acquired a 3.65 per cent shareholding.
There have been no other share capital and to allow the Directors to allot shares.
Further notifications of any significant changes to these shareholdings as at resolutions will be placed before the Annual General Meeting to be 19 May 2014. held on 28 July 2014 to renew these powers.
Share capital structure At the last Annual General Meeting the Directors received authority The Company has one class of shares, being ordinary shares of from the Shareholders to: 10 pence each.
The allotted and fully paid up share capital is shown in note 23.
There are no special rights pertaining to any of the shares Allot shares in issue.
This gives Directors the authority to allot authorised but unissued shares and maintains the flexibility in respect of the Companys financing arrangements.
The nominal value of ordinary shares which 58 Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2014 Corporate Governance Shareholder Information Strategic Report Financial Statements the Directors may allot in the period up to the next Annual General shares as at 3 June 2013.
The Directors do not have any present Meeting, to be held on 28 July 2014, is limited to 1,622,222 which intention of exercising this authority and power.
This authority will represented approximately 33 per cent of the issued share capital expire at the end of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 28 excluding treasury shares as at 3 June 2013.
The Directors do not July 2014. have any present intention of exercising this authority other than in connection with the issue of ordinary shares in respect of the scrip To buy own shares dividend offer and the Companys share option plans.
This authority This authority allows the Company to buy its own shares in the will expire at the end of the Annual General Meeting to be held on market, as permitted under the Articles of Association of the 28 July 2014.
Company, up to a limit of 10 per cent of the Companys issued share capital.
The price to be paid for any share must not be less than Disapplication of rights of pre-emption 10 pence, being the nominal value of a share, and must not exceed This disapplies rights of pre-emption on the allotment of shares 105 per cent of the average middle market quotations for the by the Company and the sale by the Company of treasury shares.
ordinary shares of the Company as derived from the London Stock The authority will allow the Directors to allot equity securities for Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately cash pursuant to the authority to allot shares mentioned above, preceding the day on which the ordinary shares are purchased.
and to sell treasury shares for cash, on a pro-rata basis to existing The Directors have no immediate plans to exercise the powers of Shareholders but subject to any exclusion or arrangements the Company to purchase its own shares and undertake that the as the Directors consider necessary or expedient in relation to authority would only be exercised if the Directors were satisfied that fractional entitlements, any legal, regulatory or practical problems a purchase would result in an increase in expected earnings per or costs under the laws or regulations of any overseas territory or share and was in the best interests of the Company at the time.
This the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange and authority will expire at the end of the Annual General Meeting to be otherwise on a pro rata basis up to an aggregate nominal amount held on 28 July 2014.
The Directors would consider holding any of its of 243,333, representing 5 per cent of the Companys issued share own shares that it purchases pursuant to this authority as treasury capital as 3 June 2013.
This authority will expire at the end of the shares.
Annual General Meeting to be held on 28 July 2014.
The Company did not repurchase any shares during the year and at Allot shares and disapply pre-emption the year end the Group held no treasury shares.
rights in connection with a rights issue This authorises the Directors to allot relevant securities and The Company is not aware of any agreements between Shareholders empowers the Directors to allot equity securities and to sell treasury that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and for shares for cash in connection with a rights issue.
This is in addition voting rights.
to the authority to allot shares and the disapplication of pre-emption rights contained in the authorities mentioned above.
The nominal There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the value of ordinary shares which the Directors may allot in the period Company other than where certain restrictions may apply from time to up to the next Annual General Meeting, to be held on 28 July 2014, is time, on the Board of Directors and other senior executive staff, which limited to 1,622,222 which represented approximately 33 per cent is imposed by laws and regulations relating to insider trading laws and of the Companys issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury market requirements relating to close periods.
Capital structure The primary objective of the Groups capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratios in order to support its business and maximise value for Shareholders and other stakeholders.
The Group regards its Shareholders equity and net debt as its capital and manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in light of changes in economic conditions.
To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to Shareholders, return capital to Shareholders or issue new shares.
No changes were made to the objectives, policies or processes during the years ended 31 March 2014 and 31 March 2013.
The Groups capital structure is as follows: 2014 2013 m m Net debt note 26 17.0 20.1 Cranswick plc Shareholders equity 302.7 273.7 Capital employed 319.7 293.8 Report & Accounts 2014 Cranswick plc 59 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Interest rate risk Change of control The Groups current policy is to manage its cost of borrowing using There are no agreements that the Company considers significant and a mix of fixed and variable rate debt.
Whilst fixed rate interest to which the Company is party that would take effect, alter or terminate bearing debt is not exposed to cash flow interest rate risk, there upon change of control of the Company following a takeover bid other is no opportunity for the Group to enjoy a reduction in borrowing than the following: costs in markets where rates are falling.
In addition, the fair value risk inherent in fixed rate borrowing means that the Group is exposed to The Company is party to a number of banking agreements which upon unplanned costs should debt be restructured or repaid early as part a change of control of the Company are terminable by the bank upon of the liquidity management process.
In contrast, whilst floating rate the provision of ten working days notice, and there are no agreements borrowings are not exposed to changes in fair value, the Group is between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for exposed to cash flow risk as costs increase if market rates rise.
The compensation for loss of office or employment whether through Group has reduced its borrowings significantly in recent years and resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs because at 31 March 2014 gearing had fallen to 6 per cent 2013: 7 per cent.
of a takeover bid other than as stated in the Remuneration Committee Given this conservative debt structure the Group has not fixed the Report relating to Martin Davey and Bernard Hoggarth.
interest rate on any part of its current facility.
The Board will keep this situation under constant review and will fix the interest rate on Long Term Incentive Plan a proportion of the Groups borrowing at such time as it becomes In the event of a general offer being made to acquire part or all of appropriate to do so.
The monitoring of interest rate risk is handled the issued share capital of the Company as a result of which the entirely at head office, based on the monthly consolidation of cash flow offeror may acquire control of the Company, award holders under the projections and the daily borrowings position.
Cranswick plc Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP will have an opportunity to exercise their awards either: Credit risk Practically all sales are made on credit terms, the majority of which 1. immediately before the time at which the change of control of the are to the major UK food retailers.
Overdue accounts are reviewed at Company occurs or any condition subject to which the offer is monthly management meetings.
The incidence of bad debts is low.
made has been satisfied Take-over Date but conditional on the For all major customers, credit terms are agreed by negotiation and Take-over Date occurring, if the Remuneration Committee issues a for all other customers, credit terms are set by reference to external written notice in advance of the Take-over Date to award credit agencies and or commercial awareness.
Every attempt is made holders: or to resist advance payments to suppliers for goods and services: where 2. at any time within six months following the Take-over Date, in any this proves commercially unworkable, arrangements are put in place, other case.
where practical, to guarantee the repayment of the monies in the event of default.
In the event that the Court sanctions a scheme of arrangement under Part 26 of the Companies Act 2006 in connection with a scheme for Liquidity risk the Companys reconstruction or amalgamation with another company, The Group has historically been very cash generative.
The bank award holders under the LTIP may exercise their awards during the position for each site is monitored on a daily basis and capital six month period commencing on the date upon which the scheme expenditure is approved at local management meetings at which at of arrangement is sanctioned by the Court.
The LTIP also contains least two members of the main Board are present and reported at the provisions enabling award holders to exercise their awards if a person subsequent monthly main Board meeting.
Major projects are approved becomes entitled to issue a compulsory acquisition notice under the by the main Board.
Each part of the Group has access to the Groups provisions relating to the compulsory acquisition of a company set out overdraft facility and all term debt is arranged centrally.
The Group in the Companies Act 2006.
The period allowed for exercise in these renewed its bank credit facilities in March 2014.
The facility is made circumstances is any time up to the seventh day before the final day up of a revolving credit facility of 120.0 million including a committed upon which that person remains entitled to serve such a notice.
The Group manages the utilisation of the revolving credit facility through the monitoring of monthly In each case, the proportion of the awards that are capable of exercise consolidated cash flow projections and the daily borrowings position.
depends on the extent to which the performance targets as adjusted The current facility extends the maturity of the Groups available or amended have been satisfied.
financing to more than four years, providing it with reduced liquidity risk and medium-term funding to meet its objectives.
Unutilised Financial instruments facilities at 31 March 2014 were 102.2 million 2013: 78.1 million.
Functional currency The functional currency of all Group undertakings is sterling.
Articles of Association The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a Foreign currency risk special resolution at a general meeting of the Shareholders.
The foreign exchange risk facing the Group is in the purchasing of charcuterie products.
The currency involved is the euro.
The policy of the Group is to seek to mitigate the impact of this risk by taking out forward contracts for up to twelve months ahead and for amounts that commence at approximately 25 per cent of the requirement and move progressively towards full cover.
The Finance Director is consulted about the key decisions on currency cover.
60 Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2014 Corporate Governance Shareholder Information Strategic Report Financial Statements Annual General Meeting and Special Business to be Directors statement as to disclosure of transacted at the Annual General Meeting information to auditors The notice convening the Annual General Meeting can be found in the The Directors who were members of the Board at the time of separate Notice of Annual General Meeting accompanying this Report approving the Directors Report are listed on page 33.
enquiries of fellow Directors and of the Companys auditors, each of these Directors confirm that: Details of the Special Business to be transacted at the Annual General Meeting are contained in the separate letter from the Chairman which to the best of each Directors knowledge and belief, there is no also accompanies this Report and Accounts and covers the Directors information relevant to the preparation of their report of which authority to allot shares, the partial disapplication of pre-emption rights the Companys auditors are unaware: and and the authority for the Company to buy its own shares.
each Director has taken all the steps a Director might reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit Greenhouse gas emissions information and to establish that the Companys auditors are Details of the Groups geenhouse gas emissions are included within the aware of that information.
Corporate Social Responsibility section on pages 29 and 30.
Directors responsibility statement Employment policies Each of the Directors listed on page 33 confirms that to the best of The Groups policy on employee involvement is to adopt an open their knowledge: management style, thereby encouraging informal consultation at all levels about aspects of the Groups operations.
Employees participate the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS as directly in the success of the business by participation in the SAYE adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair review of the share option schemes.
assets, liabilities, financial position and results of Cranswick and its subsidiaries included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and Employment policies are designed to provide equal opportunities the Directors Report and the Strategic Report include a fair irrespective of colour, ethnic or natural origin, nationality, sex, religion, review of the development and performance of the business marital or disabled status.
Full consideration is given to applications for and the position of Cranswick and its subsidiaries included in the employment by and the continuing employment, training and career consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the development of disabled people.
principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Going concern By order of the Board The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Review of activities.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described above, as are the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial Malcolm Windeatt instruments and hedging activities: and its exposure to credit risk and Company Secretary liquidity risk.
19 May 2014 The Group has considerable financial resources together with strong Company number: 1074383 trading relationships with its key customers and suppliers.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risk successfully.
After reviewing the available information, including business plans and making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Auditors A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as independent external auditors will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
