CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Suppliers and producers Pork meat is the single most important raw material supplied to the Group.
The Cranswick sites at Preston, near Hull, and Norfolk collectively supply chain ensures that travel times from farm to abattoir are process in excess of 37,000 pigs per week and are a key supplier to the minimised with resulting animal welfare and food mile benefits the Groups further processing sites and others outside the Group.
Both map below provides a summary of distances from the processing sites.
sites are strategically well placed within two of the largest pig breeding and rearing areas within the country.
This close proximity with the PRESTON, NEAR HULL PRESTON 40 per cent within 25 miles NEAR HULL 60 per cent within 40 miles 75 per cent within 50 miles 80 per cent within 60 miles NORFOLK UNITED KINGDOM NORFOLK 50 per cent within 25 miles 80 per cent within 40 miles 90 per cent within 50 miles 95 per cent within 60 miles Many of the pigs supplied to Cranswick are reared to higher welfare to visual inspection and palpation.
We fully support this move and are standards associated with Outdoor Bred or Outdoor Reared standards.
actively working with BPEX and the Food Standards Agency FSA ahead Approximately 50 per cent of those processed by Preston, and 70 per of the expected launch date of June 2014. cent by Norfolk are reared to the exacting requirements of the RSPCA Freedom Foods welfare standard: the balance of those processed are Similarly Cranswick is working with the British Pig Executive BPEX on reared indoors in full compliance with the Red Tractor British Quality the implementation of the Welfare of Animals at the Time of Killing Assured Pork BQAP welfare standards.
WATOK legislation which will require us to have standard operating procedures for operations that have a bearing on the welfare of the Changes to meat inspection are set to challenge the industry in the animal from time of unloading to bleeding.
Any operative carrying out coming months with a move away from invasive meat inspection, and these procedures must have a certificate of competence to do so.
the possibility that this can spread contamination within the abattoir, The Cranswick agricultural team is also working with several retailer specific pig producer groups on rearing systems, breed development, welfare, sustainability, environment and ethical standards.
Customers and consumers Cranswicks commitment to the production of safe, legal, wholesome foods that are in full compliance with the specification agreed with its customers is central to the way it operates its business.
Cranswick supplies finished products to the major UK retailers, Cranswick is committed to working with its retail customers to restaurant groups, and food service customers and also supplies ensure clear informative labelling of the products it manufactures so raw material to other manufacturers.
Many of the Groups customers that consumers can make an informed purchase choice based on consider Cranswick to be their key supplier or category champion and clearly stated origin, authenticity, provenance, nutrition and allergen a preferred partner on key technical initiative projects.
Senior members of the Cranswick technical team are active within the wider industry and participate in technical committees at the BMPA, BPEX and the Provisions Trade Federation PTF.
