REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Annual Report on Remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2014 The Remuneration Committee recommends to the Board the policy for the Executive Directors remuneration including terms and conditions of service, the performance conditions for the annual cash bonus and long-term incentive schemes, and the total remuneration packages for senior executives.
The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is responsible to the Board and comprises the Non-Executive Directors chaired by Steven Esom.
The Chairman attends the meetings, along with the Chief Executive and the Finance Director, in an advisory capacity as and when requested and the Company Secretary attends the meetings as secretary to the Committee.
No individual is involved in decisions relating to their own remuneration.
Total number of Committee meetings 6 Attendance Steven Esom Chair 6 Kate Allum 2 maximum 2 Patrick Farnsworth 4 maximum 4 John Worby 6 Role of the Committee Advisers to the Committee The role of the Committee is to: The Committee keeps itself fully informed on the developments within the industry and in the field of remuneration and seeks advice from review the ongoing relevance and effectiveness of the Group external advisers where appropriate.
The Committee reviews and remuneration policy: benchmarks its remuneration policy through external consultants determine the remuneration of the Companys Executive Directors typically every two to three years: the last such review was carried out and other senior executives earning in excess of 150,000 by AON Hewitt in 2011, effective for 2012, and the intention is for a per annum: further review to be undertaken in 2014 for implementation in 2015. monitor the remuneration of the Groups other senior executives: approve the design of the Executive Directors and the Groups AON Hewitt, which is independent and has no connection to senior executives annual bonus arrangement: Cranswick, has been retained by the Remuneration Committee for approve the level and appropriateness of the long-term incentive advice throughout the year.
AON Hewitt provides no other services to plan LTIP for the Executive Directors and senior executives: and the Company though it is now part of the AON Corporation group of listen to and consider any Shareholders views relating to Directors companies which also provide insurance broking services to the Group.
remuneration as expressed at the AGM.
No payment was made to AON Hewitt in the year.
The Committee is satisfied that the provision of such services does not create any Activities of the Committee conflicts of interest.
The Remuneration Committee met on six occasions during the year to discuss in the main the Executive Directors and senior executives In addition  continues to give advice to the base salaries, the bonus arrangements for the current and previous Remuneration Committee on share option awards and other benefit year and their share based incentive awards.
 has given Auto Enrolment pension the issue to all eligible employees share options in accordance with advice to the Group during the year and has recently been appointed the Companys SAYE scheme.
Consideration was also given to the as tax advisers to the Group.
The Committee is of the opinion that such requirements of the new reporting regulations.
services do not create a conflict of interest.
The Committee believes the advice given during the year from both AON Hewitt and  has been independent, relevant and objective.
