REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT Letter from the Chair of the Remuneration Committee Dear Shareholder, Introduction On behalf of the Board I am pleased to present the Remuneration Committees annual report on Directors remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2014.
The report sets out the Groups remuneration policy and gives details of the remuneration paid to Executive and Non-Executive Directors for their services to the Company during the year.
Role of the Remuneration Committee and principles of remuneration policy The principal role of the Remuneration Committee is to determine and agree with the Board the policy for the remuneration of the Executive Directors.
Within the framework of the agreed policy the Committee is responsible for all aspects of the Executive Directors remuneration and those senior executives earning in excess of 150,000 per annum, for monitoring the remuneration of other senior executives and administering the long-term incentive arrangements.
It undertakes a regular review of the incentive plans to ensure that they remain appropriate to the Companys current circumstances, prospects and strategic priorities and that, in particular, the remuneration policy adopted is aligned with and based on the creation of value for shareholders and provides appropriate incentives for management to achieve this objective without taking inappropriate business risks.
The Committee also reviews and notes annually the remuneration trends across the Group and any major changes in employee benefit structures.
Activities of the Committee The Committee met on six occasions in the year ended 31 March 2014 to consider the following matters: review the Executives Directors and other senior executives base salaries: set corporate and personal objectives for the 2013 14 annual bonus arrangements for Executive Directors and senior executives: assess the performance against the targets set for the Executive Directors bonus arrangements for 2012 13: approve the outturn of the performance criteria for the Long Term Incentive awards which were granted in 2010: approve the Long Term Incentive awards granted in 2013: recommend to the Board for approval the issue of the Companys Save As You Earn SAYE share scheme for 2013 which is available to all eligible employees: and consider the revised remuneration reporting regulations and prepare this report on Directors remuneration.
Remuneration disclosure This report complies with the requirements of the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended in 2013 the Regulations, the principles of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority.
It is split into two distinct sections: First, a policy report which is subject to Shareholders approval: sets out the different elements which make up the Executive Directors remuneration: explains how each component operates: and details the performance metrics which underpin each element of remuneration.
Second, it contains an Annual Report on Remuneration, which discloses how the policy for Executive remuneration has been applied during the year.
Overview of the last financial year As highlighted in the Chairmans Statement on pages 4 and 5, Cranswick made positive progress, with adjusted operating profit and earnings per share ahead of last year.
The targets set by the Remuneration Committee, which had been based on the Group Budget for the year, anticipated the challenging trading environment with strong inflationary pressures within the supply chain and a highly competitive retail environment.
It was necessary for management to step change performance in order to meet these targets with emphasis on growing sales through innovation, high operational efficiency, growing volumes in the critical Christmas period and mitigate the rapid increase in raw material price inflation.
The performance was above the targets set.
Accordingly bonus payments were made at around 47 per cent of salary, just lower than a third of the maximum available of 150 per cent.
As reported last year the pay award to the Executive Directors base salaries, on 1 May 2013, was 3.3 per cent which is reflected in the table on page 53 other than for Adam Couch who received a second and final step increase on 1 May 2013 to align with market rates following his appointment as Chief Executive on 1 August 2012.
Further details of Adams salary review are set out on page 53.
46 Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2014 Corporate Governance Shareholder Information Strategic Report Financial Statements Highlights for the current financial year No changes are being proposed to the Groups current policy on Executive remuneration.
In accordance with current policy, the Executive Directors, were awarded an increase of 2.7 per cent in line with the annualised increase in the Retail Prices Index RPI as at 28 February 2014, to be effective from 1 May 2014.
This award is consistent with the benchmark for the review of other senior executives and the level of pay award across the Group which also takes into account local practices and regional variations in pay and conditions.
Summary Executive remuneration policy will continue to be monitored to ensure it is correctly aligned with the Groups business strategy.
The Remuneration Committee considers the policy, set out in this report, to be an appropriate one which aims to properly reward performance in line with the Companys business objectives and growth and delivery of Shareholder value.
On behalf of the Board Steven Esom Chair of the Remuneration Committee 19 May 2014 Report & Accounts 2014 Cranswick plc 47
