Directors Report Other Disclosures In 2014 63.5% of our employees participated in one of our all-employee share plans, indicating employees continued desire to be involved in the Company.
Pages 40 to 83 inclusive together with the sections of the Annual A statement indicating the beneficial and non-beneficial interests Report incorporated by reference constitute a Directors Report ofthe Directors in the share capital of the Company, including share thathas been drawn up and presented in accordance with applicable options, is shown in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 76.
English company law: the liabilities of the Directors in connection The Directors are responsible for managing the business of the withthat report are subject to the limitations and restrictions provided Company and may exercise all the powers of the Company subject by that law.
tothe provisions of relevant statutes, the Companys Memorandum Going Concern and Articles and any directions given by special resolution.
The Financial Statements which appear on pages 89 to 139 have Directors Indemnities been prepared on a going concern basis as, after making appropriate The Company maintains Directors and Officers liability insurance enquiries, including a review of forecasts, budgets and banking which gives appropriate cover for any legal action brought against its facilities, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Directors.
The Company has also granted indemnities to each of its Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue Directors and the Company Secretary which represent qualifying inoperational existence for the foreseeable future.
third party indemnity provisions as defined by Section 234 of the Research & Development Companies Act 2006, in relation to certain losses and liabilities which Research and development activities are undertaken with the Directors or Company Secretary may incur to third parties in the theprospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge course of acting as Directors or Company Secretary or employees andunderstanding.
ofthe Company or of any associated company.
In addition, such indemnities have been granted to other officers of the Company Dividends whoare directors of subsidiary companies within the Group.
The The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 36p per share Company has also granted an indemnity representing qualifying 2013: 35.5p.
Ifapproved by shareholders, total dividends for the pension scheme indemnity provisions asdefined by Section 235 yearwill amount to65.5p per share 2013: 64.5p per share.
Details of ofthe Companies Act 2006 to a paid director of the corporate dividends are shown in note 8 on page 106: details of the Companys trusteeof the Groups UK pension scheme.
Such indemnities were Dividend Reinvestment Plan can be found on page 141.
The inplace during 2014 and at the date of approval of the Group Company has established various employee benefit trusts EBTs in financialstatements.
connection with the obligation to satisfy future share awards under employee share incentive schemes.
The trustees of the EBTs have Share Capital waived their rights to receive dividends on certain Ordinary Shares At the date of this Report, 139,949,969 Ordinary Shares of 10p each ofthe Company held in the EBTs.
Such waivers represent less than have been issued and are fully paid up and quoted on the London 1per cent of the total dividend payable on the Companys Ordinary Stock Exchange.
At the date of this Report, the Company has issued Shares.
Further details of the EBTs can be found in note 24 on and fully paid up 21,900 7% Cumulative Preference Shares, page129.
498,434 6.6% Cumulative Preference Shares and 615,562 5.9% Cumulative Preference Shares, all of 1 each the Preference Shares.
Directors The rights and obligations attached to the Companys Ordinary The Companys Articles of Association the Articles give the Shares and Preference Shares are set out in the Articles, copies of Directors power to appoint and replace Directors.
Under the terms which can be obtained from Companies House in the UK or by writing ofreference of the Nomination Committee, any appointment must to the Company Secretary.
There are no restrictions on the voting berecommended by the Nomination Committee for approval by the rights attached to the Companys Ordinary Shares or on the transfer Board of Directors.
The present Directors of the Company are shown of securities in the Company.
The 7% Cumulative Preference on pages 40 and 41.
In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, Shares shall not confer on the holders any right to receive notice of each Director will be standing for re-election or election at the AGM.
orto be present or to vote at any general meeting of the Company Details of the Directors service contracts are given in the Directors unless thecumulative preferential dividend on such shares is more Remuneration Report on page 73. than 12calendar months in arrears.
The 6.6% and 5.9% Cumulative Preference Shares shall not confer on the holders any right to receive As well as the present Directors, Sean Christie was a Director of the notice of or to be present or to vote at any general meeting of the Company throughout 2014 and Stanley Musesengwa retired as a Company unless the cumulative preferential dividend on such shares Director in April 2014. is more than six calendar months in arrears or the business of the Apart from the share option schemes, long term incentive schemes general meeting includes the consideration of a resolution for and service contracts, no Director had any beneficial interest in any reducing the share capital of the Company, to sell the undertaking contract to which the Company or a subsidiary was a party during ofthe Company or to alter the Articles.
No person holds securities theyear.
inthe Company thatcarry special rights with regard to control of the 80 Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information Company.
TheCompany is not aware of any agreements between Employees holders ofsecurities that may result in restrictions on the transfer Diversity: We are committed to the principle of equal opportunity ofsecuritiesor on voting rights.
inemployment and to ensuring that no applicant or employee receives less favourable treatment on the grounds of gender, marital Power to Issue or Buy Back Shares status, race, ethnic origin, religion, disability, sexuality or age, or is At the 2014 AGM, authority was given to the Directors to allot disadvantaged by conditions or requirements which cannot be unissued shares in the Company up to a maximum amount shown to be justified.
Group HR policies are clearly communicated equivalent to approximately one third of the issued share capital toall our employees and are available through the Company intranet.
excluding shares held in treasury for general purposes, plus uptoafurther one third of the Companys issued share capital Recruitment and progression: It is established policy throughout excluding shares held in treasury, but only in the case of a rights Croda that decisions on recruitment, career development, promotion issue.
No suchshares have been issued.
and other employment related issues are made solely on the grounds of individual ability, achievement, expertise and conduct.
A further special resolution passed at that meeting granted authority to the Directors to allot equity securities in the Company for cash, Croda gives full and fair consideration to applications for employment without regard to the pre-emption provisions of the Companies from people with disabilities.
Should an employee become disabled Act2006.
Both these authorities expire on the date of the 2015 AGM, during their employment with Croda, they are fully supported by that is 22 April 2015, and so the Directors propose to renew them itsOccupational Health provision.
Efforts are made to continue forafurther year.
theiremployment with reasonable adjustments being made to theworkplace and role where feasible.
Retraining is provided At last years AGM the members renewed the Companys authority ifnecessary.
topurchase up to 10% of its Ordinary Shares.
No purchases were made during the year.
As a result the Company will be seeking to Development and learning: Croda recognises that the key to future renew its authority to purchase its own shares at the 2015 AGM.
success lies in the skills and abilities of its dedicated global workforce.
Shares will only be purchased if the Board believes that such The continuous development of our employees is key to meeting the purchases will improve earnings per share and be in the best future demands of our customers, especially in relation to enhanced generalinterest of shareholders.
It is the Companys intention creativity, innovation and customer service.
During 2014, 91.2% of our thatanyshares purchased will be held astreasury shares.
At the employees received training, totalling 103,980 hours: an average of dateof this report the Company holds 4,168,181 shares in treasury.
29 hours of training per employee.
Articles of Association Involvement: Croda is committed to ensuring that employees share Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the Articles, the inthe success of the Group.
Owning shares in the Company is an Companys Articles may be amended by a special resolution important way of strengthening involvement in the development of oftheCompanys shareholders.
thebusiness and bringing together employees and shareholders Significant Contracts and Change of Control interests.
In 2014 63.5% of our employees participated in one of our The Group has borrowing facilities which may require the immediate all-employee share plans, indicating employees continued desire repayment of all outstanding loans together with accrued interest tobe involved in the Company.
inthe event of a change of control.
The rules of the Companys Employees are kept informed of matters of concern to them in a employee share plans set out the consequences of a change in variety of ways, including Croda Way the Company magazine, control of the Company on participants rights under the plans.
quarterly updates, Croda Connect the Company intranet, team Generally such rights will vest and become exercisable on a change briefings, webinars and Croda Now email messages.
These of control subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions.
None communications help achieve a common awareness of the financial of the Executive Directors service contracts contains provisions and economic factors affecting the performance of Croda and of which are affected by a change of control and there are no other changes within the business.
Croda is also committed to providing agreements to which the Company is a party which take effect, alter employees with opportunities to share their views and provide or terminate inthe event of a change of control of the Company which feedback on issues that are important to them.
All regions have are considered to be significant in terms of their potential impact on undertaken an employee survey since 2010.
The largest of these, theGroup.
targeting our European employees, was completed during 2011.
The Company does not have any contractual or other arrangements which are essential to the business of the Group.
Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 81 Directors Report Other Disclosures continued Sustainability Financial Risk Management Sustainability is not just one part of our business: it is integral to The Groups exposure to and management of capital, liquidity, credit, everything we do.
Our business model, on pages 12 and 13, conveys interest rate and foreign currency risks are contained in note 19 on how deeply sustainability is embedded within Croda.
It shapes the pages 117 to 121. way we structure our business and develop our strategy, how we Capitalised Interest interact with stakeholders, including employees, local communities, The Groups policy for capitalising borrowing costs directly customers and investors, and how we deal with the challenges of attributable to the purchase or construction of fixed assets is set out policy and regulation.
Details of our activities are set out on pages on page 100.
Given the strong cash generation of the Group in recent 34to39 of this report, with more detailed information available years, there has been no requirement for specific external funding inourSustainability Report, which can be downloaded at forcapital expenditure, hence the Group does not have capitalised www.
interest of any significance on its balance sheet.
This holistic approach is supported by our Global Sustainability Other Disclosures Steering Committee and at all levels of our Company, with ultimate Certain information that is required to be included in the Directors responsibility resting with our Board of Directors and Executive Report can be found elsewhere in this document as referred to below, Committee and implementation discussed at all regional and each of which is incorporated by reference in to the Directors Report.
However, responsibility for shaping and delivering our sustainability strategy does not just lie with our leaders: Information on greenhouse gas emissions page 35 it stretches right across our Business and every employee has a An indication of likely future developments in the Groups business partto play.
can be found in the Strategic Report, starting on page 1 Community Education and Involvement An indication of the Companys overseas branches page 140 We have a strong focus on supporting the communities in which we operate.
We believe that our social licence to operate is based on the For the purposes of Listing Rule 9.8.
4R, the information required to be relationships we have with communities local to our premises.
4R can be found in on the following pages of this relationships also have an impact on the people who work for and Annual Report: with us and on their families and wider communities.
Our community Section Topic Page reference education programme aims to raise the profile of science, technology, 1 Capitalised interest Page 82 engineering and maths STEM, byproviding relevant, targeted 2 Publication of unaudited financial information Not applicable support to schools, colleges and universities in our communities.
In 3 Smaller related party transactions Not applicable doing so, we can improve the learning and career prospects of local 4 Details of long term incentive schemes Not applicable populations, enhance our reputation, and develop the vital employee established specifically to recruit or retain skills that we depend onfor future growth.
aDirector 5 and 6 Waiver of emoluments by a Director Not applicable Our activities demonstrate that we are investing in local communities 7 and 8 Allotments of equity securities for cash Page 81 and turning talk into action by responding both proactively and 9 Participation in a placing of equity securities Not applicable reactively to local needs and delivering real benefits.
This also helps 10 Contracts of significance Page 81 usto enhance the performance and morale of our employees, 11 and 14 Controlling shareholder disclosures Not applicable support the recruitment needs of our Business, and ensure that 12 and 13 Dividend waiver Page 80 wehave a positive impact wherever we are in the world.
Political Donations All the information cross referenced above is incorporated by No donations were made for political purposes during the year reference into the Directors Report.
References in this document to other documents on the Companys website, such as the Sustainability Report, are included as an aid to their location and are not incorporated by reference into any section ofthe Annual Report and Accounts.
82 Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information Independent Auditors The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Our auditors,  LLP, have indicated their Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the willingness to continue in office and, on the recommendation of the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from Audit Committee, a resolution regarding their reappointment and legislation in other jurisdictions.
remuneration will be submitted to the annual general meeting.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken Statement of Directors Responsibilities as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, information necessary for shareholders to assess a Companys theDirectors Remuneration Report and the financial statements performance, business model and strategy.
inaccordance with applicable law and regulations.
Each of the Directors, whose details are set out on pages 40 and 41 Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the andthe Company financial statements in accordance with United Group: and Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
the Directors Report and Strategic Report include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position In preparing the Group financial statements, the Directors have also of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and elected to comply with IFRSs, issued by the International Accounting uncertainties that it faces.
Under Company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they Audit Information give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the The Directors confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: unaware and that they have each taken all the steps they ought to have taken as a Director in order to make themselves aware of any select suitable accounting policies and then apply them relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys consistently: auditors are aware of that information.
make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable The Directors Report and the Strategic Report, including the sections and prudent: of the Annual Report and Accounts incorporated by reference, is the state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and management report for the purposes of the Financial Services applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject Authority Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 4.1.
It was to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group approved by the Board on 24 February 2015 and is signed on its and Company financial statements respectively: and behalfby prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unlessit is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continuein business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Tom Brophy records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys Group General Counsel and Company Secretary transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 24 February 2015 financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 83
