Strategic Report Who We Are Our Business at a glance We deliver high performance ingredients to thousands of leading companies, in industries as diverse as their locations are widespread.
Our new global structure, leveraging our continued focus on research and development and innovation, improved both our market alignment and close customer contact in 2014.
Aligned to Our Target Markets Across all four of our market sectors we work inpartnership with our customers to design ingredients that enhance everyday products.
Wemanufacture globally and sell directly to ourcustomers.
p12 Engage Create Make Sell Personal Care Revenue Adjusted Operating Profit We are the worlds leading supplier of speciality ingredients for thepersonal care industry.
We achieve this by offering ourcustomers expertise in formulation development, claims substantiation, market analysis and regulatory support.
Our ingredients are used in a range of applications 369.1m 117.3m including skin care, sun care, hair care, colour cosmetics and toiletries.
p14 Life Sciences Our Life Sciences market sector comprises two complementary businesses, Revenue Adjusted Operating Profit Health Care and Crop Care.
Health Care delivers high quality ingredients andformulation expertise to pharmaceutical and nutritional markets, which includes dermatology and animal health.
Crop Care provides innovative 204.5m 64.7m ingredients and formulation expertise to agrochemical companies, enabling them to develop efficient, complex and safe products that help farmers achieve superior yields.
p16 Performance Technologies Performance Technologies delivers high added value additives to a wide Revenue Adjusted Operating Profit range of niche markets.
It is organised into five business areas: Lubricants supplies automotive and industrial lubricants companies: Coatings and Polymers serves the coatings, adhesives and speciality polymers markets: 355.2m 63.8m Geo Technologies supports customers in oil and gas, water treatment and mining: Polymer Additives sells into the plastics and packaging sector: and Home Care serves household product manufacturers, as well as industrial cleaning companies.
p18 Industrial Chemicals Revenue Adjusted Operating Profit Our Industrial Chemicals market sector sells a range of co-streams producedduring the manufacture of core sector products and undertakes toll processing.
Whilst primarily higher in volume and lower in margin, the sector is also developing niche ranges of specialist materials for thermal management, 117.8m 2.6m catalysts, electronics, advanced ceramics and other industrial applications.
p18 02 Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information A Diversified, Global Business Countries Operations Employees Every day our global team work together to deliver amazing science, technology and expertise to solvecustomer challenges, 34 54 3,610 whilst doing businesssustainably.
67 Employees Operations 6 1,972 Employees Operations 207 19 Employees Operations 460 7 Employees Operations 6 904 Employees Operations 16 Key Global Headquarters Manufacturing Sites Sales Offices North Latin Western Eastern Europe, Asia America America Europe Middle East & Africa Pacific Revenue Revenue Revenue Revenue Revenue 26.4% of Group total 10.6% of Group total 37.0% of Group total 6.8% of Group total 19.2% of Group total 276.4m 110.5m 387.1m 71.2m 201.4m Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 03
