Strategic Report Our Sector Performance Personal Care Our Personal Care market sector focuses on ingredients for skin, hair, sun and colour cosmetic products.
Our broad portfolio includes anti-ageing ingredients for skin, conditioning agents for hair care and metal oxides for UV filters.
2014 Performance In 2014, we continued to meet our customers Personal Care We performed better in the second half of strategic needs.
In particular, asethical theyear, after a slow first six months.
Sales sourcing becomes increasingly important growth of our differentiated and higher toconsumers, we built on our sustainability margin ingredients outstripped the market.
credentials, knowledge and offering to help Product advances, such as our anti-ageing customers meet their internal sustainability skin innovations and physical sunscreens, targets.
The Roundtable on Sustainable which reflect the suns rays rather than absorb PalmOil RSPO certification ofour seventh them, enabled our customers to attract new manufacturing site was a particular landmark, consumers and grow their brands.
as it joins our other six sites that handle rawmaterials that support sustainable palm However, the continued weakness in Western oil to provide our customers with certified, Europe and, in the early part of the year, North Kevin Gallagher environmentally friendly ingredients.
By America, reduced demand for mass market President, Personal Care theend of 2014, we had more than 300 consumer products.
Low consumer demand customers from all geographical regions had an inevitable knock-oneffect on the sales Revenue purchasing ingredients that support of our ingredients into consumer brands, sustainable palm oil.
particularly those of our less differentiated 369.1m lines where we faced stronger competition.
2013: 392.7m Full year revenue declined to 369.1m Flower Power Adjusted Operating Profit 2013:392.7m due tocurrency translation, Our new Sebuless ingredient helps but was broadly flat in constant currency totreat oily and acne prone skin in just 117.3m terms.
Adjusted operating profit was 117.3m onemonth.
2013: 132.7m 2013: 132.7m, down 6.6% in constant Sebuless is derived from the extract Return on Sales currency, due largely to European and mass oflilacby our subsidiary, Sederma, market weakness.
aleaderin innovative actives and plant 31.8% 2013: 33.8% Closer to Customers cellculture.
Byusing cell cultures, rather As a company, we strive to be closely aligned than conventionally grown plants, these to our customers and to be fast and flexible ingredients are guaranteed to be free inresponding to their needs.
Geographically, frompollutants and, being grown we are expanding where they are, as seen withoutimpacting the environment, byour investment in new Personal Care areentirely sustainable.
laboratories and customer training centres Tests have shown that two daily inLatin America and Asia.
applications of Sebuless over a month Following the May 2014 announcement of cancurb excessive production of sebum our new global organisation, we restructured and reduce blemishes by half.
More than the Personal Care management team to two-thirds of trial volunteers said that, better meet customer needs.
It is pleasing aftertaking part, their skin looked purer, that customer feedback has already started fresher and less shiny.
to reflect our aspirations: that is, that they Sebuless is tailored for skin care and finddealing with our new organisation more cosmetic applications for men and straightforward, focused and rewarding.
women with oily and acne prone skin.
Asour customers look increasingly to their suppliers for expert support, for example onregulatory guidance to enter new markets, having a dedicated global Personal Care team will ensure that we deliver even greater added value.
14 Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information Products including Matrixyl have Personal Care won many awards including Turning back time with Matrixyl Anti-ager of the Year and Launch of the Year in the Stylist magazines Engage 2014 Skincare Awards.
Our customers are increasingly looking for novel ingredients tohelpthem meet growing consumer demand for effective anti-ageing products.
Create In 2000, our active ingredient specialists, Sederma, discovered Matrixyl, a matrikine peptide that stimulates collagen synthesis andskin repair by slipping into the damaged cell surface and sendinga signal into the cell to repair it.
Make Following the launch of Matrixyl, which quickly established itself asavital anti-ageing ingredient for cosmetics, we introduced two related ingredients: Matrixyl 3000 and Matrixyl synthe6, which targetother age related skin conditions such as crows feet and deepforehead wrinkles.
Sell Independent studies have proven Matrixyls long term anti-ageing properties, leading to its inclusion in many sell out products from leading consumer brands.
Matrixyl works like a lock and key mechanism.
Thepeptide is designed tofit into the damaged cellsurface and sends aunique signal into thecelltorepair it.
Each anti-ageing issue has adifferent signal it needs torepair itself, leading tothe development ofMatrixyl 3000 and Matrixylsynthe6.
Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 Strategic Report Our Sector Performance continued Life Sciences Our Life Sciences market sector includes two complementary businesses, Health Care and Crop Care.
Health Care delivers high quality ingredients to pharmaceutical and nutritional markets, which include dermatology and animal health.
Crop Care provides innovative ingredients to agrochemical companies, who develop products that help farmers achieve superior yields.
2014 Performance Closer to Customers Life Sciences Overall, Life Sciences had a good year.
In line with our global business reorganisation, HealthCare performed well in all markets we developed a strategic approach more dueto strong sales of speciality excipients aligned to our customers.
In Health Care, we and Omega 3 products, particularly our worked more closely with premium branded active pharmaceutical ingredient.
Crop Care supplement manufacturers, which are a performed very strongly in Asia, although natural fit with our high quality ingredients, sales were flat in North America and Western and saw the benefit in sales across Europe, and fell in Latin America due to Europewhere premium players are more economic pressures on the agricultural established.
We also continued to reinforce industry and extreme weather.
Revenue grew our reputation for expertise and innovation to 204.5m 2013: 200.5m, an increase of bycollaborating with leading universities Sandra Breene 7.9% in constant currency terms.
Adjusted andcustomers on several research projects.
President, Life Sciences operating profit was 64.7m 2013: 58.6m, Meanwhile, Crop Care moved its focus up 15.0% in constant currency.
frommedium sized companies to the major Revenue In Health Care, our success has largely been global players, with whom we can partner due to three key areas.
In the Omega 3 arena, ininnovation.
We have invested in global 204.5m we achieved our largest pharmaceutical account managers, who will help to develop 2013: 200.5m success to date, both in terms of value and relationships with these international Adjusted Operating Profit potential, with Par Pharmaceutical launching businesses and better understand where a cardiac drug to the North American market and how our product portfolio can meet 64.7m using our ingredient.
2013: 58.6m Secondly, our excipients sales, in use across Return on Sales awide range of pharmaceutical products, Oil and Water Can Mix including oncology drugs, grew well in Our new rheology modifiers are 31.6% 2013: 29.2% NorthAmerica, France, India and Brazil.
makingproduct formulation easier Suchincreased demand reflects the global foragrochemical customers.
growth in biotech drugs, which require more Rheology modifiers, sometimes called complex and higher quality excipients than thickeners, help ensure that solutions chemically based medication.
Our high purity arethe right consistency for use.
Our excipients meet this need perfectly, providing AtloxRheostrux range offers several such added benefits as longer shelf life and advantages over conventional modifiers greater stability.
for both oil and water based products.
Lastly, our expertise in the personal care Our Atlox Rheostrux products make the sector has contributed to our dermatological production and processing of oil based success.
With more medicines now being formulations easier and less likely to sold over the counter, they need to look, taste separate than traditional clay or silica and smell attractive and, if topical, be easy to modifiers.
They also create a smoother apply, which are qualities also common to our consistency, so that they can be handled skin care and cosmetic lines.
In Crop Care, our recent investment in acrylic In water based formulations they have polymers manufacturing capability reaped significant benefits over xanthan gum, benefits with strong sales of agricultural which is traditionally used.
Xanthan gum co-formulants and dispersing agents doesnt work in acidic conditions, needs developed using this technology.
During the swelling before use and requires an year, we have been proactively looking for anti-bacterial biocide.
Atlox Rheostrux, opportunities to acquire other technologies however, works well at all pH levels, is tobenefit Crop Care customers.
simply added to formulations and does not need a biocide.
16 Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information Throughout our partnership with Life Sciences Croda, we have always felt that we Delivering a pure health partnership have operated as a single team, sharing a common culture.
We are Engage delighted by the success that our A diet rich in Omega 3 fish oils has long been recognised as a partnership is now delivering.
keypartof maintaining our health and wellbeing.
More recently pharmaceutical treatments based on Omega 3 oils have been Paul Campanelli developed for the treatment of cardiovascular conditions, including Chief Executive hypertriglyceridemia, which is caused by high levels of fat in the blood.
Par Pharmaceutical Inc. We have been working closely with Par Pharmaceutical for several years to deliver the benefits of pharmaceutical Omega 3 to the North American market.
Create We use sustainably sourced fish oil, and our advanced purification technology, PureMax, to create our pharmaceutical ingredient, OmeRx.
In OmeRx we concentrate to very high levels the twoOmega 3 fatty acids that are proven to treat cardiac issues, Eicosapentaenoic Acid and Docosahexaenoic Acid, better known asEPA and DHA.
Make Our high quality and consistency at every stage in the complex manufacturing process, coupled with rigorous documentation and precision, generates the batch consistency needed for stringent North American Food and Drug Administration approval, enabling usto supply OmeRx to the pharmaceutical industry.
Sell Our product is sold to Par Pharmaceutical as an active pharmaceutical ingredient API, which they market and sellinitspureform as a drug to treat hypertriglyceridemia.
The quality and purity of OmeRx reflects our high standards of research anddevelopment and production.
It combines unrivalled lipid chemistry and technology certified topharmaceutical Good Manufacturing Practice standards, for the manufacture of API quality products.
We have gained approval from the North American Food and DrugAdministration andtheUKMedicines andHealthcare Products Regulatory Agency.
Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 17 Strategic Report Our Sector Performance continued Performance Technologies andIndustrial Chemicals Performance Technologies delivers innovative ingredients for five growing business areas: Lubricants, Coatings and Polymers, Polymer Additives, Geo Technologies and Home Care.
Industrial Chemicals isasmall diverse sector selling to a variety of mostly industrial applications.
2014 Performance profile and Polymer Additives range of Performance Technologies 2014 was a very good year for Performance anti-scratch ingredients for automotive parts.
Technologies, with Lubricants and Geo Growing our Performance Technologies Technologies doing particularly well, despite business is a key part of our strategy.
In challenging economic conditions in many August, we announced the acquisition of JD ofthe regions in which we operate.
Asia Horizons, an innovator in additive ingredients proved particularly buoyant, as our strategy for the international oil industry.
Its product of investing in faster growing emerging range helps prevent pipeline blockages, markets continued to reap benefits.
Europe strengthening our position in the global oilfield and NorthAmerica also showed growth, and refinery process chemicals market.
Our although Latin America was slower than acquisition of AM Coatings in April brought expected.
Revenue was unchanged at novel non-leaching antimicrobial technology Maarten Heybroek 355.2m 2013:355.2m, but grew by 5.7% for coating and adhesive applications.
President, Performance Technologies in constant currency terms.
Adjusted and Industrial Chemicals operating profit was 63.8m 2013: 62.7m, Closer to Customers an increase of 4.5% in constant currency, Close proximity to our customers and Revenue andreturn on sales reached 18.0% 2013: expansion in emerging markets is core 17.7%, well on the way to our target of 20.0%.
The 2013 acquisition 355.2m ofamajority stake in Sipo, a natural chemicals Coatings and Polymers ended the year 2013: 355.2m manufacturer in China, was a significant step well, although impacted by deflation in raw towards both goals, and in2014, we focused Adjusted Operating Profit material prices.
This was offset successfully on upgrading their manufacturing site.
With with growth coming from product innovation, investment plans ontrack for 2016, the site 63.8m including new toughening agents for coating 2013: 62.7m will provide extra production capacity for and adhesive applications.
Home Care Polymer Additives and Lubricants.
Return on Sales performed modestly in the first half, but improved through its own exciting innovations, As well as being geographically near 18.0% including CrystaSense Sapphire that toourcustomers, we pride ourselves on 2013: 17.7% enables household cleaning sprays to drip ourunderstanding of, and expertise in, less and clean better.
During the year, werecruited more industry experts and Other strong innovation launches in 2014 increased product application training included Geo Technologies range of acrossour global sales team.
demulsifiers with a better environmental 2014 Performance aconsistent temperature in a range of Industrial Chemicals 2014 was a challenging year for this sector, environments and materials, such as Revenue asitexperienced lower sales due to weak ensuring medical supplies and plant seeds commodity prices, particularly for sales stay cool or keeping buildings warm.
117.8m ofco-stream products from other business 2013: 128.6m The sector remains animportant part of our areas, together with lower levels of toll Business, with opportunities for selective Adjusted Operating Profit processing.
Full year revenue declined to futureinnovation, across niche applications 117.8m 2013: 128.6m and adjusted such as additives for catalysts, electronics 2.6m operating profit was 2.6m 2013:10.6m.
2013: 10.6m There were successes, however, such as Return on Sales thelaunch of CrodaTherm, our bio-based phase changematerials that help maintain 2.2% 2013: 8.2% 18 Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information Using our industry knowledge Performance Technologies androbust testing methods, Taking control of friction wedevelop bespoke solutions tomanage and control our Engage customers friction needs.
Controlling friction between moving parts is fundamental to maximising operating efficiency.
Customers from a diverse range John Eastwood ofindustries come to us with a specific need and we work with Global Marketing Manager themto find a bespoke solution.
Croda Create We create bespoke molecular designs and simulate real life systemsthrough bench testing to identify the best friction modifier foreach customer.
In 2014, we enhanced our testing knowhow andcapabilities with an Optimol Instruments SRV unit, the renownedsystem for testing friction and wear.
Make We have used our industry knowledge to make a range of innovativefriction modifiers, which are molecules that change frictional properties by creating a film between surfaces that comeinto contact.
Sell Our friction modifiers enhance customer applications in suchways as increasing fuel efficiency, reducing emissions, boosting power transfer efficiency in gear systems and increasing mechanical longevity.
We have launched new friction modifiers for a variety of lubricated systems, including engine oils, industrial gear oils, wet clutch transmissions and neat metalworking fluids.
We are now looking to include contact between metal and other surfaces, such as diamond-like carbon, elastomer and clutch plates.
Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 19
