Jez Maiden Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director Appointment: Appointed to the Board Appointment: Appointed to the Board Appointment: Appointed to the Board inMay2005 and became Chairman at inJuly2010 and Group Chief Executive asGroup Finance Director in January 2015. theendof September 2005. sincethe beginning of 2012.
Key strengths and experience: Extensive Key strengths and experience: Key strengths and experience: Strong experience in financial management and Considerable board and international business, operational and strategic acquisitions and disposals and a wealth of experience and a broad knowledge of leadership, wide-ranging sales and marketing experience working in the speciality chemical strategic management.
Steve joined Croda as a graduate sector.
Jez was Group Finance Director at various senior executive positions over 36 trainee in 1990 and has held a number of National Express Group PLC from 2008 to years with Coats plc, culminating in a period senior management positions in the Group, 2014.
Prior to that, Jez was Group Finance as Chairman before his retirement in 2004. becoming President of Croda Europe in July Director at Northern Foods Group Plc and He was Deputy Chairman and Senior 2010.
Prior to this, Steve held a number of has been Chief Financial Officer at British Independent Director of Severn Trent Plc until Managing Director roles across Crodas Vitaplc as well asGroup Finance Director June 2006.
In 2010 he retired as Chairman of European business.
atHickson International plc, both listed Autogrill Holdings UK Plc and he was Senior speciality chemical companies.
Jez is a Committee membership: Chairman of Independent Director of Morgan Crucible fellowof theCIMA.
theGroup Executive and Group Finance until he retired from the board in 2014.
Committees, member of the Nomination, External appointments: Chairman of the External appointments: Chairman of Risk Management and Group SHEQ Audit Committee and Senior Independent Low & Bonar PLC.
Committee membership: Chairman Committee membership: Chairman of the oftheNomination Committee, member Risk Management Committee, member oftheRemuneration Committee.
ofthe Group Executive, Group Finance andGroup SHEQ Steering Committees.
40 Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014
