Strategic Report Our Responsibility Building a sustainable future Sustainability is more than just a part of our business: it is integral to everything we do.
Across all our functions and global locations, we approach sustainability holistically.
Our sustainability programme is built upon the global drivers Our Stakeholder Engagement ofchange and the opportunities for business growth that these During 2014 we surveyed employees, customers, suppliers and present, particularly the ingredient sustainability mega trend.
localcommunities around the world about the 10 Material Areas Assuchit is integral to our business model and is reflected in weestablished in 2013. ourstrategic objectives.
Some highlights from the survey include: Our Materiality Quality and safety are the most important themes Materiality is simply what matters most to us.
In addressing the toallstakeholders opportunities and challenges of most importance to our Business, wealso consider all of our stakeholders needs, particularly those 100% of customers believe we are very transparent transparent ofour customers.
incommunicating our sustainability programme We have 10 Material Areas.
Each has an expert owner, a long term 100% of customers and 67.7% of suppliers consider that our objective and targets against which we report progress, internally programme is a very important important reason to engage withus through quarterly reports and externally through our annual Process safety and employee safety are the priorities for Sustainability Report.
Within our Material Areas we focus on a wide thelocalcommunities in which we operate range of issues that have the potential to affect our future success through the economies, environments and societies in which 57.3% of employees say our sustainability programme weoperate.
isaveryimportant important reason for working for us We first defined our materiality and developed a materiality matrix Our Continuing Commitment in2011.
The matrix mapped the areas of highest impact to us Our sustainability programme will evolve as we continue to establish compared to those of most importance to our stakeholders.
clear commitments and performance targets aligned to our Material Areas.
We will take into account the sustainability issues facing our Each year, our Group Sustainability Steering Committee, a group stakeholders, which we will address by maintaining a culture of ofexperts from across the Business, reviews progress against our communication and open dialogue.
Material Areas with the Executive Committee to ensure that our focus remains aligned with our strategy.
In 2014, we developed a number From the raw materials we source and the way we use them, to the ofour existing Material Areas to better reflect the importance of the ingredients we make and the people who produce them, our entire opportunities and challenges we face.
This process incorporated Business will retain a truly holistic approach to sustainability.
stakeholder feedback on our sustainability programme.
Download the 2014 Sustainability Report at www.
com sustainability High Our Materiality Matrix 1 Environmental 2 Product 3 Product Impact Stewardship Design Quality Process Occupational 4 5 6 Assurance Safety Health & Safety 7 Our 8 Diversity 9 Corporate People & Inclusion Knowledge Community 10 Education & Involvement Low Importance to Croda High 34 Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Importance to Stakeholders Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information Environmental Impact Product Stewardship Minimise the impact of our operations Ensure that the ingredients we produce contribute positively tothe environment and society throughout their lifecycle As an ethical and responsible business, we strive to continually minimise our impact on the environment.
This includes constantly Product stewardship covers our responsibility for managing looking at ways that our Business operations, particularly thehealth, safety and environmental impact of our products manufacturing sites, can alleviate the pressures on a fragile earth, throughout their whole lifecycle.
It affects all areas of our operations, affected by climate change and a scarcity of natural resources.
from sourcing raw materials in an increasingly fragile world, to environmentally sensitive manufacturing processes, and clear Key Highlight andcomprehensive customer information for safe use and disposal.
Key Highlights 25.5% of our energy was generated from non-fossil 7 fuel sources, exceeding our target ahead of schedule manufacturing sites have RSPO certification, handling 2014 Performance more than 80% of our global palm oil derivatives The landfill gas pipeline at our Atlas Point manufacturing site in North America continues to be a major contributor to our increasing use of non-fossil fuel, enabling us to exceed our 25% target a year ahead of 150 schedule.
We are continuing to invest in energy saving projects across of our palm derived products are certified the Group, although we have recorded a marginal increase in total to support sustainable palm oil and are supplied energy use during 2014 due to the installation and commissioning to over 300 customers around the world ofincreased capacity at a number of our manufacturing sites.
2014 Performance Our 48.9% reduction in Volatile Organic Compounds VOC is very Our continued focus on sustainably sourced palm oil and palm pleasing, as is our continued reduction in waste sent to landfill, where kerneloil derivatives remains a priority for us, our customers and their we have had a 45.2% decrease compared to our 2010 baseline year.
In 2014 we obtained Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil Eightmanufacturing sites sent zero waste to landfill in 2014.
RSPO Mass Balance certification of three more manufacturing sites, We also reduced water consumption by 12.5% compared to 2010, and our seven RSPO certified sites now handle more than 80% of our apurification and recycling project at our Gouda manufacturing site global palm derivative consumption.
inthe Netherlands is expected to generate furthersavings.
We are on track with our target to engage with suppliers representing Our total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions have decreased 80% of the volume of materials we buy to make sure that they from181,540Te CO e in 2013 to 174,192Te CO e in 2014.
This equates 2 2 understand our Supplier Code of Conduct.
During 2014 we also to 610.3Te CO e per 1m EBITDA in 2014, compared with 608.2Te 2 surveyed a number of these key raw material suppliers on our full CO e in 2013.
Scope 1 includes VOC and CO emissions, which 2 2 sustainability programme to ensure that we are taking a collaborative excludes those from the burning of sequestered carbon.
Our approach in pursuing ethical practices across the supply chain.
increased use ofnon-fossil energy sources has resulted in Scope 1 We continue to make progress in populating our ingredient reduction to 116,247Te CO e, a decrease of 7.9%.
Scope 2 GHG 2 sustainability database, collating data for 10 environmental metrics.
emissions, however, have increased from 55,302Te in 2013 to This provides a greater depth of information to our customers on 57,945Te in 2014. theingredients we make, inorder to help them achieve their Changes in GHG emission relative to 2010 baseline sustainability targets.
yearforcontinuing operations Te CO e 2 2014 116,247 57,945 2013 126,238 55,302 2012 141,606 39,820 2011 133,505 41,338 2010 148,952 47,017 Scope 1 Scope 2   S cope 1 emissions are calculated using the International Energy Agencys published conversion factors for the tonne equivalents of CO2.
Scope 2 emissions are determined using the country emission factors for electricity generation published by the International Energy Agency.
Emissions from our sales offices and distribution centres are not material in comparison to our manufacturing sites, so they are not included.
Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 35 Strategic Report Our Responsibility continued Product Design Quality Assurance Deliver the most innovative and sustainable ingredients To contribute to, and proactively seek, higher quality standards toourcustomers across product and operational aspects of our Business to ensure consumer safety As concerns around climate change and the scarcity of natural resources continue to grow, our customers and their consumers Our focus on quality assurance means that we can more effectively increasingly want to know that the products they use are sustainable.
safeguard our customers, supply chains, communities and, Product design focuses specifically on the sustainable chemistry of ultimately, the consumers who use our ingredients in the products the ingredients we make, particularly our use of natural, renewable they buy.
It also means that we can better manage and implement raw materials and the 12 Principles of Green Chemistry during quality and compliance within our global Business.
Quality assurance research and development.
isan evolution of our former policy & regulation Material Area, developed to align us more closely with our customers expectations Key Highlights and the increasingly challenging legal and regulatory environments.
Key Highlight 67.4% of the raw materials we used in 2014 came from natural, renewable sources 220 industry associations were engaged in dialogue with us during 2014 10.7 was the average score of our new products against the 2014 Performance 12 Principles of Green Chemistry and 48% met all 12 Principles In 2014, we continued to proactively engage with over 220 committees and associations across our industry.
We maintained 2014 Performance ourleading role in the development of Good Manufacturing Practice Our focus on the 12 Principles of Green Chemistry is central to the GMP standards and also assisted in discussions around standards design and creation of our new products.
The 12 Principles cover for bio-based product content with CEN, the European Committee areas such as using safer solvents, preventing waste generation for Standardisation.
anddesigning ingredients that will not harm the environment during use ordisposal.
During 2014, our new products scored an average During the year, our remaining manufacturing sites who make of10.7against the 12 Principles, with 48% meeting all 12. ingredients for cosmetics gained European Federation for Cosmetic Ingredients EFfCI GMP certification.
This was ahead of schedule During the year, we also began to measure our new launches against andincluded an additional site, Gouda in the Netherlands.
Our Mevisa our own 13th Principle, the product affords a sustainability benefit to manufacturing site in Spain and Rawcliffe Bridge site in the UK also the customer directly or their consumers at some point inthevalue achieved EXCiPACT certification.
88% of our new products met this 13th Principle.
To ensure that our quality assurance continues to meet or exceed We continue to measure the total percentage of raw materials we expectations, weseek and evaluate feedback from customers usethat come from natural, renewable sources.
In 2014 this was andother industry stakeholders.
As a direct consequence of this 67.4%, which continues to provide us with a leading position in feedback, we developed our Group Quality Policy, in line with our supporting our customers whoare addressing the growing trend 2014 target, andhave begun work on a new Group Quality Manual fornaturally derived consumerproducts.
that will beimplemented across the Group during 2015.
36 Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information Process Safety Occupational Health & Safety Keeping our manufacturing sites safe and legally compliant Empower employees to have health and safety at the forefront of their thinking As a global operator of chemical manufacturing processes, we haveaduty to keep our employees, customers and surrounding We aim to provide a safe working environment where employees communities safe.
Our Process Safety Management PSM system canidentify and manage all possible risks to both themselves and iscentral to this, as it enables us to deliver a consistent approach their fellow colleagues.
Our strategy for personal safety improvement toprocess safety at all our manufacturing sites and requires evidence focuses on: targeting sites with relatively lower performance: from the sites of continuous improvement.
improving our incident investigation and root cause analysis: anddeveloping our behavioural safety programmes.
Key Highlight Key Highlight 7 0.21 engineers completed the first year per 100,000 hours worked was our lost time injury rate, of our new Hazard Study Leaders Diploma a reduction from 0.31 in 2013 2014 Performance 2014 Performance Owing to the importance of process safety, we aim to embed Our key occupational safety indicator is the lost time injury LTI rate.
knowledge of our PSM system at all levels of our Business.
All Group Wetrack three LTI rates: for employees only: for contractors only: Executive Committee members and senior managers have now anda combined rate for employees and contractors.
In 2014, our completed externally accredited process safety leadership training: combined LTI rate was 0.21 2013: 0.31. we delivered our own tailored course to Site Engineers and Operation Managers, and we carried out on site process safety training for our This improvement in our LTI rate was partly due to the introduction Operators and Technicians.
ofanew standard for incident investigation, which is now in place at allofour manufacturing sites.
We also put more resource into bringing Additionally, we ran three of our Hazard Study Leaders Diploma recent acquisitions up to our high corporate standard, which included courses during 2014.
Our first cohort of engineers completed their delivering training and translating materials into Mandarin for our joint firstyear of this two year course, and we madegood progress against venture in China, Croda Sipo.
ourtargets to have all Basis of Safety documents and Process RiskReviews compliant with our new internal quality standard.
We achieved our target of establishing a behavioural safety programme at each of our manufacturing sites, who all also metour To ensure that the most senior people in our Business can oversee commitment to conduct a risk assessment of an ageing workforce.
our ongoing safety monitoring and performance, every quarter This was completed to ensure that we understand and mitigate ourGroupSafety, Health, Environment and Quality Steering against any potential issues.
Subsequently, several sites invested Committee continued to review a set of KPIs, which cover leading inequipment such as automated lifting machinery to prevent injury andlagging indicators as well as near misses and progress against from manual handling.
Group targets in this area.
Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 37 Strategic Report Our Responsibility continued Our People Diversity & Inclusion Create an environment where people canthrive Embrace and empower all individuals Our Business is only as good as our people, so we must ensure that For us, diversity & inclusion is about supporting, valuing and we have the right people in the right roles, with the right skills.
To do respecting our workforce, and ensuring that all employees feel this, we are focusing on delivering a clearly defined people strategy, empowered and included.
In this way, we attract and retain the right which aligns with our wider Business strategy.
It is underpinned by people and bring out the best in them to benefit from their expertise.
core human resources policies and a standardised approach that our Key Highlight regional operations can use and adapt.
We continue to comply with the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.
Policies can be found at www.
Launch Key Highlight of Croda SpeakUp, our Group wide whistleblowing hotline 2014 Performance 91.2% In line with our target to enhance our existing whistleblowing policy and procedure, in 2014 we launched Croda SpeakUp, a Group of our employees received training in 2014, widethirdparty managed independent phone line and website.
totalling 103,980 hours Wealsoincorporated unconscious bias training into our Leadership 2014 Performance Development Groupprogramme.
In April 2014, we appointed our first Executive level Group Human Our recruitment practices support the hiring of a diverse workforce, Resources Director.
As a result of his new focus, combined with our and in 2014 we started a review that includes looking at work-life move to a new global organisation structure, some of our existing balance and the differing professional and personal needs of our targetschanged to reflect our updated peoplestrategy.
This will facilitate our target of ensuring that all of our We continue to invest in employee training and, in 2014, 91.2% of our locations have policies and activities to support, value and respect people received training totalling 103,980 hours.
Development needs diversity in their workforce by the end of 2016. are identified during annual appraisals, which were completed by Gender Diversity 70% of employees during 2014.
Executive and Non-Executive Board Members Talent retention remains a key part of our people strategy, with employee turnover standing at 6%.
In 2014, we increased participation in our Company share scheme, which is an important part of our benefits 7 1 2013: 8 0 package and sees 80.6% our UK employees and 56.7% of non-UK employees participate.
Executive Committee Members Whilst we remain committed to conducting a global engagement survey, we postponed this in 2014.
Several smaller surveys did go 11 1 ahead and we will assess what changes have resulted, or could 2013: 9 1 beimplemented, from these findings in the first instance.
Regional and Business Board Members and Senior Functional Heads 91 21 2013: 84 20 Across the Group 2,455 1,155 2013: 2,393 1,152 Male Female 38 Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information Corporate Knowledge Community Education & Involvement Safeguard our knowledge and expertise Support the communities in which we operate, with a primary focus on encouraging young people to work within science Our corporate knowledge sets us apart from our competitors.
andtechnology It is the foundation of everything we do, from how we create ground breaking innovations, to the way we support customers with market We add value to local communities around the world through insights, and run consistent, quality processes.
As employees community education & involvement.
Our education initiatives aim to become increasingly mobile and the pace of change and innovation raise the profile of science, technology, engineering and maths STEM, iseverincreasing, we work hard to protect and capitalise on our whilst our employees involvement in local good causes is made corporate knowledge.
possible by our award winning employee volunteering scheme, 1% Club.
These programmes help establish the strong local relationships Key Highlight that areessential to maintaining our social licence to operate.
Key Highlight New knowledge sharing competency was introduced 56.8% into our global employee appraisal framework increase in volunteering hours, 2014 Performance totalling 6,879 hours In November 2014, we introduced a new competency into our global employee appraisal framework, Croda Aspire, which aims to promote 2014 Performance improved knowledge sharing globally.
The launch of the competency Each of our operations, large and small, recognises the importance was initiated by a team within our 2020 Network Development oftheir contribution to community education, especially where we Programme and is the first step in a longer term plan to embed have a research and development centre or significant engineering aculture of knowledge sharing across our Business.
17 such locations proactively participated in STEM events atlocal schools, whilst our UK STEM team produced learning Due to the scope of the work conducted by the 2020 Network, materials that canbe adapted to meet the local needs in many other andthe research involved, we have been able to broaden and exceed countries.
Tosupport its delivery, Education Ambassador training our2014 target, which was: To complete a feasibility study on the wascompleted across Latin American and in Italy during 2014. implementation of a global knowledge transfer process by the end of2015.
The project included the assessment of current practices Our 1% Club programme enables employees to use 1% of their and the identification of gaps, leading to the implementation of the working time to support local community projects.
During the year, competency and future plans to launch a series of activities thatwill employees volunteered for a total of 6,879 hours, equivalent to further aid knowledge transfer.
over120,000 of in-kind donations, an impressive 56.8% increase in2013.
Each of our locations has a 1% Club Champion who Our Three Point Strategy volunteers to coordinate activities and keeps employees informed of Capture opportunities to get involved.
In 2014, welaunched a new Champions Through our recruitment strategies and acquisitions, communication network to inspire newinitiatives across our diverse we aim to learn and grow in new areas.
locations, which contributed totherise in volunteering hours during2014.
Retention We recognise and reward employee expertise to help keep it within the Business, and we also use systems and procedures to protect knowledge as people retire or choose to work elsewhere.
Signed on behalf of the Board who approved Sharing the Strategic Report on24 February 2015.
We focus on improving our employees access to the insights and learning of their fellow specialists around the world.
Steve Foots Group Chief Executive Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 39
