Jez Maiden Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director Appointment: Appointed to the Board Appointment: Appointed to the Board Appointment: Appointed to the Board inMay2005 and became Chairman at inJuly2010 and Group Chief Executive asGroup Finance Director in January 2015. theendof September 2005. sincethe beginning of 2012.
Key strengths and experience: Extensive Key strengths and experience: Key strengths and experience: Strong experience in financial management and Considerable board and international business, operational and strategic acquisitions and disposals and a wealth of experience and a broad knowledge of leadership, wide-ranging sales and marketing experience working in the speciality chemical strategic management.
Steve joined Croda as a graduate sector.
Jez was Group Finance Director at various senior executive positions over 36 trainee in 1990 and has held a number of National Express Group PLC from 2008 to years with Coats plc, culminating in a period senior management positions in the Group, 2014.
Prior to that, Jez was Group Finance as Chairman before his retirement in 2004. becoming President of Croda Europe in July Director at Northern Foods Group Plc and He was Deputy Chairman and Senior 2010.
Prior to this, Steve held a number of has been Chief Financial Officer at British Independent Director of Severn Trent Plc until Managing Director roles across Crodas Vitaplc as well asGroup Finance Director June 2006.
In 2010 he retired as Chairman of European business.
atHickson International plc, both listed Autogrill Holdings UK Plc and he was Senior speciality chemical companies.
Jez is a Committee membership: Chairman of Independent Director of Morgan Crucible fellowof theCIMA.
theGroup Executive and Group Finance until he retired from the board in 2014.
Committees, member of the Nomination, External appointments: Chairman of the External appointments: Chairman of Risk Management and Group SHEQ Audit Committee and Senior Independent Low & Bonar PLC.
Committee membership: Chairman Committee membership: Chairman of the oftheNomination Committee, member Risk Management Committee, member oftheRemuneration Committee.
ofthe Group Executive, Group Finance andGroup SHEQ Steering Committees.
40 Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information 4.
Steve Williams Chief Technology Officer Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointment: Appointed to the Board as Appointment: Appointed to the Board Appointment: Appointed to the Board Chief Technology Officer in February 2012. inFebruary 2014. inJuly2010.
Key strengths and experience: Deep Key strengths and experience: Wealth Key strengths and experience: Extensive understanding of chemical innovation ofexperience in consumer marketing and industry, legal and board experience.
andbroad operational and management innovative product development.
Helena Stevewas General Counsel and Chief experience.
Keith joined Croda in 1984 and worked for Unilever for 23 years and held LegalOfficer of Unilever plc and Unilever iscurrently responsible for global R&D, and senior positions in brand management, NVfrom 1986 until 2010.
From 2004 until the Technology Investment Group.
Previously consumer marketing and strategy 2010 he was Senior Independent Director he held a number of Managing Director roles development.
Helena has a PhD ofArriva plc.
From 1995 until 2004 he was across Crodas European business.
inEngineering from the University aNon-Executive Director of Bunzl plc.
External appointments: Keith represents External appointments: Since 2008, Croda as a member of the advisory board for External appointments: Helena is a Stevehas been a Non-Executive Director chemistry at the Universities of Nottingham Non-Executive Director of Greggs plc ofWhitbread PLC where he is also the Senior and York.
Heis a Representative of the andruns aconsulting business working Independent Director.
In addition, Steve is Careers Advisory Board and Alumni Board witha range oforganisations helping them aNon-Executive Director of Eversheds LLP, ofthe University of Sheffield.
In 2014 he was todevelop andimplement strategies.
an international law firm, and a senior adviser appointed as a Trustee and member of to Spencer Stuart LLP.
He is Chairman of the Committee membership: Member Council at the Royal Society of Chemistry.
fide La Warr Pavilion Charitable Trust and a oftheAudit, Remuneration and member of the Board of Leverhulme Trust Committee membership: Member of the NominationCommittees.
Group Executive, Group Finance, Risk 7.
Nigel Turner Management and Group SHEQ Steering Committee membership: Chairman of Non-Executive Director Committees.
theRemuneration Committee and member SeniorIndependent Director of theAudit and Nomination Committees.
Alan Ferguson Appointment: Appointed to the Board in Non-Executive Director June 2009 and Senior Independent Director 9.
Tom Brophy Appointment: Appointed to the Board since August 2011.
&CompanySecretary Key strengths and experience: Appointment: Appointed as Secretary Key strengths and experience: Extensive Considerable City experience having spent totheBoard in December 2012. international financial management and over 35 years as a corporate financier.
Alan was Chief Financial was the Chairman of Numis Securities Ltd Key strengths and experience: Tom is a Officer and a Director of Lonmin Plc until and Deputy Chairman of Numis Corporation solicitor and has responsibility for legal affairs, December 2010.
Prior to that he was Group plc from 2005 until his retirement in 2007. corporate governance and insurance.
Prior Finance Director of The BOC Group until From 2000 until 2005 he was with ABN tojoining Croda, Tom spent seven years 2006.
Before then he spent 22 years in a AMRO with responsibility for the Global atWolseley plc in a number of legal and variety of roles at Inchcape plc, including six Corporate Finance and Global Equities governance roles, including as Deputy years as Group Finance Director from 1999.
Between 1985 and 2000 he was General Counsel and Company Secretary.
with Lazard Brothers where he was Before then he worked as a corporate Managing Director and amember of the lawyerat City law firm, Hogan Lovells.
External appointments: Has been a Supervisory Board.
Non-Executive Director of Johnson Matthey Committee membership: Secretary PLC since January 2011 and was appointed External appointments: Senior Independent totheAudit, Remuneration and Nomination as a Non-Executive Director of The Weir Director of Genus plc since 2008.
Committees, member of the Group Group PLC in December 2011.
He chairs the Executive, Risk Management and Group Committee membership: Member Audit Committees at both of these companies SHEQ Steering Committees.
oftheAudit, Remuneration and and is the Senior Independent Director at NominationCommittees.
Committee membership: Chairman oftheAudit Committee, member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 41
