Directors Report Remuneration Report continued With regard to longer-term incentives, 2014 saw the maturity of grants Policy Report made in 2012 under the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and Bonus Co-Investment Plan BCIP.
Despite delivering TSR of 25.3% and For completeness and transparency, this part of the Remuneration adjusted earnings per share growth of 12.1%, no vesting occurred Report includes the Policy Report approved by shareholders at last inrespect ofthese awards.
Notwithstanding positive returns for years AGM and intended to operate until the AGM in 2017. shareholders, over the three year performance period, the vesting Overview of Remuneration Policy result demonstrates the challenging approach to target setting taken The key objectives of our executive remuneration policy are: bytheCommittee.
to set remuneration structures that are simple and easily As announced on 28 November 2014, Jez Maiden joined the communicated to employees and stakeholders: Company on 1 January 2015 as an Executive Director, and succeeded Sean Christie as Group Finance Director on 22 January to support a high performance culture through setting stretching 2015.
On appointment, Jez Maidens salary was set at 420,000 performance targets that are linked to the Key Performance which is lower than his previous employment.
Notwithstanding, Indicators KPIs of the Group which are structured so that they JezMaiden had a number of long term incentive awards in relation donot encourage undue financial or operational risk-taking or give tohis role at National Express Group Plc, the Committee resolved rise to environmental, social or governance risks by inadvertently notto offer compensation for the forfeiture of these awards.
motivating irresponsible behaviour: Remuneration Policy for 2015 to ensure a balance between fixed and performance related The Committee considers that the current policy of an incentive remuneration with substantial weighting in the overall package structure weighted to long term performance serves the onvariable pay related to objective measurement of the financial businesswell.
performance of the Group: An annual bonus scheme, requiring an absolute out-performance to give full consideration to the relevant principles on directors ofthe previous year, and a single LTIP programme together enable remuneration set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code: and rigorous target setting in the shorter term and an alignment with the to ensure that individual rewards and incentives are comparable Companys strategic cycle in the longer term.
Incentive payments with those provided by similar companies having regard to the aresubject to clawback provisions and aligned with Crodas key Groups turnover, business sector and market worth and the performance indicators KPIs, and from 2015 longer-term rewards needfor skills to manage international businesses.
aresubject to a minimum holding period of two years.
These features, allied to clear share ownership guidelines and a mandatory deferral requirement of one third of the annual bonus paid into Company shares for three years, emphasises the long term health of the business above the short term consideration of bonus awards.
The Committee will continue to take an active interest in the views ofshareholders, regulators, the government and all stakeholders aswe adapt our policy to promote business opportunity.
On behalf of the Board, I thank shareholders for their support.
Steve Williams Chairman, Remuneration Committee 62 Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information The table below sets out the main components of Crodas Remuneration Policy: Link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Basic salary Reviewed annually with increases effective from 1 January.
Salaries may be increased each year in percentage To assist in the recruitment ofsalary terms.
Base salaries will be set by the Committee, taking into account: and retention of highThe Committee will be guided by the salary increase calibreexecutives The performance and experience of the individual concerned budget set in each geography and across the workforce generally.
Any change in responsibilities Increases beyond those linked to the geography Rates of pay in international manufacturing and pan-sector oftheExecutive or the workforce as a whole in companies of a comparable size and complexity percentage of salary terms may be awarded in certain Pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group circumstances such as where there is a change in responsibility, experience or a significant increase in Rates of inflation and marketwide wage increases across the scale of the role and or size, value or complexity international locations ofthe Group.
The geographical location of the Executive The Committee retains the flexibility to set the salary ofa new hire at a discount to the market level initially, and to implement a series of planned increases in subsequent years, in order to bring the salary to the desired positioning, subject to individual performance.
Framework used to assess performance and for the recovery of sums paid The Committee considers individual salaries at the appropriate Committee meeting each year taking due account of the factors noted in operation of the salary policy.
Benefits The Group typically provides the following benefits: Cost of benefits is not pre-determined and may vary To provide competitive from year to year based on the cost to the Group.
Company car or cash allowance benefits to act as a retentionmechanism Private fuel allowance andreward service.
Health and other insured benefits Other ancillary benefits, including relocation expenses arrangements as required Additional benefits might be provided from time to time e. g. in circumstances where an Executive Director is recruited fromoverseas.
The Committee will consider whether the payment of any additional benefits is appropriate and in line with market practice when determining whether they are paid.
Framework used to assess performance and for the recovery of sums paid None.
Performance Share Plan The Performance Share Plan PSP provides for awards of Normal maximum opportunity of 200% of salary.
To incentivise and freeshares ie either conditional shares or nil-cost options In exceptional circumstances eg recruitment, awards rewardthe execution normallymade annually which vest after three years subject may be granted up to 300% of salary to compensate ofbusiness strategy tocontinued service andthe achievement of challenging for value forfeited from a previous employer.
Rewards sustained growth Shares on an after tax basis are subject to a one-year in i profit and ii post-vestingholding period for awards granted in 2014 and shareholder value.
atwo-year post-vesting holding period for awards granted insubsequent years.
The Committee has the discretion at grant of an award, to permit awards to benefit from the dividends paid on shares that vest.
Framework used to assess performance and for the recovery of sums paid Granted subject to a blend of challenging financial eg EPS and total shareholder return performance targets tested over three years.
25% of awards will vest for threshold performance with full vesting taking place for equalling, or exceeding, the maximum performance targets no awards vest forperformance below threshold.
Vesting is also dependent on satisfactory underlying financial performance of the Group over the performance period.
Subject to potential claw back in the event of a material misstatement of results or serious misconduct.
The claw back provisions will operate for a three year period following the date on which the awards vest.
Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 63 Directors Report Remuneration Report continued Link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity The maximum participation level for UK-based All-employee share plans Periodic invitations are made to participate in the Groups employees is as per HMRC limits see Annual Report Encourages long term Sharesave Plan and Share Incentive Plan.
on Remuneration for current maximum limits.
shareholding in the Shares acquired through these arrangements have significant tax Company.
benefits in the UK subject to satisfying certain HMRC requirements.
Provides all employees with The plans can only operate on an all employee basis.
The plans the opportunity to become operate on similar terms but on a non-tax favoured basis outside shareholders in the the UK as appropriate.
Framework used to assess performance and for the recovery of sums paid There are no post-grant performance targets applicable to these awards.
Pension Pension benefits are typically provided either through i Defined benefit pension with up to 1 60th accrual up To provide competitive participation in the Groups defined benefit pension plan with to a capped salary of 150,000 as of April 2014 plus longterm retirement a cash supplement provided above any pension salary cap cash allowance of up to 25% of salary above the cap.
To act as a or ii a cash supplement provided in lieu of pension.
Or retention mechanism Only basic salary is pensionable.
Cash allowance of up to 25% of salary.
Performance Compulsory deferral of one third of any bonus paid into shares Group Chief Executive: 125% of salary relatedbonus for three years.
Other Executive Directors: 100% of salary To incentivise and reward The balance of the bonus is paid in cash.
delivery of the Groups keyannual objectives.
To contribute to longer termalignment with shareholders.
Framework used to assess performance and for the recovery of sums paid Details of the performance measures used for the current year and targets set for the year under review and performance against them is provided in the AnnualReport on Remuneration.
Bonus will be fully or largely based on a challenging range of financial targets set in line with the Groups KPIs eg income growth targets.
The Committee has the flexibility to include, for a minority of the bonus, targets related to the Groups other KPIs where this is considered appropriate.
For each objective set, bonus starts to accrue once the threshold target is met 0% payable rising on a graduated scale to 100% foroutperformance.
The Committee has the flexibility to take health, safety and environmental performance into consideration when determining the actual overall level of individual bonus payments and it may reduce the bonus awards if it considers it appropriate to do so.
Bonuses paid are subject to potential clawback inthe event of a material misstatement of results or serious misconduct.
The claw back provisions will operate for a three-year period following thedateon which the bonus is paid.
64 Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information Bonus Plan and Long Term Incentive Policy Choice of Performance Measures and Approach The Committee will operate the annual bonus plan, PSP and to Target Setting all-employee plans according to their respective rules and in The performance metrics that are used for annual bonus and long accordance with the Listing Rules and HMRC rules where relevant.
term incentive plans are a subset of the Groups KPIs.
The Committee retains discretion, consistent with market practice, Under the annual bonus plan, an underlying profit-based objective ina number of regards to the operation and administration of these such as income growth will be used as the primary performance plans.
These include the following performance targets restricted metric.
Such a measure will be used as it looks to reward two KPIs tothe descriptions detailed in the preceding policy table : that are used within the business, namely the growth in underlying Who participates in the plans profitability and the efficient use of working capital.
Other metrics based on the Groups KPIs may be used in the future where it is The timing of grant of award and or payment considered that they provide clear alignment with the evolving strategy of the Group.
In any event, the achievement of profitable The size of an award and or payment growth whilst ensuring that efficient management of capital is fully The determination of vesting encouraged will be central to the Committees deliberations.
Dealing with a change of control eg the timing of testing In terms of long term performance targets, PSP awards vest subject performance targets or restructuring to i challenging EPS growth targets that are informed by the long term levels of earnings growth targeted by the Group and ii relative Determination of a good bad leaver for incentive plan purposes TSR targets which provide clear alignment of interests between based on the rules of each plan and the appropriate treatment chosen shareholders and executives.
Adjustments required in certain circumstances eg rights issues, Targets are set based on sliding scales that take account of internal corporate restructuring and special dividends planning and external market expectations for the Group.
Only The annual review of performance conditions for the annual bonus modest rewards are available for delivering threshold performance plan and PSP levels with maximum rewards requiring substantial out-performance of the challenging plans approved at the start of each year.
The Committee also retains the ability to adjust the targets and or set different measures and alter weightings for the annual bonus plan and No performance targets are applied to the all-employee plans to adjust targets for the PSP if events occur eg material divestment whichare aimed at encouraging broad based equity ownership.
ofa Group business which cause it to determine that the conditions Further details of the annual bonus metrics to be used for the current are no longer appropriate and the amendment is required so that the financial year are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
The conditions achieve their original purpose and are not materially less targets for awards to be granted under the PSP in the current financial difficult to satisfy.
year are consistent with the policy set out above and are also set out Shareholding Guidelines inthe Annual Report on Remuneration.
The Committee operates share ownership guidelines which apply How Executive Directors Remuneration Policy Relates to the toall Executive Directors and the Group Executive Committee.
The Wider Group Group Chief Executive is subject to a share ownership guideline of The Executive Directors Remuneration Policy provides an overview 200% of salary and the other Executive Directors to 150% of salary.
of the structure that operates for the Group Executive Directors and It is expected that the guideline will be met within a five year time those senior Executives forming the Group Executive Committee period from its adoption or date of joining for new appointments noting, however, that there are some differences in PSP participation through a combination of share purchases and the retention of and levels within this group.
On the exercise of Sharesave options or the vesting The Committee is made aware of pay structures across the Group of awards from the Companys long term incentive plans, Executives when setting the Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors.
The are required to retain shares awarded representing 50% of the net keydifference is that, overall, the Remuneration Policy for Executive oftax gain until the ownership target is met or exceeded.
Directors is more heavily weighted towards variable pay than for otheremployees.
Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 65 Directors Report Remuneration Report continued Base salaries are operated under the same policy as detailed in How the Views of Employees are Taken into Account theRemuneration Policy table with any comparator groups used The Company, in line with current market practice, does not actively asareference point being country and or industry specific.
The consult with employees on Executive remuneration.
The Group has Committee considers the general basic salary increase for the adiverse workforce operating globally in 34 different countries, with broader Group and, in particular, the UK based employees when various local pay practices, which hinders effective consultation and determining the annual salary review for the Executive Directors.
so the Group Human Resources Director updates the Committee periodically on feedback received on remuneration practices across The performance related bonus scheme operates on a tiered basis the Group.
from 125% of salary down to 30% of salary across the most senior global grades.
Outside of the most senior tiers of Executives, the PSP The Committee takes due account of remuneration structures is not operated as this arrangement is reserved for those anticipated elsewhere in the Group when setting pay for the Executive Directors as having the greatest potential to influence Group level performance.
for example, consideration is given to the overall salary increase budget and the incentive structures that operate across the Group.
However, the Committee believes in wider employee share ownership and promotes this through the operation of the HMRC tax approved How the Views of Shareholders are Taken into Account all-employee share schemes which are open to all UK employees.
The Remuneration Committee considers shareholder feedback Other similar share schemes are offered in other jurisdictions where received in relation to the AGM each year and guidance from local securities laws allow.
shareholder representative bodies more generally.
This feedback, plus any additional feedback received during any meetings held withshareholders from time to time, is then considered as part oftheCommittees ongoing review of remuneration policy.
Recruitment and Promotion Policy For Executive Director recruitment and or promotion situations, theCommittee will follow the guidelines below: Remuneration element Policy Base salary Base salary levels will be set in accordance with the Groups remuneration policy, taking into account the experience and calibre ofthe individual eg typically around market rates in companies of comparable size and complexity.
Salary levels may be set below this level eg if the individual waspromoted to the Board.
Where it is appropriate to offer a below market rate of pay initially, a series of increases to the desired salary positioning may begiven over the subsequent few years subject to individual performance.
Above market salaries may also be offered if the experience and calibre of the candidate is considered to justify such an approach being taken bytheCommittee.
Benefits Benefits in accordance with the current policy.
In addition, where necessary, the Committee may approve the payment ofrelocation expenses tofacilitate recruitment.
Pension A Company pension contribution or cash supplement in accordance with the current policy.
Annual bonus The annual bonus would operate in accordance with the current policy in terms of the maximum opportunity and performance targets, albeit pro-rated for the period of employment.
Any increases in ongoing annual bonus opportunity above the normal limitwill be contingent on the Company receiving shareholder approval foranamendment to its approved policy.
Long term incentives Share awards will be granted in accordance with the current policy.
An award may be made shortly after an appointment subject to the Company not being in a prohibited period.
For an internal hire, existing awards would continue over their original vesting period and remain subject to their terms as at the date of grant.
The maximum on-going annual award level is as per the current policy.
Buy out awards In the case of an external hire and in exceptional circumstances, if it is necessary to buy-out incentive pay or benefit arrangements which would be forfeited on leaving the previous employer, this would be provided for taking into account the form cash or shares, timing and expected value ie likelihood of meeting any existing performance criteria of the remuneration being forfeited.
Replacement share awards, if used, will be granted using the Companys existing share plans within the limits detailed in the currentpolicy table.
Awards may also be granted outside of these schemes if necessary and as permitted under the Listing Rules.
66 Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information Directors Service Contracts and Payments for Loss of Office employment for one of the good leaver reasons detailed, bonuses Executive Directors service contracts are terminable by the would become payable pro-rata based on the number of complete Company on up to one years notice and by the Director on at least calendar months worked in the relevant year.
The policy for a new hire sixmonths notice.
would be based on terms that are consistent with these provisions.
In respect of termination, the Committees policy is to deal with The treatment for share-based incentives previously granted to an eachcase on its merits, in accordance with the law and any further Executive Director will be determined based on the relevant plan policy adopted by the Committee at the time.
In the event of early rules.
The default treatment will be for outstanding awards to lapse termination, other than for cause, the relevant Directors then current oncessation of employment.
In relation to awards granted under salary and contractual benefits would be taken into account in theCompanys long term incentive plans, in certain prescribed calculating any liability of the Company.
For clarification, the circumstances, such as injury or disability, redundancy, transfer Companys policy is that no entitlement to unearned bonus will be orsale of the employing company, retirement with the Companys taken into account when determining payments on early termination.
agreement or other circumstances at the discretion of the Committee reflecting the circumstances that prevail at the time good leaver The principal contractual benefits provided in addition to salary arethe status may be applied.
If treated as a good leaver, awards will be provision of a car or car allowance, private fuel allowance, pension, eligible to vest subject to performance conditions, which will be medical insurance and life assurance.
Annual bonuses and long term measured over the performance period from grant to the normal incentives are non-contractual and are dealt with in accordance with vesting date, and which will be reduced pro-rata unless the the rules of the relevant schemes.
Committee consider it appropriate to do so to reflect the proportion of the performance period actually served.
The Committees policy is also for contracts to contain provisions which enable the Company to terminate contracts at any time with External Appointments immediate effect.
The Executive Director would be entitled to receive Executive Directors can accept external non-executive appointments compensation equivalent to up to twelve months salary plus the with the prior approval of the Board.
It is normal practice for Executive value of their pension benefits currently valued at 20% of basic salary Directors to retain fees provided for non-executive appointments.
and the value of other benefits, payable in equal monthly instalments over the full notice period or, if less, the remainder of any notice period Non-Executive Directors Letters of Appointment not yet completed.
Such payments would discontinue or reduce to The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors have letters of the extent that alternative employment is obtained.
appointment for an initial fixed term of three years subject to earlier termination by either party on written notice.
In each case, this term An Executive Directors service contract may be terminated without can be extended by mutual agreement.
Non-Executive Directors notice for certain events such as gross misconduct.
No payment or have no entitlement to contractual termination payments.
compensation beyond sums accrued up to the date of termination willbe made if such an event occurs.
The dates of the initial appointments of the Non-Executive Directors are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Other than in the event of a redundancy, retirement or other good leaver circumstances, at the discretion of the Committee, no bonus may bepayable unless the individual remains employed and is not under notice at the payment date.
In the event that an individual does cease Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 67 Directors Report Remuneration Report continued Non-Executive Directors fees The policy on Non-Executive Directors fees is: Link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Fees The fees for Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman are typically reviewed Fee levels will be eligible for increases To provide a every two years.
during the period that the Remuneration competitive fee which Policy operates to ensure they continue Fee levels are set by reference to the expected time commitments and will attract those high toappropriately recognise the time responsibilities, and are periodically benchmarked against relevant market calibre individuals commitment of the role, increases to comparators, as appropriate, reflecting the size and nature of the role.
who, through their feelevels for Non-Executive Directors experience, can further The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are paid an annual fee which is ingeneral and fee levels in companies the interests of the paidmonthly in cash and do not participate in any of the Companys incentive ofasimilar size and complexity.
Group through their arrangements or receive any pension provision.
stewardship and The Non-Executive Directors receive a basic Board fee, with additional fees payable contribution to strategic for chairmanship of the Companys key Committees and for performing the Senior development.
All Non-Executive Directors are reimbursed for travel and related business expenses reasonably incurred in performing their duties.
The Committee recommends the remuneration of the Chairman to the Board.
The Chairmans fee is determined by the Committee during which the Chairmanhas no part in discussions and recommended by them to the Board.
TheNon-Executive Directors fees are determined by the Chairman and the Executive Directors.
Remuneration Scenarios for Executive Directors Group Chief Executive Below target 100% 780k On target 40% 20% 40% 1,922k Maximum 28% 28% 44% 2,759k Group Finance Director Below target 100% 529k On target 47% 18% 35% 1,133k Maximum 33% 27% 40% 1,579k Chief Technology officer Below target 100% 411k On target 47% 18% 35% 878k Maximum 33% 27% 40% 1,224k 0 0.5m 1.0m 1.5m 2.0m 2.5m 3.0m Total xed pay Annual bonus Long term incentives    Note: Salary levels on which other elements of the package are calculated are based on those applying on 1 January 2015.
The value of taxable benefits is based on the cost of supplying those benefits as per the single figure table for the year ending 31 December 2014.
The CFOs benefits have been included at an estimated level of 25,000.
Pension: 20% of salary above 150,000 cap plus value of final salary pension for year ended 31 December 2014 CEO and 20% of salary CFO CTO.
Annual bonus: 125% of salary maximum CEO and 100% of salary maximum CFO CTO assumed half max on-target.
Long term incentives: 200% of salary LTIP award CEO and 150% of salary LTIP award CFO CTO assumed 62.5% vests at target 68 Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014
