Strategic Report Our Strategy Delivering value Our overarching strategic goal is to be a global team working with our customers as their partner of choice and serving them with innovative and differentiated technologies in attractive niche markets in order to increase shareholder value.
Strategic objectives What will we do to achieve this?
We will ensure that all market sectors are appropriately resourced 1 D elivering consistent top tocapitalise on the many opportunities to grow with our customers and bottom line growth Whilst maintaining our strong position in Western Europe, we are We are looking for profitable sales where we grow investing significantly in all our other markets.
In emerging markets aheadofthe market growth rates across all our core we will spendmore time building our infrastructure by expanding marketsectors.
Ourmodel is all about getting closer to our manufacturing footprint, opening new research and customers, big and small, satisfying their unmet needs development R&D application laboratories and customer training withdifferentiated products.
The three mega trends of centres, as well as scaling up our resources.
This is all to getcloser beauty and ageing, health and wellbeing, and ingredient and more aligned to our current and futurecustomers sustainability are creating many new niche opportunities forus andour customers.
We will ensure that we have outstanding technical resources in 2 Increasing the proportion of New place in terms of talented chemists, biochemists and engineers and ProtectedProduct sales Guided by the seven key technology platforms we wish to secure, This is all about increasing the output of our innovation, we will accelerate the capture of new technologies through both which, whether in ingredients, processes or the mind-set theescalation of our major internal innovation projects and ofour people, has always been at the heart of our Business.
externalacquisitions Innovation plays acritical role across our operations: it We will maximise the potential for new patents across our global differentiates us from the competition, protects sales and sellingnetwork improves our margins.
Creating new intellectual property and know-how whilst maximising the potential of existing We will partner with our customers, world leading academic patents globally, is our lifeblood.
We focus on building institutions and developers of emerging technologies from intimate customer relationships and targeting our fastest smalland medium enterprises growth from New and Protected Product launches intonewniches and using differentiated ingredients Wewill always engage with our customers throughout thecreative drivenbyour customers requirements.
We then process, to ensure that our activities are aligned with theircurrent continuetoimprove our portfolio of products to and future needs .
We have identified 10 Material Areas of sustainability that are 3 I nvesting in a sustainable future embedded across our Business Our customers are facing growing demand for more We will continue to focus on keeping our manufacturing sites safe, sustainable products.
Whether it be for improved sourcing renewable raw materials, minimising the impact of our environmental performance, increased purity, safe use, manufacturing processes, producing innovative ingredients ready biodegradability or renewable raw materials, withsustainable benefits and looking after our people and the therearemany opportunities for us to innovate together communities in which we operate andhelpthemsucceed.
We will invest in the development of our key resource, our people.
We continue to focus on We will continue to set targets and track our performance as sustainable investment because it is the right thing to do oursustainability programme continues to evolve to address forour Business and our customers.
theglobal drivers and the needs of our stakeholders p34 20 Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information What have we done in 2014?
KPIs Case study We moved to a global organisation structure, creating Return on sales Global organisation dedicated sales, marketing and research groups for We reorganised our Business to reflect Emerging market sales each of our market sectors theinternational structure ofmany of our asa%of Group sales customers.
Our four global market sectors, We expanded capacity in Singapore, India and Brazil, Personal Care, Life Sciences, Performance as well asin North America and Europe Technologies and Industrial Chemicals, each havededicated sales, marketing and We opened up a new sales office in Houston and R&D teams and are betterpositioned to expanded our research and development groups understand and meet customer needs.
inChina, Singapore, Brazil, France and the UK We increased ouremphasis on emerging markets bycreating an Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa EEMEA dedicated commercial team separate from ourWestern European business We formed a Process Innovation Team to consider NPP sales as a % JD Horizons novel, differentiated, class leading process ofGroupsales We expanded our technology portfolio technologies that will give ourproducts a technical edge withthe acquisition of JD Horizons.
TheUKbased business is a market The globalisation and market sector alignment of our leaderin additive technologies forflow R&D group has encouraged sharing of innovative assurance applications forthe international developments and leveraging of our patents globally oil sector.
The acquisition reinforces our commitment to supplying specialist We made twotechnology led acquisitions: JD Horizons ingredients to the oil and gasindustry, Ltd and AM Coatings BV fromextraction to refinery.
To drive future acquisitions, we appointed our firstExecutive level President of Corporate Development We continued to make progress in supporting Certified Non-fossil fuel energy % Improving our health and safety Sustainable Palm Oil ingredients and achieving RSPO All our manufacturing sites health Lost time injury rate LTI certification at our Mevisa, ThaneandCampinas andsafety management systems are manufacturing sites aligned to theOHSAS 18001 standard.
Voluntary turnover by year % In2014 we implemented a new incident Our ongoing investment to save energy and water and investigation methodology whichfinds the reduce waste continued, and we have exceeded our true root causes of incidents by identifying target for non-fossil fuel energy a year ahead of schedule whichelements of OHSAS 18001 are not being adhered to.
Ourcorporate audit We continued to focus on safety and ourlost timeinjury programme is now focused on those rate dropped to 0.21 in 2014, agoodimprovement from elements to enable sustainable the previous year lossprevention.
The Executive Committee has focused on developing a people strategy for each of the market sectors to ensure that our current high retention rates continue Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 21
