Strategic Report Our Business Model Structured for success Our business model is driven by strong customer relationships and a focus on the sustainable production of innovative ingredients.
Our close proximity to customers strengthens these relationships and gives us a competitive advantage.
By delivering high performance ingredients for some of the biggest, most successful brands, wereach millions of consumers around the world.
Engage Create We work in close partnership with We design innovative ingredients ourcustomersaround the world.
Intimate customer relationships mean that we Intimate customer relationships mean that we Intimate customer relationships mean that we Intimate customer relationships mean that we understand what our customers, and their consumers want, design innovative ingredients by harnessing our technical produce high quality, high value ingredients on acustomer market and sell directly to our customers of all sizes through meetingtheir current needs and anticipating their future goals.
expertiseand using market insights in collaboration with demand driven basis, as close to theirmanufacturing localsales teams, dedicated to the customer and supported customers.
Our partnerships with world leading universities operationsas possible.
We deliver directly to customers from local warehouses facilitatethe development of new and novel technologies.
A culture of innovation drives us, so A culture of innovation drives us, so A culture of innovation drives us, so A culture of innovation drives us, so we are inspired by the insights we gain through a deep to complement our own technology development activities, we think differently about where and how we manufacture, we are able to manage complexity to ensure that our customers understanding of our markets and close customer contact, ourTechnology Investment Group is dedicated to identifying developing new production technologies that offer flexibility get exactly what they want: developing and supplying thousands notlimited by our existing portfolio and technologies.
andsecuring new technologies that willhelp us meet our andsecurity of supply.
of different ingredients tomeet their specific needs.
We do this sustainably by We do this sustainably by We do this sustainably by We do this sustainably by recognising growing consumer demand for sustainable developing all new ingredients with due regard to the using raw materials from sustainable sources and working offering ingredients that meet customer and consumer productsand aligning ourselves with our customers 12Principles ofGreen Chemistry and using natural, closelywith our supply chains.
We develop new ingredients demandsforlow environmental impact and high performance.
fromco-streams and invest inour own renewable energy.
Our people make a difference, because Our people make a difference, because Our people make a difference, because Our people make a difference, because from sales and research and development R&D, to our skilled scientists and engineers are excited about our highly trained production teams have the expertise to our sales teams speak our customers language, with market regulatoryand marketing, we work as oneteam in close innovationand green chemistry.
They are given the designand operate complex manufacturing processes, and industry training and experience.
We provide regional partnership withourcustomers to deliver safe and high autonomytouse their skills in the development of new whilstensuring that safety and quality remain paramount.
workshops andwebinars for our customers, so theycan performance ingredients.
fullyrealise the potential of our ingredients.
12 Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information Consumer Customer Croda Customer Consumer Our Value Chain Demand Need Manufacture Benefit Engage Create Make Sell Our Business Model Make Sell We manufacture to consistently We generate revenue by selling highstandardsacross the world.
Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 13
