CSR in review Governance Financial statements Other information Strategic report Using KPIs to measure our performance We use the KPIs shown on the preceding page to track business performance over time and to consider whether we are meeting our strategic objectives.
We review these annually and adapt them, in response to how our business structure and strategy evolves.
For 2014 we include a KPI showing investment in R&D activity to support our strategic objective to deliver differentiated platforms to delivering platform products.
Underlying Operating Margin We review underlying operating profit as a proportion of revenue underlying operating margin, so we can measure and compare year on year profitability trends.
The full calculation of this measure is described on page 145.
In 2014 we achieved our target for underlying operating margin in the mid-teens, due to the combination of increased operating profit, which is discussed on page 23, and lower revenue, discussed on pages 21 and 22.
For the purposes of executive remuneration we measure the underlying operating profit against the budgeted value as described on page 71.
Headcount The majority of our operational expenses arise from the number and location of our employees.
We monitor the prole of our employees by region to ensure we have an appropriate presence to support our business, suppliers and customers and we aim to maintain over 40% of our workforce in Asia where many of our key growth markets are located.
In 2014, the percentage of employees based in Asia declined as we continued to withdraw from Legacy and Camera markets, both of which had a high Asian customer and development base.
UK-based resource increased over the same period as we recruited specialists in Bluetooth low energy.
Movements in Revenue We monitor movements in revenue to see whether we are targeting fast moving markets.
We pay particular attention to movements in our Core business, being an aggregate of our Voice & Music, Auto, and Consumer segments, as this represents the businesses in which we continue to invest.
We target year on year Core revenue growth.
In 2014, total revenue fell as expected due to declining volumes of the discontinued product lines in our Legacy segment.
Core revenue also fell year on year, mostly due to lower volumes in our Cameras and Gaming business, but also due to the impact of a non-recurring increase in revenue in the first half of 2013 from the enforcement of hands-free driving legislation in China.
However when we compare revenue from the second half of 2014, to the same period in 2013 we see an 8% year on year growth since 2013 comparative reected business as usual activity.
Further information on our revenue movements can be found on pages 20 to 22.
Gross Margin We track movements in our gross margin gross profit as a proportion of revenue to see whether we are increasing the proportion of business derived from platforms and whether our strategy to increase business in this area is successful.
We review both IFRS and underlying gross margin, the latter being dened on page 145.
In 2014, we achieved our targets due to a shift in mix towards our higher margin Voice and Music business because of reduced volumes from our Legacy products.
More information on the drivers of gross profit and gross margin can be found on page 22.
Investment in R&D We consistently invest in R&D to ensure we continue to develop and deliver differentiated platforms.
See page 22 to understand movements in R&D expenses during the year.
Underlying Earnings per Share EPS We monitor underlying profit after tax divided by our dilutive shares because we believe it best represents the ongoing performance and profitability of the Group.
Underlying profit after tax and underlying EPS are dened on page 145.
In 2014, our volume of dilutive shares was largely unchanged and so we met our target due to the increased profitability of the Group, as described on pages 23 and 24.
Working capital days We monitor how the business generates and utilises cash by reviewing working capital days.
This represents the aggregate of: a the number of days it takes to collect cash from customers debtor days, b the number of days we hold nished goods and raw materials as inventory inventory days, and c the credit terms we have arranged with our suppliers creditor days.
We target working capital days of 65 days or less.
In 2014, we met our target and our total working capital days remaining broadly consistent with 2013.
Inventory days increased due to products held in stock for a longer period than usual under special customer arrangements but this was offset by an increase in creditor days caused by the timing of our year-end date.
