CSR at a glance Auto what we do CSR has two business groups: Core comprises Auto, Consumer and Voice & Music, and is the area of the business to which we commit research & development resources.
In recent years, as part of our strategic transformation towards platforms, non-Core business from discontinued home entertainment and handset See more on page 14 business lines has formed our Legacy business.
Auto comprises: Automotive Infotainment and Portable Navigation Devices PND.
2014 saw revenue in Auto decrease to $201.0 million from $228.8 million in 2013.
We saw increasing demand from Tier One customers for our factory-t connectivity products andsystems-on-a-chip SoC, while we saw weakness in our PND and aftermarket business.
Key facts Good growth in autograde Wi-Fi.
Our aptX audio codec adopted by Alps and Clarion for deployment inautomobiles.
Continued revenue growth in Auto factory-t business and good interest in new generation Auto SoC.
The majority of our revenue is nowderived from factory-t customers.
$ For more on our products visit: 201.0m www.
com products Revenue To nd out more from our CEO: See page 8 % To see our Strategic report: 26 See page 8 of revenue 2 2 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information CSR in review Consumer Voice & Music Legacy When, Reimagine not if.
See more See more on page 14 on page 14 Consumer comprises: Bluetooth Voice & Music comprises: Mono Digital television, set-top box, tuners Smart, Cameras, Document Imaging, headsets and stereo products for and digital video disk product lines Gaming, Indoor Location and wireless audio streaming.
which were acquired at the time of OtherConsumer.
the acquisition of Zoran Corporation, We saw revenue in Voice & Music a provider of image and video The year has seen a decline in increase to $346.6 million from technology in 2011, in addition to the Consumer revenue from $181.5 million $312.0 million in 2013.
We continue to handset connectivity and handset in 2013 to $155.4 million in 2014. see growth for streaming audio via location business lines we retained Wehave continued to see weakness Bluetooth, with a strong pipeline of following the transaction with in Cameras as people switch to next product releases for devices such as Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd. generation technologies of alternative wireless headphones, soundboxes Samsung which completed in 2012. suppliers.
Gaming revenue has and soundbars.
Our aptX audio remained under pressure due to codec had a good year for signing weakness in some areas of the new licences.
The proliferation of console market and declining applications for our leading audio revenues from a single customer.
We solutions continues, for example have seen strong growth in Bluetooth with Wi-Fi wireless connectivity for Smart, albeit from a small base.
Key facts Key facts Key facts TM In February 2014 we introduced Our VibeHub platform, which We expect Legacy revenue in 2015 CSRmesh, which enables almost allows device manufacturers to to be minimal as products reach unlimited Bluetooth Smart devices deliver multi-room audio over Wi-Fi, end-of-life.
generated its first revenue in 2014.
Our Bluetooth and Bluetooth aptX added more than 80 licensees Smart solutions are gaining and was featured in around traction in the home 180new products during 2014. entertainment ecosystem.
CSR acquired capabilities in We are making good progress with internet radio services enabling the commercial development of multi-streaming to internet our indoor location platform.
$ $ $ 155.4m 346.6m 71.8m Revenue Revenue Revenue % % % 20 45 9 of revenue of revenue of revenue www.
