Board of Directors Ron Mackintosh Joep van Beurden Chairman Chief Executive Ocer Mr. Mackintosh age 66, Chairman, has served as a Mr. van Beurden age 54, Chief Executive officer, was appointed non-executive director since May 2004 and was appointed Chief Executive officer in 2007 and has led global technology Chairman with effect from 2 May 2007.
Mr. Mackintosh is a companies in the US and Europe for more than 20 years.
non-executive director of software company Fidessa Group plc Prior to CSR, Mr. van Beurden was Chief Executive of NexWave and non-executive chairman of Nomad Digital Ltd. Inc. a provider of embedded software solutions for the Mr. Mackintosh has held a number of senior executive positions consumer electronics market.
He held senior positions at in European technology companies.
Between 1992 and 2000, Canesta Inc. a fabless semiconductor company and Philips Mr. Mackintosh was Chief Executive of Computer Sciences Components, in California.
Before this, Mr. van Beurden worked Corporations CSC European business, which had revenues for McKinsey & Company and Shell and lectured in Physics and of $2.5 billion.
He is also a former director of Gemplus SA, and Electronics at the University of Zambia.
Active in the local the former chairman of each of Smartstream Technologies Ltd, community and in industry, he has served as a director of the Northgate Information Solutions plc and also of Differentis, a Global Semiconductor Alliance since 2009, serving as Chairman privately owned IT consultancy which he co-founded in July from 2011 to 2013, after serving as a Vice Chairman from 2009 2000.
Mr. Mackintosh is Chairman of the Nomination Committee to 2011. and a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Walker Boyd Levy Gerzberg Non-executive director Non-executive director Mr. Boyd age 62, a non-executive director and CSRs Senior Dr. Gerzberg age 69, a non-executive director, joined the Independent Director, was appointed a non-executive director Board of CSR as a non-executive director on 31 August 2011 of CSR on 6 December 2013.
On 1 January 2014, Mr. Boyd following the acquisition by CSR of Zoran Corporation which assumed the role of chairman of the Audit Committee and on he co-founded and was its President, CEO and Director.
1 January 2015 he was appointed as Senior Independent Dr. Gerzberg has over 30 years experience in the high Director.
Mr. Boyd is also a member of the Remuneration and technology industry in areas related to semiconductors, Nomination Committees.
Mr. Boyd is a chartered accountant, software and systems utilising digital signal processing and with extensive experience of working in listed companies in the System-On-a-Chip SoC platforms in consumer electronics, UK and US.
Until June 2010, when he retired, Mr. Boyd served communications, PCs, military and medical electronics markets.
as Group Finance Director of Signet Jewelers Limited formerly Prior to co-founding Zoran, Dr. Gerzberg was Associate Director Signet Group plc, Signet, a position he held from 1995. of Stanford Universitys Electronics Laboratory, where he Dual listed on the London and New York stock exchanges, at managed, conducted research and taught.
Dr. Gerzberg served the time he stood down from the Board, Signet had global as a director on the Consumers Electronics Associations Board revenues of $3.3bn, was the largest US specialty jeweller and of Industry Leaders for two terms, from 2006 to 2008 and from incorporated a number of recognised UK brands including 2011 to 2013.
In 2014, Dr. Gerzberg was recognised by the H Samuel and Ernest Jones.
Between September 2010 and Consumer Electronics Association as one of the leaders August 2013, Mr. Boyd was non-executive chairman of in the industry when he was inducted into the CE Hall of Fame.
He is currently non-executive chairman of He was named Northern Californias 2003 Ernst & Young Spirit Pub Company plc, a role he has held since the fide-merger Entrepreneur of the Year in the Semiconductor category, and in of Spirit from Punch Taverns in August 2011.
2004 he was the recipient of the California Israel Chamber of Commerce International Partnership award.
Dr. Gerzberg holds a PhD in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University in California and an Msc in Medical Electronics and a BSc in Electrical Engineering from the Technion-Israel Institute of Technology in Haifa, Israel.
52 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 CSR in review Strategic report Financial statements Other information Governance Will Gardiner Christopher Ladas Chief Financial Ocer Operations Director Mr. Gardiner age 50, Chief Financial officer, joined CSR as Mr. Ladas age 69, Operations Director, was appointed Chief Financial officer in June 2008.
Prior to joining CSR, a director of CSR on 1 January 2008.
He joined the Company in Mr. Gardiner was Finance Director for Technology and Enterprise May 2000 serving as CSRs Vice President, Operations.
Before its acquisition by BSkyB in 2006, been instrumental in establishing CSRs supply chain partnership Mr. Gardiner had since 2001 been CFO of Easynet Group plc, with TSMC, world leader in wafer foundry operations and ASE, a pan-European broadband telecoms company.
Between 1991 the largest assembly and test subcontractor in the industry.
and 2001, Mr. Gardiner held a number of senior roles within Mr. Ladas currently serves as Executive Vice President JPMorgans investment banking division, specialising in the Operations.
Between January 1996 and May 2000, Mr. Ladas telecoms and technology sectors.
Mr. Gardiner has a BA from served as the vice president of operations at Micro Linear Harvard College and an MA from Johns Hopkins University.
Prior to 1996, Mr. Ladas held several managerial and technical positions at National Semiconductor, Fairchild, Harris, Sperry, Motorola and Signetics.
Mr. Ladas holds a BS in Chemistry from Arizona State University, USA.
He is also a member of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and a member of the Europe, Middle East and Africa Leadership Council of the Global Semiconductor Alliance.
Chris Stone Teresa Vega Non-executive director Non-executive director Mr. Stone age 52, a non-executive director, joined the Board of Ms. Vega age 60, a non-executive director, joined CSR as CSR as a non-executive director on 16 July 2012 and is also a non-executive director on 27 October 2010 and is also Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the a member of our Audit Committee.
Ms. Vega has over Audit Committee.
Mr. Stone is Chief Executive officer of Radius, 35 years experience gained working in the technology and a private company, with operations in the UK, India and the telecommunications industries for leading global companies, USA, which is a leading provider of specialist technical and including Motorola Inc. where she served as Senior Vice administrative support services for companies which are looking President between June 2005 and July 2007, leading their to expand into international markets.
Prior to taking on this role, global CDMA handset business, and Lucent Technologies Inc. in 2012, Mr. Stone served as Chief Executive of Fitness First, where she served as Chief Operating officer of the wireless one of the worlds leading health and tness groups, as it went infrastructure unit.
In each of these organisations, Ms. Vega led through a financial restructuring.
From October 1999 until and built multi-billion dollar divisions and spearheaded major December 2011, Mr. Stone served as Chief Executive officer product launches.
Between 2002 and 2005, Ms. Vega also of Northgate Information Solutions plc Northgate, and was served as Group President, Wireless Cable and Emerging responsible for creating a market leader in providing specialist Markets at Telecordia Technologies Inc. a leading global software, outsourcing and information technology services to provider of telecommunications software and services for the human resources, local government, education and public network operators.
Ms. Vega is currently non-executive safety markets across five continents with revenues of over chairman of Cambridge Broadband Networks Limited and ip.
850 million and employing over 10,000 people.
Following the access Limited, both of which are based in Cambridge, UK.
acquisition of Northgate in 2007 by private equity rm KKR for 1 billion, when Northgate fide-listed, Mr. Stone remained as CEO until December 2011.
Prior to his role at Northgate, Mr. Stone held senior positions with Accenture, Digital Equipment Corporation UK and EDS.
Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee www.
