Our strategy Our long-term vision is to be a leading independent upstream exploration and production E&P company in each area we operate.
This is underpinned by a strategy to provide sustainable long-term growth across the E&P value chain.
To fulfil our strategy, we have identified five priorities in running our business and growing efficiently and responsibly.
Strategic Priorities Progress in 2014 KPIs Risk Portfolio Our entrepreneurial approach has enabled us to be successful in accessing low cost reserves in Nigeria.
Effective portfolio management is a critical task that seeks to mitigate Net effective working management We have been consistent in achieving low entry costs by seizing the early-mover advantage ahead of peers.
the risks associated with the various assets within the portfolio either interest production to access attractive opportunities through acquisition or to divest where, We focus on areas where: exc.
Barda Rash for example, exploration or operating risks are deemed unacceptable.
there is evidence of proven working hydrocarbon systems Acquisitions and divestments are the subject of detailed risk assessments 31,819 bopd opportunities have been overlooked, under-developed or may be out of reach to much larger companies in the same way as for other projects and cover issues such as geology, we can leverage our operational expertise, key relationships or use the local structure to our advantage.
reservoir, production facilities, financial exposure and, where relevant, Post period end, in January 2015, we announced that we plan to review our strategic options in respect wider aspects such as the integration of people and management systems.
of the Barda Rash field, Kurdistan region of Iraq, following disappointing operational results at the field For more information see page 26. and a significant reserves and resources downgrade by RPS Energy.
Our E&A team is responsible for identifying exploration ideas, prioritising our prospect inventory, The Group uses third party specialists to provide independent reserve Reserves Reserves replacement Net effective working ensuring efficient deployment of capital and executing our exploration and drilling activities.
reports in an effort to ensure its reserves are fairly stated.
growth ratio three-year average interest production For more information see page 26.
Our exploration strategy is play led and balanced across key themes: exc.
Barda Rash 9% Exploration in proven areas, which are low risk and quick to monetise 31,819 bopd Proven play concepts that offer significant upside, with moderate risk Higher-risk frontier areas with play-opening possibilities and potential large rewards.
In 2014, our exploration and appraisal campaign yielded mixed results.
We were pleased with the results of our drilling and coring operations in Madagascar which encountered light oil accumulations in two boreholes, whilst we had disappointing news at the Ameena East well which was spudded at year-end and was completed in January 2015.
The impact of the low oil prices during the second half of 2014 led to a material impairment charge of US$1,112 million in respect of the carrying value of our P&D and E&E assets.
In addition, a significant impairment charge of US$933 million was recognised in relation to the write-off of 2P reserves at the Barda Rash PSC.
In the current low oil price environment our focus in 2015 will be to allocate capital to producing assets and manage our exploration and appraisal commitments with new funding where available alongside industry interest.
In 2014, our average net production fell slightly below our full year guidance range of between 32,000 to Production operations come with a wide range of risks, both subsurface, Production Reserves replacement Net effective working 36,000 bopd, at 31,819 bopd representing a decrease of 33% excluding Barda Rash from the previous year.
associated with reservoir and well performance, and above ground in respect growth ratio three-year average interest production Production in 2014 was impacted by cost recovery at Ebok, where our net entitlement fell from 100% to 80%, of the processing, storage and export of oil.
We have complex systems in exc Barda Rash as well as operational and contractual delays at Ebok and OML 26. place to mitigate these various risks, such as our EHSS management system, 9% well planning and engineering and reservoir modelling.
Critical to mitigating Looking ahead, Afren expects full year 2015 net production to average between 23,000 to 32,000 bopd, with 31,819 bopd risks in this area are our close working relations with our key contractors forecast capital spend of approximately US$0.4 billion, giving priority to our existing high-margin Nigerian producing providing drilling, operations and maintenance services.
The guidance expectations reflect the impact of operating in a significantly lower oil price environment, For more information see page 26. where discretionary spending has been postponed subject to an improvement in the oil price environment.
In light of the significant deterioration in the oil price environment, post-year end Afren implemented a review Ensuring operational efficiency is at the heart of managing our field Operational efficiency Operating cash flow Normalised operating c ost of its capital structure, to extend existing debt maturities, introduce new capital to sustain the forward programme delivery risk and affects all aspects of our operations from executing and financial discipline per barrel alongside internally generated cash flows and implement a broad programme of cost reductions and operational seismic surveys to drilling and development projects to production US$539m efficiencies.
Agreement has now been reached with lenders to provide interim funding of US$200 million by way operations.
We manage these diverse risks by carrying out detailed US$18.1 boe of new Private Placement Notes with proceeds to be used for general corporate purposes and capital expenditure.
Financial discipline has traditionally been A broader recapitalisation programme is expected to be completed in July 2015. one of the main focuses of business risk management and is deeply embedded in our culture.
For more information see page 26.
Working responsibly remains a major priority for us.
We are committed to ensuring Afren is recognised as a responsible There are clear risks associated with poor performance in this critical Working Total Recordable Incident Rate TRIR organisation with high standards of corporate responsibility performance.
These risks are both operational and can seriously impact responsibly and Lost Time Injury Frequency LTIF reputation resulting in significant financial loss.
Only with effective and Incidents per million man hours worked proactive management, led from the top, can these risks be mitigated.
This requires thorough assessment of the issues and the full implementation 1.80 TRIR of systems and other controls.
0.72 LTIF 18 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report of Corporate Accounts report the Directors governance Strategic Priorities Progress in 2014 KPIs Risk Portfolio Our entrepreneurial approach has enabled us to be successful in accessing low cost reserves in Nigeria.
0.72 LTIF Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 19
