Our operations: East Africa Our portfolio of East African assets covers an extensive area of over 2 68,000 km located in basins of proved working hydrocarbon systems.
We focus on onshore Karoo aged rift basins and Cretaceous Tertiary plays in the offshore, which are geological settings that have yielded significant discoveries in Uganda, Sudan, Tanzania, Madagascar, Mozambique and most recently in Kenya.
Since our entry into the region, we have acquired extensive seismic data which has enhanced our understanding of the basins and resulted in a significant upgrade to our prospective net resource base from 1,233 mmboe to 3,275 mmboe of risked mean recoverable resources.
48 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report of Corporate Accounts report the Directors governance Kenya Block 1 Strategic alignment Business activity A Portfolio management Exploration B Reserves growth Working interest C Production growth A 80% E B D Operational efficiency Operator and financial discipline Afren EAX D C E Working responsibly Work programme Seismic acquisition and exploration drilling For more information see EAX is a wholly owned subsidiary of Afren plc.
P18 Overview Block 1 is on the western margin of the Mandera-Lugh Basin in north-eastern Kenya, bordering both Somalia and Ethiopia, where it is connected to the Ogaden Basin.
The Upper Triassic and Jurassic formations that have been identified are considered to be the primary zones of oil prospectivity.
An oil seep discovered by the Tarbaj well in the south-west corner of the block confirms the presence of hydrocarbons.
Analogous data with the Ogaden Basin also suggests there may be other potential source rocks and reservoirs.
The Bur Mayo and the Kalicha-Seir formations in the Mandera-Lugh basin appear comparable to the Lower and Upper Hamanlei Jurassic formations in the Ogaden Basin.
If analogous, these formations should have high total organic content source rocks and good quality reservoirs.
In 2013, we concluded the interpretation of 1,900 km of 2D seismic, which identified leads and prospects and a number of new play concepts.
Many of these prospects have successful analogues in the Ethiopian sector of the basin immediately north of Block 1.
The data set has also enhanced our view of the oil prospectivity in the south of this large frontier block.
A large surface anticline in the east of the acreage is also considered highly prospective for oil and further seismic acquisition was planned for Q4 2014 in order to locate an exploration well on the feature.
2015 outlook Seismic operations were suspended on Block 1 during December 2014 as a result of regional security issues.
We continue to monitor the security issues closely and will only resume operations when it is safe and prudent to do so.
Due to the Groups liquidity constraints resulting in a curtailment of budgeted expenditure for this asset, despite Afren retaining its interest in the asset a full impairment was recognised at the end of 2014 in order to meet with the requirements of International Financial Reporting Standards.
In respect of our commitments this year, Afren will continue to review its work programme in the light of its funding position and the impact of low oil prices at the same time as seeking alignment with host government and its Partner on the timing of work programmes and potential opportunities for strategic divestments.
Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 49 Our operations: East Africa continued Kenya Blocks L17 & L18 Tanzania Tanga Block Business activity Business activity Exploration Exploration Working interest Working interest 100% 74% Operator Operator Afren EAX Afren Work programme Work programme Seismic acquisition and exploration drilling Exploration drilling EAX is a wholly owned subsidiary of Afren plc.
Overview Overview The Tanga Block is located offshore in north-east Tanzania.
The block lies south of, and is contiguous with, Afrens 100% Blocks L17 and L18 are in the Lamu Coastal Basin, south-east Kenya, 2 owned and operated Blocks L17 and L18 in Kenya.
It contains the covering an area of approximately 4,881 km.
There is an onshore southerly extension of the same coastal high and basin trough component and in the offshore water depths vary from a few feet plays, allowing us to use our regional expertise and knowledge.
along the shoreline to up to around 2,625 ft in the Pemba Channel.
In July 2013, Afren initiated seismic interpretation of a There are several potential source rocks for Tertiary and Cretaceous 2 620 km 3D seismic survey.
Afren and its Partners have been plays in the southern areas of the basin including the Permo-Triassic simultaneously working up both a shallow-water Chungwa-1, Karoo interval, the Middle Jurassic and high total organic carbon is previously Orpheus and deeper water prospect Mkonge-1, recorded within the Eocene section in the Pemba-5 well.
EIA surveys and drilling prognosis have There are oil seeps in the Lamu Basin and on Pemba Island linked to been completed for both the Chungwa-1 and Mkonge-1 wells, Eocene and Jurassic source rocks which imply that the structures in which are both ready to drill.
In addition, the 3D has led to the Blocks L17 and L18 are most likely oil bearing.
The hydrocarbons are recognition of an additional deepwater prospect named Nanasi expected to have been generated in the deep Pemba trough south that sits between Chungwa and Mkonge.
Further interpretation of Block L18 and in the Tembo Trough to the east.
Oil and gas was work has elevated the Nanasi prospect to the forefront of drilling discovered outboard of L18 by BG in Q1 2014 the Sunbird-1 discovery.
opportunities in the deepwater of the Tanga block and work is In January 2012, Afren completed the acquisition of 1,207 km of ongoing to raise the shallow water prospects to ready-to-drill 2D seismic data targeting the deeper water portion of the blocks.
This will potentially involve the acquisition of a shallow Interpretation of the data identified four new highly encouraging 2 water 3D seismic survey of around 400 km.
prospects, in addition to the previously mapped prospects in the shallow water.
These prospects represent a major new play and 2015 outlook together have increased net mean prospective resources on the The Partners plan the acquisition of a shallow water 3D seismic blocks, to 668 mmboe.
Afren completed the acquisition of 1,006 2 survey of around 400 km subject to regulatory approval and 2 km of 3D seismic data during December 2012, in lieu of a well availability of funding in 2015. commitment, to better understand the deep water prospectivity.
Due to the Groups liquidity constraints resulting in a curtailment In addition, we commissioned an onshore 2D seismic survey of of budgeted expenditure for this asset, a full impairment was 120 km in September 2012 to simultaneously continue maturation recognised at the end of 2014 in order to meet with the of the shallow water onshore play.
This survey was completed in requirements of International Financial Reporting Standards December 2012.
The onshore seismic data highlighted an expansive shallow-water onshore trend called the Mombasa High.
An airborne In respect of our commitments this year, Afren will continue to gravity and magnetic survey was acquired over the Mombasa High review its work programme in the light of its funding position structure in Q2 2014 to allow the optimal positioning of a 250 line and the impact of low oil prices at the same time as seeking km 2D seismic survey which commenced acquisition in Q4 2014. alignment with the host government and its Partner on the timing of work programmes and potential opportunities for 2015 outlook strategic divestments.
The 250 line kilometre onshore 2D seismic survey was completed in January 2015, the results of which will be used to locate targets for exploration drilling.
In respect of our commitments this year, Afren will continue to review its work programme in the light of its funding position and the impact of low oil prices at the same time as seeking alignment with the host government on the timing of work programmes and potential opportunities for strategic divestments.
50 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report of Corporate Accounts report the Directors governance Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 51 Our operations: East Africa continued In 2013, Afren completed a major 3D seismic programme, Seychelles Areas A & B the first 3D surveys to be conducted in the Seychelles, of two Business activity surveys in Afrens licence areas.
The first 3D survey was in the southern portion of the licence over the Bonit prospect 2 Exploration and covered 600 km.
The second survey was in the northern 2 section of the licence area and covered an area of 2,775 km.
Working interest Interpretation of this new 3D seismic has been completed.
75% Early results have confirmed pre-3D prospectivity in the Operator southern deep water portion of Area A. Afren EAX 2015 outlook Work programme A 1,200 square kilometre 3D seismic survey is in the planning stage Seismic acquisition and interpretation to cover shallow water leads in Area A. EAX is a wholly owned subsidiary of Afren plc.
Due to the Groups liquidity constraints resulting in a curtailment of budgeted expenditure for this asset, despite Afren retaining its Overview interest in the asset a full impairment was recognised at the end Areas A and B are in the Seychelles micro-continent, in shallow of 2014 in order to meet with the requirements of International to deep water in the northern half of the Seychelles plateau Financial Reporting Standards.
2 and cover a combined area of approximately 14,319 km.
In respect of our commitments this year, Afren will continue to The main exploration targets are the Permo-Triassic Karoo review its work programme in the light of its funding position interval, which comprises non-marine sands inter-bedded with and the impact of low oil prices at the same time as seeking shales, and a Cretaceous marine rift basin underlain by Jurassic alignment with the host government and its Partner on the source rocks.
The Karoo formation contains both a source rock timing of work programmes and potential opportunities for and the reservoir.
Between 1980 and 1981, three exploration strategic divestments.
wells were drilled, all of which encountered oil shows and confirmed the presence of a working hydrocarbon system.
Seismic data previously acquired by the Partners revealed the presence of several large-scale structures in the two licence areas that are located in shallow to deep water in the northern half of the Seychelles plateau.
A major new 2D survey in Q4 2011 3,733 km focused on these areas to better define their prospectivity.
52 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report of Corporate Accounts report the Directors governance Madagascar Block 1101 Ethiopia Block 8 Business activity Business activity Exploration Exploration Working interest Working interest 90% 43% Operator Operator Afren EAX New Age Work programme Work programme Seismic acquisition and interpretation Commercialisation studies EAX is a wholly owned subsidiary of Afren plc.
Overview Overview Block 8 is located in the Ogaden Basin covering an area of 2 11,062 km.
Exploration in Ethiopia began in the 1970s with Block 1101 is on the eastern flank of the Ambilobe Basin, Tenneco discovering the Calub and Hilal gas fields and continued onshore northern Madagascar.
The block encompasses an 2 throughout the 1980s.
Three wells, El Kuran-1, El Kuran-2 and area of approximately 11,175 km.
The main exploration targets Bodle-1, have been drilled on the blocks.
Both of the El Kuran are sands of the Isalo formation.
There are proven heavy oil wells encountered hydrocarbons and oil was recovered from accumulations in the Isalo formation in Central Madagascar such the Jurassic Hamanlei formation.
The main potential reservoirs as Bemolanga and Tsimiroro.
In June 2013, Afren ran a successful in the basin are carbonates in the Jurassic Hamanlei formation field trip across the block with OMNIS, the state oil and gas and clastic sediments of the Triassic age Adigrat formation company, viewing exposures of the probable reservoir targets.
and Carboniferous age Calub formation.
In addition, some Successful shallow borehole permeable Jurassic carbonate rocks in the Hamanlei formation can be considered potential reservoirs.
The El Kuran-3 well coring programme was spudded on 13 October 2013 using the Sakson 501 drilling In late Q4 2014, Afren completed a multi-location shallow rig and reached a total depth of 11,575 ft. Oil and gas was borehole coring programme which included the re-drill of penetrated in several intervals and commerciality studies have a previously reported oil discovery.
A total of four strategic commenced in order to assess the optimal way of developing locations on Block 1101, which measured around 11,200 km these reservoirs.
The Ethiopian ministry has granted the Joint 2.8 million acres, were successfully drilled and cored to an Venture an 18 month period to carry out these studies.
aggregate depth of 6,500 ft with approximately 5,720 ft of core samples recovered.
Drilling at each of the locations successfully 2015 outlook completed the respective technical objectives to assess specific Studies will be completed on the optimal way of developing aspects of the Blocks petroleum systems.
and exporting the oil and gas contained in the El Kuran discovery.
Two core holes were drilled to depths of 2,112 ft and 1,625 ft Due to the Groups liquidity constraints resulting in a curtailment adjacent to the 1902 coal borehole Ankaramy-1 which had of budgeted expenditure for this asset, despite Afren retaining its reportedly encountered hydrocarbon shows.
Cores recovered interest in the asset a full impairment was recognised at the end from both locations indicated the presence of hydrocarbons of 2014 in order to meet with the requirements of International and potentially good reservoir quality over multiple zones.
Early indications provide further evidence of at least three In respect of our commitments this year, Afren will continue to different source rocks working across the block in the Triassic, review its work programme in the light of its funding position Jurassic and Cretaceous.
and the impact of low oil prices at the same time as seeking alignment with the host government and its Partner on the 2015 outlook timing of work programmes and potential opportunities for Further detailed analysis of the cores will be undertaken in strategic divestments.
Q2 2015 to confirm the nature and extent of the hydrocarbons.
Net risked mean prospective resources on the block are estimated at 205 mmboe.
In respect of our commitments this year, Afren will continue to review its work programme in the light of its funding position and the impact of low oil prices at the same time as seeking alignment with the host government and its Partner on the timing of work programmes and potential opportunities for strategic divestments.
Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 53
