Directors report The Companies Act 2006 CA 2006 together with the UK Listing indemnified by the Company to the extent permitted by company Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs and Listing law.
That indemnity provision has been in place during the year and Rules LRs require certain disclosures to be made.
The Strategic remains in force.
report and the Corporate Governance report at pages 4 to 31 and Disclosure of information to the Auditor: So far as each pages 35 to 44 respectively, together with the details at pages 32 Director in office at the date of approval of this Report is aware, there and 33 of the Directors in office at the date of this Annual Report are is no relevant audit information of which the Companys External expressly incorporated into this, the Directors Report.
Auditor, Ernst & Young is unaware.
Each of the Directors has taken all steps that they might reasonably be expected to have taken in Going concern: The Group and Companys business activities, order to i make themselves aware of any relevant audit information together with factors likely to affect future development, and ii establish that the External Auditor is aware of such performance and position are set out in the Strategic report from information.
For the purposes of this statement on disclosure of pages 4 to 31.
The financial position, cash flows, liquidity position information to the External Auditor, relevant audit information is the and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial review on information needed by the Companys External Auditor in pages 28 to 31 which also form part of the Strategic report.
In connection with the preparation of its report at pages 67 to 68. addition, Notes 30 and 31 to the Accounts include the Group and Companys objectives, policies and processes for managing its political Donations: No political donations or expenditures were capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its made or incurred during the year.
financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
As highlighted in Note 30, the Company Financial instruments: Details of the use by the Company and its and Group meet day-to-day working capital requirements through subsidiaries of financial instruments and any related risk syndicated revolving credit facilities and cash to ensure that forecast management objectives and policies including hedging policy and net borrowings plus a reasonable operating headroom are covered exposure, including to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash by committed facilities which mature at least 12 months after the flow risk of the Company in connection with such financial year end.
At 31 March 2014, effective headroom was 275.7 million.
instruments can be found at Note 30 to the financial statements.
There were no breaches of bank covenants in the year ended 31 March 2014 and projections do not indicate any breaches in the post balance sheet events: On the 14 April 2014 the Group foreseeable future.
Having reviewed and taken into account Going completed the sale of a depot in Surbiton for proceeds of 5.4 Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK million resulting in a profit on disposal of 4.9 million.
Companies 2009, published by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2009, the Directors are satisfied that the Company and the On 16 May 2014 the Group completed the sale of its 30% Group have adequate resources to continue operating for the shareholding in Wexford Creamery Limited for 3.4 million Euros 2.8 foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going million.
At March 2014 the net carrying value totalled 2.1 million concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
comprising share of associates, deferred consideration and valuation of options net of contract provisions.
Future developments: Future developments are described in the Strategic report at pages 4 to 31. research and development: The Group has adopted a target of delivering 10% of its annual turnover through new product Group results: The Groups consolidated income statement set out development.
Focus continues to be on offering consumers a wide on page 69 shows a profit for the financial year of 50.2 million product mix, and especially the development of lower fat variants of compared with 46.6 million profit in 2012 13. existing products.
Dairy Crest remains at the forefront of dairy industry developments to reduce packaging waste through Dividends: the Directors are recommending a final dividend of innovation.
15.4p 2012 13: 15.0p per ordinary share, which if approved, will be paid to members on the register at the close of business on 4 July employees: At the end of March 2014, the Group employed 2013.
Together, the final dividend and interim dividend 5.9p per approximately 4,500 people.
It depends on the skills and ordinary share paid on 10 January 2014 make total dividends for the commitment of its employees in order to achieve its objectives.
Personnel at every level are encouraged to make their fullest possible contribution to Dairy Crests success.
Details of the Groups Directors: Details of the Directors of the Company at the date of employment policies can be found on pages 8, 9 and 10.
Employees this Report are set out at pages 32 to 33.
In addition, Alastair Murray are kept regularly informed on matters affecting them and on issues served as a Director during the period 1 April 2013 to 23 May 2013 affecting the Groups performance through a variety of when he stepped down from the Board.
communication tools, including the Group intranet.
Regular employee surveys are conducted, the last of which was carried out Directors interests: Details of the interests in the shares of the in September 2013.
The employee surveys enable an understanding Company of the Directors holding office as at the date of this Report, of, amongst other matters, the general satisfaction level of along with those of the Directors who held office during the year but employees with their employment, any questions or concerns which retired or resigned from office, and their immediate families appear in employees have in relation to the business of the Group, an the Remuneration Report on page 56.
Details of the Directors understanding of the effectiveness of management of and service contracts and letters of appointment appear in the communication with employees.
Following employee surveys, Remuneration Report on page 49.
No Director had a material specific action plans are drawn up and implemented on a site by site interest in any significant contract with the Company or any of its basis to address issues which are raised through the surveys.
Each subsidiaries during the year.
Procedures for dealing with Directors year, the senior management team conducts road shows which all conflicts of interest are in place and are operating effectively.
The employees are invited to attend.
The last road shows were Company maintains liability insurance for its Directors and Officers conducted during autumn 2013 and provided a forum for, amongst and those of its subsidiaries.
The Directors, Company Secretary and other matters, the communication to employees of the performance other Officers of the Company and those of its subsidiaries are Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 63 Governance DIRECTORS' REPORT CONTINUED of the business of the Group, anticipated future developments, authority granted shall expire at the conclusion of this years AGM.
significant matters of required focus for the coming period, and: the The Directors believe it advisable to seek renewal of both of the opportunity for employees to ask questions of the senior above-mentioned authorities or replacement of them with suitable alternatives, annually at the AGM.
Approval will be sought from the management.
The Group has well-established consultation and shareholders at this years AGM to renew the authorities for a negotiating arrangements with established trade unions.
are encouraged to acquire shares in the Group through participation in the savings-related share option scheme Sharesave Scheme.
substantial shareholdings: As at 31 March 2014, the Company had been notified in accordance with the Disclosure and Details of the Scheme are set out in Note 26 to the financial Transparency Rules issued by the Financial Services Authority of the statements.
following interests of 3% or more in the Companys existing issued ordinary share capital.
share capital: The authorised and issued share capital of the Company together with details of movements in the Companys Notified issued share capital during 2013 414 are shown in Note 24 to the percentage of financial statements at page 109.
As at the date of this report, Notified No.
of issued share 136,722,751 ordinary 25p shares were in issue and fully paid with an shares capital aggregate nominal value of 34,180,687.
BlackRock, Inc. 6,834,772 5.00 rights and obligations attaching to shares: The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys Reports and During the period 1 April 2014 to 21 May 2014 the Company has Accounts: to attend and speak at General Meetings of the been notified by Legal & General Group Plc that it holds less than Company: to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
To be 3% of the Companys issued share capital.
effective, electronic and paper proxy appointments and voting instructions must be received at the Companys registered office, or Articles of association: Changes to the Articles must be such other place in the United Kingdom specified in the relevant approved by the shareholders in accordance with the legislation in notice of meeting, not later than 48 hours before a General Meeting.
None of the shares carry any special rights with regard to control of the Company.
There are no known arrangements under which significant agreements change of control: A change of financial rights are held by a person other than the holder of the control of the Company following a takeover bid may cause a shares and no known agreements on restrictions on share transfers number of agreements to which the Company or its subsidiaries are or on voting rights.
Shares acquired through Company share party, to take effect, alter or terminate.
The agreements that are schemes and plans rank pari passu with the shares in issue and considered significant are as follows: have no special rights.
Borrowing facilities Non-compliance with the change of control transfer of shares: Subject to applicable statutes and regulations, clauses in the Groups funding arrangements, or failure to reach there are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding of agreement with the parties on revised terms, would require any any class of shares and no requirements for prior approval of any acquirer to put in place replacement facilities.
Supply agreements Certain supply agreements contain provisions shareholder waiver of dividends: The Company established an whereby on a change of control of the Group, they may be employee benefit trust in 1996 which in certain circumstances holds terminable.
Accordingly, a change of control of the Group could shares in connection with the Groups employee share incentive result in the need for the Group to source alternative supply for plans.
As the registered holder, the voting rights in the shares are certain materials.
However, the trustee does not ordinarily exercise those rights and waives its entitlement to dividends.
No compensation for loss of office: The Company does not have agreements with any Director or employee that would provide issue of shares: At the AGM on 16 July 2013, shareholders compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a renewed the authority for the Board under the Articles to exercise all takeover, except that provisions of the Companys share schemes powers of the Company to allot relevant securities up to an and plans may cause options and awards granted to employees aggregate nominal amount of 22,768,020. under such schemes and plans to vest on a takeover.
purchase of own shares: At the AGM on 16 July 2013, pensions: The Company employs only the Executive Directors.
shareholders granted the Company authority to make market Most employees in the Group are employed by the Companys main purchases of up to 13,660,813 of its issued ordinary shares of 25 subsidiary, Dairy Crest Limited.
Relevant companies within the pence each, provided that: the minimum price which may be paid Group became subject to the automatic enrolment regulations on for any such ordinary share is 25 pence exclusive of expenses and 1April last year.
Depending on their grade, effective from 1 April appropriate taxes : the maximum price exclusive of expenses and 2013 employees either enter the auto enrolled pension appropriate taxes which may be paid for any such ordinary share arrangements for the Group which are provided by Zurich or into the shall be not more than 5% above the average of the middle market Groups defined contribution pension scheme also provided by prices for an ordinary share in the Company, as taken from the Zurich.
The Groups defined benefit pension fund is closed to future London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days accrual and is now in run-off.
It remains under the control of a immediately preceding the date of purchase.
The Company did not corporate trustee, Dairy Crest Pension Trustees Limited, the board exercise this authority during the year and made no market of which comprises four directors nominated by Dairy Crest Limited purchases.
Except in relation to a purchase of ordinary shares, the and three directors elected by all members.
Its assets are held contract for which was concluded before this authority expires and separately from those of the Group and can only be used in which will or may be executed wholly or partly after such expiry, the accordance with the rules of the fund.
64 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 Greenhouse gas emissions: The Company is required to state the annual quantity of emissions in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent from activities for which the Group is responsible, including the combustion of fuel and the operation of any facility.
Details of our emissions during the year ended 31 March 2014 and the actions which the Group has taken to reduce them are set out on pages 23 to 27 and form part of the Directors report disclosures.
Directors responsibility statements: The responsibility statements required under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4.1 are set out on page 66.
Annual general meeting: The AGM will be held at Eversheds LLP, One Wood Street, London, EC2V 7WS on Tuesday, 15 July 2014 at 12.00 pm.
The Notice convening the meeting will be issued separately, together with details of the business to be considered and explanatory notes relating to each of the resolutions being proposed.
Auditor: Ernst & Young LLP has expressed its willingness to continue as Auditor of the Company.
A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys Auditor will be put to the forthcoming AGM.
The Directors Report from pages 63 to 65 has been approved by the Board and is signed on its behalf by robin Miller Company Secretary & General Counsel 21 May 2014 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 65 Governance
