performance million, resulting in a margin of 9.5% 2013: market share.
For the first time Country Spreads & butters profit 25.5 million, margin 13.1% Life spreadable sales were higher than Although the year was a difficult one those of Country Life block butter.
overall, lower cream prices in the last few In addition, the declining spreads million 2013 14 2012 13 months of the year and strongresults market has led to some retailers reducing from MH Foods meant the second half the amount of space they allocate to revenue 177.4 194.5 performance was better than the first.
butters and spreads in their store and one product group profit 16.8 25.5 Looking forward, the action we have taken of our secondary brands, Utterly Butterly, margin 9.5% 13.1% to reduce our cost base will make us was particularly adversely affected.
more efficient and allow us to continue to Share of retail butter and compete strongly.
Spreads and butters Good performance by frylight one spreads market by value remains a high margin product group.
calorie cooking spray Other 8% We purchased MH Foods in 2011 12 and Dairy Crest Retailer mixed performance of key brands in a have grown sales and profits consistently.
own difficult market Following a significant rationalisation label The butter and spreads market continued of the product range last year we have 15% 17% to decline during the year.
Market volumes cut production costs and reinvested Arla 33% fell by around 5% and values by 4%.
Own some of the savings in higher marketing label sales grew at the expense of brands expenditure.
The brand has responded Unilever 27% and butter sales declined less than those well and sales and profits have grown.
Source: IRI 52 weeks ended 29 March 2014 of spreads.
Both butters and spreads were heavily promoted but this failed to reverse Looking forward a more efficient We make butter at our Severnside the downward trend in consumption.
business dairy in Gloucestershire and pack Clover grew volume but lost a little We will shortly complete the rationalisation butter and make spreads in Kirkby, value market share.
During the year we of our spreads and butter manufacturing merseyside.
We have two key brands, introduced a new range of healthy spreads onto one well-invested site in Kirkby, clover a dairy spread and country into the Clover range and supported them Merseyside, where we have spent over Life spreadable and block butter.
and the other products in the range with 30 million to create a modern, efficient Wealso have several secondary TV advertising.
As previously announced, we brands in the spreads category and we Country Life spreadable grew sales expect to close our factory in Crudgington, produce and sell frylight one calorie and volumes, outperforming the market Shropshire, in theyear ending 31 cooking spray through mH foods.
We expect this to generate Reported revenue for the year ended higher cream prices for most of the year significant cost savings that will benefit 31 March 2014 fell by 9% to 177.4 million.
increased the cost of Country Life block the future profitability of our Spreads and Profits from the Spreads and butters butter and we chose to promote it less.
product group declined by 34% to 16.8 This ledto significantly lower sales and 30m Investment to create amodern manufacturing and packing facility inKirkby Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 17 Strategic report PeRFORMANCe CONTINUeD product group grew by 19% to 39.3 million, Although nearly all of its sales are cheese & whey resulting in a margin of 14.9% 2013: profit branded, Dairy Crest does supply cheese 33.1 million, margin 14.3%.
to two premium retailers for their own label Total retail cheese market products.
One of these customers, Marks million 2013 14 2012 13 salesremained unchangedin the year & Spencer, has awarded Dairy Crest sole although volumes fell back by 3%.
supply of its entire cheddar range from revenue 264.6 231.3 Cathedral City sales strongly outperformed April 2014. product group profit 39.3 33.1 the market, growing 12% by value and Dairy Crests Cheese operations are margin 14.9% 14.3% 9% by volume.
As a result Cathedral City highly efficient and product group profits now has an 11% share ofretail cheese, continue to be boosted by improved Share of the total retail up from 10% last year.
Retailer own label efficiencies at all three of its manufacturing cheese market by value cheese sales account for nearly 55% of locations.
Cathedral City sales continue Cathedral City comfortably to exceed the sales of the Demineralised whey powder project next three cheddar brands added together on track to grow future profits and it is now Britains 18th largest grocery Profits have also been supported by 11% brand Source: The Grocer, March 2014. strong returns from whey.
At present this is dried into powder and sold to food Other 89% Innovationdriving cathedral citys manufacturers.
Dairy Crest has initiated success a project to invest in the manufacture Source: IRI 52 weeks ended 29 March 2014 New product development remains key of demineralised whey powder, a base to the success of Cathedral City.
Grated ingredient of infant formula.
We plan Dairy crest produces and markets mini-bags, spreadable cheese and to spend around 45 million on new the UKs leading cheese brand, Selections have all widened the appeal manufacturing assets at Davidstow before cathedral city, as well as the premium of the brand, as have new launches May 2015.
We expect production of Davidstow cheddar brand.
under the childrens brand, Cathedral City demineralised whey powder to commence The short supply chain starts with Chedds.
For the first time we extended the in mid 2015.
We anticipate that the milk from around 400 dairy farms in Cathedral City brand outside of cheese project will have a five year cash payback cornwall and Devon.
This is made into with Baked Bites Cathedral City cheese and enhance annual Cheese and whey cheese at our Davidstow creamery in biscuits which are manufactured by product group profits by over 5 million cornwall.
The cheese is then matured from 2015 16.
We are in the process of Burtons Biscuit Company.
Cathedral for on average 11months at our agreeing a contract with an exclusive City also continues to lead the way with purpose-built nuneaton facility before customer who is already well established innovative packaging and has recently being cut packed and distributed in the appropriate markets and who will responded to consumer demand by to customers.
We also operate a provide technical advice as we move the introducing new easy-tear packaging highly flexible packing site in frome, project forward.
The whey produced as a Advertising and promotions are also by-product of cheese making is also Looking forward well positioned important and Dairy Crest has continued processed at Davidstow.
forgrowth to invest in Cathedral Citys award winning Since the year end we have further Looking forward our strong cheese brands advertising campaign.
simplified the business by selling our and efficient production facilities, together Alongside Cathedral City, Dairy Crests remaining 30% stake in Wexford Creamery with the exciting whey project, leave us premium cheddar brand, Davidstow, has Limited for 3.4 million.
well positioned to increase the already performed strongly in the year.
Sales of Reported revenue for the year ended 31 strong returns from this product category.
this brand, supported by new varieties March 2014 grew by 14% to 264.6 million and improved packaging, have grown and profits from the Cheese and whey 3%byvalue.
12% Growth in Cathedral City sales by value 18 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 19 thinking differently Strategic report PeRFORMANCe CONTINUeD Dairies million 2013 14 2012 13 revenue 944.8 951.6 product group profit 18.8 9.8 margin 2.0% 1.0% Dairy crest processes and delivers fresh conventional, organic and flavoured milk to major retailers, middle ground customers including, for example, smaller retailers, coffee shops and hospitals and residential customers.
The Dairies product group analysis includes revenues and profits from these operations.
It also takes in revenues and profits from one of our four key brands, frijj, the countrys leading ready to drink milk brand, and cream and milk powders We operate three modern dairies at Severnside, Chadwell Heath and Foston where we pack milk into polybottles: Hanworth, where we pack milk into glass bottles for residential customers: and a specialist cream potting facility at Chard.
In addition we have around 70 operational depots from which we deliver milk to middle ground and residential customers.
We also run an ingredients operation that helps balance seasonal milk supplies by drying surplus milk and selling skimmed milk powder.
We aim to minimise throughput in this business to reduce our exposure to commodity markets as far aspossible.
The raw milk that we purchase from farms contains more cream than the milk sold to customers does.
We use some of the surplus cream generated during the bottling process to make butter with cream being transferred into our Spreads operation at market prices.
The balance of this surplus cream that is not used to make butter is sold by our ingredients operations either as bulk butter or cream.
Reported revenue was broadly flat in the year at 944.8 million 2013: 951.6 million with higher selling prices offsetting lower volumes.
Profits from the Dairies product group increased to 18.8 million 2013: 9.8 million.
medium term target to achieve 3% return on sales We have set ourselves the target of achieving a 3% return on sales from our Dairies operations and in the year ended 31 March 2014 the margin increasedfrom 1% to 2%.
20 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 thinking differently There are 4 elements to our plan: The upgrade of our production facilities Delivering milk to these customers remains Growing frijj also delayed the full launch of our new important to us but sales continue to reducing costs and becoming more long life product which we now expect to fall as more customers choose to buy efficient take place in the year ending 31 March their milk from shops rather than having Getting the right returns from fresh 2015.
This will allow us to grow FRijj sales it delivered by their milkman.
Overall milk sales into convenience and other outlets where residential sales fell by 10% compared to maximising profits from the sale of less refrigerated storage is available.
We continue to support surplus properties our internet proposition for residential Increased profits from these actions cost saving initiatives underpin customers, milk&more, and we believe are offset by cost inflation and reduced improved profitability this has reduced the decline in residential residential sales which command an Across Dairy Crest as a whole we sales.
implemented annual cost saving initiatives As a result of lower milk sales to The improvement in margins in the during the year of 25 million, ahead of middle ground and residential customers year came about from higher profits our established target of 20 million.
Our we sold our depot based business in the from the sale of redundant properties.
Dairies operations benefitted most from North West of england and we also closed For the year ended 31 March 2014 these these.
Key elements of the savings were a small dairy in Wales, Proper Welsh Milk.
were 18.2 million against 7.7 million the on-going closure of depots, increased We are also carrying out a strategic review in the prior year.
The uplift was partially use of lighter bottles which contain less of FoodTec UK Limited, a small subsidiary offset by higher employee bonuses plastic and reduced distribution costs.
which would not have been paid had the The total annual cost of moving milk Towards the end of the year cream higher level of property profits not been from the farms that supply us to our prices fell and this adversely impacted achieved.
Margins excluding property customers via our dairies exceeds 200 revenues and profits from the Dairies profits declined partly as a result of these million.
We use a combination of our own operations with some benefit being seen higher bonuses and partly because of transport and that of third parties.
We in our Spreads operations.
lower cream prices in the last part of the collect milk for our dairies from over 1,000 At the same time most major retailers year, which were not reflected in lower farms across england and Wales and chose to reduce the price at which they milk purchase prices.
We anticipate deliver daily to many of our customers sell milk to consumers.
This had the effect profits from the sale of surplus properties including around 700,000 residential of further increasing the gap between to continue at a more normal level of customers and the individual stores these prices and those which we charge between 5 million and 10 million in of most of our major retail customers.
More efficient vehicles, improved routing this to have an adverse effect on our software and better driver utilisation residential sales and the profits we make frijj on track for growth after and training can all make a significant from this delivery channel.
upgrade of production facilities difference to the cost of this operation.
Over the year as a whole FRijj sales We expect to make further savings in our property profits exceed expectations declined by 4% by value and 5% by distribution costs in the future.
As residential and middle ground sales volume.
FRijj sales were down 17% reduce we close distribution depots.
Sales by value in the first half as we scaled recovering higher milk costs of these surplus properties generate cash back promotions while we increased The prices we paid our farmers for milk and the profits from them contribute to our production capacity and capability.
increased by around 8% during the year.
In January 2014 Second half sales were much stronger This resulted in additional raw material we completed the sale of one such depot, following the upgrade of our production costs for our Dairies operations of over Nine elms, in London.
The sale of this facilities in the first half.
For most of the year these particularly valuable property for 17.6 introduced new flavours and new pack higher costs have been recovered from million generated a profit of 15.3 million sizes and configurations into the market.
higher cream selling and transfer prices and contributed to total property profits of Sales in the second half of the year ended from our Spreads operations, and higher 18.2 million in the year.
Looking forward 31 March 2014 grew by 11% compared selling prices to our customers.
In a tough we anticipate profits from the sale of to the second half of the year ended 31 consumer environment increasing selling depots we no longer require are likely to March 2013. prices was not easy and we chose to stop return to a more normal 5 million to 10 Theready to drinkflavoured milk supplying some smaller customers who million in future years.
market, in which FRijj is the leading brand, were not prepared to pay higher prices.
has continued to grow strongly during the Higher prices to farmers also meant year.
Total market sales are up by 16% in that we had to increase the price we value and 9% by volume.
25m Cost saving initiatives implemented during the year Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 21 Strategic report PeRFORMANCe CONTINUeD milk production following poor production a very competitive offer with our portfolio milk procurement conditions in 2012.
This was made of contract options being supported by a available to all our farmers on standard strong service package.
We are proud of our links to the contracts and resulted in a substantial Our Farm Business team continues to countryside and of our British dairy engage in meetings and events with our proportion of our farmers achieving a price heritage.
We have a strong working farmers and with industry opinion formers, premium on their additional milk.
relationship with our farmers, many to help facilitate and encourage the of whom have supplied us for over 15 sharing of best practice and knowledge farmer support & benefits years, which is greatly valued by our transfer.
In addition to the new contract business.
our strategy is geared to opportunities, we have invested in the building our direct supplying farmer service we provide to our farmers through Dairy Crests farmer base and working in partnership our Farm Business team.
In mid 2013 we with our farmers in order to deliver a introduced the Farm Business Centre, a commitment we will: sustainable supply chain.
new head office based team with farming Whilst we experienced much better Continue to innovate & build knowledge and experience, focused on weather during 2013 than the previous direct supply management.
We have also added value sales across year, with a warm and sunny growing refreshed the role of our regional, field our dairy product range in season, severe flooding was a real based team of Farm Business Managers, the UK and overseas challenge in some southern parts at focusing them on delivering the many the year end.
The rise in the number added value services we offer our farmers.
Work in true partnership of extreme weather patterns over This new service package has with farmers offering a fair recent years makes this an increasingly received excellent feedback and is further prominent factor in predicting future milk supported by our interactive website, Farm and market-related price production levels.
The website provides a valuable and a choice of relevant At the start of 2013 we saw milk farm management tool, with online access contracts production held back due to the knockon to individual farm production and payment effects of poor weather in the previous data, contractual and technical information Provide the most year, but this has recovered towards and news about Dairy Crest.
comprehensive farm the latter part of the year, resulting in Our farmers continue to benefit from extremely strong supply as we enter the support service for farm the unique WhiteGold Service provided peak period of milk production for 2014. by AB Sustain.
This independent on-farm businesses advisory service is recognised by our milk price and contracts farmers as adding significant value to their Remain true to our British As well as experiencing different weather business through practical support and dairy heritage and strong patterns during the year, we recognise that advice on farm assurance together with values our farmers have very different business technical and regulatory requirements.
Our aim is to treat every one of our farmers individually and Working together to offer flexibility and choice through a Looking ahead The development of the new contract portfolio of contract options so that they Optimism amongst dairy farmers in the UK options and farmer service package has can optimise their production from which is higher than at any point in recent years been done in close consultation with both they and we benefit.
as a result of better weather, higher milk DCD.
This collaborative approach has Last year we launched an innovative prices and reduced costs.
Milkproduction further strengthened our relationship.
formula pricing mechanism, the first milk is at 10 year highs and we are seeing There is close engagement with DCD at processor to do so.
We are very proud evidence of higher levels of farm all levels within our business including the of the process we undertook to deliver investment, both to expand production executiveteam.
We did this in and upgrade existing facilities.
This is really partnership with Dairy Crest Direct DCD positive news for our business and a key efficiency and innovation which is the independent organisation factor in ensuring we continue to deliver a As we are supporting our farmers to be which represents our farmers.
Our formula sustainable and efficient supply of milk for more efficient for a sustainable future, is independent, responsive to dairy Dairy Crest.
we remain focused on our milk collection markets and farm costs and transparent.
Although we do not expect the service and how we can use technology It has helped build trust in the milk pricing abolition of UK milk quotas from April 2015 to improve operational performance and process, therefore strengthening the to significantly affect UK milk production, standards.
Developments within our relationship we have with our farmers.
as noted above, production was extremely ex-farm collection fleet, including GPRS Following the success of the initial strong in the second half of the year ended data transfer, auto sampling and new 12-month formula contract we have 31 March 2014 and we expect favourable blue sky routing systems, have enabled developed two new Liquid contract conditions and strong supply in the year us to increase efficiency and improve options for the coming milk year, both ending 31 March 2015.
Our balanced the way we work with our farmers and using the formula mechanism.
The new business and well-invested assets leave ourcustomers.
options have been developed with DCD, us well placed to be able to deal with any taking in account feedback from our further uplift.
future milk supply farmers for more straightforward contract We are continuing to work to expand the terms and competitive pricing.
proportion of milk we buy from our direct We also introduced a Volume Incentive supplying farms through both recruitment Scheme to help farmers increase their and growth on our current farms.
We have 22 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 Corporate Responsibility Dairy Crest places considerable store in its Mandatory Greenhouse Gas Report Corporate Responsibility CR work and oversight In line with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 It is a core principle of the business to hold high values in the Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013 our safety and wellbeing of our people: to engage with our local greenhouse gas GHG emissions are quantified below.
communities: to reduce our environmental footprint: and to We follow the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate play our part in a healthy marketplace.
More information can Accounting and Reporting Standard to calculate emissions be found in our CR Online Report which includes progress from the combustion of fuels Scope 1 and from purchased thebusiness has made against its 40 CR pledges.
electricity, heat, steam and cooling Scope 2.
Carbon emission factors are used to convert each activity that gives rise to GHG emissions to a carbon dioxide equivalent Awards CO e using the latest UK government conversion factors for 2 company reporting.
The GHG data reported below relates to emissions from activities in the operational control of Dairy Crest Group plc from 1 April 2013 to 31 March 2014 consistent with our financial reporting period.
Green House Gas Emissions for 1 April 2013 to 31 March 2014 Scope 1 87,256 Tonnes CO e 2 Scope 2 74,646 Tonnes CO e 2 Total Scope 1 and 2 161,902 Tonnes CO e 2 kg CO e per tonne of 2 Intensity ratio 74.71 milk intake Emissions from 27,619 Tonnes CO e 2 biomassfuel First place Highly Winner Scope 1 emissions data includes material sources of fossil Dairy Crest Commended Jaguar Land fuels used at manufacturing sites and depots and road fuel came top of the Responsible Rover Sustainable used in the transport and distribution of intermediate and prestigious BITC Business of the Marketplace finished products.
Road fuel used in company cars operated CR Index 2014 Year 2013 Award 2013 by Dairy Crest for business travel is also included.
Minor with 4.5 stars 98% losses of refrigerants used in cooling equipment have been converted to tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent and are included for completeness.
Scope 2 emissions data includes material sources of purchased electricity used at manufacturing sites, depots and offices.
We employ a per tonne of milk intake denominator as the most effective measure of relative performance.
This measure is consistent with our internal target setting process and how Winner Finalist Winner we communicate progress.
Sustainable Supply FT Corporate Sustainable Consistent with the GHG Protocol emissions from Chain Award 2013 Responsibility Leaders Awards biologically sequestered carbon are reported separate Company of the Supply Chain from the other Scopes.
These comprise emissions from Year 2014 Sustainability 2013 combustion of biomass fuel at our creamery in Davidstow that significantly reduce Scope 1 emissions from fossil fuels.
Emissions from combustion of biomass fuels are not included in the emissions intensity ratio reported above.
Winner Top 50 Food Manufacturer Reputation Institute Awards Judges Award for Sustainability 2013 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 23 Strategic report PERFORMANCE | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Environment Marketplace Primary distribution vehicles Our lighter brands have a retail sales have an average carbon The lower fat variants of our products equivalent emission rate of 794 value of 65.7m have saved consumers about grams per kilometres travelled 10,000 tonnes of saturated fat, Lighter spreads Cathedral City the equivalent of approximately & butters: Mature Lighter: 83 We avoid sending 91.1% blue whales of our manufacturing waste to landfill 27.3m 33.9m New brands launched in 2013 14 Since 2007 Clover Additions Utterly Butterly Lightly our carbon emission equivalent from manufacturing energy is down by We offer ALL staff a 23.7% Clover Lighter than Light Frylight Garlic Oil free health MOT We are on target Dairy Crest to reduce this to has reduced 30% by 2020 water usage by 17.4% All of the fresh We are committed since 2007 milk we use is to paying our British and farm farmers a fair, On target to achieve assured market led price a 20% reduction by 2015 Environment Greenhouse gas emissions examples of these include the investment As a leading dairy As one of the UKs leading dairy we are making to replace lighting systems manufacturer and companies we are determined to with LED alternatives in our factories which play our full part in helping tackle are much more energy efficient and the processor we are aware of climate change by reducing our energy progress we are making to replace the few global trends and we are consumption and dependency on smaller remaining refrigeration systems determined to play an active fossil fuel.
Since 2007 we have reduced our Today our fleet of primary distribution role in tackling climate carbon emissions equivalent from vehicles has an average carbon equivalent change, reducing waste manufacturing energy use by 23.7% and emissions rate of 794 grams per kilometre and looking after our natural are on course to exceed our target of a travelled and all company cars have an resources.
Progress to date average published emissions level of less has principally been achieved through the than 121 grams per kilometre travelled.
use of environmentally friendly biomass Our total scope 1 and scope 2 boilers and through everyday efficiency greenhouse gas emissions for 2013 14 are saving and awareness programmes.
24 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 Workplace Community Number of accidents Days lost Over the course of 2013 14 our staff reportable to the HSC supported over 110 local health, Progress against 3-year strategy 147 4,122 education and countryside related 123 2,984 good causes The lower fat variants of our products 77 76 1,999 have saved consumers about 1,630 49 1,227 Our staff charity partner is the Princes 10,000 tonnes Countryside Fund of saturated fat, 09 10 11 12 13 09 10 11 12 13 10 11 12 13 14 10 11 12 13 14 the equivalent of approximately In September 2013 we supported over Number of safety issues reported near misses 83 Increased awareness of blue whales potential safety at work issues 400 young people in their quest 12,354 to get a job through the IGDs Feeding 9,327 9,078 Britains Future Programme 5,239 2,669 Since 2007 Staff volunteer to support meals on 09 10 11 12 13 our carbon emission wheels 10 11 12 13 14 equivalent from manufacturing energy is down by We offer ALL staff a 23.7% free health MOT We are on target Dairy Crest to reduce this to has reduced 30% by 2020 water usage by 17.4% since 2007 Environment On target Water tool provides the farmer with a detailed In addition to avoiding sending waste to to achieve Over the course of the year we continued report benchmarking their results against landfill we have also invested in new ways a 20% to reduce the amount of water we use industry data and provides them with of packaging our products so they are not in our sites by a further 1.7% which now recommendations for greater efficiency.
only made with less material but they are reduction means we have reduced water usage by also made with more recycled material.
by 2015 17.4% since 2007 and are on target to Waste Highlights include the continued roll out of exceed our target of a 20% reduction by We want to reduce waste that arises our newly designed plastic milk bottle that 2015 against that same base line.
throughout our supply chain, from the is made from 15% less plastic on average In addition to reducing our own water point at which goods enter our doors right compared to its previous counterpart and footprint we are also helping farmers through to when the customer disposes it is now made using up to 20% recycled reduce theirs by paying for them to of our packaging.
Our overall aim is zero material since February 2014. use WaterWell an innovative on-farm waste to landfill by 2015 except where water auditing programme.
Through this it is not environmentally beneficial to do programme our farmers can request a so and by the year end we achieved practical assessment of water usage for a 91.1% landfill avoidance across our all aspects of their dairy enterprise.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 25 Strategic report PERFORMANCE | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Marketplace on which our farming suppliers can million with Cathedral City Mature Lighter We are committed to depend and as the only listed British dairy leading the way with a retail sales value company we are proud that the 1.9 billion creating healthy, tasty of over 33.9 million, our lighter spreads litres of milk we use each year to make our and butters brands now have a retail sales enjoyable products, making products is British and farm assured.
it easier for consumers to We are publicly committed to It has been a busy year for innovation choose healthier foods and offering our supplying farmers a fair and this year and over the course of 2013 14 competitive milk price, help them focus on we were proud to develop and launch to play our part in helping efficiency and best practice throughout several healthier products including our to tackle obesity.
the milk supply chain and provide advice Clover Additions range, Clover Lighter than and support services on issues such as Light, Utterly Butterly Lightly and Frylight legislation, animal welfare and wildlife Independent research tells us that three Garlic Oil.
quarters of people in the UK want to As part of our commitment to helping We also work collaboratively with non eat more healthily with fat, salt, sugar consumers manage their calorie intake farming suppliers to ensure compliance and calories respectively topping the and in order to meet the commitment with our Ethical Supply Policy.
To ensure we we made as part of the Department of policy, which was introduced in 2011 and give consumers what they want we have Healths Responsibility Deal we have reviewed in 2013, is designed to extend continued to invest in our portfolio of launched a greater range of portion sizes our vision and values across a diverse lower fat brands through advertising, including a new 250ml sized bottle of FRijj andextensive supplier base, whilst promotions, reformulation, rebranding milkshake and smaller individual 48 gram recognising that those who supply our andinnovation.
sized packs of Cathedral City Mature business with much needed goods and Consumer data shows that last year Lighter which are 150 calories.
services operate in a variety of different the lighter variants of our brands achieved Dairy Crest remains fully committed cultural environments.
a collective retail sales value of 65.7 to building a strong and secure business Workplace will continue to concentrate on further Safety at work for everyone who works for us, reducing slips, trips and falls as this and with us, to be physically Our safety at work accounts for 45% of lost time accidents.
healthier objective is simple: we Mirroring our progress in reducing accidents the number of days lost has to use our position as a food want everyone who works also fallen for the fifth consecutive year, manufacturer to encourage for us, and with us, to go last year reducing by a further 24.7% from and engage our employees and home to his or her family 1,630 to 1,227. consumers to live healthier In addition to maintaining and growing atthe end of their working lifestyles accident awareness campaigns we have day without any injury or to ensure our approach to also worked hard to encourage colleagues occupational ill health.
wellbeing is integrated into all to formally report near misses and hazards parts of our business so it reduces as we know that being aware of a potential risk and enhances our reputation problem is the most effective method for producing healthy products Although a single accident is always one of preventing it.
We have also heavily too many, over the course of the last 12 promoted safety conversations, which months we have made good progress in include correcting unsafe behaviours and With an in-house Occupational Health achieving our targets and the number of encouraging safe behaviours.
To this end team in place, Dairy Crest offers staff a accidents with more than three days lost we have seen a continued increase year range of special services including free time or reportable to the HSE has fallen on year in both aspects with near misses voluntary health checks for all employees, for the fifth consecutive year since April and hazards increasing by 32% to 12,354 including cholesterol and blood pressure.
2013 our accident rate has fallen by a and conversations by 118% to 53,143 Over the course of 2013 14 almost 30% further 30% to 708. compared with last year.
of employees had a health check related Despite changes by the HSE in 2012 either specifically to the risks in their to the Riddor regulations which require Our wellbeing strategy jobs or as part of our health promotion companies to report accidents that result We are particularly proud of the campaign.
This builds on the 40% of in seven days off work, or those involving scale and integrated approach to our employees who had a health check in specified injuries, we will continue to target wellbeing strategy which is based on 2012 13.
We also began a new wellbeing a reduction in accidents that result in three three key strands: programme to deliver two wellbeing days days off work as we believe this target at each site and depot over the next 12-18 will help us further reduce accidents at months, in order to increase participation work and maintain the focus required, in in our voluntary wellbeing checks to a level reducing all accidents with lost time.
26 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 Community We know the actions we take national community projects 1.
Loo king after the often have an effect on the that make best use of our countryside and broader neighbourhoods where we expertise and knowledge, environment are based, and as the main provide a legacy and support 2.
Promoting healthy living employer in many areas we our overall business strategy.
Supporting education believe we have a unique With this is mind our and employability opportunity to play a positive community programme is 4.
Engaging with local role in supporting local and divided into four strands: communities 1.
Looking after the countryside in the winter of 2013 14 when there was as part of the save Meals on Wheels andbroader environment severe flooding in many parts of the UK, in campaign which was fronted by celebrity As the UKs leading British owned dairy particular Somerset.
cooks Si and Dave more commonly company we know that family run dairy By working collaboratively through the known as the Hairy Bikers, who said: farms are the backbone of the dairy sector Fund, and with our Davidstow and Country Thank you to the lads and lasses at in the UK and without them we wouldnt Life brands, since 2010 all the companies Dairy Crest who are volunteering their time have a business.
We also know that for involved have been able to donate 3.9 to deliver hot meals to local people who our business to remain successful the million in grants, support over 87 rural need them.
Youve made a big difference to countryside needs to be an attractive place projects ranging from helping upland our saving Meals on Wheels campaign.
to live and that the rural economy is hugely farmers through to supporting rural youth important to the UK, turning over 300 unemployment groups the UK.
Supporting education and billion, employing 5.5 million people and Fund has helped more than 64,000 people.
employability offering untapped potential to generate To make sure we are able to play our part another 236 billion to 347 billion per year.
Pub is the Hub in helping young people onto the career To help achieve these aims through our Aware of the dwindling number of local ladder and to showcase a career in food community programme we support several facilities available to rural communities, production we have proactively set up a key projects: and conscious that this decline has a number of education programmes catering detrimental effect on the sustainability of for GCSE, A-Level, undergraduate and The Princes Rural Action Programme rural economies, we are proud to support postgraduate students and this year we and The Princes Dairy Initiative Pub is the Hub a not-for-profit organisation again played a leading role in supporting the that encourages local authorities, local Through the Princes Rural Action Institute of Grocers and Distributors IGD communities, licensees and pub owners to Programme, which was until recently chaired Feeding Britains Future Programme.
work together to support, retain and locate by Mark Allen, we are working with a diverse services within rural pubs.
number of companies from banks to retailers Feeding Britains Future at a glance To date 27 different varieties of to understand the impact businesses can Dairy Crest continues to sit on the steering services have been developed using pubs, have on improving rural communities and group of the Institute of Grocers and including: shops, school meals, post offices, put these thoughts into action.
Through one Distributors IGD Employability Group community centres, community cafes, such project The Princes Dairy Initiative, In 2013 we supported over 400 young keep fit, library services, allotments, play chaired by Lyndsay Chapman, our Director people in their quest to get a job areas, take away food, cinemas, theatre, of Agriculture and Farming Communications, We held events at our Davidstow community travel, community acquisition we are continuing to work with other Creamery and Nuneaton Distribution and computer training.
businesses to help the most vulnerable, Centre Of these projects Dairy Crest is non-aligned, dairy farmers become more We co-hosted over 30 sessions with particularly proud of the rural community economically viable.
Since we successfully Sainsburys, Asda and Marks & Spencer shops we have helped fund in pubs in completed the pilot with 74 dairy farms in the South West of England facilities that 2012 we have continued to make progress In September 2013 we set up a new provide isolated communities with access to on our target of helping a further 300 farms employability steering group to ensure that locally produced food and household goods.
by 2016. going forward we continue to focus on the skills gaps needed for both Dairy Crest 2.
Promoting healthy living The Princes Countryside Fund and food manufacturing as a whole.
With a significant catering and residential Working alongside HRH the Prince of Wales delivery business Foodservice and and a handful of other businesses, Dairy 4.
Engaging with local communities milk&more in 2012 we were proud to Crest helped set up the Princes Countryside The fourth strand of our community strategy become the first company to support Fund the purpose of which is to: improve is our Local Community programme which Elmbridge Councils Meals on Wheels the sustainability of British farming and rural is owned and run by our staff.
Through this programme delivering much needed, hot, communities, target the areas of greatest programme any employee can put forward fresh meals to vulnerable people in our local need: reconnect consumers with the a good cause they would like the Company community.
countryside and to support farming and to support either through money, a product The support we give this programme rural crisis charities through a dedicated donation or volunteering.
Over the course of was highlighted in September 2013 when emergency funding stream.
The latter 2013 14 Dairy Crest staff supported over 110 staff from our Claygate office were filmed of which was of particular importance good causes.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 27 Strategic report Performance continued financial review Revenue Product group Adjusted earnings m profit per share m pence 10 11 12 13 14 10 11 12 13 14 10 11 12 13 14 Before exceptional items Before exceptional items, Overview and amortisation of amortisation of acquired acquired intangibles: intangibles and pension the sale of our french spreads business, includes associates interest St Hubert, in august 2012 significantly reduced levels of Group borrowings and has enabled us Total dividends Gearing Cash generated per share % from operations to increase investment in our core uK business pence m this year.
this investment, targeted at areas of growth opportunity and cost efficiency will help drive growth in future years.
the three main areas of capital investment are: A new demineralised whey capability atDavidstow to take advantage of high global growth in added value whey protein products Increased FRijj capacity and capability atSevernside to drive the brand in a growing category 10 11 12 13 14 10 11 12 13 14 10 11 12 13 14 Expansion of our spreads site at Kirkby Before exceptional items, amortisation of acquired to enable the closure of Crudgington intangibles, share of associates and discontinued in2014 operations Group profits have benefited this year from Net debt history Net debt m left scale Net debt EBITDA reduced interest charges following the St Hubert 500 3.0 multiples right scale sale and the early repayment of loan notes in 450 april 2013. furthermore, we had higher than 2.5 400 usual profits from the sale of surplus depots due to the gain of 15.3 million on the sale of a site in 350 2.0 nine elms, Battersea.
the trading environment 300 remains challenging as milk input costs have 250 1.5 increased by over 40 million in the year and 200 consumers real incomes remain under pressure, 1.0 150 however we have continued to focus on cost reduction and on our key brands in order to 100 0.5 maintain margins.
exceptional costs of 4.4 million have been charged Spreads 177.4 194.5 17.1 8.8 in the year being redundancy and restructuring costs.
no further Dairies 944.8 951.6 6.8 0.7 exceptional costs will be incurred in 2014 15.
Other 4.2 4.2 Total external revenue 1,391.0 1,381.6 9.4 0.7 in december 2013 we announced the closure of Proper Welsh milk, a processing facility in Wales.
in march 2014, we announced following our major reorganisation at the start of the financial year a strategic review of foodtec uK Limited, an ingredients plant which removed the divisional structure, we have assessed that near crewe.
in line with Group policy, the costs of closure of the Group has only one reporting segment in accordance with these sites, which are predominantly non-cash write-downs, have the requirements of ifrS 8.
However, we have chosen to provide been classified as exceptional.
in total, the exceptional costs in product group analysis consistent with prior years to assist the relation to the closure of these peripheral elements of the dairies users of the accounts.
manufacturing base amounted to 2.0 million.
Group revenue increased by 0.7% to 1,391.0 million, a small 0.2 million adjustment to the exceptional finance charges predominantly as a result of increased revenues in the cheese accrued in 2012 13 was made during the year.
this relates to the business as volumes rose and selling prices increased reflecting early repayment of loan notes completed in april 2013. higher milk costs.
Spreads revenue decreased by 8.8% as we promoted less butter for much of the year in an environment Finance costs where cream prices were high and utterly Butterly volumes finance costs have reduced by 8.8 million to 9.9 million.
dairies revenues decreased slightly reflecting levels of thisprimarily reflects the reduction in net debt following the sale decline in our residential business.
of St Hubert in august 2012 and the further benefit from the early repayment of loan notes in april 2013 which removed the inefficiency of holding excess levels of cash on the balance sheet.
2014 2013 change change Product group profit m m m % Cheese 39.3 33.1 6.2 18.7 other finance expenses of 0.3 million 2013: 3.5 million Spreads 16.8 25.5 8.7 34.1 comprise the net expected return on pension scheme assets Dairies 18.8 9.8 9.0 91.8 after deducting the interest cost on the defined benefit obligation.
Share of associate 0.3 0.3 n a following changes to iaS 19 that took effect from 1 april 2013, Total product group profit 75.2 68.4 6.8 9.9 the expected return on assets is calculated by reference to the Remove share of discount rate applied to scheme liabilities rather than assumed associate rates of return on asset classes held by the pension scheme.
Prior 0.3 0.3 n a year amounts have been restated and further details are set out in Acquired intangible note 20 to the accounts.
amortisation 0.4 0.4 n a Group profit on other finance expenses are dependent upon the pension scheme operations position at 31 march each year and are volatile, being subject to pre-exceptionals 74.5 68.0 6.5 9.6 market conditions.
We therefore exclude this item from headline Product group profit increased by 6.8 million to 75.2 million adjusted profit before tax.
driven by a strong performance in cheese and a higher than usual level of property profits in dairies.
our Spreads business interest cover excluding pension interest, calculated on total had a challenging year as the category declined overall and we product group profit, remains comfortable, at 7.6 times 2013: 3.7 promoted less butter.
However, our plans to close crudgington in times.
2014 are on track and this will deliver cost savings in 2014 15.
2014 2013 change change Profit before tax m m m % following changes to iaS 19 that took effect from 1 april 2013, the Group recognises pension scheme administrative expenses Total product group profit 75.2 68.4 6.8 9.9 within operating costs.
all prior year amounts have been restated Finance costs 9.9 18.7 8.8 47.1 accordingly and further details are set out in note 20 to the Adjusted profit before tax 65.3 49.7 15.6 31.4 accounts.
the table above quotes profit after pension scheme Amortisation of acquired administrative expenses of 1.0 million 2013: 0.9 million.
intangibles 0.4 0.4 Exceptional items 10.4 56.5 46.1 81.6 Exceptional items Other finance expense Pre-tax exceptional charges of 10.4 million have been recorded in pensions 0.3 3.5 3.2 91.4 the year 2013: 56.5 million.
Reported profit loss before tax 54.2 10.7 64.9 n a in September 2012 we announced the closure of the crudgington site with production moving to Kirkby.
this project, now nearing adjusted profit before tax before exceptional items and completion, will generate significant savings in future years.
amortisation of acquired intangibles increased by 31% to exceptional costs of 3.8 million have been recorded in the 65.3million.
this is one of managements key Group profit year, the majority of which are non-cash asset write-downs.
the reported profit before tax of 54.2 million cash expenditure in the year was 2.4 million.
We expect further represents a significant improvement from 2013 10.7 million loss exceptional costs of approximately 8.0 million in 2014 15 as this reflecting improved profit before tax and significantly lower levels project comes to an end.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 29 Strategic report Performance | financiaL revieW continued Taxation following discussions with the trustee a new schedule of the Groups effective tax rate on profits from continuing contributions was signed in march 2014. the trustee has operations excluding exceptional items was 14.6% 2013: 20.1%.
recognised that investments we are making in the business the effective tax rate continues to be below the headline rate of are expected to improve the covenant strength in future years uK corporation tax due to the property profit income stream, on and as a consequence the level of cash contributions has been which the tax charges are sheltered by brought forward capital reduced over the next three years.
for 2014 15 and 2015 16 losses or roll over relief.
the higher level of property profits this cash contributions will total 13 million per annum and in 2016 17 year has reduced the effective rate of tax but we expect the will total 16 million.
no further security has been granted to the effective tax rate to increase next year to approximately 18%.
trustee to support this position.
future decreases in the rate of uK corporation tax to 20% were the biggest threat to future levels of cash contribution is the enacted in 2013 and the one-off impact that this has on deferred relatively high proportion of risk assets held by the scheme tax balances has been classified as exceptional.
excluding insurance policies, in an exceptional tax credit of 1.9 million in the year ended 31 approximately 75% of scheme assets are currently held in equities march 2014. or other risk asset classes.
the main focus of both the trustee and the Group over the coming years is further to reduce pension Group result for the year risk by reducing the proportion of equities to which the scheme is the reported Group profit for the year amounted to 50.2 million exposed.
the latest funding plan assumes a full funding position 2013: 46.6 million.
the 2013 result included discontinued within six years, based on company contributions reverting to 20 operations in relation to St Hubert: both profits for the period to million per annum from 2017 18 and the proportion of risk assets august 2012 and the gain on disposal of the business.
However, the level of contribution for 2017 18 and beyond and the recovery period will be reassessed at Earnings per share the next triennial actuarial valuation in march 2016 and changes to the Groups adjusted basic earnings per share from continuing this plan will be made accordingly based on actual performance of operations increased by 39% to 40.8 pence per share 2013: 29.4 the scheme.
this reflects improved operating profits and reduced interest costs benefiting from the loan note repayments the reported iaS19 pension liability at 31 march 2014 was 57.7 made in april 2013. million comprising an iaS 19 deficit of 47.6 million and a 10.1 million additional liability reflecting an unrecoverable notional Basic earnings per share from continuing operations, which surplus that is required to be recognised under ifric 14. the includes the impact of exceptional items, pension interest expense reported deficit at 31 march 2013 was 67.2 million.
asset returns and the amortisation of acquired intangibles, amounted to 35.8 were strong during the year, however, corporate bond yields pence per share 2013: 5.9 pence loss per share.
declined as investor demand for corporate bonds picked up as the global economic outlook improved.
Dividends We are committed to a progressive dividend policy and have Cash flow delivered against that policy in the year ended march 2014. the cash used in operations was 13.8 million in the year 2013: cash proposed final dividend of 15.4 pence per share represents a generated 19.1 million.
this includes a working capital outflow 0.4 pence per share increase compared to last year.
together with of 22.6 million 2013: 40.0 million outflow due mainly to the the interim dividend of 5.9 pence per share this brings the total higher value of cheese stocks compared to march 2013 167.2 dividend to 21.3 pence per share for the full year, 2.9% higher million in march 2014 versus 155.5 million last year.
Stock value than last year 2013: 20.7 pence per share.
the final dividend will increases are a result of increased manufacturing to support future be paid on 7 august 2014 to shareholders on the register on volume growth and milk cost increases during 2013. furthermore, 4 July 2014. the cash outflow from operations includes 20.8 million of exceptional items 2013: 29.9 million and the 40 million one-off dividend cover of 1.9 times is within the target range of 1.5 to 2.5 cash contribution to the pension scheme.
capital expenditure of 58.8 million was 7.9 million higher than Pensions last year 2013: 50.9 million.
Significant investment has been following the sale of St Hubert, the Group entered into made at our spreads manufacturing site, Kirkby, to accommodate discussions with the Pension fund trustee about the impact of production of spreads following the closure of crudgington early loan note repayments.
consequently, on 18 april 2013 the planned for 2014.
We invested in our frijj capacity and capability Group made an additional one-off cash contribution to the fund at Severnside to support future brand growth and substantial of 40 million.
at the same time the Group granted the trustee a investment has already been incurred at our cheese creamery floating charge over maturing cheese inventories, with a maximum indavidstow in relation to the demineralised whey production, realisable value of 60 million.
this charge was put in place to albeit we have spent less in the year to march 2014 than was protect the fund in the unlikely event of an insolvency of dairy originally anticipated.
Proceeds from the sale of depots amounted to 25.1 million during the year, the Group paid 20 million cash contributions including 17.6 million from the sale of our nine elms depot into the closed defined benefit pension scheme in line with the in Battersea.
in addition, certain frijj capital expenditure was schedule of contributions agreed in June 2011. the latest full funded through equipment finance resulting in a cash inflow of actuarial valuation was performed at 31 march 2013 and resulted 7.4million.
financing was for six years at fixed rates of interest in an actuarial deficit of 145 million 105 million after taking and allowed us to take advantage of attractive longer term funding account of the 40 million one-off contribution paid in april 2013. rates in the absence of any required refinancing in the next 12months.
30 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 cash interest amounted to 14.0 million 2013: 18.0 million on 14 april 2014, we completed the sale of a depot in Surbiton, and tax refunds totalled 2.1 million resulting from high levels Surrey for proceeds of 5.4 million resulting in a profit on disposal of restructuring charges, pension contributions and capital of 4.9 million.
expenditure in previous years 2013: tax payments 4.7 million.
Treasury policies Looking ahead, our ambition is to generate strong free cash the Group operates a centralised treasury function, which controls flows.
Higher conversion of profits into cash will be helped in cash management and borrowings and the Groups financial risks.
the future by: lower levels of cash exceptionals: reduced capital the main treasury risks faced by the Group are liquidity, interest expenditure in our existing business: lower pension contributions: rates and foreign currency.
the Group only uses derivatives to and lower working capital requirements following two years of milk manage its foreign currency and interest rate risks arising from costinflation.
underlying business and financing activities.
transactions of a speculative nature are prohibited.
the Groups treasury activities capital expenditure in our core business will reduce in 2014 15 are governed by policies approved and monitored by the Board.
to approximately 35 million and we expect to spend a further these policies are summarised in note 30 to the financial 35 million completing our investment in demineralised whey statements.
Going concern Net debt the financial statements have been prepared on a going concern net debt increased by 82 million to 142 million at the end of the basis as the directors are satisfied that the Group has adequate year albeit it reduced by 50 million in the second half of the year.
financial resources to continue its operations for the foreseeable the opening net debt of 60 million did not include the costs of future.
in making this statement, the Groups directors have: the april 2013 one-off pension contribution 40 million or the cost reviewed the Group budget, strategic plans and available facilities: of loan note repayments 9 million.
have made such other enquiries as they considered appropriate: and have taken into account Going concern and Liquidity risk: net debt as defined includes the fixed Sterling equivalent of Guidance for directors of uK companies 2009 published by the foreign currency loan notes subject to swaps and excludes financial reporting council in october 2009. further information unamortised facility fees.
at 31 march 2014, gearing being the is presented in the directors report on page 63. ratio of net debt to shareholders funds was 49% 2013: 19%.
Tom Atherton finance director Borrowing facilities 21 may 2014 at the start of the financial year, the Groups borrowing facilities comprised: 330 million of loan notes at the effective swapped exchange rate maturing between april 2013 and november 2021, and a 170 million plus 150 million revolving credit facility expiring in october 2016. on 4 april 2013, 60 million of notes from the 2006 series which the Strategic report from pages 4 to 31 has been approved by the had reached their maturity were repaid.
Board and is signed on its behalf by on 18 april 2013, a further 100 million of loan notes were repaid Robin Miller company Secretary & General counsel.
of these notes, the majority 69 million 21 may 2014 were due for repayment in april 2014 with the balance due in april 2017. this has reduced the Groups future interest payments.
the repayment was effected by exercising the Groups right to early redemption on payment of a make-whole premium.
following these repayments, the Group has 170 million of notes outstanding which mature between 2014 and 2021. a further 25 million of notes matured in april 2014 funded from the revolving credit facility.
in 2013 the Group also reduced its revolving credit facility by 60 million to 170 million plus 90 million approximately 244 million.
Borrowing facilities are subject to covenants which specify a maximum ratio of net debt to eBitda of 3.5 times and a minimum interest cover ratio of 3.0 times.
the Group remains very comfortably within its covenants with a net debt to eBitda ratio of 1.3 times as of 31 march 2014 march 2013: 0.6 times.
Post balance sheet events on 16 may 2014, we completed the sale of our 30% shareholding in Wexford creamery Limited for 3.4 million 2.8 million.
at 31 march 2014, the net carrying value totalled 2.1 million comprising share of associates, deferred consideration and valuation of options net of contract provisions.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 31 Strategic report
