oUR bUSineSS moDeL Making the most from milk Cheese & whey Raw milk Cheese Cheese Dairies and Spreads Packaged milk Whey Cream Dairies Butter Retail Dairy Crest is the largest UK-owned dairy food Residential company.
Our business depends on milk and we make sure we use every drop we buy.
This diagram Middle ground shows how milk flows through our business and the Skimmed milk products we make from it.
powder We have three product groups: Cheese & whey, Spreads & butters and Dairies.
Potted cream Cream for manufacturing Buttermilk Bulk butter Spreads & butter Packet butter Milk Procurement Cheese & whey Spreads & butters Dairy spreads A sustainable supply of high We process over 400 million Our Spreads & butters quality milk is important to litres of milk into cheese each operation makes butter and Dairy Crest.
We buy 1.9 year: which is all sourced direct dairy spreads from cream billion litres each year from dairy farmers in Devon separated from the milk around 1 litre in every 6 and Cornwall and turned into processed by our Dairies produced in Great Britain.
cheddar cheese at our operations and vegetable oil.
Currently we dry the whey that is produced as a by-product of making cheese and sell it to food manufacturers.
In future we plan to make demineralised whey powder a key ingredient in infant formula.
4 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 Cheese & whey Raw milk Cheese Cheese Dairies and Spreads Packaged milk Whey Cream Dairies Butter Retail Residential Middle ground Skimmed milk powder Potted cream Cream for manufacturing Buttermilk Bulk butter Spreads & butter Packet butter Dairies Dairy spreads Our Dairies operations process purchased for our Dairies around 1.4 billion litres of milk operations is sold in liquid form, each year.
Most is sourced through UK retailers, middle direct from dairy farmers ground customers ranging across the southern half of from coffee shops to hospitals, England and Wales.
Milk and direct to consumers production is seasonal with doorsteps by our milkmen.
more being produced in the Todays consumers prefer to spring, but because our drink lower fat varieties of milk consumers want to drink the so we separate the cream and same amount every day, we sell it or churn it into butter.
turn any surplus milk we have Our Dairies operations also into skimmed milk powder and produces a range of potted butter.
Over 90% of the milk cream for consumers to enjoy.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 5 Strategic report
