BoArD oF DirECTors AnD ADvisErs Dairy Crest is led by an experienced Board of Directors, which today comprises three Executive Directors, one nonexecutive Chairman and four independent non-executive Directors.
Together the Executive Directors have over 30 years experience of the business.
The Board sets strategy and monitors progress.
Dayto-day matters are the responsibility of the Management Board, which today comprises the three Executive Directors, the Company secretary & General Counsel and three other senior managers.
Anthony Fry Chief Executive Finance Director Chairman Appointed a Director in 2002 and became Chief Appointed May 2013.
A Chartered Accountant Appointed as a Non-executive Director in July Executive in January 2007.
He joined Dairy Crest who has worked for Dairy Crest for over 8 years.
2007, as Chairman on 1 January 2010 and as in August 1991.
He was formally with Shell UK Prior to his appointment to the Board he served Chairman of the Nomination Committee in May Ltd.
He is Chairman of the BITC South West as Director of Financial Control.
Until March 2011 he was Senior Adviser Regional Advisory Board and a Trustee for The held senior finance positions in Logica plc and of Evercore Partners in the firms London office.
He is Vice Chairman of Thorn plc.
He has previously held senior appointments Dairy UK and a Non-Executive Director of Howden at Lehman Brothers, Credit Suisse and the Joinery Group Plc.
Rothschild Group in a career in merchant banking 3.
Martyn Wilks which has spanned more than 30 years.
In Executive Managing Director November 2010 he was appointed Chairman Appointed in January 2008.
He was President of of Cala Group Limited and in November 2012 the Snackfood Division of Mars USA, and has held he was appointed Senior Adviser to the Board other senior management positions within Mars of Espirito Santo Investment Bank.
He became Incorporated including Managing Director of Mars, Chairman of the Premier League on 1 June France, and Global Vice President for Sales and 2013 and is a Non-executive Director of Control Marketing.
Martyn is also currently an Appointed Risks and of Twig Europe.
He is on a number of Non-executive Director of England Netball, the advisory boards and has served on the boards governing body for the sport.
of Mowlem, The British Standards Institution and Southern Water as well as numerous not-for-profit organisations.
Anthony Fry was taken ill early in March 2014 and has been unable to work since then.
At the time of writing this Annual Report he is on sickleave.
32 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 2 3 6 7 5. richard Macdonald 7.
Andrew Carr-Locke Audit Committee Member Acting Chairman non-Executive Director remuneration Committee Member nomination Committee Member Richard Macdonald has assumed the role of Appointed as a Non-executive Director and Acting Chairman and acting member and Acting Chairman of the Audit Committee in August 2009.
Corporate responsibility Committee Chairman of the Nomination Committee since A Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Member Anthony Fry was taken ill in March 2014.
Accountants, he has previously held senior finance Management Board Member Appointed as a Non-executive Director in positions at Courtaulds Textiles, Diageo, Bowater # not a Board Member November 2010, Chairman of the Corporate Scott and Kodak and was Group Finance Director Responsibility Committee in May 2011 and Senior at George Wimpey plc until 2007.
More recently Independent Director in May 2012.
He had a he was Executive Chairman of Countryside 30 year career with the National Farmers Union, Properties.
He has previously held Non-executive serving as Director General for 13 years.
He is a directorships at Royal Mail Holdings, Venture Non-executive Director of Moy Park Limited and Production and AWG.
until April 2014 was Chairman of DEFRAs Better Regulation Task Force.
He is a Governor of The 8. sue Farr Royal Agricultural University Cirencester, Vice non-Executive Director Chairman of the National Institute of Agricultural Appointed as a Non-executive Director in Botany and became Chairman of Farm Africa in November 2011.
He joined the board of the Environment Executive Management Team of Chime Agency on 1 June 2013.
Communications PLC, a position she has held since 2003.
She has extensive marketing 6. stephen Alexander communications experience, having served as non-Executive Director Marketing Director of the BBC for 7 years, Director Appointed as a Non-executive Director in of Corporate Affairs, Thames Television for 3 January 2011 and Chairman of the Remuneration years and Director of Corporate Communications, Committee in May 2012.
He is Chairman of Vauxhall Motors.
She was a Trustee of the Immediate Media Company Ltd, an Operating Historic Royal Palaces until April 2013, is a NonAuditor Corporate Brokers Partner at OpCapita LLP and Chairman of Look executive Director of Motivcom plc and was Ernst & Young LLP J. P. Morgan Ahead Care and Support.
Previously Chairman appointed a Non-executive Director and member Cazenove of Maltby Capital Ltd parent company of EMI of the remuneration committee of Millennium & Solicitors Eversheds LLP Jefferies Hoare Group, Chairman of Odeon Cinemas, Chief Copthorne Hotels plc on 12 December 2013.
Govett Executive of Hillsdown Holdings Ltd and held Principal Bankers senior positions with Allied Domecq PLC and 9. robin Miller The royal Bank of Registered Office Imperial Foods.
He was also Senior Independent scotland plc Claygate House, Company secretary & General Director at Devro plc.
Littleworth road, Counsel # rabobank Esher, surrey international, Appointed in April 2008.
He is a solicitor having KT10 9Pn London Branch worked in private practice and in-house in both Registered in England retail and international manufacturing, latterly with Lloyds TsB plc no.
santander UK plc Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 33 Governance
