oUR STRATeGy Dairy Crest has a clear Our vision strategy.
We have also We are proud of our links to We want to earn consumers created a strong vision the countryside, our dairy loyalty by providing healthy, and robust values for the heritage and the part they enjoyable, convenient products play in everyday life business which underpin all we do.
Our strategy Progress 2013 14 We constantly innovate, bringing new products to market and Cathedral City continued its strong performance and again significantly outperformed the market.
It is now new ways of working across the 1 To build market-leading Britains 18th largest grocery brand Source: The business.
Grocer, March 2014. positions in branded and We also made progress with Country Life added value markets Spreadable, although Clover, FRijj and Country Life We aim to generate cash and block butter all lost market share.
reward shareholders with a Frylight one calorie cooking spray, a brand we progressive dividend.
acquired in 2011 12, is making good progress.
We have identified and committed to invest 45 million to start manufacturing demineralised whey During the year we have refined powder, adding value to the whey we produce as a our key performance indicators by-product of cheese manufacture.
These KPIs are also used as Projects initiated in the year have delivered annual benefits of 25 million ahead of our 20 million measures for our Long Term 2 To focus on cost target.
Alignment Plan LTAP for reduction and efficiency Greatest cost savings have arisen from the reorganisation of the business into One Dairy Crest.
improvements This reorganisationwas completed early in the year See pages 59 to 60 for more and combined our Foods and Dairies businesses into one management and operating structure.
us to have anintegrated supply chain and will lead to further efficiencies and greater focus on the consumer.
We have also made savings by on-going closure of depots, increased use of lighter polybottles for milk and reduced distribution costs.
Since last years disposal of St Hubert we have not identified any suitable acquisition opportunities and 3 To improve quality of are investing in our existing business which has lower earnings and reduce risk execution risk.
The demineralised whey project will also give us access to new markets.
We have also introduced innovative milk purchasing contracts where prices are calculated based on a formula.
This adds predictability for both us and the dairy farmers who supply us.
We continue to simplify the business and have sold Operational performance pages 17 to 22 our depot based business in the North West of 4 To generate organic England.
We have also shut Proper Welsh Milk and are carrying out a strategic review of FoodTec.
growth and make acquisitions and disposals where they will generate value Financial performance page 28 Corporate responsibility performance page 23 Our values See how we make The most from milk through our integrated business model pages 4 and 5 WE LISTEN WE CREATE Consumers are at the heart of our We constantly look for new and Further details of our LTAP pages 52 business better ways of doing things and 53 6 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 Our vision We aim to meet As we grow, we look after our consumers needs and people and the communities go where this takes us where we work Our strategy Future priorities Key performance indicators and performance in the year ended 31 March 2014 We continue to seek to grow our four key brands DeLiVeR progressive dividends with cover between 1.5 and 2.5 times 31 March 2013: and will support them with television advertising.
Wewill also keep bringing out new innovations.
This will be focused around making our brands In the year ended 31 March 2014 the Board is recommending a total dividend up 3%.
This healthier, without compromising on taste and improving the packaging so that we give is covered 1.9 times.
consumers a choice of sizes and make our brands more convenient for them.
GRoW earnings before, interest, tax and depreciation adjusted EBITDA and adjusted We expect further progress from Frylight which profit before tax adjusted PBT.
In the year ended 31 March 2014 adjusted EBITDA is up plays to the healthy and convenient drivers.
7% andadjusted PBT up 31% 31 March 2013: adjusted EBITDA unchanged: adjusted We expect to complete the demineralised whey PBT 7%.
investment in 2014 15 and that this project will generate an additional 5 million annual profit from 2015 16.
DeLiVeR an acceptable return on capital employed ROCE.
We expect to benefit from lower spreads ROCE for the year ended 31 March 2014 was 13.8%, ahead of the long term target of 12% manufacturing costs as we consolidate production 31 March 2013: 13.3%.
at Kirkby and close Crudgington.
Our focus remains on reducing the cost of moving mAinTAin net debt EBITDA within a range 1 2 times.
milk through the supply chain and we have several initiatives underway to do this.
At 31 March 2014 net debt EBITDA was 1.3 times 31 March 2013: 0.6 times.
Following the One Dairy Crest reorganisation we will continue to integrate our planning to reduce wastage and deliver improved customer service.
GRoW our four key brands ahead of the market.
In the year ended 31 March 2014 only one of our four key brands grew ahead of the market 31 March 2013: three key brands in growth.
As residential sales decline we will continue to Cost reduction projects initiated in the year ended 31 March 2014 have delivered annual manage the associated costs and use property benefits of 25 million, ahead of our annual target of 20 million 31 March 2013: 23 sales to mitigate any associated impact on profits.
We will continue to develop milk contracts that reduce risk.
ACHieVe revenue targets for products developed in the last 3 years.
We have agreed with the Pension Scheme Trustee to reduce the schemes exposure to higher risk In the year ended 31 March 2014 around 4% of our total revenue and 7% of our key brand assets.
revenue has come from such sales against a target of 10% 31 March 2013: 5% of total revenue: 9% of key brand revenue.
We will continue to assess investment imPRoVe corporate responsibility measures.
opportunities and make disposals where Under a new marking system, we have been awarded 4.5 stars by Business in the appropriate.
Community and areits highest ranked UK business 31 March 2013 BITC Platinum Big Since the year end we have further simplified the Tick Award.
business by selling our remaining 30% stake in Wexford Creamery Limited.
We are confident that we can generate profit growth in all three of our product groups over the medium term.
We also expect to increase free cashflow.
There is a more detailed review of our performance against KPIs on pages 59 and 60 Our values WE LEAD WE RESPECT WE CARE We value success and We value our people and are stronger We act responsibly with a passion strive to be the best together to do the right thing Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 7 S St tr rat ate eg giic c r re epor port t
