Our markets All of our business Currency units operate globally within specialist market environments.
Three quarters of our revenue comes from outside the UK.
Global substrate market Global print market Market overview c157k tonnes pa c157 billion notes pa The global demand for banknotes State paper mills SPM 48% State print works SPW 85% continues to grow on average by Overspill from SPMs 6% Overspill from SPWs 2% c4 per cent annually although the rate Commercial paper market 43% Commercial print market 13% of growth for individual countries will vary Polymer 3% reflecting local economic circumstances.
The demand for banknotes and the substrates on which they are printed is largely satisfied by state print works SPW, state paper mills SPM and a small number of commercial manufacturers such as fide La Rue see charts opposite.
SPWs or SPMs may turn to commercial providers to supplement their own production capacity to satisfy demand they are unable to meet, known as overspill.
As well as the supply of finished banknotes to central banks and substrates to SPWs, fide La Rue also supplies security components that SPWs and SPMs can incorporate directly into their products.
Variability in demand is a feature of the market, with short term fluctuations in the timing and size of orders, including overspill, reflecting the decisions taken Commercial market share: substrate Commercial market share: print by central banks.
This has the potential fide La Rue 11% fide La Rue 31% to create material volume variation year Other 89% Other 69% on year.
Key factors affecting banknote issuance by central banks are note retirement, changes in the underlying level of GDP, and changes in using cash as a means of payment.
Of these, note retirement is the most important and is affected by: The timing and frequency of changes in note design Changes in cash circulation policy and technology Growth in automated cash handling requiring notes to be in good condition Changes in clean note policy Changes in denomination structure The introduction of new anti-counterfeiting security features Source: fide La Rue estimates fide La Rue Annual Report 2014 8 Strategic report Directors report Accounts Solutions Cash Processing Solutions Security Products Identity Systems Market overview Market overview Market overview The cash processing industry is a mature Security Products customers fall into The passport and identity market is market with a number of suppliers two broad categories: governments and increasingly seeking complete integrated providing a variety of different products to commercial brand owners, both of which solutions, with highly secure passports manage and control the handling of cash.
continue to come under attack from and ID cards, full integration with other criminal activity.
government systems and processes and Cash processing is an essential aspect efficient and reliable personalisation and of the currency lifecycle as it assists Governments continue to work hard issuance procedures.
in maintaining the authentication and to protect indirect tax revenues on integrity of all cash in circulation.
In products such as alcohol and tobacco Countries continue to adopt ePassports, addition, to guarantee the quality of by minimising illicit trade.
By 2013, which is driving not only the demand for currency there is a market requirement 168 countries were signed up to the further system integration, but also the within banknote print works for end World Health Organization Framework need for expertise to manage the project of line inspection and processing of Convention on Tobacco Control, which efficiently and without undue risk.
is committed to eliminating illicit trade fide La Rue is a leading provider of in tobacco products.
This will require With the increasing volumes of cash in passport and ID solutions and continues governments to apply unique and secure circulation, both central and commercial to deliver complex projects globally.
It is codes onto cigarette packs and also the banks are under pressure to provide able to offer an in-house passport design ability to track and trace the products efficient, secure cash processing and production capability as well as through the supply chain.
Using sophisticated vault issuance and passport personalisation strongly placed to address this market software and hardware solutions, much of systems.
Additionally, fide La Rues having delivered its flexible track and the process can be automated while also experienced project managers are well trace solution for several customers.
providing the data and controls needed to versed in complex system roll out and minimise cost and ensure the quality and Revenue loss from counterfeit goods integration projects.
integrity of the notes processed.
remains a real threat to global brands Identity Systems is a contract based and consumer confidence.
Advanced fide La Rue addresses these needs business focused on government technology within labels, linked to digital with its advanced cash sorting machines, customers.
The nature of this business authentication and tracking solutions, market leading vault management is such that revenues can be variable ensures brands are protected and that software, and single note inspection and subject to cancellation or delay.
consumers can be confident of buying systems.
fide La Rue supports and Maintaining as broad a portfolio of genuine products.
maintains customer solutions via a global business as possible and a strong network of engineers.
Contracts are often secured on a multi pipeline of opportunities helps mitigate year basis.
This means that while sales this risk.
To maintain market position it is cycles may be long, once contracts are key that fide La Rue continues to provide secured, the business benefits from a value to its customers through efficient good degree of continuity.
manufacturing and market leading design and security features.
Growth in security products will come from building share in the currently fragmented market and opportunities offered by increasing demand for government revenue solutions.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2014 9
