Strategic report Directors report Accounts Other statutory information Introduction Political donations Statement of Directors responsibilities fide La Rue plc is incorporated as a public The Groups policy is not to make any in respect of the annual report and the limited company, is registered in England political donations and none were made financial statements and Wales under the Companies Act 1985 during the year.
The Company will propose The Directors are responsible for preparing with registered number 3834125 and has to shareholders at this years AGM that the the annual report and the Group and its registered office at fide La Rue House, precautionary authority granted at the 2013 Parent Company financial statements Jays Close, Viables, Basingstoke, AGM, pursuant to the Companies Act in accordance with applicable law Hampshire, RG22 4BS.
2006, be renewed and details are included and regulations.
Dividends Company law requires the Directors An interim dividend of 14.1p was paid Essential contracts or other to prepare Group and Parent Company on 8 January 2014 in respect of the half arrangements financial statements for each financial year ended 28 September 2013 and The Group has a number of suppliers of year.
Under that law they are required the Directors are recommending a final key components, the loss of which could to prepare the Group financial statements dividend of 28.2p, making a total for the disrupt the Groups ability to deliver on in accordance with IFRS as adopted by year of 42.3p per share 2013 14: 42.3p time and in full.
However, none of these the EU and applicable law and have per share.
Dividend details are given in arrangements are so vital that their loss elected to prepare the Parent Company note 7 to the financial statements.
Subject would affect the viability of the Group financial statements in accordance with to approval of shareholders at the AGM on as a whole.
24 July 2014, the final dividend will be paid Branches Under company law the Directors must on 1 August 2014 to those shareholders The Group has established branches in a not approve the financial statements unless on the register on 4 July 2014. small number of different countries in which they are satisfied that they give a true and Change of control it operates.
These branches are, however, fair view of the state of affairs of the Group Contracts not material to the Groups financial results.
and Parent Company and of their profit or There are a number of contracts which loss for that period.
In preparing each of Disclosures in the strategic report allow the counterparties to alter or the Group and Parent Company financial The Board has taken advantage of section terminate those arrangements in the event statements, the Directors are required to: 414C 11 of the Companies Act 2006 of a change of control of the Company.
to include disclosures in the strategic Select suitable accounting policies and These arrangements are commercially report on: then apply them consistently sensitive and confidential and their disclosure could be seriously prejudicial Greenhouse gas emissions on page 28 Make judgements and estimates that to the Group.
are reasonable and prudent Disabled people and employee Banking facilities involvement on page 26 For the Group financial statements, The 200m credit facility between the state whether they have been prepared The future developments, performance Company and its key relationship banks in accordance with IFRS as adopted and position of the Group throughout contains a provision such that, in the event by the EU pages 1 to 28 of a change of control, any lender may, if it For the Parent Company financial so requires, notify the agent that it wishes The financial position of the Group statements, state whether applicable to cancel its commitment whereupon the on pages 13 to 19 UK Accounting Standards have been commitment of that lender will be cancelled The R&D activities of the Group followed, subject to any material and all its outstanding loans, together with on page 4 departures disclosed and explained in accrued interest, will become immediately the Parent Company financial statements due and payable.
The summary of principal risks on pages 21 to 23 The Directors are responsible for keeping Employee share plans adequate accounting records that are In the event of a change of control, In addition, notes 12, 13 and 16 to the sufficient to show and explain the Parent automatic vesting would occur in consolidated financial statements include Companys transactions and disclose accordance with the relevant scheme the Groups objectives, policies and with reasonable accuracy at any time the or plan rules.
processes for financial risk management, financial position of the Parent Company details of its cash and cash equivalents, and enable them to ensure that its financial indebtedness and borrowing facilities and statements comply with the Companies the financial instruments used for hedging Act 2006.
They have general responsibility liquidity, currency and interest rate risk.
for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a strategic report, directors report, directors remuneration report and corporate governance report that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Groups website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2014 61 Other statutory information continued Directors responsibility statement Provision of information to auditors The Directors who held office at the date The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this report confirm to the of approval of this directors report confirm best of their knowledge: that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which The Group financial statements, the Companys auditors are unaware: and prepared in accordance with IFRS as each Director has taken all the steps that adopted by the EU, give a true and fair he or she ought to have taken as a Director view of the assets, liabilities, financial to make himself or herself aware of any position and profit of the Company relevant audit information and to establish and the undertakings included in the that the Companys auditors are aware consolidation taken as a whole of that information.
The strategic report on pages 1 to 28 This confirmation is given, and should and pages 30 to 62 of the directors be interpreted, in accordance with report include a fair review of the the provisions of section 418 of the development and performance of the Companies Act 2006. business and the position of the Group and the undertakings included in the Auditors consolidation taken as a whole, together In accordance with section 489 of the with a description of the principal risks Companies Act 2006, a resolution for the and uncertainties that they face re-appointment of KPMG LLP as auditor of the Company is to be proposed at the The annual report, taken as a whole, forthcoming AGM on 24 July 2014. is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information Strategic report and directors report necessary for shareholders to assess Pages 1 to 28 inclusive consist of the the Groups performance, business strategic report and pages 30 to 62 model and strategy inclusive consist of the directors report.
These reports have been drawn up and presented in accordance with, and in reliance upon, applicable English company law and any liability of the Directors in connection with these reports shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
The strategic report and the directors report were approved by the Board on 28 May 2014.
By order of the Board Edward Peppiatt Company Secretary 28 May 2014 fide La Rue Annual Report 2014 62
