C OR P OR A T E G O V E R N A NC E D I RE C T O R S RE P O R T The Company is required by the Companies Information Location in annual report Act 2006 to include a strategic report within the directors report.
The directors report Review of the business, Market overview, Chief Executives report, ofDebenhams plc for the year ended principal risks and uncertainties and KPIs KPIs, risk review and financial review 30August 2014 therefore comprises these Strategy Business model and strategy, strategy pages and the information referred to in the ataglance table opposite, all of which are incorporated into this report by reference.
Business model Business model and strategy The contents of the directors report have Future business developments Chief Executives report, strategy been drawn up and presented in accordance ataglance with, and in reliance upon, applicable English company law and any liability of Greenhouse gas emissions Resources, relationships and sustainability thedirectors is restricted to the extent Environmental matters, employees Resources, relationships and sustainability, prescribed by the Companies Act 2006. and social, community and human directors report Profit and dividends rights issues including information The profit after tax for the financial year about the Companys policies in ending 30 August 2014 was 87.2 million relation to these matters 2013: 115.9 million adjusted for IAS 19 Employment policy for disabled Directors report revised.
The directors recommend the persons and employee engagement payment of a final dividend of 2.4 pence throughout the workforce per ordinary share, tobe paid on 9 January 2015 to members on the register at the Gender diversity of the board Corporate governance report close ofbusiness on 5 December 2014.
This, together with the interim dividend of appointed by the board holds office only themselves either for election, inthe case 1.0pence per share paid in July, gives a until the next Annual General Meeting.
ofSuzanne Harlow, or for re-election, in fullyear dividend of 3.4 pence per share.
TheCompany may, by ordinary resolution, thecase of all other directors.
A formal Directors remove any director from office.
The office evaluation of the performance of each The following persons were directors of of a director shall be vacated if s he director and of the board has been theCompany during the year ended i resigns or retires: ii becomes bankrupt or carriedout and the performance of each 30August 2014 and, unless otherwise makes an arrangement or composition with ofthem continues to be effective and to stated, at the date of this annual report: his or her creditors generally: iii becomes demonstrate commitment to his or her role.
physically or mentally incapable of acting There is more information on the evaluation Nigel Northridge asa director and may remain so for more and its outcome within the corporate Michael Sharp than three months, or by reason of his or her governance report on page 48.
Suzanne Harlow appointed 11 Dec 2013 mental health a court has made an order Simon Herrick resigned 2 Jan 2014 In addition to the indemnity provisions in that prevents the director from acting and, Dennis Millard their Articles of Association, the Company in either case, the board resolves that his or Peter Fitzgerald and other Group companies have entered her office is vacated: iv has been absent for Stephen Ingham into a direct indemnity agreement with more than six consecutive months without Martina King each of the directors and certain other the boards permission from meetings of the Mark Rolfe officers or senior employees of the Group.
board held during that period and hisor her Sophie Turner Laing These indemnities constitute qualifying alternate director ifany has not attended in indemnities for the purposes of the his or her place during that period and The membership of the board and Companies Act 2006 and remain in force at board resolves that his her office be biographical details of the directors are the date of approval of this report without vacated: and v receives a notice signed by given on pages 42 and 43.
The business any payment having been made under not less than three quarters of theother ofthe Company shall be managed by the them.
The Company also maintains directors stating that that personshould board who may exercise all the powers of directors and officers liability insurance cease to be a director.
Anyamendments to the Company, subject to the provisions of which gives appropriate cover for any legal the Companys Articles of Association may the Companies Act 2006, the Companys action brought against its directors.
be made in accordance with the Companies Articles of Association and any shareholder Act 2006 by way of special resolution.
In accordance with the No director had, during or at the end Inaccordance with the UK Corporate Companys Articles of Association, the of the year, any material interest in any Governance Code, all of our directors will directors shall be no less than two and no contract of significance in relation to the retire at the forthcoming Annual General more than 25 in number.
Directors may be Groups business.
Meeting of the Company and offer appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the board.
A director Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 78 votes or cast them all the same way.
Interests in voting rights Nomember shall be entitled to vote at any In accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6 2 a, the following investor interests have been general meeting of the Company, either in disclosed to the Company pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules as at person or by proxy, in respect of any share 30August 2014: Number Percentage held unless all moneys payable in respect Shareholder of shares of voting rights of that share have been paid.
There are no known arrangements which may restrict Schroder Investment Management 179,585,845 14.65% voting rights.
Milestone Resources Group Ltd 89,183,155 7.27% The Debenhams Retail Employee Trust The Goldman Sachs Group Inc 73,655,413 6.00% 2004 the Trust holds 473,537 ordinary Bestinver Gestin, S. A.
Any voting LSV Asset Management 59,976,652 4.89% or other similar decisions relating to the GIC Private Limited 50,069,986 4.08% shares held by the Trust would be taken by the trustees, who may take account of any Norges Bank 37,407,430 3.05% recommendations of the Company.
In accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6 2 b, the following notifications have been received Transfer of shares during the period 31 August 2014 to 10 October 2014: Number Percentage Any member may transfer all or any of his Date of notification Shareholder of shares of voting rights or her certificated shares by an instrument of transfer in any usual form or in any form Schroder Investment which the board may approve.
The board 2 September 2014 Management 167,887,912 13.69% may, in its absolute discretion, decline to Sports Direct register any instrument of transfer of a 3 October 2014 International plc 56,381,164 4.6% certificated share which is not a fully paid share although not so as to prevent asubsequent sale, cancellation or transfer.
Share buyback programme dealings in shares taking place on an The Company will only buy back shares if At the December 2013 Annual General openand proper basis.
The board may the directors believe that it is in shareholders Meeting, shareholders authorised the also refuse to register the transfer of a best interests and will increase earnings Company to purchase up to 122,651,325 certificated share where the instrument per share.
ordinary shares in the market.
There are no known on31 December 2013, the Company arrangements which may restrict the Share capital announced that the share buyback transfer of shares.
The issued share capital of the Company programme which commenced in April and the number of shares held in treasury Significant agreements 2012 would cease with immediate effect.
as at 30 August 2014 are shown in note 27 There are no significant agreements to As at 30 August 2014 the Company had to the financial statements on pages 129 which the Company is a party which take purchased 61,793,402 ordinary shares of and 130.
Inaddition to the shares trading effect, alter or terminate in the event of 0.01 pence at a total cost of 60.3 million on the London Stock Exchange, the change of control of the Company ofwhich 14,351,525 ordinary shares of Company operates a level 1 American exceptthat: 0.01pence were purchased representing depositary receipt ADR programme.
The multi-currency revolving credit 1.1% of the Companys share capital at a EachAmerican depositary share ADS facility dated 18 June 2014 contains cost of 15.1 million during 2014.
All shares represents four ordinary shares of 0.01 mandatory prepayment purchased and retained by the Company pence each.
429,108 treasury shares The terms and conditions of the 5.25% Voting rights were transferred out of treasury during the senior notes due 2021 contain a If voting on a resolution at any general year to satisfy awards granted under the requirement for the Company to make meeting of the Company is on a show of Companys share plans.
an offer to re-purchase all of the notes hands, every member present in person ata price equal to 101% of the principal Although the share buyback programme has one vote and every proxy appointed amount thereof, plus any accrued has ceased, approval will be sought from byone or more members has one vote unpaidinterest shareholders at the forthcoming Annual regardless of the number of shares held General Meeting to renew its authority to bythe shareholder or represented by the The supplier agreements with certain purchase shares in the market for a further proxy.
On a poll, every shareholder who is major cosmetic suppliers contain year.
This is a standard authority and it is present in person or by proxy has one vote termination provisions on change the Companys present intention, should for every share held by that shareholder but ofcontrol shares be bought back, for them to be a shareholder or proxy entitled to more cancelled or retained in treasury pending than one vote need not cast all his her Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 79 C OR P OR A T E G O V E R N A NC E D I R E C T OR S R E P OR T C ON T I N U E D There are no agreements providing for working times.
Any such adjustment will be Corporate governance statement compensation for directors or employees monitored and reviewed on a regular basis In accordance with the Financial Services on change of control.
Details concerning to ensure it continues to be effective.
Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rule the impact on share options and share DTR 7.2.
1, the disclosures required by Business information and key messages are awards held by directors or employees DTR 7.2.
10 are cascaded to all employees throughout the inthe event of a change of control are within the corporate governance report on business via personal briefings and email.
setout on page 66 ofthe directors pages 44 to 53 and risk review on pages 26 Briefings are also held by the Chief remuneration report.
and 27 and are therefore incorporated into Executive and members of the Executive this report by reference.
Committee to update employees on the Essential contracts performance of the Company and the Debenhams has contractual arrangements Disclosure of information Companys strategy.
The Employee with many organisations but no one toauditors Consultation Forum, which is attended by contract is so material as to be essential Each of the directors of the Company at elected representatives from stores and toour business, with the exception of the thetime when the directors report was head office, is another medium by which warehouse operators and the e-commerce approved confirms that: employees receive information on the platform provider.
a So far as the director is aware, there is no Company as well as giving employees the Employees information needed by the Companys opportunity to beconsulted on certain Debenhams directly employs some 28,000 auditors in connection with preparing their activities of thebusiness.
people in the UK, the Republic of Ireland, report of which the Companys auditors Human rights Bangladesh, Hong Kong and Denmark.
are unaware: and The Company has a number of policies in Debenhams is committed to ensuring that b s he has taken all the steps that s he place to protect and promote employee employees or applicants for employment oughtto have taken as a director in order welfare and is committed to supporting all are treated equally regardless of gender, to make herself or himself aware ofany human rights in our business operations race, ethnic or national origin, religious, information needed by the Companys and in our relationships with our suppliers political or philosophical beliefs, disability, auditors in connection with preparing and other stakeholders.
marital or civil partnership status, sexual thereport and to establish that the orientation, gender reassignment and age.
Political donations Companys auditors are aware of Through our equal opportunities policy we There were no disclosable expenses made thatinformation.
aim to create an environment that offers all during the financial year which fall within Independent auditors employees the chance to use their skills the definition of a political donation under  LLP has indicated and talent.
the Political Parties, Elections and its willingness to continue in office and a Referendums Act 2000.
It is the Groups As part of the Companys policy on resolution dealing with its re-appointment as policy not to make donations to political equality of opportunity, decisions on auditors of the Company will be proposed at organisations or independent election recruitment, training, promotion, pay terms the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
candidates or incur political expenditure.
and conditions and leavers are based solely Annual General Meeting on objective, job-related criteria and Financial instruments The Annual General Meeting of Debenhams personal competence and performance.
Debenhams does not enter into financial plc will be held at Debenhams head office, The Company seeks wherever possible to instruments for speculative trade.
10 Brock Street, Regents Place, London make reasonable adjustments to ensure Detailsoffinancial instruments entered NW1 3FG on Tuesday 9 December 2014 at that an employee who becomes disabled intofor underlying risks are set out in 2.00pm.
The notice is given, together with during the course of his or her employment note22 onpages 122 and 123 of the explanatory notes, in the booklet which is able to continue working effectively.
includes: providing equipment or altering Going concern working arrangements: providing The directors report was approved by a duly After making enquiries, the directors additional training: re-allocating on a appointed and authorised committee of the consider that the Group has adequate temporary or permanent basis some of board of directors on 23 October 2014 and resources to continue in operation for the theemployees duties to other members signedby its order by Paul Eardley, foreseeable future.
For this reason, they ofstaff: transferring the employee to a theCompany Secretary.
have adopted the going concern basis suitable alternative role: and adjusting inpreparing the financial statements.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 80
