C OR P OR A T E G O V E R N A NC E B O A RD O F D I RE C T O R S Governed with experience Nigel Northridge Michael Sharp Suzanne Harlow Dennis Millard Role: Chairman of the board since Role: Chief Executive since Role: Group Trading Director CA SA, MBA April 2010 and of the Nomination September 2011. since December 2013.
Nigel is also a Directorsince May 2010 following Key strengths: Michael is one Key strengths: Suzanne had led member of the Remuneration appointment as an independent ofthe UKs most experienced Debenhams design, buying and Committee.
non-executive director in May retailers and has spent his entire merchandising activities in the role 2006.
Dennis is also chairman Key strengths: Nigel has vast career in the industry.
He has of Group Trading Director since ofthe Remuneration Committee experience of a range of worked for Debenhams or its 2008 and was appointed to the and a member of the Nomination businesses in both an executive predecessor, the Burton Group, board in December 2013.
Michael joined has worked for Debenhams since Hespent 32 years with Gallaher Debenhams in 1997 and was 1994 and her roles have included Key strengths: As chairman Group plc including seven years as appointed to the board in 1999.
TradingDirector for Womenswear, ofanother retail company, chief executive between 2000 and He was appointed Chief Lingerie and Beauty between non-executive director of other 2007 where he drove consistent Operating Officer in 2006 and 2005 and 2008 and Buying and UKpublic companies and with and significant growth in Deputy Chief Executive in 2008.
Merchandising Director of various past experience as a finance shareholder value, ultimately Michael is an honorary professor divisions between 1999 and 2005. director, Dennis brings relevant concluding a successful sale of of Glasgow Caledonian University.
and broadexperience to his Suzanne is a member of the that business.
In addition tohis roleasSenior Independent Current external directorships: Advisory Council of the British current non-executive roles, Nigel Directorand chairman of the None.
Fashion Council and the has also served as a non-executive Remuneration Committee.
Development Council of director of Aggreko plc and BalletRambert.
Current external directorships: Thomas Cook Group plc.
Chairman of Halfords Group plc Current external directorships: Current external directorships: and Connect Group PLC formerly None.
Chairman of Paddy Power PLC Smiths News PLC, Deputy anda non-executive director Chairman of Pets at Home Group ofInchcape plc and Aer Lingus plc and a non-executive director Group plc.
Peter Fitzgerald Stephen Ingham Martina King Role: Independent non-executive Role: Independent non-executive Role: Independent non-executive director since October 2012 and a director since January 2013 director since August 2009 member of the Audit Committee.
andamember of the andamember of the Remuneration Committee.
Remuneration, Audit and Key strengths: Peters experience Nomination Committees.
as a leading e-commerce executive Key strengths: Stephen has been Martinaalso chairs the is invaluable to Debenhams as we Chief Executive Officer of Michael Sustainability Committee.
Page International plc since 2006 He is Country Sales Director for having worked for that business Key strengths: Martina has Google UK Eire having worked for since 1987.
His experience of accumulated extensive experience that business since 2007 and is also building an international business in management and marketing a member of the Digital High at Michael Page supports through holding a number of Streets Advisory Board.
From 1999 ourstrategy to expand the senior positions in marketing and to2007 Peter worked for Amazon Debenhams brand internationally.
online media including Managing both in Europe and the USA.
Current external directorships: andCapital Radio.
She has also Current external directorships: Chief Executive Officer of Michael served as a non-executive director None.
As Chief Executive isalso a member of Great Officer of Featurespace Limited, OrmondStreet Hospitals Martina also has data analytic Corporate Partnership.
Current external directorships: Chief Executive Officer of Featurespace Limited and a non-executive director of Cineworld Group plc.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 42 Mark Rolfe FCA Sophie Turner Laing Committee membership Role: Independent non-executive Role: Independent non-executive Remuneration Nomination Audit Sustainability director since October 2010. director since August 2009 and Committee Committee Committee Committee Markis also chairman of the amember of the Remuneration, Nigel Northridge AuditCommittee and a member Audit and Nomination Committees.
of the Remuneration and Michael Sharp Key strengths: Sophies Nomination Committees.
experience in management and Suzanne Harlow Key strengths: Mark is a media issues is invaluable to Dennis Millard chartered accountant and has aconsumer facing business such Peter Fitzgerald considerable financial and as Debenhams.
Until September accounting experience including 2013 she was Managing Director, Stephen Ingham 20 years spent with Gallaher Content at British Sky Martina King Group plc in various finance Broadcasting Group plc and a andexecutive roles including director of AETN UK and NGC Mark Rolfe thatof Finance Director.
He has Network International LLC.
Prior to Sophie Turner Laing also served as a non-executive joining Sky in 2003, Sophie held director of Hornby plc and The senior roles at the BBC and was a Committee member Committee chairman Sage Group plc and as chairman founder of HITEntertainment.
of Lane Clark & Peacock LLP.
Current external directorships: Current external directorships: Sophie is a trustee ofBAFTA, The Non-executive director of Barratt Media Trust and the National Film Developments plc.
Left to right: Mark Rolfe, Martina King, Suzanne Harlow, DennisMillard, Michael Sharp, Nigel Northridge, PeterFitzgerald, Sophie Turner Laing and Stephen Ingham.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 43
