O V E RVI E W MAR K E T O V E R VI E W Putting our performance in context categories increased by 14.6% source: shown in figure 3.
In June 2014 wages fell Market conditions in 2014 BRC-KPMG Retail Sales Monitor July 2014, for the first time since the recession in 2009, In the UK, market conditions remained 12month average.
despite a fall in unemployment to its lowest challenging.
The number of people visiting since 2008.
There was some recovery in Britains shops declined, as seen in figure 1 Consumers began to feel better about their subsequent months.
which shows high street footfall ona financial circumstances and so UK consumer monthly basis compared with the previous confidence started to increase during the Further, the UK remained highly competitive year.
High street locations were impacted second half of the year see figure 2.
In June and promotional as evidenced by price most by the decrease in footfall whilst out 2014 consumer confidence recorded a score deflation throughout the year, the longest of town locations generally faredbetter.
of 1, the first positive score since March period of deflation since 2006 source: 2005.
The last four months of the year saw BRC-Nielsen Shop Price Index.
Lower store footfall was in part due to the the index within a range of 0 plus or minus 2, continuing channel shift from stores to The trading environment in our prompting Nick Moon of GfK to comment: online.
The percentage of the UK total international markets was mixed.
It looks like we might be in a new period of clothing, footwear and accessories market TheDanish economy is growing but the relative stability for the index.
sold online grew from 17% in September Republic of Ireland remained difficult.
2013 to 19% in August 2014 source: Kantar However, many consumers were not feeling Ourfranchise markets generally Worldpanel market share data 24 weeks to any better off because wage growth was performedin line with the prevailing 3 August 2014, 24 weeks to 29 September lower than inflation throughout the year as economic conditions.
Total online sales in non-food Market metrics Figure 1: UK retail footfall % change versus last year 2.0 1.0 0 -1.0 -2.0 -3.0 Sep 13 Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug 14 Source: BRC Springboard Footfall Monitor Figure 2: UK consumer confidence 5.0 0 -5.0 -10.0 -15.0 Sep 13 Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug 14 Source: GfK Consumer confidence Barometer on behalf of the European Commission Figure 3: Average earnings and consumer prices annual growth rates % 5.0 2.5 0 -2.5 -5.0 Sep 13 Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul 14 Source: Ofce for National Statistics Total pay Consumer Prices Index Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 6 about value: price is still important but they endless options on how they research, buy A n i n dep en den t v ie w would rather buy fewer items and spend and have goods delivered.
Retailers have more on each for quality and longevity.
far more interaction with the customer, o f t h e U K r et ai l mark et which demands consistent levels of service Hence not every retailer is benefiting from on many more touch points.
And of course improving conditions.
With consumers social media is having an even greater From a general retail perspective, 2014 buying fewer items, volumes are down and impact on the buying process through hasso far been the best year since before this, combined with a mature market and recommendations and reviews.
The market context has relatively low growth rates, means that not is the role of the physical store has changed improved as the fragile economic recovery everyone can gain.
This is most evident in fundamentally it is now more of a step in strengthens, employment grows, the grocery sector where inflation has the buying journey, whether for inspiration, consumer sentiment improves and the slowed, shoppers are buying less, and less purchasing or collection.
housing market accelerates, releasing pent often, and are offsetting indulgences with up demand for home-related products.
value-led ranges, hitting sales and profits.
We are in an era where truly the consumer This has led to a raft of retailers floating is king.
Consumers have unlimited choice Indeed the retail landscape has changed asthey take advantage of investors and access.
They want brands that are in significantly.
Being market leader and improving attitude to the retail sector.
tune with them and their needs, inspire having the benefit of scale with stores in them and value them as customers, editing Yet there are nevertheless brakes on more locations than competitors is no the choice to fit their lifestyles, income and spending.
Despite more people in work, longer an advantage.
In retail being in tune with wage growth is still below price inflation expanded as well giving consumers a your customer is even more essential to and this, combined with high living costs greater choice of retailers within easy thrive and survive.
and the likelihood of interest rate rises and access, and of course the big disrupter has a new government in 2015, is dampening been the internet and online shopping Maureen Hinton expenditure.
Consumers have a completely sites, giving everyone access to an infinite Global Research Director different attitude to spending to that of the choice of retailers and products.
Instead of buying The buying process has become much lots of low price product and fuelling more complex with the integration of spending with credit, consumers are more online and physical stores giving shoppers considered in their buying habits.
Now it is helped to offset some of the weakness in 60% of take-home pay, non-discretionary A n i n dep en den t v ie w real wage growth, with emerging evidence spending remains at elevated levels for a that, in at least some parts of the market, significant number of households.
Higher o f t he U K ec on om y declining inflationary pressures have levels of indebtedness have also made started to boost retail sales volumes.
consumers more sensitive to potential changes in interest rates.
Having been unusually gloomy for an Over the shorter term, this discounting may unusually long time, the outlook for the The so-called cost of living crisis has have contributed to downward pressure UKconsumer has started to brighten.
resulted in consumers becoming more onmargins for retailers.
This has certainly Overthe past year, the number of people careful with their spending, shopping been the case for a number of listed retail in work has risen to record highs, the around more than they would have done companies, especially in the food retail unemployment rate has fallen back to its inthe past.
This has particularly been the space.
In non-food stores, the rate of lowest level in more than five years and real case where non-discretionary spending is downward revisions to consensus consumer spending has recovered to concerned: the striking rise of discounters estimates has actually moderated since within a whisker of pre-recession levels.
in the food retail space and, more recently, thestart of theyear.
Consumer confidence, meanwhile, is the growing market share for smaller Looking forward, diminishing slack in approaching levels last seen in the late players in the utilities industry is testament thelabour market should support some 1990s and early 2000s.
The increase in competition which recovery in earnings growth.
Coupled with this has engendered has helped to limit the Headwinds to growth still persist, however.
falling food prices and lower energy bills, extent of any price increase for consumers.
In particular, average earnings growth has the picture for household cash flow and remained extremely weak, both in absolute Consumer price inflation, which has acted discretionary spending more generally terms and relative to inflation.
The squeeze as a significant drag on growth in recent over the next couple of years in the UK is on real wages that has dogged consumers years, has fallen materially in recent likely to be one of steady improvement.
since the beginning of the financial crisis months.
In particular, inflation for nonDarren Winder persists, albeit to a lesser degree now than discretionary spending is now hovering at in the recent past.
Furthermore, at around close to zero.
This level of inflation has Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 7 In this section 10 Chief Executives report 14 Business model and strategy 16 Our strategy at a glance 18 R esources, relationships and sustainability 24 Key performance indicators 26 Risk review 28 Principal risks and uncertainties S TR A TE G Y Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 8 In this section you can read an interview with Chief Executive Michael Sharp, see how we create value through our business model and our strategy, review our KPIs, learn how we build relationships and manage scarce resources and how we approach risk.
S TR A TE G Y Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 9
