Strategic objectives Identify S T R A T E GI C R E P OR T R I S K R EV I EW Safeguarding future returns The board of Debenhams, which has Figure 1: Debenhams risk management framework overall responsibility for risk management and internal control, considers it important Strategic objectives that there should be a regular and Report systematic approach to the management of risks in order to provide assurance that define risk appetite Executive Committee Audit Committee strategic and operational goals can be met Risk reporting and the Groups reputation is protected.
define principal risks Risk management Risk identication The board has conducted a review of and risk treatment team theeffectiveness of internal controls Risk identication andissatisfied that those in place Divisions Specialist functions Risk evaluation remainappropriate.
Evaluate To support this system for internal control, the Group has a risk management framework Strategic objectives figure 1 that highlights the central role that employees can speak to the Groups Risk management team the management of risk plays in strategic anti-fraud team.
If an employee feels The risk management team is responsible planning and the successful delivery of thatthe matter is so serious it cannot be for: developing, implementing and strategic objectives and the fact that discussed in any of these ways, s he can reviewing the risk management framework thisprocess is dependent upon people contact the Company Secretary or the and process: promoting effective risk fulfilling their clearly defined roles Director of Internal Audit and Risk management at alllevels of the Group: andresponsibilities.
The Groups policy on encouraging an appropriate risk culture Roles and responsibilities whistleblowing and these methods of within the Group: liaising with other The board raising issues are published on the intranet functions that advise on specialist areas: The board is responsible for: approving and on posters.
The policy is reviewed coordinating responses where risks impact therisk management policy and related annually by the Audit Committee and any more than one area: reporting, escalating framework: setting and communicating the serious matters identified are raised with and communicating risk management Groups risk appetite and related policies: the chairman of the Audit Committee.
issues to key internal stakeholders: and setting the tone and culture for managing providing assurance regarding risk Risk management activities risk: providing strategic direction and management within theGroup.
Risk identification guidance on risk-related decision making: The team also manages corporate Risks are identified through a number ensuring that risk management processes insurance, business continuity planning, ofroutes.
These include: strategic planning are adopted across the whole Group: travel risk management and the exercises: ongoing operational reviews obtaining assurance on the effectiveness whistleblowing line, amongst other things.
bymanagement: project governance of, and compliance with, the risk processes: internal audits: control management framework: reporting on the Internal audit team environment reviews: environmental management of risk to stakeholders: and In relation to risk management, the internal scanning eg market research and signing off public disclosures relating to audit team is responsible for providing membership of industry bodies : risk and riskmanagement.
independent assessment of: the design, changesto legislation: and enterprise operation and effectiveness of the risk In addition, the Audit Committee satisfies riskmanagement best practices.
management framework and process: itself that key risks are monitored by senior management of key risks, including the In addition, an extensive review management and the internal audit plan effectiveness of the controls: reporting oftheorganisations risk universe has isfocused on high priority areas.
ofrisk and control status: and the reliability beenundertaken to verify that all key risks Heads of function of assurances provided by management.
have been identified and to ensure that Heads of function are responsible for: management has considered these as Whistleblowing identifying and evaluating the risks that partof its control environment review.
Two main routes are available to relate to their areas and activities: This organisation-wide review is facilitated employees to raise concerns over implementing appropriate controls to by the risk management team for each malpractices.
The first encourages manage risks in line with the Groups risk operating division on an ongoing employees to talk to their line manager, appetite: and taking ownership for risks cyclicalbasis.
their managers manager or, if still and controls within theirarea of concerned, to call the central human responsibility, including the use of resources team directly.
The second route segregation of duties to protect against is a confidential reporting line where management override of controls.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 26 Strategic objectives Treat All senior managers participate in this on the expected level of treatment, Performance is also reviewed by the board, exercise, including the Executive Committee.
The four Executive Committee, Audit Committee, It considers strategy, objectives and risks methods used to treat risk are: business continuity management totheir achievement together with the committee and executive health and Tolerate take no further action existing and new controls required to safetycommittee.
Treat improve or implement controls Principal risks and uncertainties Management is required to update the Transfer via insurance contract The risks detailed on pages 28 to 31 are the register with any new or emerging risks principal risks and uncertainties that may Terminate eliminate re-engineer asthey are identified.
impact the Groups ability to achieve its strategic and operational goals.
Risk reporting Risk evaluation The outputs from these processes are In order to understand the impact specific It should be noted that any system of risk collated into the risk register and linked risks would have on the Group, each risk management and internal control is together to define the principal risks faced isevaluated based on the likelihood of designed to manage rather than eliminate by the Group.
These are taken into occurrence and its severity using a risk the risk of failure to achieve business consideration when setting the annual ranking matrix figure 2 for consistency, objectives and can only provide reasonable internal audit plan.
which considers the degree of change across and not absolute assurance against one or more key performance indicators.
Individual managers are expected to material misstatement or loss.
define and analyse the reports they require Risk treatment to enhance financial and operational The risk score, derived from the risk ranking performance and to identify emerging matrix, is compared to the risk appetite risksor control failures.
matrix figure 3, which provides guidance Figure 2: Risk ranking matrix Frequency of event occurrence Event will probably occur at least once every year Frequent 4 4 16 36 64 Event will probably occur at least once every 3 years Common 3 3 12 27 48 Event will probably occur at least once every 10 years Occasional 2 2 8 18 32 Event will probably occur less than once every 10 years Unlikely 1 1 4 9 16 2 2 2 2 1 1 4 2 9 3 16 4 Low Moderate Serious Critical Severity of impact based on specified degrees of change across one or more financial or reputational key performance indicators Figure 3: Risk appetite matrix Treatment Risk acceptance Risk score Risk matrix zone Action Risk response timeframe owner Treat or Head of 1, 2, 3 or 4 Green Limited Optional tolerate 9-12 months department Treat or 8, 9 or 12 Yellow Moderate Optional tolerate 6-9 months Line director Treat, transfer Executive 16, 18 or 27 Orange Significant Yes orterminate 3-6 months Committee Treat, transfer 32, 36, 48 or 64 Red Ultimate Yes orterminate 0-3 months Board Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 27
