54 Q&A with Tony Griffin supporting materials, which all What have the key highlights for Q markets have used in order to retain the year been for DVP EU?
our market leadership position within this segment.
In the previous financial year, one of A We also launched an additional tablet the main priorities for DVP EU was strength of 1.25mg, to differentiate ensuring the smooth integration of further our offering from that of the Eurovet into the Dechra organisation generic.
Despite the aggressive and the realisation of the potential pricing strategy from this generic synergies which were identified prior entrant, we were able to maintain to the acquisition in May 2012. market share in most markets and In the financial year just ended, while have grown sales revenues by 2.0% continuing to deliver the expected during the fiscal year.
synergies, one of the most significant In recent years our Diets business achievements was the creation of a has suffered due to supply issues.
Tony Griffin new strategic plan for the enlarged During 2013 we completed an Managing Director DVP EU European business, ensuring focus extensive search for an alternative for the coming years.
With the source for our dry diets range and enlarged product portfolio, additional since quarter one 2014 the process geographic spread and combination has been started to transfer the of CAP and FAP businesses, it was production of these key products essential to set priorities within the to this new source.
During 2013 we completed ensuring continuity of supply, The plan was completed in 2013 cooperation with this new partner an extensive search for and was created over a 12 months has already delivered product quality an alternative source for period involving input from the enhancements which will help to Country Managers and senior our dry diets range and drive future growth of this business.
marketing executives within DVP since quarter one 2014 the In summary, after a relatively EU.
The most important outputs of challenging start to the year, we have this plan were the setting of long process has been started seen sales performance improve term objectives for the team, the to transfer the production in the second half and are pleased redefining of our focus therapy areas to note that growth in constant of these key products to and the identification of short to currency in the 13 markets where medium term action plans which this new source.
we now have our own sales teams should enhance the growth of the was 1% with only the Netherlands business.
Our fastest One of the key drivers in Dechras growing product was Cardisure at strategy is continued geographic 32%, which is rapidly approaching expansion.
In March of 2014 we the status of a top five product for successfully set up our own sales DVP EU, and our fastest growing organisation in Italy.
Based in Turin key focus therapy area was our our small, but professional team equine range which grew by 11% has been busy relaunching our driven by a second half recovery of extensive portfolio of both CAP and Equipalazone and a strong growth in FAP products, which were previously sales of HY50.
Find out more about our Italian Subsidiary Our most important key therapy on page 60. area in the CAP business is endocrinology.
In 2013 we were faced with the introduction of a generic version of our key product Felimazole.
As part of our defence strategy, our central marketing team created a new positioning for this product with award winning Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2014 23481.04 9 September 2014 5:04 PM Design A Strategic Report Our Performance 55 pharmaceuticals available for many What makes DVP EU unique?
Q Q years to come in order effectively to treat infectious diseases.
I believe I believe there are a number of It is early days yet: however, A A that the focus worldwide on the factors which make us stand out Riccardo Data, our Italian Country reduction of antibiotic use in food from the competition: however, I am Manager, and his team have producing animals is the strongest in convinced that most important are delivered the sales and operating the EU and that this will continue and the people that work in Dechra profit targets we had set for the first will have an effect on sales of these and the overriding culture of months of operation since 1 March products in the years to come.
The setting up of our Italian The Netherlands and Denmark have recent survey carried out among operation was an excellent team been leading the way in Europe European veterinarians we received effort, with people from across in recent years.
However, recent feedback, consistent across all Europe and from different legislation in Germany and Belgium markets, that they appreciated departments working to get the legal is pushing down usage in these Dechra as we were seen as a entity established with all regulatory markets, while the French authorities company which is close to our matters taken care of and the have set reduction targets for the customers, that listens carefully and logistics and IT support in place.
In Southern Europe acts quickly.
of this was completed on time to we have not yet seen any significant market our products as they came The veterinarians in Europe find measures being taken: however, it back from several different senior managers within Dechra would be prudent to assume that distribution partners as the various approachable and available, here too we will see authorities contracts expired.
In the coming something they do not often taking steps to reduce overall use.
months the team in Italy will continue experience among the larger While we have to assume that to re-launch our wide portfolio of companies.
We are a Company the total market for therapeutic products and by the end of 2014 we which wants employees to take antibiotics in Europe will decline, will have 21 products on the Italian responsibility and to play an we strongly believe that we have market being sold by our own sales important part in supporting the both products and a strategy which organisation.
This is can minimize the effects of these reflected in the quality of the people developments on our business.
we have been able to attract to What is the outlook for the next 12 Q Currently Dechras sales of antibiotics the business and the professional months for the animal health are mainly in Northern Europe, and output which is achieved using very market in DVP EU?
apart from the Netherlands we often the more limited resources have been able to realise growth in we can make available as a midsome key markets in recent years.
size company compared to our The animal health business has A However, overall FAP sales have much larger competitors.
Combine always traditionally been seen as declined in 2014.
We are only now this quality team of people with recession proof.
This has generally starting to introduce our key products the Dechra culture and excellent held true and especially when the in the major swine and poultry products and then you can recession period was shorter than markets of France, Italy and Spain.
understand why we are unique.
that which we have experienced in It is a challenging market: however, recent years.
Having said this, thanks to our Solustab technology Dechra has continued to grow in which supports prudent use and the What is your view of the every year since 2008, despite the Q potential to grow in certain markets continuing impact of the fact that the European animal health despite the pressure to reduce usage, antimicrobial prescribing pressure markets have seen moderately low we are confident that we can maintain on the DVP EU markets?
growth in the past two years.
A a healthy business in this important conservative return to economic product segment.
growth in the coming period will help I fully support the focus on ensuring A footfall in veterinary practices and prudent use of antibiotics in all should have a positive effect on our sectors including in the veterinary business moving forward.
Increasing antibiotic resistance is a major concern for all of us and we have to work together, politicians, regulators, manufacturers, prescribers and sellers to ensure that we have these essential www.
com Stock code: DPH 23481.04 9 September 2014 5:04 PM Design A
