56 Q&A with Mike Eldred What have the key highlights for This facility produces the Phycox Q the year been for DVP US?
line of products and will also manufacture our new endocrine product that is expected to launch This past year was an exciting period A the next fiscal year.
We experienced the full patented product containing an spectrum of activities you would extract of blue-green algae that expect from a growing animal health historically achieved sales of $4.5 business, from solid growth on our million with no outside sales force.
core product line, acquisition of a I am confident that our talented and new company, a new drug approval expanding sales force we will be from the FDA to the expansion of our able to grow and establish Phycox commercial team.
as a leading product to support We continued to show double digit companion animal joint health.
sales growth for our core products, We also received great news from the Vetoryl, Felimazole and dermatology.
Mike Eldred FDA last year that our site transfer Versus previous year, Vetoryl sales President DVP US was completed for two of our major exceeded expectations and grew veterinary-approved ophthalmics, 24%.
We continued to focus on Vetropolycin and Vetropolycin HC.
educating veterinarians on Cushings We relaunched successfully in May syndrome and the importance 2014 these two products, after two of FDA approved drugs over years supply interruption, and look compounded products.
We held forward to further expanding our line We had the opportunity over 165 Continuous Professional with the approval of Vetrochloracin Development CPD evening last year to further expand and Vetro-gen in the future.
A major meetings and had the opportunity to our US organisation by achievement was accomplished educate over 5,000 veterinarians on by our Product Development team hiring key sales, marketing the importance of utilising Vetoryl to with the FDA approval of Osphos.
treat this very complex disease.
and veterinary technical Osphos is indicated for the treatment Felimazole sales also remained of the clinical signs associated with services personnel who strong last year.
Competing against navicular syndrome in horses.
This will all be critical to our low-cost human generics, the US key approval is the flagship drug for team still achieved 19% growth our Equine team and will be a major future success.
Additionally, our focus for Dechras next financial year.
sales of the DermaPet range now Finally, we had the opportunity marketed as Dechra Dermatology last year further to expand our US continued to demonstrate growth organisation by hiring key sales, of 10.5%.
We launched a new marketing and veterinary technical product, MiconaHex Triz Shampoo, services personnel who will all Spray and Wipes, which further be critical to our future success.
strengthened our product line Additionally, we established DVP by offering veterinarians a new Canada as a legal entity and hired Miconazole combination product.
our Country Manager to build the Canadian team.
In addition to strong growth from our current portfolio, we successfully All in all, this has been an excellent completed the acquisition of Find out more about Phycox on page 61. year for DVP US.
We have built an the trade and assets of PSPC organisation based on great people Inc. Phycox Animal Health.
This selling great products and a culture acquisition brought Dechra our first that will allow us to continue to drive US manufacturing facility, located in growth in the US and Canada.
Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2014 23481.04 9 September 2014 5:04 PM Design A Strategic Report Our Performance 57 What makes DVP US unique?
Our continued focus on CPD Q evening meetings provides a venue where we can address the risks I have worked in the veterinary A associated with compounded industry for over 20 years.
Without a products and hopefully convince doubt, the unique factor at DVP US veterinarians to support and utilise is our culture.
I continue to stress to FDA approved products.
our employees there are three driving forces to our success: great products, great people, and our How is the Phycox integration Q ability to solve problems.
factors are a result of the culture we have established within Dechra.
We are a non-hierarchical organisation The integration of PSPC, Inc. has A that does not believe in politics, been completed and all aspects of bureaucracy, micro-management or the business are progressing as egos.
It is the goal of the Company planned.
We acquired the facility in to work as a team to ensure we do Melbourne and have hired key our best to provide the ultimate level PSPC personnel to help support the of customer service to our transition and drive the business colleagues and external customers.
We also believe that work life balance is essential to maintain a resilient and motivated workforce.
What is the outlook for the next 12 Q months for the animal health market in DVP US?
Do compounding pharmacies Q continue to impact DVP US?
I am extremely optimistic about the A next 12 months for DVP US and Yes, compounding pharmacies DVP Canada.
With the launch of A remain a challenge for many US Osphos, the addition of the veterinary pharmaceutical ophthalmics and Phycox, the companies.
With the growing impact expected growth from our base of social media, internet pharmacies business, hiring more employees and other media forms, everyone is in the US and establishing our trying to capture a slice of the Canadian subsidiary, we will be growing pet industry in the US.
The committed to expanding Dechras key to overcoming compounding North American footprint and pharmacies is to continue to educate increasing our returns to enhance the veterinarians on the importance shareholder value.
of FDA approved products from a safety, efficacy and product liability standpoint.
There have been various negative events that have occurred as a result of compounded drugs in the US.
Unfortunately, many have led to human and animal deaths.
It is our job to ensure we help the veterinarians understand that compounded products are not the same as a generic drug and are not analysed by the FDA for safety, efficacy and quality.
com Stock code: DPH 23481.04 9 September 2014 5:04 PM Design A
