18 Creating Value by: Our Marketplace Growth Opportunities The Global Market The growth in this segment has been $23bn The global animal health market was driven by the rising demand for animal valued at $23 billion in 2013, a growth of protein due to the increase in the global The global animal health market 3.6% over 2012 at constant currency.
population and the need for greater was valued at $23 billion in 2013, The market is made up of two distinct farming productivity to maximise the use segments, Food producing Animal a growth of 3.6% over 2012. of limited agricultural resources.
Products FAP i. e. livestock and There is, however, downward pressure in Companion Animal Products CAP this sector in recent years as regulators i. e. pets, which have different financial have increasingly focused on the use profiles.
of antibiotics due to the potential risk The FAP market is generally based on of cross-over resistance in humans.
large volumes with pressure on margins In particular, the EU has taken actions due to high levels of competition, to reduce the intensive use of broad The growth in Food whereas the CAP market delivers spectrum antibiotics in farm animals.
higher added value especially with producing Animal The US also issued guidance in April 2012 specialist or niche products.
Animal to phase out the use of antibiotics as Products has been driven health customers needs vary across the growth promoters.
In the rest of the world, world due to factors such as standards by the rising demand the focus remains on increasing food of living, disposable income, cultural safety, meat quality and improving farming for animal protein due differences including dietary preferences efficiency.
for animal protein, pet ownership, to the increase in the Customers pet care standards and veterinarians global population and the The primary customers are veterinarians, capabilities.
farmers and other major livestock need for greater farming Food Producing Animal integrators.
Products are sold either Products Market productivity.
directly to large integrators or through wholesalers and distributors.
Market Size This segment covers products or Dechra in the Marketplace services targeted at reducing the FAP represented 18% of our turnover with incidence and spread of disease in sales only in EU and emerging markets.
The global medicines and Our range of anti-infectives and water vaccines market for FAP grew by an soluble powders, targeted mainly for estimated 3.7% to $13.6 billion in 2013, swine and poultry, supports the prudent representing 59% of the overall market.
23481.04 9 September 2014 5:04 PM Design A Strategic Report Strategic Report Our Our Business and Strategy Business and Strategy 19 Our key account managers have a Dechra in the Marketplace Sales strong knowledge of the market and our We offer a broad range of specialised 25.0 23 customers.
Our existing business is small pharmaceutical products and do not 22.5 22 20.2 but represents a good base from which compete in the anti-parasiticides and 20.0 9.4 9.2 we can either increase market share or vaccines markets which are dominated 8.9 8.3 enter into new territories.
We continue to grow 15.0 our established brands through frequent Companion Animal Products 10.0 interaction with our customers, Market 13.6 13.3 up-to-date marketing campaigns 13.1 11.9 5.0 Market Size and technical support.
We are also The global medicines and vaccines positioning ourselves to capture the 0.0 market for CAP was estimated at growth opportunities in emerging 10 11 12 13 $9.4 billion in 2013, a growth of markets where pet ownership is Livestock Companion Animal 3.5%.
CAP represents 41% of the increasing.
Source: Vetnosis, Company Reports overall market.
Product categories in Geographical Split this market are anti-parasiticides i. e. products against ticks, fleas, worms, North America and Western Europe vaccines, anti-microbials and other account for 60% of global animal health Regional Analysis pharmaceuticals.
However, other regions are growing rapidly, notably: Growth Opportunities Spending on companion animals is growth in Eastern Europe is fuelled by growing globally and pet ownership the increase in demand for meat, in is increasing in both developed and particular poultry: and emerging markets.
Advances in sales in the rest of the world continue diagnostics, greater emphasis on to increase due to economic growth prevention and wellness by veterinarians, and the increased use of vaccines.
improved nutrition and the increase Dechras International Footprint in treatment of chronic diseases North America 34% Eastern Europe 5% Dechra competes in the two largest contribute to an ageing pet population Latin America 13% Far East 19% animal health markets: over 83% of our which consumes more medication and Western Europe 26% Rest of the World 3% sales are in Europe, 11% in the US with veterinary services.
6% being in the Rest of the World.
Customers Source: Vetnosis, Company Reports We have a clear strategy to expand our Veterinarians prescribe and generally geographical footprint either organically dispense drugs themselves.
In the or through acquisitions.
US alone, approximately two-thirds of companion animal health prescriptions are fulfilled by veterinarians in their $9.4bn practices.
Products are sold to veterinarians through wholesalers and The global medicines and distributors.
vaccines market for CAP was estimated at $9.4 billion in 2013.
60% North America and Western Europe account for 60% of total animal health sales.
com Stock code: DPH 23481.04 9 September 2014 5:04 PM Design A Sales US$bn
