50 Q&A with Ian Page Revenue growth does not appear Why did you acquire PSPC?
Q Q as strong as in previous years.
We have been very successful in A the US, with a business that is There have been a number of growing revenues very quickly, and A headwinds in the year on revenue is already very profitable.
Firstly, Vetoryl, our lead if you look at the business it is product, was affected by the underweight, given the scale of shortage of a diagnostic tool used the market and in comparison with to recognise Cushings disease.
resulted in it being very difficult for PSPC was a business we had veterinarians to actually prescribe the been talking to for a number of drug for new cases.
We saw it as an excellent ongoing supply issues with the US, acquisition, particularly as it has with Animax and the ophthalmics, Ian Page one unique product, Phycox, which and we are also constantly seeing a Chief Executive Officer is a patented nutraceutical that fits pressure on antibiotic usage as ideally with our portfolio.
It also has governments look to put pressure a new endocrinology product in on veterinarians to prescribe less development which is very similar antibiotics because of concerns to our Forthyron product, which over antimicrobial resistance.
we market very successfully within If you look at our second half the EU.
So we are really keen Our major objective is growth, which was 4%, and was on bringing that product into our to cement ourselves as a a lot stronger than the first half portfolio later in this calendar year decline, then we feel that we have no to really enhance our position.
leading global animal health concerns at all over revenue growth Looking at the acquisition as a company.
and going forward we should see an whole, it creates opportunities to improvement.
grow their existing products, and it also creates the critical mass required to continue to invest, to get a sales team which is sufficient to penetrate this very important market.
Find out more about Vetoryl on page 59.
Watch the Online Video www.
com Web link for your convenience Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2014 23481.04 9 September 2014 5:04 PM Design A Strategic Report Our Performance 51 What do you see as the key What are your medium and long Q Q growth drivers in the next few term expectations for the years?
Our strategy is very clear, and has Our major objective is to cement A A been covered well in recent ourselves as a leading global animal communications.
There are four health company.
major pillars to our strategy: portfolio Looking geographically, we have focus, product development, recently opened in Italy, we are geographical expansion and about to launch in Canada, we acquisition.
are reviewing another territory to Of these four drivers I consider hopefully launch next year.
We are product development to be the also investing further into our export most important.
We have recently capabilities, particularly in project submitted a dossier for a new equine registration as we look to gain critical product branded Osphos, and have mass in a number of other key target had that approved in both the UK territories.
We also expect the We are also looking at acquisitions.
product to be approved across Recent transactions by big pharma the rest of Europe early in the next have been at such high multiples calendar year.
that it is very difficult to find value We have also submitted an at the moment: however, we are endocrine dossier for approval in reviewing several candidates and we Europe and the USA and we expect will hopefully make progress.
that to be approved next year.
I have already mentioned the We have added additional resources pipeline, which is delivering new into the product development team, products and will lead to success.
and we have got new projects that We are also seeing growth, as we are currently looking at.
I mentioned at the outset of this interview, of 4% revenue growth in the second half of our last financial year.
So, if we take all these factors into consideration, we have every confidence in our future growth prospects.
com Stock code: Stock code: DPH DPH 23481.04 9 September 2014 5:04 PM Design A
