Strategic Report Strategic Report Our Business and Strategy Our Business and Strategy 23 How We Develop New Products Although some products may have a slightly different path, most novel and generic products follow a fairly standard process containing five phases, defined as: From beginning to end, Exploratory, Pre-Clinical, Clinical, File Submission and the development process Launch.
can take between three and ten years before Launch.
Dechra employs a structured process in Making the Chemistry Work its development pipeline while retaining The second phase of the process is an opportunistic and entrepreneurial Pre-Clinical, which involves the approach.
Focus is given to the Groups collection of a range of preliminary therapeutic sectors.
When initiating development of opportunities and in-license opportunities a novel product, the correct dose has are evaluated for strategic fit within these to be titrated and a stable formulation, sectors: therapeutics outside of the key that can be reliably and consistently areas are considered for inclusion in the manufactured, must be developed.
For a pipeline if they are novel and address generic product, the pioneer formulation medical needs in the veterinary market.
may not meet the current regulatory requirements and may need to be A products return on investment can reformulated.
This phase is vital prior to vary: novel developments tend to have initiating the clinical phase which involves a medium to long term realisation with expensive clinical trials or bioequivalence attractive high value returns: generic studies.
developments generally have shorter timescales with returns dependent Entering Clinical Trials upon the number of other entrants The Clinical phase is the longest part and our speed to market relative to of the process, potentially taking two or the competition.
After the formulation has development pipeline is a mix of short, been demonstrated to be stable, two to medium and long term opportunities.
three pilot batches are manufactured for use in safety studies, efficacy studies and Generating Ideas stability testing.
For generic products, the The Exploratory phase begins batches are used in one or more with identifying a novel molecule, an bioequivalence studies to demonstrate opportunity to develop a new formulation that activity will replicate the pioneer for an existing molecule, or an product.
If the studies conducted during in-license opportunity.
Before initiating the Clinical phase demonstrate the a development programme, each required safety, efficacy and chemical opportunity is assessed by market need, stability of the product, regulatory market value, therapeutic indications, dossiers are prepared for strategic fit and the likely complexity of File Submission.
From beginning to end, the development process can take between three and ten years before Launch.
com Stock code: DPH 23481.04 9 September 2014 5:04 PM Design A 24 How We Develop New Products continued 310 years Go Go Go No Go No Go No Go Pre-Clinical Launch Dose formulation Clinical File Selection Exploratory Formulation Indication s determined CTR CAP Safety CTR CTR Efcacy Active Pharmaceutical Dose Titration Residues CTR Novel Ingredient API 3 manufacturer selected Start from scratch Environmental Pilot File Launch batches Preliminary Safety study Risk Assessment Manufacturing site Ecotoxicology selected nished User Safety products Studies Commercially Is there a customer need?
Bioequivalence 2 FAP CAP Pilot Study Studies batches File Launch or waiver Is it worth taking Formulation Generic the development idea Copycat product forward?
CAP Companion Animal Product CTR FAP Clinical Trials Required Food Producing Animal New Formulation of products with existing Chemistry Laboratory Studies maximum residue limit MRL Drives timing, needs stable formulation Find out more about Our Business Model on page 14.
