26 Key Products and Specialisations Dechras product range is focused on several major therapeutic categories, predominantly for companion animals.
The majority of key products are novel or have clear marketing advantages over competitor products.
Several products have market leading positions in a number of major territories.
Dermatology and Care Ophthalmology Topical antimicrobial products are important to treat skin and Ophthalmology is an area of veterinary medicine where ear infections.
We have a wide range of products that can be we have a number of leading products including licensed used alone or as an adjuvant therapy.
pharmaceuticals and unlicensed care products.
Canaural was first licensed in 1975 and is still the leading first Fucithalmic Vet, licensed in 1993, is the only product line treatment for otitis externa in cats and dogs in several EU available for the treatment of conjunctivitis associated with territories.
Canaural, which is now registered in 27 countries, staphylococcal infections.
It is highly effective because of its can also be used in conjunction with our leading ear cleaning unique sustained release formulation that ensures prolonged product CleanAural.
It is currently licensed in 21 countries.
Fuciderm, licensed in 1995, is the only licensed product for Additionally, we market a range of ophthalmic products in the the treatment of surface pyoderma in dogs, such as acute US, the majority being the only veterinary licensed products in moist dermatitis and intertrigo.
It is a key product within our the market.
Vetropolycin and Vetropolycin HC were relaunched dermatology range, selling into 23 countries.
at the end of our financial year after successfully completing the transfer to a new manufacturing site.
Malaseb, was first licensed in 1996 and is still the market leading medicated shampoo for cats and dogs.
It is used to treat skin Why we focus on this niche area: diseases caused by Malassezia and staphylococcal infections.
Eye conditions are very common and can result in severe complications.
Recent evidence suggests that 7% of kittens, Animax, licensed for the treatment of skin conditions in dogs 2% to 3% of adult cats and 2% to 4% of dogs are presented to and cats, is only approved in the US.
The marketing rights veterinarians with ocular inflammation.
for this product were acquired in May 2007.
This product is currently unavailable due to third party supply issues.
Equine Medicine DermaPet is a range of shampoos, conditioners and ear products to treat numerous skin and ear conditions in dogs and cats.
Key brands are Triz, MalAcetic, Malaket and MiconaHex Triz.
The Care range comprises unlicensed products which complement our pharmaceutical range.
They are available over The Group has a wide range of licensed products supporting the counter within veterinary practices.
The three key products the equine veterinarian.
The leading product with the highest are CleanAural, a non-irritant cleaner suitable for frequent use sales is Equipalazone which is licensed in five major EU in ears producing excess wax, Neutrale, a range of specialist countries.
shampoos for skin conditions in dogs, and Lubrithal, an eye Equipalazone was first licensed in a sachet presentation in 1972 lubricant for cats and dogs.
and subsequently in paste and injection presentations.
It continues Why we focus on this niche area: to be the leading non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug NSAID Dermatology represents approximately 20% of veterinarians for the treatment of musculoskeletal disorders, such as lameness clinical time and is currently a major focus area for the industry.
arising from acute and chronic laminitis in horses.
Best practice and management techniques look to adopt more Equidone Gel was approved in 2010 for the treatment of topical products as opposed to oral treatments, with the aim of fescue toxicity in horses.
This niche product is targeted utilising antibiotics less frequently.
Dechras product portfolio, with specifically at the US market.
its range of licensed and non-licensed topical products, is well positioned for this approach.
Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2014 23481.04 9 September 2014 5:04 PM Design A Strategic Report Our Business and Strategy 27 HY-50 is used for intra-articular and intravenous treatment of Endocrinology lameness in horses caused by joint dysfunction.
The acquisition of this product, in January 2012, strengthened Dechras position in equine pain management in several major European territories.
Domidine is an injectable used for the sedation and slight analgesia of horses and cattle, to facilitate physical examinations and treatment, such as minor surgical interventions.
Why we focus on this niche area: Endocrine disorders are a key focus for the business with a This is a sector in which few animal health companies specialise.
number of unique licensed products treating a range of chronic We target both performance horses and hobby horses and diseases.
The three leading brands are Vetoryl, Forthyron and have developed a comprehensive range of medically necessary Felimazole.
products that give us access to equine veterinarians.
Vetoryl is a novel product for the treatment of Cushings syndrome excess cortisol or hyperadrenocorticism in dogs.
Anaesthesia and Analgesia It is estimated that about 0.2% of dogs suffer from Cushings disease.
It is marketed internationally and is the only recognised licensed efficacious veterinary product for the treatment of Cushings syndrome around the world.
Forthyron is licensed to treat the most widely recognised endocrine disorder, canine hypothyroidism.
It is the only mutually recognised levothyroxine treatment in Europe and is Dechra has a wide range of products that support emergency marketed in all the major European countries.
It is estimated medicine, pain relief and sedation.
that about 0.6% of dogs suffer from this disorder.
The Vetivex range of infusion fluids are licensed for the treatment Felimazole was the first veterinary licensed product for of dehydration.
They are widely used to meet normal fluid and the treatment of feline hyperthyroidism, which occurs in electrolyte requirements when fluids cannot be given orally, such approximately 0.5% of cats.
Originally licensed in the UK in as during surgery.
2002, Felimazole was then licensed in the EU in 2005, the US in 2009 and has subsequently been approved in Canada.
Anaesthesia and analgesia are major sub-groups of critical care.
Dechra markets one of the largest ranges of products in this Why we focus on this niche area: sector.
The range covers a wide number of species, different Endocrine disease stems from imbalance in hormone levels, degrees of pain intensity management and duration of effect.
affecting cats or dogs in many ways, often requiring lifetime Within the range there are a number of unique licenses, Intra medical attention.
Many endocrine disorders are fatal if not Epicaine, a local anaesthetic recommended for infiltration, diagnosed and treated.
Veterinarians place a high importance nerve block, intra-articular and epidural anaesthesia in horses, on quality of life and often see endocrinology as a challenging Comfortan, the only licensed methadone hydrochloride for and interesting discipline.
analgesia in dogs and cats, and Fentadon, the only licensed fentanyl for intra-operative analgesia and post-operative pain Generics management.
Sedator is licensed for sedation, analgesia and anaesthetic pre-medication and contains the active ingredient medetomidine hydrochloride.
Atipam is a selective a2-antagonist receptor which reverses the sedative effects of medetomidine and dexmedetomidine in cats and dogs.
Several generic products are sold within the EU: we are in the Other products in the range include Buprenodale process of in-licensing and registering additional products to buprenorphine, Ketamin ketamine hydrochloride and Plegicil expand our branded generic range within this territory.
We have also recently acquired Why we focus on this niche area: Phycox, a pain management nutraceutical.
We develop generics to provide comprehensive ranges of Why we focus on this niche area: products in our key therapeutic sectors, where possible Perioperative sedation and pain management are challenging providing our veterinary customers with complete solutions.
but critical for all patients and form a fundamental part of animal welfare.
Offering a comprehensive range of analgesic and anaesthetic products allows the veterinarians to adapt their protocols to the individual pet based on their level of discomfort, whilst providing flexible anaesthetic procedures.
com Stock code: DPH 23481.04 9 September 2014 5:04 PM Design A 28 Key Products and Specialisations continued Cardiovascular Disease most recently in 2012, this highly soluble liquid is now marketed in 15 EU countries.
The active ingredients are sulphamethoxasol and trimethoprim, a proven synergistic combination for antimicrobial effectiveness against E. coli in broilers and App in swine.
Cyclospray is the leading antibiotic spray treatment in Europe for claw hoof infections, interdigital dermatitis foot rot in sheep and digital dermatitis in cattle.
It is widely used in the prevention of infection of superficial traumatic or surgical wounds in This was a new area of focus following the acquisition of Eurovet.
Cyclospray has been marketed since Cardisure is the leading product in this category.
The principal 2000 in 12 European countries.
The active ingredient is ingredient in Cardisure is pimobendan.
It is a leading treatment for chlortetracycline.
canine congestive heart failure and is marketed throughout Europe.
Solacyl is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug containing Why we focus on this niche area: sodium salicylete.
It is an effective tool to fight fever in early As pets increasingly live longer, managing heart disease efficiently disease stages.
This is our only major product in this category.
Why we focus on this niche area: FAP is the largest segment of the global animal health market, Food Producing Animal Antimicrobials accounting for almost 60% of sales.
While there is pressure on antibiotic prescribing in the EU and the US, the increased demand for high quality protein in the rest of the world continues to drive the demand for antibiotics.
Pet Diets Dechra has a superior range of antimicrobial treatment products predominantly for swine and poultry.
In a market where there is increased emphasis on reducing the usage of antibiotics in the food producing animal sector, it is essential that reliable and effective products are available to veterinarians to support them in the prudent use of antibiotics.
The Solustab range has been specifically developed to meet this need and is renowned for its high level of solubility leading to a reliable and stable Dechra has two main cat and dog diet product ranges, both solution when added to drinking water.
This reduces the need for branded Specific, which are sold exclusively through veterinary additional enhancing agents widely used by competitor products.
Therapeutic diets, which represent approximately Octacillin, marketed since 2003 in the Netherlands, is sold 62% of overall diet sales, provide optimum levels of nutrition in in 15 European countries following approvals in 2006 and areas such as diabetes, arthritis, urinary, kidney, liver and heart 2011.
Octacillin is a highly soluble and stable antibiotic powder problems.
Life stage or maintenance diets, which represent containing amoxicillin which is added to drinking water in the approximately 38% of diet sales, provide premium quality daily treatment of diseases in swine and poultry.
It is highly efficient nutrition for healthy dogs and cats.
and often used in treating Dysbacteriosis in broilers and S. suis Why we focus on this niche area: in pigs, two diseases with high incidence levels.
Good quality nutrition leads to good quality of life for pets and Soludox, marketed in Benelux since 2002, is a highly soluble veterinarians are best placed to offer nutritional advice.
Through antibiotic powder for administration via drinking water and is having a range of nutritional products, along with licensed currently sold in 16 European countries as a result of approval, and non-licensed medicines, we are able to offer more holistic in 2010, for swine and chickens.
The active ingredient is solutions to the veterinarians to manage their patients in the doxycycline and its main indication is for respiratory disease most appropriate manner.
Methoxasol is a ready to use liquid medication, which can be easily added to the drinking water of swine and poultry: it has been marketed in the Netherlands since the mid 1990s.
Following successful European approvals in 2000, 2009 and Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2014 23481.04 9 September 2014 5:04 PM Design A Strategic Report Our Business and Strategy 29 23481.04 9 September 2014 5:04 PM Design A
