58 From a dog once lost, a new vitality found.
In every dog with Cushings syndrome there is an opportunity to bring back health and restore life.
For the owners and their family, it marks the return of the healthy dog they thought theyd lost.
A true transformation in quality of life, whether youre on four legs, or two.
Dechra Veterinary Products A S, Mekuvej 9, 7171 Uldum, Denmark.
Dechra Veterinary Products A S is a trading business of Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC.
Case Study: Osphos Osphos clodronate injection, a novel After evaluating the market potential, Manufacturing presented the single equine product, has received approval our Marketing teams decided that this greatest challenge for the approval of from the US FDA and the UK Veterinary product represented a strong addition Osphos.
As neither of our manufacturing Medicines Directorate VMD and to our equine portfolio.
On this basis we sites has FDA approval for manufacturing is expected to be launched at the reached a commercial agreement and aseptic fill products, manufacturing has beginning of our new financial year.
been contracted to an outside firm.
The product is an intramuscular injection Following the dose characterisation Osphos is one of many projects that used to control the clinical signs of study, we conducted a multi-site clinical show our strategic focus on pipeline navicular syndrome, estimated to cause field study to evaluate the effectiveness delivery, as well as demonstrating a third of all forelimb lameness in horses.
After completing all our our ability to work effectively with the There are several benefits to the product development activities and preparing a authorities to deliver products with clinical relating to its efficacy, safety and relative registration dossier, we filed successfully benefits that complement our existing ease of administration by the veterinarian.
The opportunity was first identified by However, in Europe, where horses are Our launch plans in the US and UK are our Business Development team who considered a food-producing animal, we ready and Osphos will be available in the developed a relationship with a German required additional information about the first half of our 2015 financial year.
He had an products maximum residue limit MRL are eagerly anticipating the launch of this excellent proof of concept study, enabling to establish the safety of the product for new major product.
us to feel confident that the drug would a human consuming horse meat.
The be both safe and efficacious.
approval application for the EU has now been submitted.
Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2014 23481.04 9 September 2014 5:04 PM Design A
