Strategic Report Our Performance 59 From a dog once lost, a new vitality found.
In every dog with Cushings syndrome there is an opportunity to bring back health and restore life.
For the owners and their family, it marks the return of the healthy dog they thought theyd lost.
A true transformation in quality of life, whether youre on four legs, or two.
Dechra Veterinary Products A S, Mekuvej 9, 7171 Uldum, Denmark.
Dechra Veterinary Products A S is a trading business of Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC.
a b c Case Study: Vetoryl Vetoryl trilostane capsules is the only dog, helping to restore life and vitality The values attached to the brand are very licenced product for the treatment of whether they are on four legs or two.
clear: efficacy, control and innovation.
canine hyperadrenocorticism or Cushings This is supported by scientific and The integrated campaign delivers a syndrome.
It is sold internationally and technical excellence.
range of support for the vet, pet owner recognised globally for its efficacy.
With and Dechras sales teams.
It includes The campaign is targeted at veterinarians the possibility that Vetoryl may experience advertising, flowcharts for diagnosis and who place high importance on quality of increased competition in the future, and due treatment, sales aids, and pet owner life and see endocrinology as a satisfying to a slow down in growth in a number of booklets.
Case studies are also included discipline.
countries, it became important to strengthen that have been developed with several our current global market position.
Our customers will feel informed and European key opinion leaders.
And our people will feel In order to do this, a new international The campaign will be launched across all proud and motivated.
marketing campaign has been developed to European markets over the forthcoming reposition Vetoryl, aiming to create a higher months.
emotional engagement with veterinarians, and strengthen Dechras position as the We have a clear campaign strategy.
Our leading experts in endocrinology.
objective is to be seen as the experts in endocrinology.
Vetoryl gives veterinarians The campaigns theme reflects the key and pet owners complete control.
It can turn end benefit of Vetoryl: restoring life at every back time as a dog recovers its vitality level.
The positive effects of the treatment and its life is restored.
are often felt by the owner as well as the www.
com Stock code: DPH 23481.04 9 September 2014 5:04 PM Design A
