Strategic Report Our Business and Strategy 15 Our Business Model Explained Product Development and Regulatory Affairs Our integrated and entrepreneurial approach to product development delivers new products successfully and efficiently in the shortest practical time frame.
A Skilled Team Delivering the Pipeline The PDRA team includes skilled people Our product pipeline is critical to our future with expertise and the experience to success.
Our novel and generics projects navigate the hurdles of the development are very diverse, with the majority building on process.
Across the four locations, our key therapy areas.
We invest when we project teams operate to manage the can identify growth opportunities with a clear wide range of projects.
Investment in financial return and competitive advantage, state-of-the-art laboratories in Bladel focusing on novel therapies to treat unmet and Skipton, each with their respective needs with intellectual property protection.
dosage form expertise, provides the Our approach aims to ensure we create resources required to develop novel and sustainable growth throughout our targeted generic formulations cost effectively.
Find out more about Product Pipeline on page 25.
Manufacturing Our manufacturing facilities provide a wide range of services which delivers the flexibility that the veterinary market requires.
It also provides a complete range of products and services i. e. a one-stop shop for its external customers.
One-Stop Shop important for the production of veterinary DPM offers an end-to-end service: products where our licensed portfolio formulation, method validation, stability comes in many dosage formats and in testing, licensing support, flexibility in various batch sizes.
Relative to human scale of production and packaging pharmaceuticals, veterinary batch runs options to take products to market.
A number of our supply chain for the majority of products licensed branded minor products are is short and we offer reliable high of such a small scale that it would be service levels.
Our objective is to deliver difficult to find a third party manufacturer exceptional quality control throughout.
to produce them at a competitive price if we were unable to perform the function Production Capabilities in-house.
DPM has a wide range of capabilities in terms of dosage form, packaging Product Development capabilities and production scale.
We The Pharmaceutical Development can produce low, medium and high Laboratory is integrated with our volumes of almost all dosage forms production capabilities.
The primary to high quality and safety standards.
objective is to formulate and validate We have great flexibility in producing products for our in-house pipeline, which to demand.
Dosage forms include: is a major benefit to the Group in order tablets, capsules, creams, ointments, to shorten the time to get a product gels, sterile injectables, low and high to market.
Our technical expertise volume powders and pre-medicated and development capabilities are also feeds.
We can pack into sachets, tubs, outsourced to third party customers bags, blister packs, tubes, bottles which helps to secure new business.
These capabilities are very 23481.04 9 September 2014 5:04 PM Design A Strategic Report Our Business and Strategy Strategic Report Our Business and Strategy 16 Regulatory Environment Routes to Market DVP EU Our Regulatory team Our customers are principally Across all territories understands the different veterinarians: however, in most DVP EU is committed to regulatory environments in territories the route to market marketing new products which we operate, namely is through wholesalers and and services that support the US, Europe and all other pharmacies.
Our products are international regulators.
The distributed through a mixture of the work of veterinarians.
regulatory hurdles are increasing our own direct sales, wholesalers We are expanding the Dechra and we aim to ensure that and national distributor channels.
brand through newly established our staff are updated and subsidiaries within the EU and have detailed knowledge we will continue to develop our of current legislation.
We international presence through strong strive to anticipate regulatory relationships with key partners.
requirements to avoid delays to product launches or disruption Our Expertise to production.
We have identified eight core therapeutic sectors where we leverage our expertise: dermatology, ophthalmology, equine medicine, anaesthesia and analgesia, endocrinology, cardiovascular disease, food producing animal antimicrobials and pet diets.
As well as pharmaceuticals and related products, DVP EU sells specialist, therapeutic and maintenance pet diets branded, Specific.
Contract Manufacturing In addition to manufacturing our In order to forge relationships with own products, both Skipton customers, technical meetings and Bladel generate income and seminars are held to provide a through contract manufacturing.
face-to-face programme to educate Although the clear focus is veterinarians on our key therapeutic on Group manufacturing, sectors.
Key opinion leaders, at contract manufacturing adds both local and international levels, value by making full use are recruited for seminars and of our unique capabilities presentations: additionally, webinars and our installed capacity.
and online interactive educational tools Currently approximately 46% are available on the DVP EU website.
of output by volume is contract manufacturing.
DVP US The external offering includes Routes to Market DVP US markets Dechra product development, Our customers are primarily small formulation, trial manufacturing, products for the companion animal and equine veterinarians, validation, production and animal and equine segments of which there are approximately packaging for both human and 90,000, working in 26,000 clinics that solve clinical problems veterinary pharmaceuticals.
and help veterinarians treat medical conditions.
In the US, veterinarians and clinics are primarily supplied Our Expertise through distributors.
Our sales Our Dechra brand has gained representatives promote and momentum in the US, building on sell products directly, but also our strong reputation for customer network and visit clinics together service, the quality of an expanding with these distributors.
product portfolio, further education programmes on our key areas of specialisation and high quality technical support.
23481.04 9 September 2014 5:04 PM Design A 17 Creating Value by: 01 06 Clear Strategic Focus Focused Portfolio We have a clearly defined strategy focused on four main We have a clear portfolio focus and hold strong market drivers: portfolio focus, geographical expansion, product positions in a number of our key therapeutic sectors pipeline delivery and targeted acquisition.
such as endocrinology, dermatology, anaesthesia and analgesics.
02 07 Development Pipeline Recognised Brand We have a strong pipeline of novel pharmaceuticals, Dechra is recognised today as a major global animal generic pharmaceuticals and specialist pet diets and healthcare company with a strong and growing a track record of pipeline delivery.
We are proactive in reputation as a provider of high quality, specialist The growth in Food recognising and bringing new development opportunities veterinary medicines and related products.
producing Animal Products has been driven 03 08 by the rising demand Entrepreneurial and Innovative Expanding International Focus for animal protein due Dechra encourages an entrepreneurial and innovative In line with our strategy we are focused on extending the to the increase in the approach from its management team which is Dechra brand into new countries.
We are also increasing underpinned by appropriate internal controls and distribution of our products on a global basis with global population and the robust systems and procedures.
selected partners, currently into over 40 countries.
need for greater farming productivity.
04 09 Manufacturing Flexibility People and Expertise Our manufacturing sites offer a wide range of dosage We have attracted and retained a qualified and skilled forms and packaging capabilities which can be workforce throughout the organisation.
This stable and produced in small to large scale production batches.
motivated team has many years experience within the This flexibility is a key requirement in production of our markets we serve.
Our people strategy is underpinned varied product portfolio.
05 10 Growing Animal Health Market Strong Balance Sheet The global animal health market continues to The Group maintains a prudent management of its demonstrate growth.
This is driven in developed balance sheet and achieves strong cash flows.
This countries by increased medical and surgical capabilities position provides flexibility to invest in drivers for long for companion animals.
In developing countries the term growth.
increased demand for high quality meat protein drives the FAP market.
