20 Our Strategy Our strategy is to develop our position as an international, high margin, cash generative, specialist veterinary pharmaceuticals and related products business with a clear focus on key therapeutic areas: dermatology, ophthalmology, equine medicine, anaesthesia and analgesia, endocrinology, cardiovascular disease, food producing animal antimicrobials and pet diets through: Generate long term value for shareholders International specialist veterinary pharmaceuticals & related products business Strategic Pillars a c b Pipeline Delivery Portfolio Focus Geographical Acquisition Expansion Strategic Enablers Manufacturing Technology People Dechra Values Ambition Dedication Enjoyment Courage Honesty Relationships Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2014 23481.04 9 September 2014 5:04 PM Design A Strategic Report Our Business and Strategy 21 a b c Pipeline Delivery Portfolio Focus Strategic Priorities Strategic Priorities Deliver existing pipeline projects to schedule.
Maximise revenue and profit from existing CAP portfolio by focusing on clearly defined therapeutic sectors.
Develop and grow critical mass of FAP portfolio.
Continuously refill the pipeline by identifying and evaluating new ideas.
Strategy Description We are a specialist veterinary pharmaceuticals business focused Strategy Description on Companion Animal, Equine and Food producing Animal As a pure pharma player, we must deliver our pipeline on time, Products.
Our portfolio is well positioned in our therapeutic focus at the right costs and with the expected returns.
As well as sectors to ensure we maximise returns.
We have recognised that progressing our existing pipeline it is important that we refill the we are underweight in FAP which represents 18% of our revenue.
pipeline so that we get a constant flow of novel products in However, there is a clear opportunity to gain critical mass in FAP by future years.
Objective Objective We want to innovate and generate sustainable profit growth We want to maintain market leadership in defined therapeutic through our pipeline delivery.
areas and improve returns through our portfolio focus.
Focus in 2015 Financial Year Focus in 2015 Financial Year Identify new development candidates.
Launch the new Vetoryl marketing campaign to grow sales.
Achieve at least one new product approval.
Promote the new Dechra Academy to support veterinarians.
Launch Osphos successfully in the US and UK.
Increase market share in equine and dermatology sectors.
Geographical Expansion Acquisition Strategic Priorities Strategic Priorities Grow the US business and invest steadily in the Target strategic acquisitions that will expand our infrastructure as pipeline delivers.
geographical footprint and or enhance product portfolio.
Short term: establish subsidiaries in new territories with existing critical mass.
Strategy Description Medium term: build critical mass or enter via acquisition.
While our strategy aims to deliver organic growth, acquisitions could accelerate our expansion by providing entry into new Long term: build a presence, initially through partnerships, geographies, enhancing our portfolio or giving access to new where barriers to entry are high.
We have established well-defined criteria through which potential acquisition targets can be screened.
Strategy Description Objective The animal health market in emerging countries is growing rapidly We want to deliver incremental sales and earnings growth due to the demand for high quality protein and the increase in pet through strategic acquisitions that enhance shareholder value.
We have identified a number of markets that present both volume and profit opportunities in the medium to long term Focus in 2015 Financial Year and we are considering various entry strategies.
In the US, we will Continue to develop relationships with potential targets.
grow the business organically in the short term with the launch of Improve knowledge of animal health markets in emerging new products, including Osphos.
Objective We want to seize growth opportunities in new markets through geographical expansion.
Focus in 2015 Financial Year Commence trading in Canada.
Plan further new territory launch.
Strengthen distributor relationships in identified growth markets.
com Stock code: DPH 23481.04 9 September 2014 5:04 PM Design A 22 Our Strategy continued Manufacturing People Strategic Enablers Strategic Enablers Strengthen the Dechra culture and ensure our Values Maintain efficient and effective in-house operations.
encompass our business ethics and our standards.
Retain competitive advantage through flexible manufacturing Attract, retain and develop talent.
capabilities wide range of scale and dosage forms.
Develop effective succession plans to ensure business Extend FDA approval to new dosage forms.
Enablers Description Enablers Description Our people strategy underpins everything we do in the Our current in-house manufacturing capabilities are extensive.
Following the appointment of a new Group HR Our flexibility in product dosage forms and scale capabilities Director, we have a well-defined plan to develop and build combined with our ability to prioritise the supply of our own talent, develop people and strengthen the Dechra culture.
products make manufacturing integral to the Group strategy.
We are focused on running the operations efficiently and to high Objective standards to maintain or improve gross margins.
We want to continue to be a high performing business driven by highly skilled and committed teams.
Objective We want to maintain a flexible manufacturing capability to Focus in 2015 Financial Year deliver small volumes at a competitive price and at the right Develop the succession plans for the leadership team and the quality.
Continue roll out of Performance Development Review.
Focus in 2015 Financial Year Improve supply chain effectiveness.
Continue to drive quality and efficiency.
Achieve FDA approval for new pipeline products.
Find out more about People, Culture and Values on pages 32 to 34.
View further content on our website: Technology www.
com Strategic Enablers Improve operating efficiency and processes through the Group-wide implementation of Oracle and other applicable systems.
Maximise and exploit new technologies wherever possible.
Enablers Description We are implementing a strong technology platform to ensure we operate efficiently and are exploring how IT can provide a source of competitive advantage.
Objective We want our IT strategy to improve our communication, financial and operational capabilities.
Focus in 2015 Financial Year Continue roll out of Oracle with Group Finance consolidation and DVP EU implementation.
Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2014 23481.04 9 September 2014 5:04 PM Design A
