64 Board of Directors Michael Redmond Non-Executive Chairman Committee Membership in July 2002.
He began his pharmaceutical career Nomination Chairman, Remuneration.
with Glaxo and went on to hold a number of senior positions within Schering Plough Corporation.
Skills and Experience In 1991, he joined Fisons plc and in 1993 was Michael has extensive board level international appointed to the Board as Managing Director of the pharmaceutical experience, having held groups pharmaceuticals division.
Michael left Fisons Non-Executive Director and Chairman roles in a in 1996 following its takeover by RPR.
number of healthcare related companies, both private and public, in the UK, Germany and Canada.
External Appointments Furthermore, as a result of Michaels tenure with In November 2009, Michael was appointed the Company, he has a detailed knowledge and Chairman of Abcam PLC, an AIM listed company, understanding of Dechra.
previously having held the post of Deputy Chairman appointed February 2009.
Michael has announced Background his intention to stand down from this position at Michael joined the Company as a Non-Executive Abcams 2014 Annual General Meeting.
Director in April 2001, and was appointed Chairman Ian Page Chief Executive Officer Committee Membership Background Not applicable.
Ian joined NVS at its formation in 1989 and was an integral part of the MBO in 1997, becoming its Skills and Experience Managing Director in 1998.
He joined the Board in Ian has gained detailed knowledge and experience 1997 and became Chief Executive Officer in 2001. through various positions he has held within the Ian has played a key role in the development of the pharmaceutical and veterinary arena.
He has solid Groups growth strategy.
understanding of how business develops both in the UK and globally.
In particular he has extensive External Appointments experience in M&A and successful delivery on In October 2010 Ian was appointed as strategic plans.
Non-Executive Chairman of Sanford DeLand Asset Management.
Anne-Francoise Nesmes Chief Financial Officer Committee Membership Anne-Francoise worked at GlaxoSmithKline PLC Not applicable.
GSK for over 15 years, where she held a number of finance roles including Senior Vice-President, Skills and Experience Finance, of the global vaccines business unit based Anne-Francoise has considerable experience in the in Belgium.
With GSK, Anne-Francoise developed pharmaceutical industry covering all finance activities her experience in a variety of roles including internal from R&D, manufacturing and commercial finance audit, corporate planning and commercial finance as well as corporate finance.
Having worked in and between 2003 and 2006 was Vice-President international organisations, she brings a strong focus Finance Controller for Europe.
Prior to this, she held on process improvements, governance, M&A and finance roles with John Crane, Tetra Pak, ADP and strategy execution.
Background External Appointments Anne-Francoise was appointed Chief Financial None.
Prior to joining the Group, Tony Griffin Managing Director, Dechra Veterinary Products EU Committee Membership Background Not applicable.
Tony was appointed Managing Director of DVP EU in May 2012 following the acquisition of Eurovet Animal Skills and Experience Health BV from AUV Holding B. V. He joined the Tony has over 25 years experience in the animal AUV Group in 1993 as Director of Exports, having health business and has substantial international previously worked at Norbrook Laboratories and experience as a result of living and working outside Moy Park.
Tony was promoted to Managing Director the UK since 1993.
He gained broad experience of Eurovet in 1996, becoming the Chief Executive of running an international animal health business Officer of the AUV Group in 2006. with teams in different European countries as Chief Executive Officer of the AUV Group.
Tony Griffin is External Appointments the Board nominated Director responsible for health, None.
Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2014 64 Our Governance 65 Ishbel Macpherson Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Committee Membership Background Audit, Nomination, Remuneration.
Ishbel joined the Group as a Non-Executive Director in February 2013.
Prior to this she was Head of Skills and Experience UK Emerging Companies Corporate Finance at Ishbel has detailed knowledge and understanding Dresdner Kleinwort Benson from 1999 to 2005, of the institutional investor community gained over having previously worked at Hoare Govett and 20 years experience as an investment banker, Barclays fide Zoete Wedd.
specialising in UK mid-market corporate finance.
She has solid PLC Board experience in a variety External Appointments of roles, including Chairman, Audit Committee and Ishbel is a Non-Executive Director at Dignity plc and Remuneration Committee Chairman.
She is also Senior Independent Director at Bonmarche Holdings plc and Chairman of Speedy Hire plc.
Dr Christopher Richards Non-Executive Director Committee Membership to 2009.
Arysta is a Japan-domiciled international Remuneration Chairman, Audit, Nomination.
company, developing and marketing crop protection products in more than 125 countries worldwide.
Skills and Experience Before joining Arysta, Chris spent 20 years in Chris has more than 30 years experience of the international management and leadership roles development and marketing of highly regulated with Syngenta Crop Protection and its predecessor products for the agrochemical and related industries.
He has extensive international experience, which includes more than ten years working in Asia and External Appointments South America.
Chris holds a number of non-executive directorships including Cibus Global Limited appointed November Background 2011, and he is Chairman of Oxitec Limited Chris joined the Group as a Non-Executive Director appointed January 2012 and Plant Health Care in December 2010.
He is Chairman of Arysta PLC appointed July 2012.
LifeScience Corporation, having previously been its President and Chief Executive Officer from 2004 Julian Heslop Non-Executive Director Committee Membership 2001 and 2005 and as Financial Controller of Audit Chairman, Nomination, Remuneration.
Glaxo Wellcome PLC between 1998 and 2000.
Prior to this, Julian held senior finance roles at Skills and Experience Grand Metropolitan PLC and Imperial Brewing and Julian has considerable financial experience as a Leisure.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered result of the senior finance roles he has held in the Accountants in England and Wales.
pharmaceutical, food, property and brewing sectors over the last 30 years.
External Appointments Julian was appointed as a Non-Executive Director Background at Revolymer PLC in July 2012 and is their Audit Julian joined the Board in January 2013.
He is also Chairman of the as Chief Financial Officer of GSK between 2005 and Audit Committee of the Royal Academy of Arts.
2011, having previously been appointed its Senior Vice President, Operations Controller between Zoe Goulding Company Secretary and Solicitor Committee Membership Background Not applicable.
Zoe was appointed as Company Secretary in July 2007.
Prior to joining the Group she worked at Skills and Experience Deloitte LLP, Eversheds LLP and Brammer plc.
Zoe has over 14 years experience as a Solicitor External Appointments having held positions both in private practice and None.
