52 Q&A with Anne-Francoise Nesmes You have been in the business The year has seen a strong Q Q for over a year.
What are your increase in gross margins.
Do you thoughts about the animal expect this to continue?
The improvement in gross margins is A The animal health market has been certainly one of the key drivers A growing steadily over the last few behind our very strong profit years, despite a tough global performance and, if you look at the economic environment.
If you look at gross margin, you will see it has 2013, the animal health market improved by about 2.5 percentage growth is estimated to be around points.
There are several factors that There are two main reasons for this.
explain this: in the Companion The first one is the synergies from Animal Products the growth is driven the Eurovet acquisition.
One thing by an increase in pet ownership, but Anne-Francoise Nesmes we have done is brought in-house also pets living longer: and in the Chief Financial Officer sales which were previously made Food producing Animal Market, the through third party distributors.
growth is driven by the increase in And as we are now selling through the global population and the our own sales force, we retain the increased demand for high quality margins that distributors used to meat protein.
The second reason is the Dechra competes in both of those product mix, with the split between The improvement in gross sectors, so we are very well our companion animal sales and our positioned to seize opportunities.
margins is certainly one food animal sales.
Considering the animal health of the key drivers behind Looking forward the margins will market, it is quite interesting to always fluctuate and depend first on our very strong profit draw the contrast with the human the product mix, as I said, but also health market.
Whilst there are many performance.
on the success of our pipeline.
We common characteristics, such as see that Companion Animal Product a regulated environment, there are sales are higher margin, they are also some key differences.
One of higher value, whereas the Food the key differences is in terms of producing Animal Product sales are R&D.
What we do is develop existing higher volume, but lower margin.
molecules for veterinary use and, Therefore, we will always balance the obviously, this is a lot less risky than two margins and the product mix.
Similarly, when Looking at our pipeline, we are about we look at our product lifecycle, they to launch several products over the have a much longer lifespan, and next few years which are of high generic penetration is a lot less than value to us and therefore again that in human pharma.
So I think, all-in-all, this makes the So, in summary, when I look forward, animal health market very attractive and at the margins, as a minimum I for investors.
think we should maintain the margins Find out more about Our Marketplace on where they are and try to improve pages 18 to 19. them over the next few years.
Watch the Online Video www.
com Web link for your convenience Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2014 23481.04 9 September 2014 5:04 PM Design A Strategic Report Our Performance 53 And finally, the last area has always been In your statement you make What are your priorities for 2015?
Q Q something of a key concern of mine, reference to a number of finance that is, how to build an organisation that projects.
Can you provide more We said last year that we would A is scalable as we continue to grow.
refine our strategy, and we did.
We this, it is important that we implement are now focused on four strategic the projects we have started, like the It has been a very busy year for the growth drivers, which are: delivering A Oracle system and the treasury strategy finance team in the Group, and I our pipeline, maximising our returns I discussed earlier, because that ensures would really like to recognise the from the existing portfolio, expanding that everything we do is scalable and can work that all the team members have geographically and acquiring if there grow with Dechra as we become a larger done during the year.
After the is a suitable opportunity.
divestment of the Services Segment, So in 2015 the priority is to execute So if we do all of these, the Board, the and after the redefinition of our and deliver on our strategy.
From Senior Executive Team, Ian and myself strategy, the finance strategy a finance perspective, that means are very confident that it will continue to became very clear.
It was very three areas of focus in terms of our strengthen Dechras position in the global obvious that we had to preserve the work and our activities.
The first animal health market.
strength of our balance sheet in one is allocating resources to drive order to execute the strategy and returns.
Secondly, maintaining or finance our expansion.
And finally, We started with tax, and did a building a business model that is full review of our tax strategy and scalable and that can accommodate our tax position.
We are taking full for the growth in the future.
advantage of government backed Taking the first point about allocating incentive schemes for innovation resources, it is really about ensuring driven organisations like ours.
that we put our resources, our We then turned our attention to the money, behind the projects that treasury, and once we had repaid will drive the growth.
That means part of our debt, we looked at the that we need to be able to support funding requirements we will have in the product launches like Osphos: the future.
We also did that because we need to be able to fund our we wanted to take the opportunity geographic expansion: we need of very favourable market conditions.
to be able to continue to invest in We will now operate with a syndicate R&D, while delivering returns to of three banks, which ensures that our shareholders.
So that is very our cash management operations important.
will be scalable for the future, and will With our second focus on improving be more robust.
or maintaining our gross margins, In parallel to all this, we continued we will look at both our commercial with the roll out of Oracle, our IT offering but also our production system for finance, to the rest of costs.
We will also look at our supply the business, and we continued chain capabilities that we have to improve our control framework identified as a key enabler in our to make sure that it evolves as the strategy.
It is true that a finance strategy is important for any business, but I am particularly pleased that for Dechra it has contributed to the bottom line this year, and it will continue to help grow the EPS in the next few years.
com Stock code: DPH 23481.04 9 September 2014 5:04 PM Design A
