Case Study: Italy 60 By 2013, DVP EU had a sales and The Italian system sees independent, These new members of the Dechra marketing organisation in every major self-employed sales agents work with Italian team have excellent experience European market with the exception product manufacturers and distributors, selling Dechra products for over ten of one, the c. 650m Italian market.
receiving commission as a percentage years and vital knowledge of the local Dechras product portfolio was already of sales.
This meant that only a small market, ensuring the establishment of the established in Italy, with over 20 product back office team, led by a country new entity was a smooth process.
licences covering multi-species in both manager, would be needed.
The costs Dechras sales and marketing team CAP and FAP which were exported to of establishing this team would be more in Italy began selling on 1 March: the and sold by eight distribution partners.
than covered by the increased sales we phasing out of the eight distribution believed our team could generate and However, to deliver on our strategic partners is ongoing.
the higher margins achieved by cutting pillar of geographical expansion, we out the distribution middle man.
recognised that this market offered unexploited potential.
We believed that We recruited a country manager and with our own sales team focusing solely a number of staff who had previously on our own portfolio, we could increase worked for Janssen Pharmaceutica, a sales and capture the whole margin.
company that had distributed Dechra products for a number of years in Italy.
Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2014 23481.04 9 September 2014 5:04 PM Design A Strategic Report Our Performance 61 Case Study: PSPC Inc.
In May 2014 Dechra acquired the trade Phycocyanin is an extract from sold through approximately 3,000 and assets of PSPC Inc. a Florida US blue-green algae that has a patent practices.
By including Phycox in our based business, to enhance our product which supports its use as a COX-2 basket of marketed products, we could portfolio.
As is often the case in business selective agent that alleviates pain and potentially access most US veterinary development, the first contact was made inflammation without the side effects clinics.
We started the initial which occur with NSAID that are not We were also keen on acquiring the discussions to acquire the business at COX-2 selective.
The use of phycocyanin business as it had other products in a world veterinary congress NAVC in is unique to Phycox and provides us with development, including a chewable January 2013 as we had recognised a significant marketing advantage in a canine product which is comparable that PSPCs principal product would market estimated to be US$55 million.
to our European market leading brand, be an excellent addition to our portfolio Phycox is available in a range of Forthyron, for the treatment of endocrine and add further critical mass to our US formulations suitable for dog breeds of all disorders in dogs.
ages to support healthy joints as well as be branded Levocrine in the US, The principal product of the business, muscle and bone health.
There is also a will be launched in the second half of Phycox, is a patented nutraceutical pack presentation indicated for horses, our 2015 financial year and will be an prescribed by veterinary surgeons as a which is complementary to our equine excellent complementary product to our supplement for dogs and horses with product sector.
Our initial marketing successful endocrine range.
osteoarthritis and poor joint health.
objective will be to increase the adoption Phycox contains glucosamine, MSM, of the product by new veterinary creatine, antioxidants and phycocyanin.
Historically the product was www.
com Stock code: DPH 23481.04 9 September 2014 5:04 PM Design A 03 Our Governance 23481.04 9 September 2014 2:21 PM Design A Our Governance 64 Board of Directors 66 Corporate Governance 78 Audit Committee Report 84 Nomination Committee Report 86 Directors Remuneration Report 106 Social, Ethical and Environmental Responsibilities 112 Directors Report Other Disclosures 115 Statement of Directors Responsibilities 23481.04 9 September 2014 2:21 PM Design A
