36 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 BUSINESS REVIEWS: LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN Net sales by markets Net sales by categories Net sales by price points LATIN % % % AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN Paraguay, Mexico Sp irits Wine Other Value Super premium Uruguay & Brazil Beer RTDs Standard Ul tra premium WestLAC V enezuela Premium Other Colombia Key financials 2013 Acquisitions In Latin America and Caribbean Reported and Organic 2014 Reported restated Exchange disposals movement Reported movement the strategic priority is million million million million million % Net sales 1,453 328 8 27 1,144 21 continued leadership in scotch, Marketing spend 233 30 2 2 203 13 while broadening the category Operating profit before exceptional items 468 151 2 9 328 30 range to include vodka, rum, Exceptional items 14 liqueurs and local spirits.
We Operating profit 468 314 33 are continuing to invest in Restated following the adoption of IFRS 11 and the amendment to IAS 19. routes to market and in the Route to market Supply operations The majority of brands sold in the region are range and depth of our We sell our products through a combination of our own companies and third-party distributors.
manufactured in our International Supply Centre portfolio of leading brands.
In Brazil, sales are primarily made directly to in Europe.
However, we have been expanding We are also enhancing our international retailers and distributors.
Our largest owned asset base in the region is Ypica in Brazil.
We also have a addition to Diageo Brazil, Diageo owns 100% supply structure to enable of Ypica, a leading cachaa producer and controlling interest in a company in Guatemala the business to provide the distributor.
In Uruguay, Diageo manages Anejos fide Altura producing Zacapa.
The distribution directly and through distributors.
region has a brewery in Jamaica Red Stripe, emerging middle class and and the Navarro Correas winery in Mendoza, All products in Venezuela are sold through an increasing number of dedicated third-party distributors.
In addition, we partner with more we sell directly to major grocers, serving all other than 12 brewers and over 20 co-pack partners wealthy consumers with the accounts and channels through distributors.
to manufacture brands and package products premium brands they aspire to.
under strict quality assurance protocols.
In Mexico, distribution of Smirnoff is managed by Casa Cuervo SA, while all other Our markets Sustainability & Responsibility brands are sold directly by Diageo, either Our Latin America and Caribbean LAC Our strategy in the Latin America and through direct sales to international accounts business comprises Paraguay, Uruguay Caribbean region focuses on Diageo being the or through wholesalers and distributors.
and Brazil PUB, Venezuela, Colombia, partner of choice with all our key stakeholders In selected markets in WestLAC, we Mexico and WestLAC Central America in the diverse countries in which we operate.
manage sales ourselves, while in key markets, and Caribbean, Argentina, Chile, Peru, We seek to demonstrate informed leadership such as Costa Rica and the Dominican Republic, Ecuador and Bolivia.
in public policy, and positively impact our we use exclusive distributors.
For example, customer own a 58% controlling interest in Desnoes & programmes with Walmart in Mexico and Geddes Limited, the Jamaican brewer of Puerto Rico are aimed at combating alcohol Red Stripe lager.
misuse issues, such as underage drinking.
In Argentina, we sell directly to major In Brazil we have created a glass-recycling grocers, and other businesses are managed programme, which also serves to create through a combination of wholesalers and jobs through the development of recycling distributors outside of major grocers, to co-operatives with local authorities.
This work whom we sell directly.
is underpinned by Diageos flagship community re-investment programme, Learning for Life.
Since 2008, Learning for Life has provided life skills and vocational training to more than 100,000 disadvantaged individuals in more than 30 countries across the region.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 37 BUSINESS REVIEWS: LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN Our Latin America and Caribbean business in Johnnie Walker, with half of the growth benefited from distribution gains driven coming from super and ultra premium by changes in the route to consumer.
has delivered a good set of results despite mixed performance in individual countries.
segments, drove 13% net sales increase in Diageo Mexico net sales declined 4% as tax In WestLAC, our biggest market, net sales scotch and Diageo Brazil gained share in reforms and a weaker economy affected were down 8% following a destocking scotch.
Ypica again grew strongly with net consumer confidence.
Buchanans net sales sales up 21% on the back of the Vamos in the border zones.
Both Brazil and were down 11% as the brand was impacted Colombia delivered solid performance, Brazilizar campaign and the launch of by competition from the growing value benefiting from changes in the route to new packaging to upgrade the brand segment and Johnnie Walker net sales consumer and, in Brazil, from synergy perception.
Vodka was back in growth with were down 7% but gained share across net sales increasing 15% driven by Smirnoff with Ypica.
In a challenging operating all brands segments.
In the fast growing environment Venezuela net sales grew 78%, which gained share in the standard vodka value segment, Black & White nearly doubled with slower growth in the second half as segment.
In the growing luxury segment, in size, albeit from a small base, and grew high inflation and currency devaluation has Croc and Ketel One vodka continued to share.
Old Parr net sales were up 30% perform strongly with net sales growing affected demand and the affordability of supported by the launch of Old Parr Silver, imported products.
Mexico was weak as tax 41% and 25% respectively.
The duty free a non age declared variant of the main reforms and a general economic slowdown zones of Paraguay and Uruguay were brand driving share gains.
Baileys impacted consumers discretionary spend.
affected by currency weakness and extended its lead in the liqueur category, net sales declined 13%.
While scotch remains the largest category supported by the successful Mothers Day in the region, growth came from the Diageo Venezuela net sales grew 78% Hija fide mi Madre campaign.
investment we made to widen participation with volume down 17%.
High inflation and Net sales in WestLAC were down 8%.
to categories such as vodka, cachaa, currency devaluation impacted consumer Performance was largely driven by the liqueurs and to capture the growing demand for scotch with volume declining destocking in the border zones where affluent and emerging middle class.
Net sales in locally produced rum such net sales declined 66%.
Net sales in other Despite the negative country mix from as Pampero and Cacique grew 84% as countries which make up the market weakness in WestLAC and Mexico, total consumers traded down from scotch to rum.
grew 8%, driven by double digit growth operating margin for the region improved Diageo Venezuela continued to gain share in Argentina, as local production of 18bps driven by strong price mix, and a in scotch and rum, however it lost share in Smirnoff started in the first half and focus on overhead cost reductions.
ready to drink due to supply constraints.
import restrictions on Johnnie Walker In Colombia, net sales grew high single eased, and Jamaica which benefited KEY HIGHLIGHTS digit with changes in the route to consumer from a new distribution joint venture.
Paraguay, Uruguay and Brazil PUB and a review of commercial terms driving reflected the strong performance of Brazil Marketing spend increased 1%, less than a stronger performance in the second half.
where improvements in route to consumer, net sales, as Diageo Brazil reallocated some Old Parr and Buchanans contributed to synergy with Ypica and a favourable marketing spend into trade spend to over 60% of net sales growth supported comparison versus last year contributed secure in store visibility and benefit from by new marketing campaigns such as to net sales growth in every category.
the FIFA world cup and the expansion The more you give, the more you have.
Strong growth from Old Parr, White Horse into new outlets.
Increased investment Ready to drink net sales grew 24% as it and Black & White, and 5% net sales growth behind reserve brands, mainly Croc, and non scotch categories such as rum, Organic volume Organic net sales Reported net sales particularly in Mexico with the successful movement movement movement % % % Captain Morgans Morgan Fest campaign, Key markets and categories: Baileys and cachaa in Brazil was in line with Latin America and Caribbean 1 2 21 the strategy to expand beyond scotch and capture the affluent and growing PUB 9 10 4 emerging middle class.
Venezuela 17 78 71 Colombia 5 8 7 Mexico 1 4 10 WestLAC 9 8 15 Spirits 1 1 23 Beer 5 10 3 Wine 19 2 24 Ready to drink 6 16 11 Global and local leaders : Johnnie Walker 7 4 15 Buchanans 20 1 32 Smirnoff 12 18 1 Baileys 9 6 Organic equals reported movement for volume except for Venezuela 19 %, Colombia 3 %, Mexico 2 % and WestLAC 10 % and spirits 2 % reflecting the disposal of Nuvo and the termination of the distribution agreement with Jose Cuervo.
Spirits brands excluding ready to drink.
