40 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 CATEGORY REVIEW Volume Net sales Marketing spend C CAT ATE EG GO OR RY Y R RE EV VIEW IEW Whisk e y Rum Tequila Beer Ready Other to drink Vodka Liqueurs Gin Wine Organic volume Organic net sales Reported net sales launch of Crown Royal Maple Finished and movement movement movement competition from flavoured whiskey brands.
% % % Marketing investment focused on the Reign Key markets and categories: On campaign.
Spirits 1 10 JB net sales declined 8%, primarily Whisk e y 4 8 driven by increased price competition in the Johnnie Walker 6 4 9 Spanish scotch market, and a weaker market Crown Royal 4 1 3 in Mexico.
This was partly offset by growth in JB 7 8 11 South Africa, the brands third largest market, Buchanans 13 6 24 and in Korea.
JB Urban Honey, an innovation Windsor 5 1 1 in the rapidly growing favoured whisk e y Bushmills 8 7 4 segment, was launched.
Bulleit 66 69 62 Buchanans grew net sales 6% on Vodka 1 5 strong price mix.
Volume in Latin America and Smirnoff 1 2 7 Caribbean, its biggest region was significantly Ketel One vodka 3 6 2 impacted by: destocking in WestLAC: softer Croc 2 2 2 consumer demand in Mexico: and weak volume Rum 9 7 4 growth in Venezuela.
Net sales growth was Captain Morgan 6 6 1 driven by Venezuela and the United States Liqueurs 2 7 where the brand continued to target Latin Baileys 2 1 3 American consumers.
In the United States Tequila 43 34 71 Buchanans is now the #3 blended scotch Don Julio 27 27 22 brand, with 375k cases, driven by increased Gin 3 3 1 marketing behind the A lo Grande campaign, Tanqueray 4 6 3 sponsorships and trade activation.
Beer 11 3 8 Windsors performance improved with Guinness 5 1 5 net sales up 1%.
In Korea, the brands primary Wine 4 1 6 market, net sales grew 3%, in a declining market.
Ready to drink 8 4 11 Windsors volume share gains were driven by Total 2 9 the strong performance of Windsor 12 and the launch of a new super premium variant, Organic equals reported movement for volume except for total 5 %, spirits 4 %, wine 8 %, ready to drink 5%, liqueurs 4 %, and tequila 86 %, largely reflecting the disposal of Nuvo and the termination of agency brand Windsor Black, to drive incremental growth distribution agreements, including Jose Cuervo.
Spirits brands excluding ready to drink.
Bushmills net sales growth of 7% was driven by the music based Bushmills Live Spirits net sales were broadly flat, with growth Johnnie Walkers net sales decline was driven platform and the honey flavour innovation, in the United States offset by weakness in by Johnnie Walker Red and Black Label which emerging markets, particularly Asia Pacific.
were adversely impacted by market weakness with Russia and Eastern Europe, Germany and GTME the strongest markets.
Reserve brands delivered the strongest growth in a number of emerging markets, particularly Bulleit continued its strong trajectory, net up 14%, with 5ppt of positive price mix.
in South East Asia, WestLAC and PUB.
Reserve sales grew 69% as the brand grew strongly Whisk e y, our largest spirits category, brands grew strongly, with 7ppt of price mix, performed broadly in line with overall spirits, driven by successful innovation launches in in the United States and expanded in to new markets.
and again strong performance in North America the United States and pricing in Venezuela.
Scotch Malts performed very strongly with offset weak performance in emerging markets.
Crown Royal in the United States grew, net sales up 18% driven by the recently launched Consequently scotch net sales declined 1%, driven by the launch of Crown Royal XO and largely Johnnie Walker, given its strong presence Crown Royal 75th Anniversary, which drove Talisker Storm and the Talisker Whisky Atlantic Challenge, and strong growth of The Singleton in emerging markets.
Its growth was partly offset and Lagavulin, up 17% and 23% respectively.
by the negative impact of lapping last years Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 41 CATEGORY REVIEW Beer net sales declined 3%.
In Nigeria Vodka net sales were broadly flat, with strong Zacapa net sales grew 22%, driven by 37% growth in its largest region, Western Europe, consumers traded down to value beer growth in reserve offsetting the decline in standard and value segments.
In the United with strong growth in Russia and Eastern resulting in share losses, duty changes had States volume declined in the value and Europe and North America.
Investment a negative impact on Senator keg in Kenya, and there were continued challenges in standard price segments due to a challenging focused on mentoring, trade activation and sampling, with a continuation in the roll out Ireland and Great Britain.
price environment and lapping of prior year innovations.
Growth in Latin America was of the successful Zacapa Rooms, a luxury Guinness net sales declined 1%, strong, driven by Brazil and Argentina.
temporary lounge dedicated to tasting delivering 4ppt of positive price mix from price increases.
The brand declined in Nigeria Smirnoff net sales declined, driven by events for key influencers, media and consumers across Western Europe.
due to challenging market conditions, however increasing price pressure in its largest markets.
In the United States the brand held price in an Cacique net sales increased 16% driven by performance improved in the second half increasingly price competitive segment, losing both volume growth and price increases in driven by a number of activities including new packaging, a new media campaign and share.
In Western Europe net sales also declined Venezuela as consumers switched to more affordable local spirits.
Guinness was driven by poor performance in Germany, where the brand was impacted by pricing pressure down 5% in the United States, lapping the Liqueurs performance was driven by Baileys, from wholesalers, in Great Britain where we launch of Guinness Black Lager and down which represents over 85% of the category.
3% in Western Europe where the on trade gained share in an increasingly price competitive Baileys grew 1% and performance was remains challenging.
Guinness performed market, and in Ireland where duty increases broadly mixed across markets.
In China the drove up retail prices.
In contrast in Latin America, strongly in East Africa where price increases brand grew double digit as the Sisterhood Smirnoff delivered strong growth in both drove net sales growth of 19%, supported Campaign resonated strongly with female by an increase in marketing spend.
There was also positive consumers.
In Australia the brand benefited was also strong in Indonesia.
momentum from innovations, with strong from the growth of Chocolat Luxe.
In Latin performance from the Smirnoff Confectionary Performance of local African beers was America and Caribbean the roll out of the line in the United States, and the launch of negatively impacted by the decline of Harp global campaign, and activation in Mexico which was impacted by pricing pressure in the new signature serve Smirnoff Apple Bite focused on the Baileys and coffee serve, Nigeria, and Senator keg which declined and Smirnoff Gold in Western Europe.
In the United Ketel One vodka grew both net sales driven by Octobers excise duty increase in States the brand continued to grow net sales and volume, with 3ppt of positive price mix.
These challenges were in part offset driven by the success of the launch of Baileys by the growth of other local beer brands In the United States, its largest market, net Vanilla Cinnamon and the Stylish Shot including Tusker which grew double digit sales growth was driven by the launch of the campaign.
In Western Europe however, net Vodka of Substance campaign and by brand driven by price increases and strong football sales declined, with performance impacted by ambassador and mentoring programmes related marketing programmes, and value price increases in Germany and Benelux.
This beer brands such as Dubic and Satzenbrau supporting Ketel Ones strong on premise decline was partly offset by the successful in Nigeria and Balozi lager in Kenya which are positioning.
Outside of the United States, net launch of Baileys Chocolat Luxe, which sales grew over 40%, led by net sales in Australia benefiting from growth in the value segment.
drove share gains in Great Britain.
almost doubling and strong performance in Wine grew net sales 1% with growth largely Tequila net sales grew 34% driven by strong GTME and Western Europe.
driven by the United States, as a result of performance of Don Julio, with strong growth Over 85% of Crocs net sales are from the price increases and innovation.
and share gains in the United States, its primary United States, where strong performance and market.
This was driven by a significant increase Ready to drink grew 4% driven by South share gains driven by the launch of Croc in marketing spend to support new brand Africa, Great Britain, Venezuela, and Japan, Amaretto were not enough to offset a decline partly offset by a decline in the United States positioning and commercial activation in the core brand which faced tough price around the summer programme, Elevate and Australia.
In South Africa, strong competition.
The brand was supported with your Summer and Your Margarita Crafted.
performance reflects the production and sale increased investment to support the launch Don Julio continued to perform strongly to DHN Drinks of Smirnoff Ice Double Black Croc Amaretto as well as the Luck be a Lady outside of the United States, growing net and Guarana to resolve short term capacity campaign and the new NBA partnership.
sales 34%, with particularly strong growth issues.
In Japan, net sales grew 20% with Outside of the United States Croc sustained in Western Europe and Australia.
Smirnoff Ice, the leading bottled ready to its growth trajectory, with strong net sales drink, extending its leadership position with growth in Western Europe, Brazil, GTME Gin net sales grew 3%, with strong growth in strong performance by core variants and and launches in to new markets.
Western Europe, Africa, and Latin America innovation.
Net sales declined in the United partly offset by a decline in Asia Pacific.
Rum net sales grew 7% driven by Captain States driven by the continued decline Tanqueray net sales grew 6% with growth Morgan, Zacapa and Cacique.
of pouches and in Australia where our in all regions supported by the extension of the Captain Morgan performed strongly with performance continued to be impacted Tonight we Tanqueray campaign.
There was net sales growing 6% driven by continued by the market contraction.
strong performance across Western Europe, growth in the United States, its largest market, in particular Great Britain, Germany and Iberia Great Britain, Russia and Eastern Europe and where net sales grew and the brand gained Australia.
This was driven through the success share and also Latin America, driven by Brazil, of the Keys to Adventure experiential events Mexico and Colombia.
In the United States, and the new Live like the Captain campaign.
depletions performed well and Diageo grew Growth in the United States was driven by the share but shipments were impacted by higher successful launch of Captain Morgan White stock levels at the start of the financial year.
in February which was supported by increased investment.
