Strategic report governance Financial statements additional information for shareholders Diageo annual RepoRt 2014 57 corporate governance report Performance evaluation board of directors During the year and continuing in the subsequent financial year, an externally facilitated evaluation of the Boards effectiveness, including the effectiveness of the Audit, the Remuneration and Membership of the board and board Committees the Nomination Committees has been and is being undertaken.
The chairmen, Senior Non-Executive Director and other members The external facilitator, Wickland Westcott, has no other connection of the Board, Audit Committee, Nomination Committee and with the company.
Remuneration Committee are as set out in this Annual Report in the Against a context of assessing the Boards performance over the biographies of Directors and members of the Executive Committee.
past year in its aim to fulfil an appropriate Board mandate to support There is a clear separation of the roles of the Chairman and the Diageos Performance Ambition, the areas the Board evaluation Chief Executive.
The Chairman, Dr Franz B Humer, is responsible for the sought to explore included: the management of the reputation of running of the Board and for ensuring all Directors are fully informed of the company: the Boards perspectives on the performance of the matters, sufficient to make informed judgements.
As Chief Executive, business: progress on the talent agenda, particularly in the context of Ivan Menezes has responsibility for implementing the strategy agreed the changes made in the composition of the top management of the by the Board and for managing the company and the group.
He is group: the Boards risk appetite in an operating environment with supported in this role by the Executive Committee.
greater uncertainty: the Boards understanding of and learnings from The Non-Executive Directors, all of whom the Board has the companys growth in emerging markets: and perspectives from determined are independent, are experienced and influential members of the management team on the Board and its impact on individuals from a range of industries, backgrounds and countries.
individual or group dominates the Boards decision-making processes.
The areas covered by the evaluation of the Committees included the performance of the Committees: whether the agendas A summary of the terms and conditions of appointment of the appropriately covered the remits of the Committees: how the Non-Executive Directors is available at www.
com en-row ourbusiness aboutus corporategovernance.
performance of the respective Committee could be enhanced: and areas of focus for the forthcoming year.
A report covering the evaluation of the Board and its Committees, activities and duties of the board will be prepared for the Board for consideration at its next meeting.
The Board manages overall control of the companys affairs with The results of the evaluation will be reported in next years report.
reference to the formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board for The Chairman has confirmed that the Non-Executive Directors decision.
The schedule was last reviewed in June 2012 and is available standing for re-election at this years AGM continue to perform at www.
com en-row ourbusiness aboutus effectively, both individually and collectively as a Board, and that each corporategovernance.
demonstrate commitment to their roles.
The senior Non-Executive The Board has agreed an approach and adopted guidelines for Director led a performance evaluation of the Chairman.
Feedback dealing with conflicts of interest and responsibility for authorising was discussed in a meeting with the Executive and Non-Executive conflicts of interest is included in the schedule of matters reserved for Directors and then privately with the Chairman.
The Board confirmed that it was aware of no situations that may or did give rise to conflicts with the interests of the nomination Committee company other than those that may arise from Directors other Role of the nomination Committee appointments as disclosed in their biographies.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for keeping under review In order to fulfil their duties, procedures are in place for Directors the composition of the Board and succession to it, and succession to seek both independent advice and the advice and services of the planning for senior leadership positions.
It makes recommendations Company Secretary who is responsible for advising the Board, to the Board concerning appointments to the Board.
through the Chairman, on all governance matters.
The Non-Executive Any new Directors are appointed by the Board and, in accordance Directors meet without the Chairman present, and also meet with with the companys articles of association, they must be elected at the Chairman without management present, on a regular basis.
the next AGM to continue in office.
All existing Directors retire by rotation every year.
The terms of reference of Board Committees are available at www.
activities of the nomination Committee The principal activities of the Nomination Committee during the year Induction, training and business engagement were: the consideration of potential new Non-Executive Directors, There is a formal induction programme for new Directors including in light of the review of the structure and composition of the Board: meeting with Executive Committee members and other senior the review of individual performance: a review of the Executive executives individually and receiving orientation training from the Committee membership and succession planning for it and senior relevant senior executive in relation to the group and its business.
Following the initial induction for Non-Executive Directors, a continuing In respect of the appointments of Nicola Mendelsohn and understanding of the business is developed through appropriate business Alan Stewart to the Board with effect from 1 September 2014, the engagements.
Visits to distilleries and engagements with third party recruitment processes included the development of a candidate distributors were arranged during the year.
profile and the engagement of professional search agencies In addition, Executive Committee members and other senior specialising in the recruitment of high calibre Non-Executive executives are invited, as appropriate, to Board and strategy meetings Directors.
Reports on potential appointees were provided to to make presentations on their areas of responsibility.
the committee, which, after careful consideration, made a All Directors are also provided with the opportunity, and recommendation to the Board.
encouraged, to attend regular training to ensure they are kept up to date on relevant legal developments or changes and best practice and changing commercial and other risks.
