58 Diageo annual RepoRt 2014 corporate governance report Diversity During the year, in line with the Code, the Board considered the Diageo supports diversity within its Board of Directors, including nature and extent of the risks it was willing to take to achieve its gender diversity.
Further information is given in the section of this strategic goals and reviewed the existing internal statement of risk Annual Report on sustainability & responsibility, our people.
appetite which was considered and recommended to the Board by both the Audit & Risk Committee and the Audit Committee.
remuneration Committee The company has in place internal control and risk management Role of the Remuneration Committee systems in relation to the companys financial reporting process and The role of the Remuneration Committee and details of how the the groups process for preparation of consolidated accounts.
Further, company applies the principles of the Code in respect of Directors a review of the consolidated financial statements is completed by remuneration are set out in the directors remuneration report.
management to ensure that the financial position and results of the The Chairman and the Chief Executive may, by invitation, attend group are appropriately reflected therein.
Remuneration Committee meetings, except when their own remuneration is discussed.
No Director is involved in determining Compliance and ethics programme Diageo is committed to conducting its business responsibly and his or her own remuneration.
in accordance with all laws and regulations to which its business activities are subject.
We hold ourselves to the principles in our Code of Business Conduct, which is embedded through a comprehensive executive direction training and education programme for all employees.
and control Our Code of Business Conduct and other Diageo global policies are available at www.
com en-row ourbusiness aboutus executive Committee corporategovernance.
The Executive Committee, appointed and chaired by the Chief In accordance with the requirements of SOX and related SEC rules, Executive, supports him in discharging his responsibility for Diageo has adopted a code of ethics covering its Chief Executive, implementing the strategy agreed by the Board and for managing Chief Financial Officer, presidents and other identifiable persons in the company and the group.
the group, including those performing senior accounting and It consists of the individuals responsible for the key components controller functions.
No amendments to, or waivers in respect of the business: North America, Western Europe, AEET Africa, Eastern of, the code of ethics were made during the year.
Europe and Turkey, Latin America and Caribbean and Asia Pacific, International Supply Centre and the global functions.
The full text of the code of ethics is available at www.
com en-row The Executive Committee focuses its time and agenda to align ourbusiness aboutus corporategovernance.
with the Performance Ambition and how to achieve the performance imperatives.
Performance metrics have been developed to measure Both the Audit & Risk Committee and the Audit Committee regularly progress and a further designated focus is on the companys review the strategy and operation of the compliance and ethics reputation.
In support, monthly performance delivery calls, including programme through the year.
the managing directors of the key markets, focus on progress against Further information is given in the section of this Annual Report the six performance drivers.
on sustainability & responsibility, governance & ethics.
To support the market visits made by the presidents in the ordinary Relations with shareholders course of their business, a small group led by the Chief Executive makes The Boards primary contact with institutional shareholders is through regular market visits focused on the execution of strategy and the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
The Chief Executive designed to assist in continuing the development of strategy and in and Chief Financial Officer are supported by the investor relations the delivery of performance against the Performance Ambition.
department, who are in regular contact with institutional Committees appointed by the Chief Executive and intended to have shareholders and sell-side analysts.
A monthly investor relations an ongoing remit, including the Audit & Risk Committee, Finance report, including coverage of the company by sell-side analysts, is Committee and Filings Assurance Committee are shown with their circulated to the Board.
com en-row ourbusiness aboutus The Board also ensures that all Directors develop an corporategovernance.
understanding of the views of major institutional shareholders through an independent survey of shareholder opinion.
In addition, additional information major shareholders are invited to raise any company matters of internal control and risk management interest to them at meetings with the chairman and the chairman of An ongoing process has been established for identifying, evaluating the remuneration committee.
Reports on any meetings are made to and managing risks faced by the group.
This process, which complies the Board.
with the requirements of the Code, has been in place for the full Private shareholders are invited to write to the chairman or any financial year and up to the date the financial statements were other Director and express their views on any issues of concern at any approved and accords with the guidance issued by the Financial time and the AGM provides an opportunity for private shareholders Reporting Council in October 2005, Internal Control: Revised to put their questions in person.
Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, also known as the Turnbull guidance as amended by the Flint review.
political donations The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for the companys The group has not given any money for political purposes in the systems of internal control and risk management and for reviewing United Kingdom and made no donations to EU political organisations their effectiveness.
The Board confirms that, through the activities and incurred no EU political expenditure during the year.
The group of the Audit Committee described below, it has reviewed the made contributions to non-EU political parties totalling 0.4 million effectiveness of the companys systems of internal control and during the year 2013 0.5 million.
Strategic report governance Financial statements additional information for shareholders Diageo annual RepoRt 2014 59 corporate governance report KPMG LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, who These contributions were all made, consistent with applicable laws, to federal and state candidates and committees in North America, also audit the groups consolidated financial statements, has audited where it is common practice to make political contributions.
No the effectiveness of the groups internal control over financial particular political persuasion was supported and contributions were reporting, and has issued an unqualified report thereon, which will be included in the companys Form 20-F to be filed with the SEC.
made with the aim of promoting a better understanding of the group and its views on commercial matters, as well as a generally Directors responsibilities in respect of the annual Report and improved business environment.
financial statements going concern The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the information filed with the SEC on Form 20-F and the group and The Directors confirm that, after making appropriate enquiries, they have reasonable expectation that the group has adequate resources parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in Responsibility statement preparing the financial statements.
Further information on going Each of the Directors, whose names are set out in the Board of concern is given in this Annual Report under note 1 Accounting Directors and Executive Committee section of this Annual Report, information and policies going concern.
confirms that to the best of his or her knowledge: Managements report on internal control over financial reporting the Annual Report for the year ended 30 June 2014, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the Management, under the supervision of the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer, is responsible for establishing and maintaining information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups adequate control over the groups financial reporting.
performance, business model and strategy: Management has assessed the effectiveness of Diageos internal the consolidated financial statements contained in the Annual control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13 a -13 f and Report for the year ended 30 June 2014, which have been 15 d -15 f under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 based on prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB and as the framework in Internal Control Integrated Framework, issued adopted for use in the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway liabilities, financial position and profit of the group: and Commission COSO in 1992.
Based on this assessment, management the management report represented by the Directors Report concluded that, as at 30 June 2014, internal control over financial contained in the Annual Report for the year ended 30 June 2014 reporting was effective.
includes a fair review of the development and performance of the During the period covered by this report, there were no changes business and the position of the group, together with a description in internal control over financial reporting that have materially of the principal risks and uncertainties that the group faces.
affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting.
The responsibility statement was approved by the Board of Directors on 30 July 2014.
Directors attendance record at the AGM, scheduled Board meetings and Board committee meetings, for the year ended 30 June 2014 was as set out in the table below.
For Board and Board committee meetings, attendance is expressed as the number of meetings attended out of the number that each Director was eligible to attend.
Annual Audit Nomination Remuneration General Meeting Board Committee Committee Committee 2013 maximum 6 maximum 4 maximum 4 maximum 7 Dr Franz B Humer 6 6 4 4 4 4 6 7 Ivan Menezes 6 6 2 2 4 4 7 7 Deirdre Mahlan 6 6 4 4 n a 3 3 Lord Davies 6 6 4 4 4 4 7 7 Peggy Bruzelius 6 6 4 4 4 4 7 7 Laurence Danon 6 6 4 4 4 4 7 7 Betsy Holden 6 6 4 4 4 4 7 7 Ho KwonPing 6 6 4 4 4 4 6 7 Philip Scott 6 6 4 4 4 4 7 7 Attended by invitation.
Attended by invitation, for part only.
H o KwonPing was unable to attend one meeting of the Remuneration Committee but did give his views to the committee chairman before the meeting.
The former Chief Executive, Paul S Walsh, and Todd Stitzer, a Non-Executive Director, were members of the Board until the AGM in September 2013.
Two non-scheduled Board meetings were held during the year in relation to United Spirits Limited.
