Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders Strategic  statements Additional information for shareholders DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 01 DIAGEO IN 2014 Diageo is a global leader in beverage alcohol DIAGEO with an outstanding collection of brands across spirits, beer and wine categories.
IN 2014 These brands include Johnnie Walker, Crown Royal, JB, Buchanans, Windsor and Bushmills whiskies, Smirnoff, Croc and Ketel One vodkas, Captain Morgan, Baileys, Don Julio, Tanqueray and Guinness.
Diageo is a global company, and our products are sold in more than 180 countries around the world.
The management team This year we set out our Performance continues to invest to build our brands and Ambition to create one of the best routes to consumer, to deliver long term performing, most trusted and respected profitable growth.
Diageo is listed on both consumer products companies in the world.
the London Stock Exchange DGE and Our Performance Ambition is supported by six performance drivers and six Sustainability & Responsibility priorities.
the New York Stock Exchange DEO.
Read more on pages 14-19 For more information about Diageo, our people and our brands, visit www.
This year, Diageo delivered 0.4% organic net sales growth reflecting growth in North America, stability in Western Europe and weakness Visit Diageos global responsible drinking resource, www.
com, in emerging market economies.
for information, initiatives, and ways to share best practice.
Read more on pages 26-29 More available online Contents 06DOIUATGSETO AANNDNINUAG BL RREEPAODRTT H A201N4D DEPTH ACROSS PRICE POINTSDOIUATGSETO AANNDNINUAG BL RREEPAODRTT H A201N4D DEPTH ACROSS PRICE POINTS07 We have brands at almost every price tier of OUTSTANDING every category.
The range of our price points Strategic Report BREADTH AND means we are able to capture consumption shifts across the price spectrum.
The breadth DEPTH ACROSS and depth of our business provides resilience, and enables us to sustain our performance PRICE POINTS over time.
Scotch whiskyOther whisk e y Vodka Rum Liqueur Tequila GinLocal spirits Beer Our business 02 Ultra Premium Super Premium Our structure 03 Premium Brand performance 04 Standard Value Outstanding breadth and depth across price points 06 Ultra premium includes prestige.
Our Performance Ambition 08 Our business model 09 diageo.
com Investor section Diageo Annual Report 2014 online Chairmans statement 10 Chief Executives statement 12 How we will deliver our ambition: Performance drivers 14 How we will deliver our ambition: Sustainability & Responsibility 16 How we measure performance: Key performance indicators 20 How we protect our business: Risk management and principal risks 22 Market dynamics 24 Group financial review 26 Business reviews 30 Category review 40 Sustainability & Responsibility review 42 Definitions and reconciliations of non-GAAP measures 50 to GAAP measures Sustainability & Responsibility Performance Addendum 2014 Diageo IR and Media app Governance Board of Directors and Company Secretary 54 Executive Committee 55 Diageo plc is incorporated as a public limited company in England and Wales.
Diageo Corporate governance report 56 was incorporated as Arthur Guinness Son and Company Limited on 21 October 1886.
Report of the Audit Committee 60 The group was formed by the merger of Grand Metropolitan Public Limited Company Directors remuneration report 63 GrandMet and Guinness PLC the Guinness Group in December 1997.
Diageo plcs Directors report 83 principal executive office is located at Lakeside Drive, Park Royal, London NW10 7HQ and its telephone number is 44 0 20 8978 6000.
Financial statements 84 Cautionary statement: this document contains forward-looking statements.
For our full cautionary statement, please see the inside back cover.
