70 Diageo annual RepoRt 2014 directors remuneration report existing arrangements Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere The Remuneration Committee reserves the right to make any in the company remuneration payments and payments for loss of office When reviewing and determining pay for Executive Directors, notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out the Committee takes into account the level and structure of above where the terms of the payment were agreed i before the remuneration as well as salary budgets for other employees in the policy or the relevant legislation came into effect or ii at a time group.
More specifically, the Committee reviews annual salary when the relevant individual was not a Director of the company increase budgets for the general employee population in the United and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in Kingdom and North America as well as the remuneration structure consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the company.
and policy for the global Senior Management population.
For these purposes payments includes the Committee satisfying Diageo employs 28,000 employees and operates in more than awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over 180 countries around the world.
Given its global scale and complexity, shares, the terms of the payment which are agreed at the time the the Committee has not consulted directly with employees when award is granted including awards under the PSP and SESOP.
Details designing the remuneration policy for its Executive Directors.
of outstanding share awards are set out in the annual report on Diageo runs annual employee surveys which give employees the remuneration.
For the purposes of section 226D 6 of the Companies opportunity to give feedback and express their views on a variety Act, the effective date is the end of the financial year starting in 2014. of topics, including remuneration.
Any comments relating to Executive Directors remuneration are fed back to the external appointments Remuneration Committee.
Executive Directors may accept external appointments as NonExecutive Directors of other companies and retain any related fees paid Consideration of shareholder views to them, subject to the specific approval of the Board in each case.
The Committee values the continued dialogue with Diageos shareholders and engages directly with them and their representative bodies at the earliest opportunity when setting out ChaIrMan OF the bOarD anD nOn-eXeCutIve Diageos remuneration policy and approach, proposed base salary DIreCtOrs increases for the Executive Directors and targets for the long term Purpose and link to strategy incentive plan award.
Most recently, feedback from shareholders has Supports the attraction, motivation and retention of world-class resulted in the simplification of the companys long term incentive talent and reflects the value of the individual, their skills and vehicles with an enhanced malus provision and an additional experience, and performance.
Operation Fees for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are normally reviewed annually.
A proportion of the Chairmans annual fee is used for the monthly purchase of Diageo ordinary shares, which have to be retained until the Chairman retires from the company or ceases to be a Director.
Fees are reviewed in the light of market practice in the top 30 companies in the FTSE100 by market capitalisation excluding companies in the financial services sector and anticipated workload, tasks and potential liabilities.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any of the companys incentive plans or receive pension contributions or benefits.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors are eligible to receive a product allowance or cash equivalent at the same level as the Executive Directors.
All Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment.
A summary of their terms and conditions of appointment is available at www.
The Chairman of the Board, Dr Franz B Humer, commenced his appointment on 1 July 2008.
Dr Humer had a letter of appointment for an initial five-year term from 1 July 2008 which has been extended to 30 June 2016.
It is terminable on six months notice by either party or, if terminated by the company, by payment of six months fees in lieu of notice.
Opportunity Fees for Non-Executive Directors are within the limits set by the shareholders from time to time, currently an aggregate of 1,000,000, as approved by shareholders at the October 2005 AGM.
This limit excludes the Chairmans fees.
Current fee levels are disclosed in the annual report on remuneration.
