32 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 BUSINESS REVIEWS: WESTERN EUROPE Net sales by categories Net sales by price points WESTERN % % EUROPE Sp irits Wine Other Standard Super premium Beer RTDs Premium Ul tra premium Key financials 2013 Acquisitions Diageo is the largest Reported and Organic 2014 Reported restated Exchange disposals movement Reported movement premium drinks business in million million million million million % Net sales 2,203 9 38 5 2,169 2 Western Europe.
Consumer Marketing spend 328 4 1 323 2 marketing programmes are Operating profit before exceptional items 650 5 8 2 639 2 developed at a market level to Exceptional items 31 20 drive consistency, efficiency Operating profit 619 619 and scale across all countries.
Restated following the adoption of IFRS 11 and the amendment to IAS 19.
Countries within Western Europe In both the Republic of Ireland and Northern have focused on expanding malt distillation Western Europe is managed as a single capacity across Scotland at existing sites and Ireland, Diageo sells and distributes directly market with country teams focusing on to both the on trade and the off trade developed a major new warehousing site sales and customer marketing execution.
through a telesales operation, sales calls to to mature our inventory investment.
The This market comprises Great Britain, Ireland, outlets and third-party logistics providers.
investment programme has generated Iberia, France, Germany, Benelux, Italy, additional employment and benefited Across the remainder of Western Europe, we Nordics, Greece, Switzerland, Austria, distribute our spirits brands primarily through local communities.
We are also planning Diageo Guinness Continental Europe our own distribution companies, except for to build a new malt whisky distillery beer business and European wines.
France where products are sold through a joint in Scotland.
A brewing rationalisation programme will be completed in 2015. venture arrangement with Mot Hennessy.
Route to market In Norway and Sweden, off trade sales are In Great Britain we sell and market our products Sustainability & Responsibility controlled by state monopolies, with alcohol through three business units: Diageo GB spirits, In Western Europe we focus on promoting tax rates among the highest in the world.
beer and ready to drink : Percy Fox & Co wines : responsible drinking in every country through Diageo Guinness Continental Europe, and Justerini & Brooks Retail private client partnerships with government agencies, a specialist unit, distributes our beer brands wines.
Products are distributed both through non-governmental organisations NGOs, in mainland Europe, focusing particularly in independent wholesalers and directly to independent charities and large retail Germany, Russia and France, which for us are retailers.
In the on trade, products are sold customers.
Such partnerships include Teach the largest mainland European beer markets through major brewers, multiple retail groups about Alcohol in Sweden, a schools-based by net sales.
and smaller regional independent brewers programme that helps young people to and wholesalers.
Supply operations resist social pressure, peer pressure and The International Supply Centre ISC learn to say no to alcohol.
Also the Avenue comprises the supply operations in the programme in Greece is tackling a culture United Kingdom, Ireland and Italy and distils, of drink driving with support from the brews, matures and packages product for European Commission and European other Diageo companies throughout the Transport Safety Council.
The group owns 29 whisky distilleries our Learning for Life community investment in Scotland, an Irish whiskey distillery and a programme to Scotland as part of a five-year Dublin based beer brewery.
The ISC ships effort aiming to provide valuable life skills, whisk e y, vodka, gin, rum, beer, wine and technical training and work experience to other spirit-based drinks in a combination young people across various sectors.
We also of bottles, cans, kegs and pouches to over launched Learning for Life Programmes in 180 countries.
In 2012, we announced a Germany and Ireland.
1 billion investment in Scotch whisky production and inventory.
To date we Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 33 BUSINESS REVIEWS: WESTERN EUROPE Western Europe still has weak economies KEY HIGHLIGHTS and on Baileys performance in Italy.
In Iberia the net sales decline moderated to and fragile consumer confidence but In Great Britain, in a relatively flat beverage there has been steady improvement and alcohol market, net sales were up 2%.
Scotch net sales declined 8% as JB our business has stabilised year on year, Baileys delivered a strong performance was impacted by an increasingly price gaining share of spirits.
There was modest with top line growth of 8% on the back competitive off trade environment but the brand gained share in the second half growth in Great Britain, Benelux, France of a new advertising campaign and the and the Nordics which counter-balanced launch of Chocolat Luxe which was one of the year.
This was partly offset by the the slowing declines in Southern Europe of the top five spirits sold on Amazon performance of Tanqueray which was up and Ireland.
Germany was weaker due to over the week of Christmas.
Captain 14% on the back of a double digit increase Morgan and Croc also performed well.
in media spend and Baileys, which was up higher trade investment and an increasingly price competitive off trade.
Marketing was Bells was weaker as it faced increasingly 2%.
Increased investment in the Spanish targeted more effectively, and we kept our intense price pressure.
Smirnoff net sales route to consumer was partially offset investment as a percentage of net sales declined 3% given the weak vodka by cost saving initiatives.
category but it gained volume share flat while prioritising higher growth and In France, in an environment of intensified margin brands.
We have focused on fewer, supported by the Great Drinks Made price competition amongst major off trade bigger pan-regional innovation launches Easy with Smirnoff campaign and the retailers, net sales grew 1%.
The strong with Baileys Chocolat Luxe, Smirnoff Gold, launch of Smirnoff Gold.
Ready to drink performance of scotch malts, which were was up double digit led by the success frozen pouches and premix, and our reserve up 7% led by The Singleton, Cardhu and business was strong with net sales up 15% of premix, providing popular brands, Talisker, and of Captain Morgan where driven by the scotch malts, Croc, Zacapa such as Diageos Gordons and Pimms net sales more than doubled, offset and Johnnie Walker.
Operating margin in more convenient formats.
expansion of nearly 20bps was driven Following a significant increase in excise In Germany, following a number of years by product optimisation and reductions duties in the first half of the year, the of double digit growth, which has built in warehousing and logistic costs.
Our market in Ireland remained challenging Captain Morgan to be Diageos second route to consumer programme focused and net sales declined 4%.
Spirits were biggest brand, performance was weaker on efficiency, effectiveness and expansion, impacted and net sales were down this year as Baileys and Smirnoff continued increasing the focus of our sales people, double digit.
Roughly half of the decline to decline.
improving their capabilities and putting was driven by weakness in agency beer Net sales in wine declined 2%, with more feet on the street, which has given brands, and Guinness net sales declined innovations on Blossom Hill and strong us a strong platform as we move into 3%, but brand equity improved with the growth of [yellow tail] partially offsetting next year.
launch on television and YouTube of the soft Bordeaux En Primeur performance Basketball campaign, and the launch of and the decision to exit unprofitable sales an on trade footfall driver, the GUINNESS channels and distribution agreements.
Plus app which provides consumers with Marketing spend as a percentage in outlet experiences and discounts.
Spend in In Southern Europe, which now represents premium core, innovation and reserve 16% of Western Europe, net sales declined were prioritised over lower margin local 3%.
Greece and Italy net sales were down brands.
Efficiencies in procurement and 7% and 5% respectively, as economic promotional activities were used to fund weakness continued to weigh on scotch a 15% increase in media spend.
and Smirnoff performance in both countries, Organic volume Organic net sales Reported net sales movement movement movement % % % Key categories: Western Europe 2 Spirits 1 1 2 Beer 5 3 3 Wine 2 2 10 Ready to drink 1 5 5 Global and local leaders : Johnnie Walker 1 1 1 JB 9 11 10 Smirnoff 1 6 6 Captain Morgan 15 6 6 Baileys 4 2 2 Guinness 4 3 2 Organic equals reported movement for volume except for Western Europe 2 %, spirits 1 % and wine 9 %, reflecting the termination of some agency brand distribution agreements including Jose Cuervo.
Spirits brands excluding ready to drink.
