24 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 MARKET DYNAMICS The global beverage alcohol market is large and diverse, MARKET comprising an estimated six billion equivalent units of alcohol and 300 billion of revenue.
Across the world DYNAMICS there are significant variations in the type of beverage alcohol consumed depending on local incomes, cultures and attitudes.
Commercial context Split of global total beverage alcohol TBA Split of global total beverage alcohol TBA The global beverage alcohol market is large volume EU net sales and diverse, comprising an estimated six billion equivalent units of alcohol and 300 billion of revenue.
Across the world there are significant variations in the type of beverage alcohol consumed depending on local incomes, cultures and attitudes.
On average, per capita consumption is higher in developed markets at 2.4 equivalent units of alcohol per year versus 1.1 in emerging markets, which is driven, in part, by differences in the average level of disposable income.
The shape of the beverage Developed markets Year ended 31 December 2013 Developed markets Year ended 31 December 2013 alcohol market also varies significantly across Emerging markets Source: Diageo estimates Emerging markets Source: Diageo estimates geographies: some regions, such as Asia, consume more spirits, others such as Africa points, the depth of our consumer insights higher levels of disposable income and the are more focused on beer.
and innovation capabilities, combined with importance of branding, these are markets Our business is increasingly balanced across the strength of our route to consumer.
where consumers are often prepared to pay developed and emerging markets and we are Both developed and emerging markets are more for high quality brands with heritage and able to capture share across a wide variety of important beverage alcohol value pools, with provenance.
There is also sustained growth consumer occasions given the geographic different dynamics.
Developed markets are in the number of consumers who are able to breadth of our participation, our leading large and profitable, but with lower growth enjoy our reserve luxury portfolio of brands.
portfolio of brands across categories and price rates.
Emerging markets, also large, are less Emerging markets profitable, with faster growth rates.
Given In emerging markets we are seeing significant Per capita consumption LDA in lower levels of disposable income in emerging equivalent units of alcohol per year EU growth in the LDA population groups markets they are more volatile in response to classified as emerging middle class and 2.4 fluctuations in local economies, as we have above.
These consumers represent a seen this year.
significant opportunity, particularly for our Overall, the global beverage alcohol 1.1 premium core brands, as consumption per market is supported by the strong consumer capita is currently far lower than in fundamentals of a growing legal drinking developed markets.
Each country is different, age LDA population and increasing wealth, and growth occurs at different price points Developed markets Year ended 31 December 2013 driving both consumer penetration and Emerging markets Source: Diageo estimates depending on wealth, and in categories and premiumisiation.
occasions which reflect local culture.
Accessing Developed markets this growth requires an understanding of GDP Capita k LDA Consumers in developed markets are very local consumers and the categories, brands conscious of what their brand choices say and price points they are seeking.
Our strong portfolio of brands distribution platform which makes these across categories and price points, coupled brands accessible to this set of consumers is with our innovation capability, allows us a critical enabler.
There are also a significant, to evolve our offering to provide what and growing, number of globally affluent 8 consumers are looking for, while the strength consumers in the emerging markets for of our distribution networks enables us to whom our reserve luxury portfolio holds Developed markets Year ended 31 December 2013 get our products to the consumer, allowing particular appeal.
Emerging markets Source: Diageo estimates us to benefit from these trends.
Given the An equivalent unit is equal to one nine-litre case of spirits: 45 litres of wine: 90 litres of beer.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 25 MARKET DYNAMICS Regulatory and broader Industry collaboration they operate.
For the alcohol industry, water scarcity is an issue that demands particular stakeholder context Beverage alcohol companies have recognised, Alcohol is one of the most regulated products and stakeholders are expecting, that issues attention given that water is a main ingredient in the world, and beverage alcohol companies such as reducing the harmful use of alcohol in all its products.
The World Bank expects water rightly operate in the context of a range of should be addressed through concerted scarcity to affect 2.8 billion people directly by 2025.
In some countries that have always stakeholder expectations and demands.
industry initiatives in collaboration with At the same time beverage alcohol stakeholders.
Diageo is one of 13 global faced hydrologic variability, climate change companies, like the rest of the private sector, producers of beer, wine and spirits to launch could increase water scarcity.
The map below are increasingly expected to be transparent a new set of commitments in support of the shows the specific Diageo sites operating in water-stressed locations where measures to and demonstrate progress on the wider social WHO's Global strategy to reduce the harmful and environmental agenda.
Using voluntary use of alcohol.
The industry's commitments address supply chain risks, contribute to frameworks such as the Global Reporting include a focus on reducing underage community infrastructure, and work with Initiative Guidelines, launched in 2000 and drinking, strengthening and expanding governments and other partners on water stewardship are particularly important.
updated this year, the United Nations Global marketing codes of practice, providing Compact principles, established in 2006, consumer information and responsible Value chain partnerships and the International Integrated Reporting product innovation, reducing drink driving, Alcohol beverage companies contribute to the Framework, published this year is becoming and enlisting the support of retailers to economic development of their communities a standard expectation for companies to reduce harmful drinking.
in a variety of ways, whether through direct follow.
Moreover, reporting on these issues is Unrecorded alcohol employment, taxes or community investment becoming mandatory in more parts of the The WHO estimates that 25% of alcohol efforts.
However, companies can further world.
For example, the UK Companies Act, consumed is unrecorded, which means it is contribute by leveraging the economic impact the US California Transparency in Supply of their entire value chain in the way they work outside the usual systems of governmental Chains Act and the US Dodd Frank Act, control: regulation and taxation.
Because it with suppliers and customers and doing require public disclosure of human rights and is not regulated, little is known about its so is an increasing expectation of the private environmental issues.
This year, the European production, consumption, and related sector by government and international Council and the European Commission reached development institutions.
What little we do know, suggests an agreement to require publicly-traded that some may be contaminated, some toxic, trend in the food and beverage industry is companies with more than 500 employees and a risk to public health.
Therefore working a focus on local sourcing in markets with an to report performance against a number of with governments and other stakeholders to agricultural economy or potential for one.
Not only does this help build trust with improve data collection in this area is helpful This high and growing level of regulation to all consumers.
government and other stakeholders, but and scrutiny can be an advantage to companies with the use of long term contracts, it can with good corporate governance and the right Climate change and water security help secure supply.
At the other end of the approach to sustainability and responsibility.
A variety of environmental issues associated value chain, strategic partnerships and with climate change, such as extreme weather Alcohol policy investment to train and support individuals events, water scarcity and biodiversity loss, While the approaches taken by governments interested in working in hospitality can build will increasingly affect businesses and how to address alcohol misuse vary, Diageo believes trust while strengthening the industry itself.
that the most effective alcohol policies are evidence-based, account for drinking patterns, Diageo sites located in water-stressed areas target at-risk groups, treat all forms of alcohol equally, and involve all stakeholders.
These include mandating a minimum legal purchasing age of not less than 18: a maximum blood alcohol concentration BAC level for drivers of no more than 0.08mg: and lower BACs for novice and commercial drivers.
Also effective are high-visibility enforcement campaigns of 16 1 17 drink-driving laws and alcohol interlocks for 15 14 convicted drink drivers.
Diageo advocates 18 21 2 these policies while opposing measures that 20 19 3 6 4 5 2223 7 1 are not based on evidence, and are likely to 8 have unintended consequences.
For 9 12 11 example the use of high taxes to control 10 13 consumption can in some cases push consumers to unregulated alcohol markets.
Site Site Site Site 1 Kumasi, Ghana 7 Nairobi Maltings, Kenya 13 SA Cider, South Africa 19 Chalone Vineyard 2 Achimota, Ghana 8 Nairobi Glass, Kenya 14 Acacia Vineyard 20 Chalone Winery 3 Lagos-Ogba, Nigeria 9 Seybrew, Seychelles 15 Acacia Winery 21 Blossom Hill Winery 4 Uganda IBL Brewing 10 Dar Es Salaam, Tanzania 16 Provenance Vineyard 22 Ypica distillery 1.
Interlocks are breathalysers that stop a car from 5 Uganda IDU Spirits 11 Moshi, Tanzania 17 Provenance Winery 23 Ypica sugar cane farm starting if the drivers blood alcohol level is above 6 Nairobi EABL, Kenya 12 Mwanza, Tanzania 18 Lake Ranch Winery a certain limit.
