34 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 BUSINESS REVIEWS: AFRICA, EASTERN EUROPE AND TURKEY Net sales by markets Net sales by categories Net sales by price points AFRICA, % % % EASTERN EUROPE AND TURKEY Nigeria South Africa Sp irits Wine Other Value Super premium Beer RTDs Standard Ul tra premium East Africa Ru ssia & Eastern Europe Premium Africa Regional Markets Turkey Other Key financials 2013 Acquisitions In Africa our strategy is to grow Reported and Organic 2014 Reported restated Exchange disposals movement Reported movement Diageos leadership across beer million million million million million % Net sales 2,276 210 6 15 2,075 9 and spirits by providing brand Marketing spend 265 24 1 2 242 9 choice across a broad range of Operating profit before exceptional items 653 95 2 2 554 15 consumer motivations, profiles, Exceptional items 5 23 and occasions.
We are focused Operating profit 648 531 18 on growing beer faster than Restated following the adoption of IFRS 11 and the amendment to IAS 19. the market and accelerating Route to market local brands raki, other spirits and wine, which In Africa our largest businesses are in Nigeria, are produced in its distilleries and wineries, the growth of spirits through where we own 54.3% of a listed company and Diageos global spirits brands.
continued investment in whose principal brands are Guinness, Harp Supply operations and Malta, and in East Africa, where we own infrastructure and brands.
We have 14 breweries in Africa, including 50.03% of East African Breweries Limited EABL.
our 25% stake in Sedibeng in South Africa.
In Russia & Eastern Europe we EABL produces and distributes beer and spirits In addition, our beer and spirits brands brands to a range of consumers in Kenya are driving our premium core are produced by third-parties under licence and Uganda, and has a 51% equity interest in in 20 other African countries.
We also own and reserve portfolio, whilst Serengeti Breweries Limited, Tanzania.
Within six manufacturing facilities including glass, Africa Regional Markets, we have wholly-owned in Turkey, Diageo continues blending, malting and cider plants.
subsidiaries in Cameroon, Ethiopia, Mozambique to focus its mainstream route Raki and vodka is produced in Turkey at and Reunion and majority-owned subsidiaries a number of sites, and we produce Smirnov in Ghana and the Seychelles.
Angola is supplied to consumer presence to vodka in Russia.
In South Africa we drive accelerated growth in sell spirits through a wholly-owned subsidiary Sustainability & Responsibility and our beer, cider and ready to drink products international premium spirits.
In Africa we create wealth both directly through through our 42.25% stake in DHN Ltd, a joint our operations and indirectly through our Our markets venture with Heineken and Namibia Breweries broader value chains where we support The region comprises Nigeria, East Africa Ltd.
In addition, we own a 50% equity stake in development and growth in partnership with United National Breweries, a sorghum beer Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, Burundi, Rwanda businesses and communities.
We source over and South Sudan, Africa Regional Markets business.
Diageo has brewing arrangements 60% of agricultural and packaging materials including Ghana, Cameroon, Ethiopia, with the Castel Group to license, brew and locally, and we work with more than 45,000 Angola and Mozambique, South Africa, distribute Guinness in the Democratic Republic local farmers for our agricultural inputs.
Thirteen of Congo, Gambia, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Togo, Russia and Eastern Europe, and Turkey.
of our production sites in Africa are in waterBenin, Burkina Faso, Chad, Mali and Guinea.
stressed areas, so much of our focus is on Diageo sells spirits through distributors in managing water use in our operations most other sub-Saharan countries.
effectively and reducing water poverty in Russia and Eastern Europe comprises the surrounding communities through our panprincipal markets of Russia and Poland, where African Water of Life programme.
Since its there are wholly-owned subsidiaries and launch in 2006, we have brought safe distributor agreements.
drinking water to around 10 million people.
In Turkey, we sell our products via the In Russia we have launched some highly distribution network of our wholly-owned innovative responsible drinking programmes.
Mey ki distributes both Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 35 BUSINESS REVIEWS: AFRICA, EASTERN EUROPE AND TURKEY In a tough year and despite facing by increased competition and pricing Following the changes in Angola, while spirits shipments declined overall, depletions and significant challenges, net sales grew pressure.
Despite these challenges, 1% as the region responded to the specific performance slightly improved in the share continued to grow and performance market challenges that it faced.
In Nigeria, second half, driven by growth of Guinness improved in the second half.
where beer performance was weak, we following reinvigoration of the brand, South Africa.
Despite softness in the adjusted prices and increased our presence including a new pack, media campaign economy, share gains and price increases in the growing value segment.
Innovation and trade promotion and the launch of resulted in spirits net sales growth of 2%.
was a key enabler for responding to Orijin, a new local spirit and ready to drink Johnnie Walker grew double digit with changing consumer trends through new brand, which sold over 100k cases of the growth across price segments supported by spirit format in the year.
formats and brands and the region the King of Flavours campaign and trade delivered the highest growth rate for East Africas net sales grew and price activation.
This growth was partly offset by innovation through the success of brands increases taken across the beer portfolio the decline of Smirnoff 1818 due to reduced such as Snapp in Nigeria, Jebel in Kenya, inventory levels, although depletions and led to strong price mix.
For the markets Smirnoff Black Ice in Cameroon and Ghana two largest beer brands, Guinness and share of spirits grew and performance and super premium brands in Turkey.
We Tusker, double digit growth was driven by improved in the second half.
South Africas have expanded our route to consumer, price increases, supported by increased strong net sales performance includes the revitalised the Guinness brand across its key sale of Smirnoff Ice Double Black & Guarana investment behind strong marketing markets in Africa and reserve brands grew campaigns.
Innovations such as Jebel and at cost to Diageo Heineken Namibia Drinks 26%.
Under recovery of fixed costs in supply Senator Dark Extra, targeted at providing DHN Drinks to cover demand in excess due to lower beer volumes and cost and value for money offering to consumers, of supply capacity following the strong salary inflation drove an overall reduction performance of the brand.
This capacity have driven growth.
Balozi lager, launched in organic operating margin, although last year and priced just below mainstream shortage has now been resolved.
significant procurement and supply chain beer, has also contributed to growth.
This Net sales growth in Russia and Eastern savings partly mitigated this impact.
strong performance was partly offset by Europe slowed this year to 2%.
In Russia Senator keg in Kenya where the brand net sales grew 4%.
While performance was KEY HIGHLIGHTS declined around 80% post the duty change.
impacted by reduced consumer confidence Nigeria net sales declined 9% for the full In Africa Regional Markets, net sales and higher excise taxes, Diageo grew share year driven by beer, while spirits and ready in whisk e y with growth of White Horse grew 2% with growth of beer partly offset to drink grew double digit.
The beer market by the decline in spirits largely as a result of and double digit growth of Bushmills and has become more price competitive, distributor changes in Angola.
Growth was Bells and in rum with strong growth of significantly impacting Harp, which lost share led by Malta both in its existing markets, Captain Morgan.
The impact of the crisis and some distribution.
Although pricing in Ukraine offset high single digit growth aided by a new pack, as well as its launch in was adjusted in the third quarter this was Ethiopia, the growth of Meta in Ethiopia in the rest of Diageos distributor markets not fully passed through to consumers.
and the launch of Harp Premium and the in Eastern Europe.
In Poland we retained Malta performance was similarly impacted recovery of Guinness in Cameroon.
leadership of the scotch category in softer than expected market conditions.
Organic volume Organic net sales Reported net sales movement movement movement Following a much improved performance in % % % the second half, net sales for Turkey grew Key markets and categories: 5%.
Following two years of decline, the raki Africa, Eastern Europe and Turkey 5 1 9 category volume is stabilising and through price increases and premiumisation, the Africa 6 9 businesss raki net sales grew low single Nigeria 9 9 14 digit and contributed significantly to the East Africa 12 2 2 markets positive price mix.
The scotch Africa Regional Markets 3 2 8 market has continued to show solid growth South Africa 4 12 9 and scotch net sales grew double digit led Russia and Eastern Europe 1 2 7 by Johnnie Walker on the back of increased Turkey 3 5 12 distribution and visibility in the off trade.
Vodka net sales grew in the second half Spirits 2 3 10 and recovered to flat for the full year with Beer 16 5 11 festivals and the new Apple Bite serve Ready to drink 44 34 21 driving share gains and growth of Smirnoff.
Global and local leaders : Marketing spend increased 1%, Johnnie Walker 8 benefiting from 6ppt of procurement JB 1 2 12 efficiencies.
In Russia and Eastern Europe Smirnoff 5 3 16 and in Turkey, in response to marketing Captain Morgan 16 17 3 restrictions, investment was increasingly Baileys 8 7 13 focused on commercial activations, driving Guinness 7 1 5 improved visibility across trade channels, supporting new serves and bartender Organic equals reported movement for volume except for South Africa 3%, Russia and Eastern Europe 2 % and spirits 1%, reflecting the termination of the Jose Cuervo distribution agreement.
Spirits brands excluding ready to drink.
