Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 49 SUSTAINABILITY & RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW: OUR VALUE CHAIN PARTNERSHIPS OUR VALUE CHAIN Global raw materials by volume 2014 Global packaging materials by volume PARTNERSHIPS 2014 1% 1% 1% 1% 1% 5% PERFORMANCE 2% 1% 5% 2% 6% 86% 33% 5% Percentage of potential high risk supplier sites registered on SEDEX that were audited in 2014 Total volume 14% 1.8 million tonnes Total tonnage 17% VS 12% IN 2013 1 million tonnes Percentage of agricultural materials 14% sourced locally across Africa in 2014 22% 66% VS 52% IN 2013 Barley Grapes Molasses Other including Glass Cartons PET Raisin, Cassava, Hops, Maize Sorghum Dairy Corrugate Cans Crowns Aniseed, Rice and Wheat Sugar Labels and sleeves Closures Sticky Rice About our supply chain We source goods and services from a wide commissioned by Diageo 7, or accessed Similarly, we are putting in place a scalable variety of businesses around the world, and our through SEDEX and AIM-PROGRESS 194. barley value chain in Ethiopia, which is being procurement systems depend on relationships Among the issues most frequently raised were delivered in partnership with over 1,000 with suppliers that are local, regional, and those related to health, safety, hygiene and smallholders, the Ethiopian Governments global.
Alignment with our Sustainability & working hours.
Agricultural Transformation Agency ATA and Responsibility standards, which include our Merchandising materials remain one of our the not-for-profit organisation, Technoserve.
Partnering with Suppliers Standard, is among highest risk categories, because they are often We are also taking what we have learned the many factors we consider in choosing our made in higher risk countries and we often buy from agricultural development in Africa to other suppliers, alongside cost, quality, and service.
through intermediaries and therefore may countries particularly where we have recently The goods and services we buy include not know where they were produced.
We acquired businesses with a significant marketing materials, raw materials and utilities, continue to work with our key merchandising agricultural footprint.
information services and business support, suppliers to develop assurance further down packaging materials and logistics.
This year, the supply chain, with around 160 of our in total we purchased 1.8 million tonnes of SWEET SUCCESS OF SUGAR CANE second-tier suppliers now audited.
agricultural raw materials like barley, wheat PARTNERSHIPS IN BRAZIL Our confidential whistleblowing service, and maize, and approximately one million An increasing number of the farmers who SpeakUp, is also shared with our suppliers.
See the graphs above grow sugar cane in the fields surrounding This year Diageo received four calls relating for a breakdown.
our Ypica distillery in Brazil are becoming to suppliers and vendors through SpeakUp, our parceiros our third-party supply Responsible sourcing though none were substantiated breaches.
It is an arrangement that suits Given our large network of suppliers in more both sides: we want to buy high-quality Agricultural value chain partnerships than 100 countries, we are working to develop sugar cane with the lowest possible Historically, we have focused our attention our understanding of the full range of social and haulage costs, and the farmers want a on agricultural value chains in Africa, where environmental impacts we have throughout reliable, fair market for their produce.
By we see significant potential for developing our supply chain.
We see our role as a catalyst, ensuring an income to farmers around our more sustainable farming practices.
We have working in partnership with others to help operations, we are also making a contribution a goal to source 70% of agricultural materials suppliers embed ethical, social and to the community in which we work.
locally across Africa by 2015 locally being Partnerships have to be based on trust environmental principles.
defined as materials sourced within Africa and if they are to be sustainable.
Our Parceria Diageo works through SEDEX, a not-forpara o Crescimento Partner for Growth used by our African markets.
We are well along profit organisation that enables suppliers to programme gives farmers access to our way to reaching this target having sourced share assessments and audits of ethical and agricultural inputs, technical support, and 66% of agricultural materials locally in 2014. responsible practices with their customers.
a fair price for their sugar cane.
Accurate To support these partnerships, Diageo We are an active member of AIM-PROGRESS, a cane weight recording, correct invoicing, invests in a variety of initiatives.
In Kenya, for forum of 37 leading consumer goods companies and prompt payment for the cane delivered example, we work with a large number of which promotes responsible sourcing practices to the Ypica distillery have been essential farmers who supply barley to our malting and sustainable supply chains.
We also have in fostering transparency and trust.
Diageos partnerships with these an internal Know Your Business Partner KYBP The parceiros are also invited to three farmers are focused on crop rotation, soil and programme to assess our third parties against open days each year, where the agenda crop management, and are aimed at improving the risk of bribery and corruption, which we includes updates on distillery activities, yield and quality.
We are working to develop do not tolerate in any form.
discussions, and demonstrations of scalable business models, supporting the To date, 1,193 of the companys potential agricultural improvements on Ypicas creation of farmer groups and co-operatives, Santa Eliza farm, as well as sharing best high risk supplier sites have registered with practice in water stewardship in this water and giving farmers and processors access to SEDEX, up from 1,095 last year.
In the long term, we aim to financial services companies who provide have completed a SEDEX self-assessment buy 30-35% of our sugar cane from local credit facilities and basic insurance against questionnaire.
More than 200 of the highest farmers ensuring that this partnership loss of income due to drought.
risk companies were independently audited is truly sustainable.
during the last three years: audits were The target we have disclosed previously included packaging materials, but we determined that agricultural materials were the most material.
