Strategic report governance Financial statements additional information for shareholders Diageo annual RepoRt 2014 69 directors remuneration report service contracts and policy on payment for loss of office including takeover provisions Executive Directors have rolling service contracts, details of which are set out below.
These are available for inspection at the companys registered office.
executive Director Date of service contract Ivan Menezes 7 May 2013 Deirdre Mahlan 1 July 2010 notice period The contracts provide for a period of six months notice by the Executive Director or 12 months notice by the company.
A payment may be made in lieu of notice equivalent to 12 months base salary and the cost to the company of providing contractual benefits excluding incentive plans.
The service contracts also provide for the payment of outstanding pay and bonus, if Executive Directors are terminated following a takeover, or other change of control of Diageo plc.
If, on the termination date, the Executive Director has exceeded his her accrued holiday entitlement, the value of such excess may be deducted by the company from any sums due to him her, except to the extent that such deduction would subject the Executive Director to additional tax under Section 409A of the Code in the case of Ivan Menezes.
If the Executive Director on the termination date has accrued but untaken holiday entitlement, the company will, at its discretion, either require the Executive Director to take such unused holiday during any notice period or make a payment to him her in lieu of it, provided always that if the employment is terminated for cause then the Executive Director will not be entitled to any such payment.
For these purposes, salary in respect of one day of holiday entitlement will be calculated as 1 261 of salary.
Mitigation The Remuneration Committee may exercise its discretion to require a proportion of the termination payment to be paid in instalments and, upon the Executive Director commencing new employment, to be subject to mitigation except where termination is within 12 months of a takeover, or within such 12 months the Executive Director leaves due to a material diminution in status, or in the case of Deirdre Mahlan is located permanently outside the United Kingdom and Ireland.
annual incentive plan Where the Executive Director leaves for reasons including retirement, death in service, disability, ill-health, injury, aip redundancy, transfer out of the group and other circumstances at the Remuneration Committees discretion Good Leaver Reasons during the financial year, they are usually entitled to an incentive payment pro-rated for the period of service during the performance period, which is typically payable at the usual payment date.
Where the Executive Director leaves for any other reason, no payment will be made.
The amount is subject to performance conditions being met and at the discretion of the Committee.
The Committee has discretion to determine an earlier payment date, for example on death in service.
Diageo 2014 long term When an Executive Director leaves for any reason other than Good Leaver Reasons, all unvested awards generally incentive plan Dltip lapse immediately.
In cases where Good Leaver Reasons apply, awards vest on the original vesting date unless the Remuneration Committee decides otherwise for example in the case of death in service.
The retention period for vested awards continues for all Leavers other than in cases of disability, ill health or death in service, unless the Remuneration Committee decides otherwise.
The proportion of the award released depends on the extent to which the performance condition is met.
The number of shares is reduced on a pro-rata basis reflecting the length of time the Executive Director was employed by the company during the performance period, unless the Committee decides otherwise for example in the case of death in service.
On a takeover or other corporate event, awards vest subject to the extent to which the performance conditions are met and, unless the Committee decides otherwise, the awards are time pro-rated.
Otherwise the Committee, in agreement with the new company, may decide that awards should be swapped for awards over shares in the new company: where awards are granted in the form of options then on vesting they are generally exercisable for 12 months or six months for approved options.
Awards may be adjusted on a variation of share capital, demerger or other similar event.
The Remuneration Committee may amend the plans, except that any changes to the advantage of participants require shareholder approval, unless the change relates to the administration, or taxation of the plan or participants, or is needed to ensure that the plans operate effectively in another jurisdiction.
Details of existing awards are set out in the annual report on remuneration.
Repatriation In cases where an Executive Director was recruited from outside the United Kingdom and has been relocated to the United Kingdom as part of their appointment, the company will pay reasonable costs for the repatriation of Good Leavers.
