38 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 BUSINESS REVIEWS: ASIA PACIFIC Net sales by markets Net sales by categories Net sales by price points ASIA % % % PACIFIC S outh East G lobal Travel Asia Sp irits Wine Other Value Super premium Asia & Middle East Beer RTDs Standard Ul tra premium Greater China Australia Premium India North Asia Key financials 2013 Acquisitions Our strategy in Asia Pacific, Reported and Organic 2014 Reported restated Exchange disposals movement Reported movement which encompasses both million million million million million % Net sales 1,572 112 7 106 1,347 14 developed and emerging Marketing spend 356 27 24 305 14 markets, is to operate across Operating profit before exceptional items 381 35 19 44 283 26 categories with participation Exceptional items 1 276 in international spirits, local Operating profit 380 7 98 spirits and beer.
Our strategy Restated following the adoption of IFRS 11 and the amendment to IAS 19. focuses on the highest growth Route to market In Australia, Diageo owns production, distillation and distribution companies and in New Zealand categories and consumer In South East Asia, spirits and beer are sold through a combination of Diageo companies, we operate through third-party distributors.
opportunities, driving joint venture arrangements, and third-party In North Asia, we have our own distribution continued development distributors.
Diageo manages a Singapore based company in Korea, whilst in Japan, the majority of sales are through joint venture agreements key accounts business.
In Thailand, Malaysia of super and ultra premium and Singapore, joint venture arrangements with Mot Hennessy and Kirin.
scotch, and leveraging the are in place with Mot Hennessy, where Airport shops and airline customers are administrative and distribution costs are shared.
serviced through a dedicated Diageo sales and emerging middle class marketing organisation.
In the Middle East, we Diageo has wholly-owned subsidiaries in the opportunity through a Philippines and Vietnam.
In Vietnam we also sell our products through third-party distributors.
have a 45.56% equity stake in Hanoi Liquor Johnnie Walker houses in Shanghai, Beijing combination of organic growth Joint Stock Company.
In Malaysia, Diageos and Seoul have been driving ultra premium and selective acquisitions.
own and third-party beers are brewed and distributed by a listed company, Guinness Our markets Supply operations Anchor Berhad, in which we have an effective Asia Pacific comprises South East Asia We have distilleries in Chengdu in China that 25.5% equity interest.
In Indonesia, Guinness Vietnam, Thailand, Philippines, Indonesia, produce Chinese white spirit and in Bundaberg, is brewed by, and distributed through, Malaysia, Singapore, Cambodia, Laos, Australia for the production of rum.
Myanmar and Sri Lanka, Greater China In Greater China, a significant part of our Sustainability & Responsibility China, Taiwan, Hong Kong and Macau, spirits business is conducted through a joint Promoting responsible drinking is a particular India, Global Travel Asia and Middle East, venture arrangement with Mot Hennessy.
focus for us as it is in many parts of the world.
Australia and North Asia Korea and Japan.
We are also the sole distributor of Shui Jing We run a number of programmes to address Fang, a super premium Chinese white spirit, drink driving, to train bartenders and through our controlling 39.71% equity stake promotional staff on how to serve alcohol in a listed company.
responsibly, and to raise awareness of alcohol In India, we have our own distribution and its effects.
We also focus on empowering company for our international spirits brands women through our Plan W programme, and in 2014 we expanded our route to market which aims to reach two million women through a sales promotion agreement with by 2017.
In Australia, which is home to our United Spirits Limited USL, the leading spirits largest blending and packaging site in the company in India.
Diageo is now the largest region, we have developed some of our most shareholder in USL with a 54.78% equity interest.
innovative and award-winning sustainable 26% of this equity interest was acquired on manufacturing initiatives.
Diageo will fully consolidate the results of USL from 2 July 2014.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 39 BUSINESS REVIEWS: ASIA PACIFIC Performance in Asia Pacific was impacted gained 5.8ppt volume share.
In Indonesia In Global Travel Asia and Middle East GTME net sales were up 19% driven by by a weaker trading environment in China net sales were up double digit driven by and South East Asia and this top line 7% growth of Guinness and strong the Middle East where despite political weakness and negative country mix performance in ready to drink.
turmoil in the region, it delivered strong impacted operating margin, which, growth boosted by an increase in tourism, Greater China performance continued expansion in the regions airport as well despite a reduction in overheads, to be affected by the governments anti decreased 136bps.
In China the effects as improvements in Diageos route to extravagance measures.
Shui Jing Fang net of the governments anti extravagance consumer.
Global Travel Asia returned to sales declined 78% as the brand suffered campaign severely impacted the on growth with net sales up 9% mainly driven from pricing pressure from other leading by an increased focus on Johnnie Walker trade channel, and continued to affect brands.
Net sales of Diageos international performance of both our Chinese white Blue Label which showcased the Dunhill brands in China declined 14%, largely driven spirits and scotch businesses, while South partnership, including a limited edition by weakness in scotch, down 20%, as East Asia was impacted by tax increases pack, in many airports in the region.
Johnnie Walker Black Label net sales and social unrest in Thailand and destocking declined 28%.
However, Johnnie Walker In Australia net sales declined 3%, largely in other markets and channels.
Despite Black Label grew share 1.2ppt as activation driven by the decline in ready to drink, the challenging trading environment we was increased into tier 2 and 3 cities.
Reserve where net sales were down 5% as tax gained share in scotch in both Thailand increases continued to impact pricing and brands net sales grew 9%, driven by a strong and China.
Elsewhere, Korea, Japan, GTME, growth in scotch malts.
Baileys net sales demand in the category.
Spirits net sales Taiwan and India delivered good growth grew double digit, as the brand continued declined 1%, as Baileys, which benefited and we gained share in scotch across to capture the trend of increasingly from the launch of Baileys Chocolat Luxe, the countries.
Strong growth of scotch and Captain Morgan grew, but not empowered female consumers with the malts in Taiwan and successful innovation support of the Sisterhood Campaign.
In enough to offset a decline in Smirnoff and launches in super and ultra premium scotch Taiwan, net sales grew 9% driven by strong Bundaberg, which suffered from growth in segments contributed to another year of growth from The Singleton, the fastest spiced rum.
Reserve brands net sales grew double digit growth of the reserve brands.
30% mainly driven by the launch of Bundaberg growing scotch malt in the market, and it gained 2ppt of share.
125th anniversary bottle and Ketel One KEY HIGHLIGHTS vodka which almost doubled in size.
Diageo India continued to deliver strong In South East Asia performance was In North Asia, net sales increased 4% double digit net sales growth as it benefited largely driven by Thailand and destocking from having its brands sold through the driven by Windsor in Korea and strong in other markets and channels as trade sales agency agreement with USL.
Strong growth from Smirnoff Ice in Japan.
In Koreas confidence was affected by pricing performance by Johnnie Walker Black Label, declining scotch category, Windsor volume pressure, currency devaluation and was broadly flat and gained 1.7ppt of VAT 69 and Black & White drove most of economic uncertainty in the region.
the growth in scotch, and share in scotch volume share driven by strong performance In Thailand tax increases and political increased 1.9ppt.
Smirnoff net sales grew of Windsor 12 and the launch of Windsor unrest contributed to a weak consumer high single digit benefiting from its Black.
The business increased its participation environment with net sales down 24%.
into other categories with Smirnoff net partnership with several music festivals.
In a declining scotch category Diageo sales up 13%, as it benefited from sponsoring music festivals, and Guinness net sales Organic volume Organic net sales Reported net sales increased 5%, supported by new in venue movement movement movement % % % vending machines.
In Japan, ready to drink Key markets and categories: net sales increased 20% driven by Smirnoff Asia Pacific 5 7 14 Ice and the launch as a permanent SKU of Smirnoff Ice Green Apple after a successful South East Asia 25 19 25 limited edition offer last year.
Greater China 20 31 33 Marketing spend decreased 7% in line India 22 42 8 with net sales, as a result of lower spend Global Travel Asia and Middle East 18 19 15 in international spirits in China and South Australia hub 2 3 17 East Asia.
Investment behind innovation North Asia 2 4 2 increased and new launches across the region included Johnnie Walker Gold Spirits 5 11 15 Label Reserve limited edition in the Beer 1 2 9 Middle East, to celebrate the Dubai duty Ready to drink 1 1 14 free 30th anniversary, the Bundaberg 125th anniversary bottle in Australia and Global and local leaders : the Johnnie Walker Blue Label and Dunhill Johnnie Walker 13 11 14 partnership.
Shui Jing Fang marketing Windsor 5 1 1 spend was maintained and focused on Smirnoff 4 3 13 new launches which target more attractive Baileys 12 11 3 price points in the baijiu segment.
Guinness 1 3 9 Organic equals reported movement for volume except for Greater China 21 % and Australia 3 % reflecting the termination of the distribution agreement with Jose Cuervo.
Spirits brands excluding ready to drink.
