Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 09 OUR BUSINESS MODEL Diageo has grown through investment in OUR our brands and route to consumer, and by acquisitions to broaden our geographical BUSINESS footprint and our category depth and range.
MODEL Our business model is designed to drive returns for shareholders, while creating value for our customers, employees and the communities in which we operate.
STRONG AGILE OPERATING FOCUSED PLATFORM MODEL INVESTMENT 21 Broad Leading markets Performance drivers portfolio capabilities Read more on pages 14-15.
Participation strategy Geographic Global reach functions Supply management Sustainability & Responsibility priorities Financial Values Read more on pages 16-19. strength Consumer insights Value creation: shareholder value: investment in the business: customer, employee and social value Strong platform Agile operating model Focused investment Broad portfolio: Diageo has world-leading brands Participation strategy: our participation strategy is Performance drivers: Diageo has identified six across categories and price points.
to invest behind the biggest growth opportunities, performance drivers which are key to achieving our by category and channel, for our brands in our aims.
Each market focuses on the priorities that will Geographic reach: we have geographic reach through 21 markets.
drive performance in that market: premium core the breadth and depth of our global and local brands.
brands: reserve: innovation: route to consumer: Supply management: our 21 markets are designated Financial strength: our competitive advantage cost: and talent.
as import markets, import and third-party production is reflected by our strong financial returns and markets or import and local production markets.
Sustainability & Responsibility priorities: Diageo has six consistent financial performance.
priorities that support our sustainable growth while Consumer insights: our deep consumer insights help Leading capabilities: Diageos focus is on brilliant meeting key stakeholder expectations: alcohol in us to anticipate and respond to rapidly changing execution: efficiency in supply and procurement: society: water and the environment: community dynamics across all markets, and continue to nurture breakthrough marketing: scalable innovation: and empowerment: people: governance and ethics: and grow some of the worlds best-loved brands.
winning relationships with our customers and and value chain partnerships.
consumers through distribution and sales.
Global functions: Diageos 21 markets are supported by a global structure and shared services designed to share best practice, impart knowledge and help build capability at a local level, as well as apply governance of controls, compliance and ethics.
Values: at the heart of everything we do are our company values: passionate about customers and consumers: be the best: freedom to succeed: proud of what we do: valuing each other.
