Strategic report governance Financial statements additional information for shareholders Diageo annual RepoRt 2014 65 directors remuneration report Variable with performance: A significant proportion of total directors remuneration for the Executive Directors is linked to business and individual performance so that remuneration will increase or remuneration decrease in line with performance.
policy Share ownership: Full participation in incentives is conditional upon building up a significant personal shareholding in Diageo This section of the report sets out the policy for Executive Directors, to ensure the companys leaders think and act like owners.
in accordance with section 439A of the Companies Act 2006, which Cost effectiveness: Fixed elements of remuneration are determined shareholders are asked to approve at the 2014 Annual General by reference to the median of the market, individual experience Meeting AGM.
and performance, and other relevant factors to ensure competitiveness while controlling fixed costs to maximise Remuneration policy framework efficiency.
The remuneration structures and performance measures used in executive incentive plans are designed to support Diageos business Future policy table strategy as follows: Set out below, is the remuneration policy for Executive Directors Focused on consistent growth drivers: As a public limited company, which is to apply, subject to shareholder approval, from the date Diageo has a fiduciary responsibility to maximise long term value of the AGM, 18 September 2014. for shareholders.
Thus, variable elements of remuneration are dependent upon the achievement of performance measures that are identified as key consistent and responsible growth drivers for the business and that are aligned with the creation of shareholder value.
base salary beneFIts Purpose and link to strategy Purpose and link to strategy Supports the attraction and retention of the best global Provides market competitive and cost effective benefits.
talent with the capability to deliver Diageos strategy and Operation performance goals.
The provision of benefits depends on the country of residence Operation of the Executive Director and may include a company car or car Normally reviewed annually or following a change in allowance, the provision of a car and contracted car service or responsibilities with changes usually taking effect from equivalent, product allowance, life insurance, accidental death 1 October.
& disability insurance, medical cover for the Executive Director and family and financial counselling.
The Remuneration Committee considers the following parameters when reviewing base salary levels: The Remuneration Committee has discretion to offer additional Pay increases for other employees across the group.
allowances, or benefits, to Executive Directors, if considered Economic conditions and governance trends.
These may include relocation The individuals performance, skills and responsibilities.
expenses, housing allowance and school fees where a Base salaries and total remuneration at companies of similar Director has to relocate from his her home location as size and international scope to Diageo, with roles typically part of their appointment.
benchmarked against the top 30 companies in the FTSE100 Opportunity by market capitalisation excluding companies in the financial The benefits package is set at a level which the Remuneration services sector, or against similar comparator groups in Committee considers: other locations dependent on the Executive Directors Provides an appropriate level of benefits depending on the role home market.
and individual circumstances: and Opportunity Is in line with comparable roles in companies of a similar size Salary increases will normally be in line with increases awarded to and complexity in the relevant market.
other employees in relevant markets in which Diageo operates, typically the United Kingdom and the United States, unless there is a change in role or responsibility, or the need to align an Executive Directors salary to market level over time provided the increase is merited by the individuals contribution and performance.
66 Diageo annual RepoRt 2014 directors remuneration report POst-retIreMent PrOvIsIOns DIageO lOng terM InCentIve Plan DltIP Purpose and link to strategy Purpose and link to strategy Provides cost effective, competitive post-retirement benefits.
Provides focus on delivering superior long term returns to shareholders.
Operation Provision of market competitive pension arrangements or a Operation cash alternative based on a percentage of base salary.
An annual grant of performance shares and or market price share options which vest subject to a performance test and Further detail on current pension provisions for Executive continued employment normally over a period of three years.
Directors is disclosed in the annual report on remuneration.
Performance measures and stretching targets are reviewed Opportunity annually by the Remuneration Committee for each new award.
The maximum company pension contribution is 30% of base Details of the measures, weightings and targets applicable for salary for any new external appointments to an Executive the financial year under review are provided in the annual Director position.
Current legacy company contributions for Ivan Menezes Following vesting there is a further retention period of two and Deirdre Mahlan remain 40% and 35% of base salary, years.
Executive Directors are able to exercise an option or sell respectively.
sufficient shares to cover any tax liability when an award vests, provided they retain the net shares arising for the two-year retention period.
annual InCentIve Plan aIP Notional dividends accrue on performance share awards to Purpose and link to strategy the extent that the performance conditions have been met, Incentivises year on year delivery of Diageos annual financial and delivered as shares or cash at the discretion of the strategic targets.
Provides focus on key financial metrics and the Remuneration Committee at the end of the vesting period.
individuals contribution to the companys performance.
The Committee has discretion to reduce the number of shares Operation which vest subject to HMRC rules regarding approved share Performance measures and stretching targets are set annually options, for example in the event of a material performance by the Remuneration Committee by reference to the annual failure, or a material restatement of the accounts.
There is an operating plan.
extensive malus clause for awards made from September 2014 The level of award is determined with reference to Diageos subject to shareholder approval.
The Committee has overall financial and strategic performance and individual discretion to decide that: performance and is paid out in cash after the end of the the number of shares subject to the award will be reduced: financial year.
the award will lapse: retention shares i. e. vested shares subject to the additional The Committee has discretion to amend the level of payment two-year retention period will be forfeited: if it is not deemed to reflect appropriately the individuals vesting of the award or the end of any retention period will contribution or the overall business performance.
Any be delayed e. g. until an investigation is completed : discretionary adjustments will be detailed in the following additional conditions will be imposed on the vesting of the years annual report on remuneration.
award or the end of the retention period: and or The Committee has discretion to apply clawback to bonus, i. e. any award, bonus or other benefit which might have been the company may seek to recover bonus paid, in exceptional granted or paid to the participant in any later year will be circumstances such as gross misconduct or gross negligence reduced or not awarded.
Malus provisions will apply up to delivery of shares at the end Details of the AIP are set out in the annual report on of the retention period as opposed to the vesting date.
Further details of the DLTIP are set out in the annual report on remuneration.
Opportunity For threshold performance, up to 50% of salary may be earned, Opportunity with up to 100% of salary earned for on target performance and The maximum annual grant is 500% of salary in performance a maximum of 200% of salary payable for outstanding share equivalents where a market price option is valued at performance.
Performance conditions Threshold vesting level of 20% of maximum with straight line Annual incentive plan awards are based 70%-90% on financial vesting up to 100% at maximum for financial metrics and a measures which may include, but are not limited to, measures of ranking profile for relative total shareholder return.
revenue, profit and cash and 10%-30% on broader objectives based on individual contribution and medium term strategic goals.
Details of the measures and weightings applicable for the year ending 30 June 2015 are set out on pages 72 and 73.
Details of the targets will be disclosed retrospectively in next years annual report on remuneration, when they are no longer deemed commercially sensitive by the Board.
