30 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 BUSINESS REVIEWS: NORTH AMERICA Net sales by markets Net sales by categories Net sales by price points NORTH % % % AMERICA US Spirits & Wines Canada Sp irits Wine Other Value Super premium D GUSA Other Beer RTDs Standard Ul tra premium Premium Key financials 2013 Acquisitions North America accounts for Reported and Organic 2014 Reported restated Exchange disposals movement Reported movement about a third of our net sales million million million million million % Net sales 3,723 156 231 108 3,444 7 and around 45% of operating Marketing spend 581 27 24 10 540 7 profit and is the largest market Operating profit before exceptional items 1,478 54 71 107 1,460 1 for premium drinks in the Exceptional items 35 world.
Due to our continued Operating profit 1,478 1,425 4 leadership in innovation, Restated following the adoption of IFRS 11 and the amendment to IAS 19. strong route to consumer, into a single state-wide distributor or broker National brand strategy and strategic accounts marketing, as well as corporate positive consumer trends, in 41 states and the District of Columbia, representing more than 80% of the companys functions are managed at North American and increased marketing US Spirits and Wines volume.
In North America, we market a total investment in key brands, we to focus on building capabilities within our beverage alcohol portfolio.
Diageo North Americas strong innovation pipeline and distributor dedicated sales forces and creating continue to be well positioned.
a more efficient and effective value chain.
reserve business help fuel growth.
Diageo North Americas US Spirits and Our markets Supply operations Wines business operates through five divisions Our North America business comprises We have 11 bottling, distilling, blending in Open States where we sell to distributors US Spirits and Wines, Diageo-Guinness and maturation sites including operations who then sell to retailers, and through two USA DGUSA and Canada.
in Plainfield, Illinois: Amherstburg, Ontario: divisions in Control States where in most Valleyfield, Quebec: Relay, Maryland: Gimli, Route to market cases, we sell to the state, which in turn sells Manitoba: Tullahoma, Tennessee: and seven Route to market in the United States US to state or agency stores and on premise wineries, and wine bottling operations, retailers.
US Spirits and Wines sells the vast is through the three-tier system and we in California.
distribute our products through more than majority of the Californian and imported 100 spirits and wines distributors and brokers, wines we own and represent, with the Sustainability & Responsibility remaining small portion of sales coming and more than 400 beer distributors nationally.
As part of our commitment to tackling alcohol from winery visitor centres and online sales.
We have a unique route to market for our misuse, Diageo North America dedicates spirits and wine business in the US, with more DGUSA sells and markets brands including 20% of broadcast advertisement towards than 3,000 dedicated distributor sales personnel Guinness, Smirnoff Ice and Red Stripe.
Operations distribution generally follows the three-tier open focused only on Diageo and Mot Hennessy continue to progress against all environmental state regulations across the United States.
To date, Diageo has targets: Diageos Gimli, Manitoba plant, where consolidated its US Spirits and Wines business Canada distributes our collection of spirits, the Company distills Crown Royal, is 99% beer and wine brands across all Canadian carbon neutral.
Our employee-focused culture provinces, which generally operate through won the company the best place to work a provincial control system.
In 2014, we accolade from the Human Rights Campaign announced that we are moving to a broker again this year, and Diageo was listed as model effective 1 July 2014, appointing a one of Working Mother magazines top single broker for Canada with a dedicated 100 companies this year.
sales force handling our brands in the country.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 31 BUSINESS REVIEWS: NORTH AMERICA price pressure on the base variant resulted North America, our biggest and most KEY HIGHLIGHTS in an overall net sales decline of 3%.
profitable region given our brand and US Spirits and Wines.
Diageo continues Buchanans, the fastest growing scotch market strength and its consistent strong to lead the industry on price and mix but brand in the United States, continued to performance, again delivered top line the volume performance was weaker, grow double digit through its continued growth, driven by 5% growth in US especially in the increasingly price sensitive focus on the growing Hispanic consumer Spirits and Wines, and margin expansion standard vodka segment where the decline segment.
Crown Royal net sales grew 1%, of 183bps as a result of gross margin of Smirnoff was the main driver of overall lapping growth of 18% last year fuelled expansion and cost reduction.
Price increases, which by the launch of Crown Royal Maple.
recovery in the US is uneven and this is drove around 120bps of net sales growth, DGUSA net sales declined 7%, primarily reflected in the consumer trends seen in and the strong performance of reserve driven by continued decline of pouches, as US spirits with overall spirits category brands were the primary drivers of 6ppt the segment was defocused, and weakness growth slowing and premium and above of positive price mix.
Reserve brands in beer, while Smirnoff Red Ice performance price points driving category growth.
grew double digit fuelled by almost 50% improved.
Renovation of Smirnoff Red Ice Our growth reflects this with scotch, growth of Johnnie Walker super and ultra with new packaging, new flavour innovations North American whiskey and tequila premium variants following the successful and a new marketing campaign Cheers launches of Johnnie Walker Platinum and leading the growth.
Our strength in to Us targeted at Hispanic and African innovation has continued.
Launches Gold Reserve, as well as the introduction of American consumers, halted the brands of super and ultra premium variants limited edition variants and packs targeted decline with net sales broadly flat for the have accelerated growth of our reserve at the gifting occasion.
Strong growth of year and improved brand equity scores Don Julio and scotch malts, especially brands, which grew 14%, and innovations amongst all major consumer groups.
against our premium core brands have Lagavulin, Talisker and Oban, contributed Guinness performance reflects weak driven brand relevance and recruited to the performance of reserve brands as did performance of Guinness Black Lager and new consumers.
However, performance Bulleit which grew net sales 69%.
Innovation slower growth in the on trade, particularly in delivered incremental net sales, with in vodka was weak as Smirnoff volume the second half, with increased competition has been impacted as its price premium flavour extensions in vodka, as well as from the craft beer segment.
has been maintained for another year.
In the launch of Captain Morgan White in Canada the spirits market is softer than February, which has expanded the brands In Canada, net sales grew 1% impacted by presence across the rum category and the US and net sales grew 1%.
Our DGUSA slowdown in the category.
Reserve brands business declined 7% mainly reflecting driven growth of the brand.
Croc Amaretto grew by over 40%, with Croc and scotch reduced focus on the pouches segment.
performed strongly in the year, however, malts being the biggest contributors.
Guinness grew net sales, largely driven by the launch of Guinness Black Lager with Organic volume Organic net sales Reported net sales some growth also from the base variants.
movement movement movement % % % Last year, marketing spend increased Key markets and categories: 10% with upweighted investment behind North America 1 3 7 global and local leading brands.
This year spend was up and benefited from 3ppt of US Spirits and Wines 1 5 7 procurement efficiencies.
Investment in DGUSA 5 7 11 the year was focused on supporting new Canada 2 1 17 launches, in particular Croc Amaretto and Captain Morgan White Rum, the reSpirits 1 4 7 invigoration of Guinness and the growth Beer 7 5 9 of Johnnie Walker focused on the Keep Wine 1 6 2 Walking campaign as well as supporting Ready to drink 5 9 24 growth of super and ultra premium variants.
Guinness investment increased significantly Global and local leaders : in the year to support the Basketball Johnnie Walker 6 2 advertising as part of the global Made of Crown Royal 4 4 More platform and the digital and television Buchanans 22 24 19 campaign saluting US sport heroes leading Bulleit 69 69 63 up to the Winter Olympics.
Smirnoff 4 2 6 Ketel One vodka 1 4 Croc 3 3 7 Captain Morgan 2 5 Baileys 1 2 3 Tanqueray 1 1 3 Don Julio 26 26 22 Guinness 6 3 8 Organic equals reported movement for volume except for North America 8 %, US Spirits and Wines 9 %, Canada 4 %, spirits 8 % and ready to drink 7 %, reflecting the disposal of Nuvo and the termination of the Jose Cuervo distribution agreement.
Spirits brands excluding ready to drink.
