14 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 HOW WE WILL DELIVER OUR AMBITION: PERFORMANCE DRIVERS Diageos performance HOW WE WILL drivers are key to achieving our Performance Ambition DELIVER OUR and each market focuses AMBITION: on the priorities which are relevant to driving PERFORMANCE growth in that market.
DRIVERS SMIRNOFF: EXCLUSIVELY FOR EVERYBODY STRENGTHEN AND ACCELERATE GROWTH OF Smirnoff is the No.
1 spirit brand in the world by volume and the leading No.
1 vodka brand in the United States IRI data 2013.
This year we launched OUR PREMIUM CORE BRANDS spirit brand in the a new global advertising campaign, Exclusively for Everybody, to Our premium core brands are broadly world by volume reposition the brand and reinforce Smirnoffs credentials as a great distributed and enjoyed by consumers in the Impact Databank quality vodka that is accessible to everyone.
While remaining rooted developed world and have wide appeal to the 2013. in promoting responsible drinking, the new campaign celebrates the increasing number of middle class consumers brands belief that exclusivity for few is less fun than good times for all.
They include iconic brands such as Johnnie Walker, Smirnoff, Captain Morgan and Baileys.
JOHNNIE WALKER BLUE LABEL LIMITED EDITION COLLECTION WIN IN RESERVE IN EVERY MARKET In the spirit of craftsmanship, heritage and modernity, this year Johnnie Walker teamed up with luxury goods designer, Alfred Dunhill, to create the Johnnie Walker Blue Label Limited The growth of luxury consumption is a Edition Collection.
The gift pack, designed by Alfred Dunhill, features a limited edition global phenomenon.
There are forecast to be bottle with its interior evoking the contours of a map.
400 million new consumers in this category by The bottles exterior marries the Johnnie Walker 2020.
Winning in reserve, our luxury portfolio, Blue Label signature blue colour packaging is a priority for Diageo and during the last five with Dunhills signature Chassis design and years we have transformed our luxury brand gunmetal finish.
The innovation brings the building capabilities.
We have doubled the two iconic brands shared journey to life.
net sales of our reserve business, which now We also launched a Travel Retail Exclusive accounts for 13% of our total net sales and we are now the leaders in the super and ultra gift pack that includes a unique premium segments.
This year Diageo has one-litre bottle.
extended this leadership across key categories.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 15 HOW WE WILL DELIVER OUR AMBITION: PERFORMANCE DRIVERS DRIVE OUT COSTS TO INVEST IN GROWTH By reducing costs we can invest more in the areas that we believe will drive future growth.
We are committed to a long term, cost conscious culture which results in ongoing, year-on-year improvements in our cost base and margins.
TATA CONSULTANCY SERVICES This year we selected Tata Consultancy Services to manage our global IT infrastructure, simultaneously improving efficiency and delivering cost savings.
This decision was an important milestone in a programme to transform the way we provide IT services to our 28,000 employees.
Tatas solution provides a greater level of flexibility and INNOVATE AT SCALE TO MEET NEW CONSUMER NEEDS differentiation of services to meet We believe our ability to innovate gives Diageo DELIVERING GROWTH: BULLEIT RYE market needs, and gives each market competitive advantage.
Its a proven driver of the freedom and agility to drive growth.
Bulleit Rye was launched in 2011 to critical growth and is critical to performance in each acclaim and has exceeded expectations: of our markets.
For each of the last five years its 95% rye mash is exactly what key innovation has accounted for at least half of mixologists seek for making authentic Diageos net sales growth, and has grown classic whiskey cocktails.
As a result of defining our defined by the growth it continues to Performance Ambition we have put renewed deliver in a measured and sustained way focus on bigger, more scalable ideas, as it builds its credentials and presence identifying and delivering results through in the North American whiskey market.
BUILD AND THEN CONSTANTLY EXTEND ENSURE WE HAVE THE TALENT TO OUR ADVANTAGE IN ROUTE TO CONSUMER DELIVER OUR PERFORMANCE AMBITION Our route to consumer performance driver is about enabling and Our Performance Ambition can only be achieved by having the right empowering our markets to drive broader distribution and higher rates people with the right capabilities in place across our business who of sale for our brands in an efficient way.
The global programme, that was can deliver our plans.
Ensuring that we have the best talent now rolled out this year, looks at how we can profitably extend where our and in the future is one of our biggest challenges and one of our brands appear and improve the quality of how our brands appear at greatest opportunities.
every appropriate drinking or buying occasion.
Each market is responsible CHAMPIONING DIVERSITY for its own Route to Consumer programme, and for building an efficient local platform that creates competitively advantaged consumer and At Diageo we champion diversity in the workplace and we believe shopper experiences.
that gender diversity gives us competitive advantage.
We are proud that over 40% of our Executive Committee members are women and that almost 30% of senior leadership roles at Diageo are held by women.
Diageo offers career development programmes to all employees across all levels and we are committed to growing and developing our future leaders.
GUINNESS NIGERIA DISTRIBUTION CENTRES Performance in Nigeria has been challenging this year, but the Route to Consumer programme has enabled us to take a new approach to expanding our distribution footprint.
Until recently, we had direct coverage of outlets though our distributors, who used vans to deliver primarily in urban areas.
Unfortunately this meant that there were pockets of consumers we didnt reach in semi-urban and rural areas because small deliveries made van distribution unprofitable.
By positioning 40-foot shipping containers in key areas outside the cities, we created economical Guinness Distribution Centres from which motorised tricycles can deliver beer more widely.
This gives us Over 40% of our Executive the flexibility to reach the next tier of potential consumers.
