Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 43 SUSTAINABILITY & RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW: WATER STEWARDSHIP Overall this year, Diageo has delivered improved production at the Ypica business in Brazil, WATER STEWARDSHIP performance across all water and other where Diageo is investing in improving irrigation PERFORMANCE AGAINST 2015 TARGETS environmental target areas versus the prior techniques and broader water stewardship year, and progressed towards meeting 2015 improvements.
See page 49 for information Improve water efficiency by 30% goals.
We reduced absolute water use by about our Value chain partnerships.
9% or 2,268,000 cubic metres while water We also aim to reduce the polluting power 2.4% VS 2013 efficiency improved by 2.4% compared to of wastewater, measured in biochemical the prior year.
In water-stressed locations, oxygen demand BOD grams per litre of 21% VS 2007 we have reduced water wasted by 12%, an product packaged.
Overall we reduced BOD important contribution towards our target by 4%, with a 56% improvement at sites in Reduce water wasted in water-stressed sites by 50% of a 50% reduction versus the companys Africa as a result of better wastewater 2007 baseline.
12% VS 2013 While some savings are the result of major A significant proportion of Diageos BOD in investments, most come from operational wastewater comes from our Cameronbridge 25% VS 2007 improvements related to equipment, processes, distillery in Scotland, where we have built culture and behaviour.
For example, our a new bioenergy plant which generates Reduce polluting power of wastewater by 60% distillery at Valleyfield, Canada has reduced renewable energy from co-products while 4% VS 2013 water used by 44% through investment in also reducing BOD load.
This facility, once surface condensers.
In Nairobi, where three fully commissioned, will significantly reduce 13 % VS 2007 of our sites are in water-stressed locations, BOD load to the environment in future years.
brewing, malting and glass production In addition to driving improvements in facilities have reduced the absolute volume of our operations, we also invest in infrastructure water withdrawn by 23%, reflecting the impact and sanitation through our Water of Life of a sustained focus on water conservation.
programme to provide access to clean water Water used for irrigation purposes on land in local communities.
Please see page 45 for under Diageos operational control extends more information.
to 7,512,000 cubic metres and is reported separately from direct operations water use Further details in the S&R Performance Addendum 2014. efficiency performance.
The significant majority Further details at www.
2007 baseline data and data for each of the six years in the period ended 30 June 2013 have been restated in accordance with Diageos environmental reporting methodologies.
In accordance with Diageos environmental reporting methodologies, total water used excludes irrigation water for agricultural purposes on land under the operational control of the company.
Within KPMGs limited assurance scope.
Please see page 140 for further details.
