22 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 HOW WE PROTECT OUR BUSINESS: RISK MANAGEMENT AND PRINCIPAL RISKS Our Performance Ambition calls on us to be HOW WE PROTECT bold in execution and to act like owners.
Well-managed risk taking lies at the heart of OUR BUSINESS: this.
Great risk management drives better RISK MANAGEMENT commercial decisions, creating a growing, resilient and sustainable business.
AND PRINCIPAL RISKS Our approach Focus in the year ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL CHANGE Our risk management framework is The Diageo Executive and Board considered Risk straightforward.
We believe that great the risks described here as the groups key risks Changes, often rapid, to economic, fiscal and or risk management starts with the right for this financial year.
These range from risks socio-political environment.
conversations that drive better business that are wholly internal in interest for example, decisions.
We assign clear accountability for managing raw material commodity prices in Impact managing our risks in the right way.
It is the a volatile market to risks that involve Diageos Social unrest, liquidity issues, inflationary pressures, responsibility of each market and function to place in society for example, addressing changes to tax systems and or eroded consumer manage its risks directly, and then to report the concerns of governments and other confidence, impacting our peoples safety, our asset security, and or business performance.
on the risks and their management to the stakeholders about responsible alcohol Executive.
The Diageo Executive reviews the promotion and consumption.
effectiveness of risk management through These risks remained the key areas How we seek to mitigate the Audit & Risk Committee, and the Board of focus throughout this financial year.
Leveraging on the ground market and exercises independent review through the Beyond this set of key group risks, the country intelligence.
The Diageo Executive Audit Committee also receives periodic Building local preparedness for rapid change updates the groups risk assessment annually, updates on emerging or otherwise topical in external environment.
which is reviewed by the Board.
For example, during the year, the Audit Market-sensitive multi-country investment and capacity expansion strategy.
markets and functions perform annual risk Committee received an update on cyber risk, Monitoring and where appropriate, expressing assessments and, at all levels in the business, which examined the nature of the risk and its views on the formulation of laws either directly risks are reviewed throughout the year, with growing significance for all organisations, as or through trade associations or similar bodies.
updates to risks and or mitigation plans well as the specific risks faced by Diageo and made as necessary.
how we are managing those risks currently.
Further details about the groups risk management approach are described Relevance to strategy NON-COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND REGULATIONS in the Report of the Audit Committee Efficient growth Risk on page 61.
Non-compliance with local laws or regulations, Consistent value creation or material breach of our internal global policies Strong reputation and standards and or significant internal control breakdown.
Fully engaged employees Impact Severe damage to our corporate reputation and or significant financial penalty.
How we seek to mitigate Provide periodic training for employees on our Code of Business Conduct.
Provide employees with periodic refresh training on global policies and standards.
Utilise an internal control assurance programme, with local management accountability.
Strong tone from the top, anchored by our Performance Ambition of most trusted and respected.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 23 HOW WE PROTECT OUR BUSINESS: RISK MANAGEMENT AND PRINCIPAL RISKS PRICE AND SUPPLY OF RAW MATERIALS CRITICAL INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENTS CITIZENSHIP AND SUSTAINABILITY Risk Risk Risk Market and environmental pressures create price Failure to shape or participate in critical Failure to meet the expectations of stakeholders volatility and insecure supply of raw materials, industry developments.
to make a positive contribution to the including water.
Impact Impact Impact Failure to meet financial targets or production Consumers move away from our brands.
Long term damage to our corporate reputation.
plans due to unpredictability in input costs Less efficient business model compared Less influence shaping the citizenship and availability.
and sustainability agenda as it relates to beverage alcohol.
How we seek to mitigate How we seek to mitigate Leveraging an active risk management Annual strategy conference attended How we seek to mitigate strategy for commodities pricing.
by Board and Executive Committee.
Sustainability & Responsibility strategy Group monitoring of market management that seeks to respond to stakeholder Annual group and market strategic of commodities.
expectations at global and market level.
Increasing local raw material sourcing to Developing new Sustainability & Local market strategy reviews by CEO, manage volatile foreign exchange rates and Responsibility targets.
to benefit from more drought tolerant crops Focus on building capability at market level.
Developing a robust environmental management system that aims to secure resources through active water stewardship and resource efficiency.
RESPONSIBLE ALCOHOL PROMOTION AND CONSUMPTION TALENT BUSINESS ACQUISITIONS Risk Risk Risk Failure to address the concerns of multiple Inability to recruit, retain and develop sufficient Failure to deliver value from acquisitions and or stakeholders about the promotion and sales and marketing talent particularly in integrate them into Diageo effectively, including consumption of alcohol.
failure to embed Diageos standards of compliance with laws, internal policies and controls.
Impact Impact One or more governments impose restrictions Failure to achieve our growth plans.
Impact on access and or increase tax and or duty.
Business case for an acquisition is not delivered resulting in failure to meet financial targets.
Damage to our corporate reputation.
Market confidence in Diageos ability to Less influence shaping the citizenship How we seek to mitigate deliver on its strategy is weakened.
and sustainability agenda as it relates Significant focus and intervention on moving to beverage alcohol.
talent into key local roles in developing markets.
Prospects for securing regulatory approval Strengthening learning and development for other potential business combinations strategy across the business.
How we seek to mitigate Global Talent Team established focusing on Clear strategy on tackling alcohol misuse, to be ensuring we have the strength of talent pipeline driven by a strengthened organisation design.
to fill critical leadership roles, supported by a bigger focus on succession planning and Focusing on implementation of CEO How we seek to mitigate external recruitment.
Commitments through new single Board and Executive Committee focused global industry organisation.
on delivering value from acquisitions.
Include global minimum standards for control and compliance in post-acquisition integration plans.
