02 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 OUR BUSINESS Diageo is a global leader in beverage alcohol with iconic OUR brands in spirits, beer and wine.
We invest behind our brands to drive growth, providing consumers with choice and quality BUSINESS across categories and price points.
Our business is built on foundations laid by the giants of our industry.
our brands, our customers and consumers, our communities, and Arthur Guinness, Alexander Walker and all those that followed in society as a whole.
Our purpose is to help our consumers celebrate their footsteps, cared deeply about the people and businesses they life, every day, everywhere, and to do so responsibly.
They were driven to create products that would last for We give our people the freedom to do the best work of their careers.
generations, the best conditions for their people, and the best financial We take great pride in what we do, and in how we do it.
Today, we act like those entrepreneurs, passionate about value each others commitment to delivering the best.
WE PRODUCE WE MARKET WE INNOVATE WE SELL Every year we produce more than We are committed to ensuring that our Innovation is critical to our continued Everyone at Diageo is encouraged to 6.5 billion litres of our brands, from brands are at the front of consumers growth.
We are committed to finding sell or to help to sell.
This is just one more than 100 sites in 30 countries.
minds whenever a purchase decision breakthrough innovations and ideas to expression of the world-class customer arises.
The strength of our portfolio serve our customers and consumers.
focus that is at the heart of our business.
Our supply functions are responsible means that we have relevant brands at We identify new consumer trends, and Our founders and all those who followed, for the distilling, brewing, bottling, almost every price tier of every category.
Innovation is were obsessed with providing the best packaging and distribution of our a permanent engine of growth for quality products to their customers in brands.
We are committed to efficient, We work tirelessly to engage and delight our business and we are restless in markets at home and abroad.
Today sustainable production to the highest existing and new consumers, constantly our search for new products.
We are we are no different.
In each of our quality standards, and are proud that innovating with our products and how open-minded to where these ideas 21 markets, we are passionate about our supply facilities are recognised as we market.
For decades our brands have will come from, combining our ensuring our products are available to leaders in environmental sustainability.
been at the forefront of marketing world-leading technical and research consumers in every appropriate shop innovation and the same remains true capability with investments in smaller or bar.
We are continually working to Our 21 markets are designated as today.
We take seriously our obligations start-ups.
In each of the last five years deliver amazing consumer experiences import markets, import and third-party to market our brands responsibly, and our innovation pipeline has delivered and to extend our sales reach.
production markets or import and local to help our consumers make informed double-digit growth for Diageo.
Our export-led decisions about drinking, or not drinking.
International Supply Centre ISC, We are committed to the development based in Europe produces many of and implementation of programmes our heritage brands, including our to educate consumers about Scotch whisky products.
over 4,000 people across more than 55 sites in Scotland, England, Ireland, Italy and the Netherlands.
