Strategic report governance Financial statements additional information for shareholders Diageo annual RepoRt 2014 81 directors remuneration report external advisors Relative importance of spend on pay The graph below illustrates the relative importance of spend on During the year ended 30 June 2014, the Remuneration Committee pay total remuneration of all group employees compared with received advice from the following independent consultants: distributions to shareholders, and the percentage change from Deloitte LLP until 7 December 2013 and Kepler Associates from 7 December 2013, both appointed by the Committee after financial year 2012 13 to financial year 2013 14.
Distributions to shareholders are total dividends.
consultation with the Board following a tendering process, provided advice on remuneration best practice and senior executive remuneration.
Relative importance of spend on pay percentage change Both Kepler Associates and Deloitte LLP are members of the Remuneration Consultants Group and, as such, voluntarily operate Sta pay 1,148 1,242 8.2% under the Code of Conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the United Kingdom.
Further details can be found at Distributions 1,125 1,228 9.2% www.
Deloitte LLP also provided to shareholders a range of non-related tax, corporate finance and consulting services during the year.
The fees paid to Deloitte LLP in relation to advice m 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 provided to the Committee in the year until 7 December 2013 were 2013 2014 20,150.
Kepler Associates supported the Committee in preparing this Directors remuneration report, provided advice on the design of the long term incentives, and calculated the TSR of Diageo and its peer remuneration committee companies for the 2010 and 2011 PSP awards and provided periodic The Remuneration Committee consists of the following independent updates on all outstanding performance cycles.
The fees paid to Non-Executive Directors: Peggy B Bruzelius, Laurence M Danon, Kepler Associates in relation to advice provided to the Committee Lord Davies of Abersoch, Betsy D Holden, Ho KwonPing, Philip G were 83,150.
Scott and H Todd Stitzer retired on 19 September 2013.
Lord Davies Linklaters were appointed by the company, with the agreement is the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
The Chairman of of the Committee, to provide legal advice on the new long term the Board and the Chief Executive may, by invitation, attend incentive plan and the AIP.
Linklaters also Remuneration Committee meetings except when their own provide other legal advice on certain corporate matters.
Diageos Global Human Resources The Committee is satisfied that the Deloitte LLP, Kepler Associates Director and Director of Performance and Reward are also invited and Linklaters engagement partner and team, that provide from time to time by the Remuneration Committee to provide their remuneration advice to the Committee, do not have connections views and advice.
The Global Human Resources Director is not with Diageo that may impair their independence.
The Committee present when her own remuneration is discussed.
The Chief Financial reviewed the potential for conflicts of interest and judged that there Officer may also attend to provide performance context to the were appropriate safeguards against such conflicts.
Committee during its discussions about target setting.
Information Additional remuneration survey data published by Aon Hewitt, on meetings held and director attendance is disclosed in the Towers Watson, and PwC were presented to the Remuneration corporate governance report.
Committee during the year: Clifford Chance provided advice on the operation of share plans.
The Remuneration Committees principal responsibilities are: Making recommendations to the Board on remuneration policy as statement of voting applied to the Executive Directors and the Executive Committee: The 2013 Directors remuneration report received a majority Setting, reviewing and approving individual remuneration for vote of 88.2%.
The vote against was 11.8% and 18,126,693 of arrangements for the Chairman of the Board, Executive Directors votes were withheld total votes cast, including withheld votes: and Executive Committee members including terms and 1,827,535,266. conditions of employment: Determining arrangements in relation to termination of employment of the Executive Directors and other designated senior executives: and Making recommendations to the Board concerning the introduction of any new share incentive plans which require approval by shareholders.
Full terms of reference for the Committee are available at www.
com and on request from the Company Secretary.
