Dignity plc 08 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Market overview The UK funeral market today Although annual deaths have declined Overview The funeral market as a whole does not significantly since the early 1990s from change rapidly year on year, but the effect over 640,000 to a recent low of 539,000 in 2011, the last five years have seen a more stable a number of years is noticeable, whether it is Reputation and the number of deaths per year, or the number number of reported deaths between 539,000 recommendation of funeral or crematoria locations within the and 560,000 per annum.
The Group monitors and responds to the environment it operates in, seeking to Stable industry in someones choice understand the implications for the short, The number of deaths in the UK is stable and of funeral director.
Annual variations are relatively medium and long-term.
In the last 30 years, the year on year Scale and structure variation has always been less than five per The funeral director market The funeral director market is very fragmented, cent, with most years below two per cent.
with approximately two thirds of funeral Approximately 72 per cent directors being small owner managed Competition of crematoria are owned businesses.
Whilst a precise list of all funeral directors is by local authorities.
not available, data from various sources suggest that the number of funeral directors in the UK Annual variations in the There are approximately 270 crematoria in the number of deaths are UK, with approximately 72 per cent owned by has increased from approximately 4,300 in relatively small.
Approximately three quarters 1998 to around 5,500. of all funerals result in a cremation with the There is not currently any remainder being burials.
Although competition is increasing, the nature regulation pending that of a service business is that the quality of would materially affect the service being provided is not known in advance.
The provision of funeral services is not regulated.
Consequently, reputation and recommendation Trade organisations such as the National remain a key driver in someones choice of funeral director.
Association of Funeral Directors NAFD provide training and qualifications, although they are not mandatory.
Dignity would welcome With crematoria, amongst other things, planning laws require there to be a need further regulation of the funeral industry setting out minimum standards for core activities, such for a new crematorium in a particular area.
as the care of the deceased.
This can be difficult to prove and can be an emotive subject for local residents.
This, Crematoria are subject to environmental combined with availability of appropriate land and the high capital cost of construction regulations, with emission levels being monitored by environmental health officers.
has limited the growth in the number of Recent changes for the abatement of mercury crematoria in the UK.
emissions have improved the environmental position.
Pre-arranged funeral plans allow the Group the opportunity to gain incremental funerals.
Our national network allows us to work with national Pre-arranged funeral plans are exempt from the provisions of the Finance Services and Markets partners offering a funeral plan anywhere in Act, provided certain conditions prescribed in the UK.
Forward look Office for National Statistics data The ONS expects the number of deaths per annum to start to increase at some point Some of the Groups key performance indicators rely on the total number of estimated before 2020. deaths for each period.
This information is obtained from the Office for National In May 2015, the Coroners Reform Act Statistics ONS.
is expected to become law in Scotland.
This legislation changes the administrative The initial publication of recorded total processes relating to the certification of the estimated deaths in Britain for the 52 weeks in deceased, replacing existing forms currently required for cremation or burial.
Historically, the ONS has updated these changes are proposed for the rest of the estimates from time to time.
As in previous United Kingdom, but no timescales have been provided.
This is not expected to materially years, the Group does not restate any of its key performance indicators when these figures are change the operation of the Groups funeral restated in the following year.
Overview Governance Financial Statements Other Information Strategic Report Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 09 Our business Source of business Market overview Our funeral business relies on reputation, 20% 84% Source: Dignity surveys 18% recommendation and previous experience.
82% 16% This is complemented by the sale of pre-arranged 80% 14% funeral plans, which represent an increasing 78% 12% source of incremental business for the Group.
10% 76% 8% 74% 6% 72% 4% 70% 2% 0% 68% LTM LTM LTM LTM LTM LTM LTM LTM LTM Dec 06 Dec 07 Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 11 Dec 12 Dec 13 Dec 14 Reputation, recommendation Pre-arranged Closest location Other & previous experience funeral plans left hand axis left hand axis right hand axis left hand axis Maintaining our strong market leading positions within the industry Funeral services: Our strengths Challenges Developments Excellent customer Dignity has approximately 12 per cent of 2014 saw the Group expand its network of the funeral market.
This gives the Group funeral locations though the acquisition of service is critical to sufficient size to operate its locations a number of established funeral businesses the success of the efficiently in a way that shares expensive operating a total of 30 locations.
resources, such as mortuaries and specialist Group.
vehicles, whilst providing very high levels of The Group remains focused on acquiring service to each family it looks after.
additional businesses and opening new satellite locations.
% This size still gives the Group good scope to 71 acquire owner managed businesses in areas Recommendations and our where it is not well represented.
reputation have generated approximately 71 per cent % % 11.7 2013:11.9 of our funeral business on average over the last Dignitys funeral market share.
Challenges Developments Crematoria: Our strengths With 39 crematoria, Dignity is the largest single The Group continues to seek ways to increase the number of crematoria it operates.
However, operator in the UK.
The cremations performed represent approximately 10 per cent of deaths acquisition targets are scarce and planning laws will continue to make it difficult to build in Britain.
There is still significant scope to expand through acquisition or new builds new locations.
Pre-arranged funeral plans: Our strengths Challenges Developments Dignitys national network of funeral New affinity partners have helped the Group locations and strong relationships with many develop its offerings.
A number of additional different affinity partners has allowed it to sell partners are currently being tested.
Links significant volumes of pre-arranged funerals that should represent incremental activity See Our strategy and business model: p. 10 and p. 11 for the funeral division.
See Our KPIs: p. 12 and p. 13 2013:323,000 See The client survey 348,000 performance: p. 14 The number of active pre-arranged funeral plans.
See Operating review: p. 16 to p. 21 Quality and consistency of service Meeting and exceeding expectations %ofcustomers Our clients continue to return and recommend 100% 65% 12 Month rolling average us because of the quality and consistency of service we deliver.
99% 63% Ongoing training and development of our 98% 61% people and investments in our business help 97% 59% us to improve, meet and exceed expectations.
96% 57% 95% 55% Dec 06 Dec 07 Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 11 Dec 12 Dec 13 Dec 14 Met and exceeded expectations Exceeded expectations left hand axis right hand axis
