Overview Strategic Report Financial Statements Other Information Governance Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 59 Directors report for the 52 week period ended 26 December 2014 The Directors present their report and the audited consolidated Principal risks and uncertainties financial statements for Dignity plc and its subsidiaries for the Operational risks are considered on pages 27 and 28.
An assessment of the Groups exposure to financial risks and The company registration number of Dignity plc is 4569346. a description of how these risks are managed are included in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.
Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Capital Reorganisation the Report on Directors Remuneration and the financial On 17 October 2014 Dignity Finance PLC, a subsidiary of statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
the Group, issued the New Notes raising net proceeds of 81.3 million.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors The Company then returned 64.4 million 1.20 per Ordinary have prepared the Group financial statements in accordance Share to shareholders through the issue and redemption of with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as either a B or C Share for each existing Ordinary Share.
This was adopted by the European Union and the parent company approved at an Extraordinary General Meeting on 30 October financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom 2014.
The Company also completed, in November 2014, a Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom consolidation of its share capital on the basis of 11 new Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law Ordinary Shares of 12 48 143 pence for every 12 existing the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless Ordinary Shares of 11 4 13 pence each.
See note 22 for they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state further details.
of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial Share capital statements, the Directors are required to: During the period, 281,430 Ordinary Shares of 11 4 13 pence each were issued to satisfy Long-Term Incentive Plan share Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them awards vesting in the period and 14,896 Ordinary Shares consistently: of 11 4 13 were issued to satisfy options exercised under the 2010 Save As You Earn Scheme which ended in Make judgements and accounting estimates that are December 2013. reasonable and prudent: and State whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union Following the share consolidation referred to above, the issued and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, share capital of Dignity plc at 26 December 2014 consisted of subject to any material departures disclosed and explained 49,170,180 Ordinary Shares of 12 48 143 pence each.
All the in the Group and parent Company financial statements Ordinary Shares carry the same rights and obligations.
are no other class or type of share in issue.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting A special resolution passed at the last AGM on 5 June 2014 records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys gives Dignity plc the authority to purchase up to 5,363,461 transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any Ordinary Shares of 11 4 13 pence each which by an ordinary time the financial position of the Company and the Group and resolution passed on 30 October 2014 the share capital of the enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Company was consolidated into ordinary shares of 12 48 143 Report on Directors Remuneration comply with the Companies pence each at not less than nominal value and not more than Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, five per cent above the average middle market quotation for Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for the preceding five business days.
At the same meeting the safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and Company was also given authority to allot Ordinary Shares up hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and to an aggregate nominal value of 4,043,225 of which up to detection of fraud and other irregularities.
These authorities will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM on 11 June 2015.
It is the intention The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Directors to seek renewal of these authorities at that of the Groups websites and legislation in the United Kingdom AGM.
There are no restrictions at the period end on the governing the preparation and dissemination of financial transfer of securities.
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Results Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on The results for the period are set out in the Consolidated page 36 and 37 of the Annual Report, confirm that, to the best Income Statement on page 66.
The Groups loss before tax of their knowledge and belief: amounted to 67.7 million 2013: profit 49.6 million.
The Group financial statements, which have been prepared in Dividends accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and An interim dividend of 6.49 pence per Ordinary Share was fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit paid to shareholders on 31 October 2014.
The Board has of the Group: and proposed a final dividend of 13.01 pence 2013:11.83 pence per share, which, subject to approval at the AGM, will be paid The Strategic report on pages 6 to 33 of the Annual Report on 26 June 2015 to shareholders on the register at close of includes a fair review of the development and performance business on 29 May 2015. of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Dignity plc 60 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Governance Directors report continued for the 52 week period ended 26 December 2014 Employment policies Carbon Reporting During the period, the Group has maintained its obligations The Group reports its Greenhouse Gas to the Carbon Disclosure to effectively communicate and involve employees in its Project on an annual basis in tonnes of carbon dioxide affairs.
Methods of communication used include an in-house equivalent resulting from the combustion of fuel direct Scope newsletter, an employee website, bulletins and management 1 Emissions and that resulting from the purchase of electricity briefings.
This is discussed in more detail in the Corporate indirect Scope 2 Emissions.
The emissions for the last five and Social Responsibility report on pages 29 to 33. years are as follows: Employment policies are designed to provide equal 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 opportunities irrespective of age, sexuality, colour, ethnic or Scope 1 14,437 15,077 15,097 15,202 16,798 national origin, religion, nationality, sex or marital status.
Full Scope 2 7,389 7,151 7,861 7,388 6,938 consideration is given to the employment, training and career Total 21,826 22,228 22,958 22,590 23,736 development of disabled persons, subject only to their Per FTE Employee 8.5 9.0 10.0 10.2 10.9 aptitudes and abilities.
The Group endeavours, as far as is practicable, to treat disabled persons equally with others and The Greenhouse Gas emissions have been shown as a per will also endeavour to help and accommodate persons who full time equivalent employee ratio.
The rationale for the choice become disabled whilst working for Dignity.
of ratio is that it is the best measure available to the Group given the diversity of the property portfolio, the three separate Directors and their interests divisions of the business and the absence of a similar business Details of the Directors of the Company who were in office to benchmark against.
during the period and up to the date of signing the financial statements are shown in the Report on Directors Remuneration Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions information is derived from on pages 51 and 56.
In accordance with the UK Corporate accurate consumption information on utility bills, smart meter Governance Code, at the AGM, all Directors will retire as readings and fuel card data.
These are then multiplied by the Directors of the Company and, being eligible, offer themselves appropriate emission factor from Defra DECC.
Standard and for re-election at the AGM on 11 June 2015.
The Directors accepted methods of calculation have been used to derive have agreed, as in previous years, that they should all stand the emissions information.
for re-election rather than relying on the Articles of Association of the Company that prescribe that one third of the Directors The Group does not collect or report Scope 3 Emissions at offer themselves for re-election each year.
the moment principally because of the difficulty of collating accurate information and the deemed value of that During the period, the Company maintained liability information.
insurance for its Directors and Officers to a value of 70 million.
The Directors of each of the Companys subsidiaries The Group qualifies for the Energy Savings Opportunity have the benefit of an indemnity provision in the Companys Scheme ESOS and will complete an ESOS assessment Articles of Association.
The indemnity provision, which is a during 2015 such that it can confirm compliance by the due qualifying third party indemnity provision as defined by Section date of 5 December 2015.
234 of the Companies Act 2006, was in force throughout the period and is currently in force.
Going concern The Directors have conducted a rigorous and proportionate Health and safety policy assessment of the Groups ability to continue in existence for The Groups operations are designed at all times in such a way the foreseeable future.
They receive and review regularly as to ensure, so far as reasonably practicable, the health, safety management accounts, cash balances, forecasts and the and welfare of all of our employees and all other persons who annual budget together with covenant reporting.
After careful may be attending our premises.
This is discussed in the consideration, and mindful of the current market conditions, Corporate and Social Responsibility report on page 32. the Directors confirm they are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to continue operating for that foreseeable Corporate Social Responsibility future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going Maintaining the quality of the environment in which we all live concern basis for preparing the financial statements.
The is an important concern for the Group.
This is discussed in Directors formally considered this matter at the Board the Corporate and Social Responsibility report on page 32 meeting held on 27 February 2015. alongside other social and ethical considerations.
Overview Strategic Report Financial Statements Other Information Governance Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 61 Post balance sheet events Please refer to note 32 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details.
Independent Auditors and disclosure of information to Auditors The Board appointed Ernst & Young LLP as auditors on 5 June 2014 upon the resignation of  LLP.
A resolution for their appointment will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
In the case of each of the persons who are Directors at the time when the report is approved, the following applies: So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and The Directors have taken appropriate steps to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
The Takeover Directive The Group has one class of voting share capital, Ordinary Shares.
All of the shares rank pari passu.
There are no special control rights in relation to the Groups shares.
The rules governing the appointment and replacement of Board members and changes to the Articles of Association accord with usual English company law provisions.
The Board has authority to purchase its own shares and is seeking renewal of that power at the forthcoming AGM within the limits set out in the notice of that meeting.
There are no significant agreements to which the Group is party which take effect, alter or terminate in the event of change of control of the Group.
Corporate Governance Statement The information that fulfils the requirements of a corporate governance statement in accordance with rule 7.2 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules can be found in this Directors Report and in the Directors Statement on Corporate Governance on pages 38 to 41, which is incorporated by reference.
Strategic report The Strategic report on pages 6 to 33 has been approved by the Board.
By order of the Board Richard Portman Company Secretary 4 March 2015
