Dignity plc 10 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Our strategy and business model We continue to implement a clear and consistent strategy which builds on and reinforces the competitive strengths in our business.
Our focus, scale and quality sets us apart and we are well positioned to continue to create value and deliver long-term sustainable growth.
Our strategy Our strategy in action Key points Ensuring the highest levels of client service: % We plan to grow the profitability 98.1 High levels of client service demonstrably affect of our business by: clients willingness to recommend our services.
In the 2014 client survey Recommendations and our reputation have 98.1 per cent of respondents Operating in a traditional market generated approximately71per cent of our funeral would recommend us.
business on average over the last five years.
See The client survey where people use our services performance: p. 14 based on our reputation and through recommendations, Recruiting, developing and retaining the % 30 best people: where we believe our continued Our employees are central to the success of the The percentage of Dignity commitment to excellent service business.
We seek to recruit and retain the best employees who have over for our clients will generate people through appropriate remuneration and 10 years service.
a high level of referral and See CSR: p. 29 to p. 33 organic growth: Continued investment: 41.9m We invest significantly in our existing business, Continuing to control our striving to ensure it is of the highest standard, both 17.1 million invested in capital operating costs: in client facing areas and behind the scenes.
We expenditure on the core business also seek to invest in new businesses that will help and a net investment of 24.8 Dignity grow and create value for shareholders.
Developing or acquiring additional million in acquiring new locations and opening satellites.
funeral locations: See Operating review: p. 16 to p. 21 Developing, managing oracquiring Controlling our costs: additional crematoria: 84.9m We seek to benefit from our size with national contracts for utilities and similar services The Groups underlying National marketing of pre-arranged where appropriate.
operating profit increased funeral plans, principally through 8 per cent to 84.9 million.
affinity partners: and See Operating review: p. 16 to p. 21 Efficient use of our balance sheet Growing our business responsibly: FTSE4Good to enhance shareholder returns.
As an industry leader, we aim to be both successful and good corporate citizens.
Dignity is identified as a company that meets globally recognised standards of corporate responsibility.
See CSR: p. 29 to p. 33 Sale of pre-arranged funeral plans: 348,000 We remain a significant provider of plans and Link continue to work with our established partners and 348,000 people have active develop new partnerships to sell plans efficiently.
Find out more about Our KPIs: p. 12 to p. 14 pre-arranged funeral plans.
See Operating review: p. 16 to p. 21 Delivering long-term shareholder returns: 335.2m Our business is driven by relatively predictable factors over long periods of time.
This allows us Since flotation, 335.2 million to operate and fund our business in a way that in cash including dividends has generates value over the long-term.
See Financial review: p. 22 to p. 25 Overview Governance Financial Statements Other Information Strategic Report Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 11 Follow our strategy throughout this report How we align remuneration to strategy Our strategic objectives underpin and integrate our activities and you Our strategy is focused on delivering short and long-term financial will see numerous references and examples of our strategy in action performance.
EPS and total shareholder return are quantifiable throughout this report.
Where we discuss a part of our strategic measures of performance and are used to incentivise Executive objectives, we have referenced this with the specific number as Directors to deliver the Groups strategy.
indicated below: 1 2 3 4 5 Link Find out more in the Report on Directors remuneration: p. 46 to p. 58 Developing and growing our business Our ongoing strategic objectives Our core business Continue to prioritise excellent client service 1 Funeral services which we believe will lead to organic growth.
Each year we invest in the refurbishment of our funeral properties, the renewal of our fleet and staff training Control our costs without compromising 2 initiatives enabling our people to provide the highest standards of client service.
the quality of our service.
3 Expand our funeral and crematoria portfolios.
Crematoria We continue to invest in our crematoria facilities to provide peaceful gardens of remembrance and chapels for our clients.
Gain new clients through the sale of 4 pre-arranged funeral plans.
Pre-arranged funeral plans We continue to work closely with our affinity partners and Increase our returns through efficient 5 funeral locations for the sale of pre-arranged funeral plans.
Other growth opportunities We also develop and grow our business through: the acquisition of well established and well respected funeral businesses: the opening of new satellite funeral locations: the construction of new crematoria: management of local authority owned crematoria: and developing new affinity partner relationships for the sale of pre-arranged funeral plans.
Link Find out more about our business operations, actions and progress: p. 16 to p. 21
