DIPLOMA PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Report 21 Sector Review LIFE SCIENCES SEALS CONTROLS % of Group revenue % of Group revenue % of Group revenue 30% 39% 31% 1 1 1 Geography Geography Geography 67% Canada 68% North America 58% UK 19% Europe 24% Europe 34% Continental Europe 14% Rest of World 8% Rest of World 8% Rest of World Customers Customers Customers 81% Clinical 40% Industrial OEMs 27% Aerospace & Defence 12% Utilities 31% Heavy Construction 27% Industrial 4% Chemical & Petrochemical 19% Other Industrial 19% Food & Beverage 2% Life Sciences Research 5% Industrial Aftermarket 15% Motorsport 1% Other Life Sciences 3% Dump & Refuse Trucks 8% Energy & Utilities 2% Logging & Agriculture 4% Medical & Scientific Products Products Products 69% Consumables 46% Seals & Seal Kits 41% Wire & Cable 23% Instrumentation 14% O-rings 15% Fasteners 8% Service 11% Filters 15% Equipment & Components 10% Attachment Kits 12% Control Devices 10% Cylinders & Other 12% Connectors 9% Gaskets 5% Other Controls Employees Employees Employees 334 604 312 Principal businesses Principal businesses Principal businesses Diploma Healthcare Group DHG Hercules Fluid Power Group HFPG IS Group a1-group FPE Seals Specialty Fasteners Kentek Filcon M Seals Hawco 1 By destination.
22 DIPLOMA PLC Strategic Report Sector Review continued Life Sciences The Life Sciences Sector businesses supply Revenue growth a range of consumables, instrumentation and related services to the healthcare and environmental industries.
13% p. a. compound over five years Healthcare The Diploma Healthcare Group DHG in Canada comprises three principal operating businesses which supply to the ca.
600 public 2014 91.4m hospitals across the country as well as to private clinics and laboratories.
Somagen Diagnostics Somagen supplies a range of consumables 2013 93.2m and instruments used in the diagnostic testing of blood, tissue and other samples in hospital pathology laboratories.
It is also a leading supplier 2012 78.4m to the growing, assisted reproductive technology ART market.
AMT 2011 74.4m Electrosurgery AMT supplies specialised electrosurgery equipment and consumables for use in hospital operating rooms.
AMT is also 2010 55.4m building a portfolio of specialised surgical instruments and devices used in minimally invasive MI Surgery.
Vantage Endoscopy Vantage 2009 49.9m supplies medical devices and related consumables and services to GIEndoscopy suites in hospitals and private clinics.
DHG also operates in Australia and New Zealand through Diagnostic Solutions DSL and Big Green Surgical BGS which are both located Principal segments in Melbourne.
BGS and DSL focus on similar markets respectively to the AMT and Somagen businesses and share a number of common Healthcare 80% suppliers.
In October 2014, DHG extended its operations into Ireland Environment 20% and the UK with the acquisition of Technopath Distribution TPD.
Environmental The a1-Group is a supplier to Environmental testing laboratories and to Health & Safety engineers.
The a1-envirosciences business, based in Germany, supplies a range of specialised environmental analysers and a range of containment enclosures for potent powder handling.
The a1-CBISS business, based in the UK, supplies equipment and services for the monitoring and control of environmental emissions, as well as a range of gas detection devices.
Geography Principal operations Healthcare Canada 67% Europe 19% DHG Rest of World 14% Somagen Diagnostics Edmonton, AB, Canada AMT Electrosurgery Kitchener, ON, Canada Vantage Endoscopy Markham, ON, Canada Big Green Surgical Melbourne, VA, Australia Diagnostic Solutions Melbourne, VA, Australia Technopath Distribution Ballina, Co. Tipperary, Ireland Environmental a1-group a1-CBISS Tranmere, UK a1-envirosciences Dusseldorf, Germany DIPLOMA PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Report 23 Market drivers Canadian healthcare expenditure C$bn % growth The DHG businesses in Canada supply into areas of Healthcare whichare predominantly public sector funded.
Private sector funding 2013 148.1 63.1 1.9% inCanada is mostly focused on areas where DHG does not participate, including dental, cosmetic and eye surgery and pharmaceuticals.
The 2012 144.6 62.7 3.4% principal demand driver for DHG is therefore the level of healthcare spending funded by the Canadian Government.
2011 140.6 60.0 3.9% 2010 136.1 56.9 6.1% The Canadian Healthcare industry is a proven, long term growth environment for medical device distribution.
A growing, aging and 2009 128.9 53.0 5.9% welleducated population demands high standards of service delivery, helping to ensure ongoing growing demand: per capita healthcare 2008 121.2 50.7 7.3% spending in Canada is in the top 20% of OECD countries.
The Canadian Health Act the Act ensures universal coverage for all insured persons 2007 112.3 47.9 6.2% for all medically necessary services provided by hospitals, physicians and other healthcare providers.
The Provinces are responsible for the 2006 105.0 45.8 7.2% delivery of the healthcare services, but the Federal Government controls delivery through Federal Provincial transfer payments, which represent 2005 98.6 42.0 6.5% the largest source of revenues for the Provinces.
2004 92.6 39.5 6.9% The relative stability and consistency in funding by each of the n Public n Private Provinces, guaranteed through the Act, ensures that the market remains Source: Canadian Institute for Health Information well funded through the economic cycle.
Over many years, healthcare expenditure has grown steadily with annual variations mostly dependent on the periodic additional tranches of funding provided by individual Provinces.
In periods when the economy is slower, as has been the case in 2013 and 2014, healthcare funding may be constrained.
This can be Australian healthcare expenditure A$bn % growth experienced through targeted controls imposed on the number of laboratory tests and operating procedures as well as more rigorous 2013 100.8 46.6 5.1% tendering processes for expenditure on capital equipment.
Even during such periods, however, healthcare funding has shown positive growth 2012 97.8 42.4 7.6% albeit at reduced levels.
2011 90.1 40.2 7.4% The Healthcare market in Australia shares with Canada many of the same attractive characteristics for specialised distribution.
While privately funded 2010 84.8 36.5 6.8% healthcare is more prevalent in areas such as surgery and laboratory 2009 78.5 35.0 9.8% testing, public sector healthcare funding is still large and supported by a stable, resource based economy.
As with Canada, there is a large 2008 71.1 32.4 9.1% geography to be covered, low population density and purchasing processes that vary by State.
These characteristics necessarily demand 2007 64.3 30.5 9.5% a significant investment by manufacturers in technical sales and service resource which makes the specialised distribution model more attractive 2006 58.9 27.7 6.9% as an efficient way to serve the market.
The Australian Healthcare market has experienced similar economic pressures to those in Canada but 2005 54.9 26.1 10.3% again has shown some growth, driven by increased private sector spending offsetting decreased spending in real terms in the public sector.
2004 49.3 24.1 6.8% The a1-group supplies to customers in the Environmental industry in n Public n Private the UK, Germany and France.
The market demand is largely driven by Source: Australian Institute of Health & Welfare Environmental and Health & Safety regulations and growth in recent years has been driven by the need to be compliant with a range of EU regulations.
Since market demand is driven by regulation, this ensures reasonably steady demand for essential consumable products and Total healthcare expenditure as a percentage of GDP services, though customers may defer capital expenditure during significant downturns in the economy.
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Canada 11.9% 11.9% 11.7% 11.6% 11.2% Australia 9.1% 9.4% 9.3% 9.5% 9.7% Sources: As above 24 DIPLOMA PLC Strategic Report Sector Review continued Life Sciences Sector performance and boosted by the supply of testing kits used in the roll-out of colorectal cancer screening programmes across three Provinces.
Life Sciences statistics Capital equipment sales have been at a somewhat reduced level this year, but good progress has been made in establishing Somagen in the HbA1c diabetes testing market with best in class technology and as a key Revenue player in the Autoimmunity market.
Somagen has also been successful in adding new suppliers and products in specialised market segments including quality control products used in calibrating and monitoring clinical diagnostic instrumentation, automated testing of urine and 91.4m 2014 2013 sterile fluids and specialised immunoassay technology to assess the progression of diseases by tracking specific proteins and antibodies.
Revenue 91.4m 93.2m These efforts have contributed to Somagen entering the new financial Adjusted operating profit 19.7m 20.9m year with a good backlog of capital equipment orders and good prospects for sales of new instrumentation.
Adjusted operating margin 21.6% 22.4% Free cash flow 14.9m 14.1m AMTs core electrosurgery business, led by the new Penevac 1 product ROATCE 21.9% 22.3% combined electrode and smoke evacuation device, continued to deliver strong double-digit growth in volume terms, though growth in value terms has been constrained by keener pricing in certain central buying Reported revenues of the Life Sciences businesses decreased by 2% group tenders.
Though these tenders can put pressure on the pricing of to91.4m 2013: 93.2m because of the translational currency impact core products such as the Penevac and the Megapad grounding pad, from the significant weakening in the Canadian and Australian dollars success generally results in higher unit volumes for these core products, relative to UK sterling.
On a constant currency basis, underlying as well as the opportunity to achieve preferred status for a broader range revenues increased by 9%.
Similarly on a reported basis, adjusted of products.
AMT also made further progress in its minimally invasive operating profit decreased in UK sterling terms by 6% to 19.7m MI Surgery division, consolidating its position in the supply of 2013:20.9m, but increased by 8% on a constant currency basis.
specialised surgical instruments and devices used in laparoscopic and other MI Surgery procedures.
Good advances have been made with Gross margins in the Healthcare businesses were significantly impacted coreproduct lines, ranging from surgical instruments used in standard by the strong depreciation of the Canadian and Australian dollars against laparoscopic procedures, to leading edge interventional radiology and the US dollar and the Euro, which are the currencies in which their oncology products for use in the treatment of cancer and cancer products are mostly purchased: the impact was increasingly felt as the relatedconditions.
year progressed, with existing hedging contracts being replaced by less favourable contracts.
These transactional currency effects were partly Vantage continued to generate strong growth in revenues from mitigated by an increased proportion of higher margin consumable consumable products and service which this year accounted for product revenues this year and by price concessions negotiated with ca.
In particular there were suppliers.
However, Sector gross margins still reduced by 190bps in the strong performances from the sale of argon plasma probes, from the first half and by 300bps in the second half, compared to the prior year specialty chemicals used in endoscope reprocessors and from tubing comparable periods.
The impact of these reduced gross margins was sets for endoscopes as well as from other endoscopic accessories limited by tight management of operating costs and the benefits from including specialist retrieval devices.
Capital equipment revenues were prior year investments and adjusted operating margins decreased by only significantly reduced compared with the prior year, when Vantage had 80bps to 21.6% 2013: 22.4%.
an exceptionally strong year for sales of endoscope reprocessors and argon plasma coagulation units.
Vantages supplier of endoscopes Capital expenditure in the Sector was 1.2m 2013: 2.8m, which included has this year launched its new 600 series endoscope range, offering 0.7m invested in field equipment for placement in hospitals and clinics significant benefits in terms of image quality and handling ability.
by the Healthcare businesses and 0.3m invested in the new ERP systems Vantage has been trialling the new endoscopes with target customers in Somagen and Vantage as part of the Groups broader Investment for in the second half of the year and the response has been positive Growth programme.
Somagen completed the installation of its new which should give momentum to capital sales in the new financial year.
ERP system in February 2014 and the implementation at Vantage is well underway, with plans to go live in the first half of the new financial year.
In Australia and New Zealand, revenues from DSL and BGS increased The implementation of the new ERP system in AMT will be completed by 19% in local currency.
BGS generated strong growth by penetrating in the second half of 2015.
Free cash flow increased by 6% to 14.9m the existing market for smoke evacuation products, as well as creating 2013: 14.1m, reflecting lower capital expenditure and tax payments, new demand for these products.
BGS also continued to deliver steady offset in part by higher investment in working capital.
growth in electrosurgical grounding pads and laparoscopic electrodes.
DSL has continued to generate good growth in its consumable products Healthcare and service business, but had a softer year for capital sales.
Encouraging Revenues from the DHG group of Healthcare businesses, which progress was made, however, in developing opportunities in HbA1c account for 80% of Sector revenues, increased by 8% after adjusting for diabetes testing, haemoglobin testing and autoimmunity.
Following translational currency effects and for the initial contribution from a small the integration last year of operations and back office functions in business acquired in Australia.
Melbourne, DSL and BGS are successfully operating as distinct sales and marketing businesses, benefiting from a single leadership group The Canadian Healthcare businesses increased revenues by 6% in local and shared operations and back office systems in Melbourne giving currency, with very strong consumable revenues more than offsetting the efficiencies and critical mass of a shared services group.
weaker capital and service revenues.
Somagen was the strongest performer with increased consumable revenues across its key suppliers DIPLOMA PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Report 25 During the year, DHG acquired the remaining 20% minority shareholdings in DSL and in July 2014, DHG acquired the assets and goodwill of Highlights from the Year Chemzyme Australia, a small distributor of enzymatic cleaning products supplied to the sterilising departments in hospitals across Australia and New Zealand.
Chemzyme has been integrated successfully into DHGs Healthcare operations in Melbourne.
The principal supplier to Chemzyme has signed Steady growth in consumable revenues across core a new ten year exclusive distribution agreement with DHG in Australia as Canadian businesses well as extending its agreement with Vantage in Canada.
Capital and service revenues softer against strong Shortly after the year end, in early October 2014, DHG acquired 80% of comparatives but good groundwork completed TPD, an established supplier to the Biotechnology, Clinical Laboratory with new products andsuppliers and Medical markets in Ireland and the UK.
The principal owner managers of the business will remain as Directors of TPD and retain a Major ERP project well advanced Somagen went 20% minority shareholding with put and call options to allow the Group live in February 2014: Vantage in process and targeted to acquire the shares over a period of up to five years.
40 staff at its principal location in Ballina, County Tipperary and for H1 2015: AMT to follow in H2 2015 shares certain key suppliers with the DHG business in Canada.
The acquisition of TPD represents an important first step in extending the Strong growth in Australia, now under single scope of the Groups Healthcare businesses into the markets of Ireland leadership and with consolidated operations giving and the UK, as well as adding important new products and suppliers.
critical mass and efficiencies Environmental Acquisition of TPD after year end extends DHG into Revenues from the Environmental businesses, which account for 20% Ireland and the UK and adds important new products of Sector revenues increased by 14% in constant currency terms.
The and suppliers a1-envirosciences business based in Germany increased revenues by 8%, generating good sales of analytical instruments in both the UK and Germany, while increasing the penetration of its laboratory enclosure Environmental systems across Europe.
The business has also enjoyed an increase in Strong growth in core business revenues with stable service revenues following an investment in engineering staff last year.
operating margins During the year, the businesss largest supplier of analytical instruments extended its exclusive distribution arrangements with a1-envirosciences Substantial demand for CEMS equipment as the UK to include France.
seeks to increase electricity generating capacity The a1-CBISS business based in the UK experienced another strong Extension of analyser business into France yearof trading, with revenues growing by 20%.
There was further strong growth in sales of CEMS continuous emissions monitoring systems equipment for both alternative energy and conventional electricity generating stations, though more demanding tender requirements had an impact on gross margins.
a1-CBISS also benefited from its strong Potential for Growth positioning in preventative and emergency maintenance services and as a specialised technical distributor of a range of essential products for the gas detection and air quality sectors.
Increase share in specialised segments of growing Canadian Healthcare market Extend into other medical disciplines with new products and technologies Build critical mass in Australian Healthcare market and then other geographies Continue to develop product and geographic spread of Environmental business 26 DIPLOMA PLC Strategic Report Sector Review continued Seals The Seals Sector businesses supply a Revenue growth range of hydraulic seals, gaskets, filters, cylinders, components and kits used in heavy mobile machinery and specialised 20% p. a. industrial equipment.
compound over five years Aftermarket 2014 119.8m The Aftermarket businesses supply sealing and associated products to support a broad range of mobile machinery in applications including 2013 106.1m heavy construction, logging, mining, agriculture, material handling lift trucks, fork lifts and dump trucks and refuse collection.
The products 2012 99.9m are generally supplied on a next day delivery basis and are used in the repair and maintenance of equipment after it has completed its initial 2011 80.0m warranty period or lease term, or has been sold on in the pre-used market.
The main customers are machinery and cylinder repair shops, 2010 60.1m engine and transmission rebuilders and other heavy equipment partsdistributors.
2009 48.2m Industrial OEM The Industrial OEM businesses supply seals, gaskets, O-rings and custom moulded and machined parts to a range of Industrial OEM customers.
The businesses work closely with customers to select the Principal segments most appropriate seal material and manufacturer for the application, provide technical support and guidance during the product Aftermarket 60% development process and provide the logistics capabilities to supply Industrial OEM 40% from inventory for small to medium sized production runs.
Principal operations Aftermarket HFPG Hercules Bulldog Clearwater, FL & Reno, NV, US Hercules Canada Barrie, ON & Dorval, QC, Canada HKX Monroe, WA, US FPE Seals Darlington, Doncaster & Gravesend, UK & Breda, The Netherlands Kentek Helsinki, Finland St. Petersburg & Moscow, Russia Geography Tallin, Riga & Vilnius, Baltic States North America 68% Industrial OEM Europe 24% Rest of World 8% HFPG All Seals Lake Forest, CA, US J Royal Clemmons, NC & Barrington, RI, US & Shanghai, China RT Dygert Minneapolis, MN & Chicago, IL & Seattle, WA, US M Seals Espergaerde, Denmark & Halmstad, Sweden & Tianjin, China Gateshead, UK DIPLOMA PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Report 27 US construction spend $bn Market drivers 1,000 The principal market drivers for both the Aftermarket and Industrial OEM Seals businesses is the growth in the general industrial economies, in particular North America where ca.
70% of Sector revenues are 800 generated.
In 2014, the USA economy is forecast to show annual GDP growth of 2.8% 2013: 2.8% as the economy contracted during the 600 severe winter weather but then returned to steady growth.
In Canada, 2014 GDP growth is forecast to improve to 2.7% 2013: 1.9%.
In general, 400 the economic conditions in the principal South and Central American economies served by the Aftermarket businesses have been challenging.
25% of Sector revenues are generated, the industrial 0 economies have been variable in 2013 and 2014.
The UK economy 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 showed growth in the early part of 2014, whilst the Continental Source: Cyclast Intercast European markets have remained broadly flat.
For the Aftermarket businesses, activity and spending levels in the US Heavy Construction sector are important, since this market accounts for over 50% of Aftermarket Seals revenues.
Statistics on total US US construction equipment units 000 70 Construction Spend include non-residential and infrastructure spend, as well as residential housing activity.
Following the significant drop in 60 spending ahead of the 2008 financial crisis the index started to recover in 2010 and the rate of steady annual growth has continued into 2013 50 and 2014.
40 US Construction Equipment unit sales of heavy mobile equipment 30 including excavators above 12 tonnes, crawler dozers and wheeled 20 loaders, is an important short term indicator for the HKX attachment kit business.
It is also important as a medium term indicator for Hercules 10 replacement hydraulic seals activities, as the new heavy equipment will 0 move out of the dealer warranty period in the coming years.
There was 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 an exceptional level of growth from 2009 to 2012 as tighter emissions Source: Cyclast Intercast legislation accelerated machine replacement and hire companies re-equipped their fleets.
The rate of growth slowed significantly in 2013 across all heavy mobile equipment types but recovered in 2014.
For the Industrial OEM seal businesses, the most appropriate indicator US industrial production index is the US Industrial Production Index, which has continued at a near 105 constant, modest growth rate since the 2008 2009 recession.
The index moved above pre-recession levels in the second half of 2013 and has 100 continued to rise in the first half of 2014.
95 90 85 80 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Source: US Federal Reserve seasonally adjusted 28 DIPLOMA PLC Strategic Report Sector Review continued Seals Sector performance customers looking to source hard-to-find and outsized seals within 24 hours.
Capacity will be further expanded with a fourth machine Seals statistics which is on order for delivery in 2015.
Revenues from exports outside the US, which account for 25% of Hercules Bulldog sales, decreased by 5% with reduced demand in Mexico, Central America and Saudi Arabia Revenue impacting performance, particularly in the first half of the year.
The Hercules Canada businesses in Ontario and Quebec delivered growth at a similar level to the US, supported by strong sales to OEM 119.8m cylinder manufacturers.
The first half of the year was more challenging as the Canadian economy adjusted to the downturn in demand for 2014 2013 natural resources, but the businesses continued to be successful in Revenue 119.8m 106.1m winning key orders as confidence returned in the second half.
The Adjusted operating profit 21.7m 19.5m operation in Barrie, Ontario successfully completed its move to a new, custom built facility in October 2013, providing Hercules Canada with a Adjusted operating margin 18.1% 18.4% first class platform for future growth.
Free cash flow 16.4m 15.9m HKX had an excellent year and resumed its upward momentum after a ROATCE 26.0% 27.1% pause in 2013 following several periods of exceptional growth.
Revenues increased by 14% with strong demand from the core excavator dealers The Seals businesses increased revenues by 13% to 119.8m 2013: and from specialist installers linked to the equipment OEMs.
During 106.1m which included part year contributions from Kentek, acquired 2014, the new emissions regulations for heavy mobile equipment in January 2014 and two smaller bolt-on acquisitions in the UK.
After continued to be implemented, with the machines fitted with Tier 4 adjusting for the additional contribution from these acquisitions and for Interim technology beginning to be phased out and replaced by Tier 4 the impact from currency translation, underlying revenues increased by Final technology equipment.
With OEM engineering resources focused 7%.
The acquisition of Kentek and the continued development of the on this technology transition, more excavators were delivered to dealers FPE Seals and M Seals businesses, through organic growth and bolt-on without attachments which provided increased demand for HKXs acquisitions, have increased the European regions share of total Seals attachment kits.
In 2014, HKX also successfully introduced new products revenues from ca.
25% in 2014. and a quality enhancement programme.
It also invested in improved automated tube-bending equipment and re-engineered process flows Adjusted operating profits increased by 11% to 21.7m 2013: 19.5m, in its expanded facility in the US.
but with Kentek joining the Group with lower initial operating margins, adjusted operating margins reduced by 30bps to 18.1% 2013: 18.4%.
In the European region, plans to create a more substantial, unified Across the Seals businesses, gross margins continued to be resilient, European Seals Aftermarket group continued to take shape in 2014. underpinned by essential product availability and added value technical These Aftermarket activities are now centred on FPE Seals with its service.
Operating margins in the HFPG and FPE Seals businesses operations in the UK and the Netherlands.
FPE Seals delivered strong improved as they benefited from prior year investment in people, organic revenue growth of 11% in the year against the background of a facilities and equipment.
positive economic environment in the UK, although Continental Europe remains challenging.
There was continued success in expanding sales Free cash flow increased by 0.5m to 16.4m 2013: 15.9m, as of hydraulic cylinder metal parts and the seal machining centre installed increased working capital, particularly in the US businesses, reduced at the Doncaster operation in late 2013, also contributed to the positive the contribution from higher operating profits.
FPE Seals acquired AB Seals in February 2014, a small decreased to 0.5m 2013: 0.9m following the completion last year of addition to its UK operations which is based in Gravesend, Kent and the Investment for Growth programme.
In HKX, 0.3m was invested in strengthens the FPE Seals coverage of the important South East region new automated tube-bending equipment and on expanding the facility of the UK.
to manage higher growth in this business.
Further investment was also made in the Clearwater facility in vertical storage carousels to deliver Outside the core, directly-served markets in the Americas and Europe, increased efficiencies in inventory handling.
the principal products sold by the Aftermarket businesses are the Bulldog branded seal and gasket kits.
With effect from October 2014, Aftermarket FPE Seals will take over responsibility, from Hercules Bulldog, for the The Aftermarket businesses, which now account for ca.
60% of Sector sales of these Bulldog products to the Middle East and Africa creating revenues, reported a 21% increase in overall revenues.
After adjusting for a unified EMEA Aftermarket sales region.
Hercules Bulldog will retain currency translation and the acquisitions of Kentek and AB Seals, responsibility for Bulldog sales in the Americas.
In January 2014, the Group completed the acquisition of 80% of Kentek, a In the US, Hercules Bulldog grew domestic sales by a robust 6%, despite specialised distributor of filters and related products, used in heavy mobile the disruption caused to general infrastructure projects and heavy machinery and industrial equipment applications.
Kentek is based in construction activities by the severe winter conditions across much of Finland with operations in Russia and the Baltic States and the acquisition the US which extended through to the end of May.
Sales to smaller extends the reach of the Seals activities into these new markets.
Kentek sub-distributors and OEM cylinder manufacturers increased strongly has solid, long term relationships with its key suppliers and customers in compared to the prior year and the US business continued to develop each of its territories and has performed well and in line with expectations its electronic trading capabilities.
The level of sales processed online since acquisition.
The business has managed the inevitable pressures increased by 26% and now accounts for ca.
20% of Hercules Bulldog exerted on the Russian economy and the international supply chain by revenues in the US.
The seal machining centres in Hercules Bulldog also sanctions imposed following the conflicts in Ukraine and Crimea.
continued to deliver good growth, with strong demand from repair shop DIPLOMA PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Report 29 Industrial OEM The Industrial OEM businesses, which account for ca.
40% of Sector Highlights from the Year revenues, reported a 3% increase in revenues.
After adjusting for currency and the small acquisition of Ramsay Services, underlying revenue growth was 8%.
Aftermarket Good growth in North America, resilient performance In North America, the Industrial OEM businesses RT Dygert, J Royal and despite disruption from severe winter weather.
All Seals all performed well in a generally positive industrial economy.
Double-digit growth in attachment kit sales at HKX As in the prior year, the Industrial OEM businesses continued with initiatives to move up the value chain, by procuring higher level technical European Aftermarket Seals group taking shape, approvals to meet the more stringent demands of customers.
The centred on FPE Seals AB Seals acquired and Bulldog businesses have continued to gain expertise in the approval processes and in qualifying new products for new and existing OEM customers.
branded products transferred to European operation RT Dygert delivered another year of solid growth, increasing revenues by Kentek acquired and performing well and in line with 5% and benefiting from its investment in the development of : it brings a new product portfolio and compliant elastomer compounds to penetrate the Pharmaceutical, Water important territorial expansion and Petrochemical industries.
Solid gains were also made in the supply of parts to catalogue houses and these gains more than offset a small Industrial OEM reduction in demand from the traditional mid-West cylinder producers.
In July 2014, RT Dygert acquired the outstanding 49% shareholding in Benefits of investments in earlier periods translated the HPS business in Seattle, taking its ownership to 100%.
HPS delivered into improved results.
Excellent growth delivered at strong growth in 2014 benefiting from demand for its heavy duty and All Seals and J Royal harsh environment seals for specialist construction equipment.
RT Dygert acquisition of remaining shares in HPS, All Seals delivered a strong performance in 2014, increasing revenues opportunity for further product cross-selling and by11%, as the investment in people and equipment in prior periods territorial coverage came through in the results.
All Seals reported good gains in the Water, Oil & Gas and Medical sectors with the introduction of new, higher Acquisition of Ramsay Services by M Seals, provides specification products and the addition of new customers.
The Seals a good platform for expansion into UK Industrial Sectors first water-jet gasket cutting machine became fully operational during the year, supporting the growing demand for rapid turnaround OEM market custom gaskets and contributing to the overall positive revenue growth.
In November 2014, All Seals will open a branch operation in Houston, All Seals opening a new branch operation in Texas to serve the large Texas Oil & Gas sector.
Houston, Texas J Royal delivered 16% revenue growth in 2014, benefiting from the significant investments made last year in management and sales resources.
Development lead times can be lengthy for new product introductions as OEM customers, prior to ordering production-level Potential for Growth quantities, require the completion of stringent quality control processes.
In2014, J Royal saw the results of its efforts in the successful introduction of many new products to existing OEM customers.
J Royal also benefited Continue to gain share in the North American from exceptionally strong demand from the Water sector and filter Aftermarket through superior marketing and product manufacturers and was also successful in penetrating new, smaller development customer accounts across the Eastern US, as its expanded sales team began to win new business.
Increase the global footprint for Aftermarket In Europe, M Seals had a mixed year in its different markets, but particularly in Europe and Asia Pacific increased overall revenues by 8%, helped by the contribution from the acquisition of Ramsay Services.
Revenues in the long-established Danish Build and expand group of Industrial OEM businesses territory were flat as the Danish markets hovered between contraction in North America and internationally and growth in the year.
The Swedish operation continued to deliver double-digit growth and the business is now expanding out of its Southern base with the addition of a dedicated sales person for the important industrial region around Stockholm.
Sales of large bearing seals to Chinese wind power customers were subdued for a second year as the Chinese wind power industry struggled to regain its earlier momentum.
In December 2013, our European Industrial OEM activities were expanded through the acquisition of Ramsay Services, located in Gateshead in the UK.
Ramsay is a small, specialist distributor of O-rings and holds the AS9120 accreditation for the Aerospace sector, as well as having valuable expertise in the UK Oil & Gas sector.
M Seals has taken full responsibility for the Ramsay operation and the business has performed well since acquisition.
30 DIPLOMA PLC Strategic Report Sector Review continued Controls The Controls Sector businesses supply Revenue growth specialised wiring, connectors, fasteners and control devices used in a range of technically demanding applications.
9% p. a. compound over five years Interconnect The IS-Group, Specialty Fasteners and Filcon businesses supply high performance interconnect products used in technically demanding 2014 94.6m applications in a range of industries including Aerospace, Defence, Motorsport, Energy, Medical and Industrial.
Products include electrical 2013 86.2m wiring, connectors and harnessing products, aerospace-quality 2012 fasteners, seals, customised assemblies and kits.
A range of value 81.9m adding activities enhances the customer offering, including marking of 2011 76.2m protective sleeves, cut-to-length tubing, kitting, connector assembly and prototype quantities of customised multi-core cables.
There is also 2010 68.0m a range of internally manufactured products, including flexible braided products for screening, earthing and lightning protection, power shunt 2009 61.9m connectors, multi-core cables and special fasteners.
Fluid Controls The Hawco Group businesses supply a range of fluid control products used broadly in the Food and Beverage industry, in applications including Principal segments food retailing and transportation, catering equipment, vending machines, coffee brewing, pure water and water cooling systems.
Products include Interconnect 70% fluid controllers, compressors, valves, temperature and pressure Fluid Controls 30% measurement devices and specialised vending and liquid dispensing components.
The customer offering is enhanced by value adding services including kitting for production line flow and the repair and refurbishment of soft drinks dispensing equipment.
Principal operations Interconnect IS-Group IS-Rayfast Swindon, UK IS-Cabletec Weston-super-Mare, UK IS-Sommer Stuttgart, Germany IS-Connect Indianapolis, US Geography Specialty Fasteners Clarendon Leicester, UK UK 58% SFC Totnes, UK Continental Europe 34% Filcon Munich, Germany Rest of World 8% Fluid Controls Hawco Group Hawco Guildford & Bolton, UK Abbeychart Faringdon, UK DIPLOMA PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Report 31 UK index of production Market drivers Industrial economic background 115 The Controls businesses focus on specialised, technical applications ina range of industries, with over 90% of Sector revenues generated in 110 the UK and Continental Europe principally Germany.
The background market drivers are therefore the growth of the industrial economies in 105 the UK and Germany.
100 A good indicator of the health of the UK industrial economy is the UK Index of Production.
This index tracks the severe decline in 2009 caused by the financial crisis, partial recovery in 2010 and then a continued 95 steady decline in 2011 and 2012.
Towards the end of 2012, the index returned to growth and has increased steadily through to 2014.
This 90 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 reflects increased confidence in the UK economy in general, although activity remains below pre-recession levels.
Source: UK O ce of National Statistics Calendar and seasonally adjusted, reference year 2010 100 Similarly, the German Production Sector Output Index again tracks the severe decline in 2008 and 2009, but shows a sharper recovery until 2011.
The index has since stabilised around pre-recession levels.
German production sector output index including construction Specific industry drivers Interconnect 115 Although influenced by the general industrial economic cycles, there are 110 also more specific drivers within the main market segments served by the Interconnect businesses.
105 100 The Civil Aerospace market continued to grow steadily with growth in 95 World Passenger Traffic averaging 56% p. a.
New aircraft continue to come into service with the trend towards replacing ageing fleets with 90 more fuel efficient wider bodied aircraft.
The Civil Aircraft markets are 85 also seeing increased activity in the interiors market where the wide 80 range of complex seating and entertainment systems is driving growth.
75 The Defence markets in the UK and Germany remain subdued following 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 the reduction in government spending on defence following the Source: Deutsche Bundesbank reduction in activity in conflict areas.
The recent engagement in Calendar and seasonally adjusted, reference year 2010 100 conflicts in 2014 may however prompt a review of defence spending levels in the UK and Germany.
In the UK, the Motorsport market has benefited from change of the World passenger tra c annual growth rate Formula 1 engine to the new 1.6 V6 turbo engine and the new ERS 10 Energy Recovery System technology.
Activity in preparation for the new Formula E series has also gained momentum.
8 Specific industry drivers Fluid Controls 6 The Fluid Controls business generate almost 70% of their revenues from the Food and Beverage sector in the UK.
In Food Retailing, there 4 are significant structural changes which are impacting segment growth rates including the trend away from major out-of-town stores to 2 convenience stores and the increase in home shopping and delivery.
0 These trends, along with the increasing need for at source cooling in smaller Brewery industry outlets, are driving demand for smaller, more -2 energy efficient components as supplied by Hawco.
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Source: International Civil Aviation Organisation The coffee market sector continues to grow and the UK retail coffee market has reached over 1 billion p. a. Abbeychart supplies both the coffee machine manufacturers and the aftermarket sector, predominately in the UK but also in Europe.
The traditional hot and cold drinks vending and pure water operator contractor sectors are facing a period of consolidation due to limited growth and excess capacity.
32 DIPLOMA PLC Strategic Report Sector Review continued Controls Sector performance Aerospace, by contrast, the reduced annual production rate of Eurofighter aircraft continued to have an impact on sales of specialist connectors and Controls statistics bonding leads.
The broader Defence markets in the UK remained subdued but the Revenue businesses were still able to deliver modest growth over the prior year.
While no new major defence projects were initiated, there were signs that activity levels were higher at several specialist military harness contractors.
IS-Rayfast also leveraged its excellent stocking profile to provide a rapid 94.6m turnaround to support projects including the Astute 6 submarine build and 2014 2013 modest upgrades to Hawk and Jaguar aircraft.
There was continuing demand for IS-Cabletecs cable protection products and an additional Revenue 94.6m 86.2m braiding machine was added during the year to meet increased production Adjusted operating profit 15.3m 13.9m requirements.
In Germany, Filcons traditionally strong sales of specialist Adjusted operating margin 16.2% 16.1% connectors to the larger legacy military radio and engine projects were softer in 2014.
As with the UK, however, IS-Sommer saw improved, general Free cash flow 11.4m 10.8m demand from German military harness sub-contractors.
ROATCE 33.2% 32.0% Sales to specialised Industrial markets ca.
25% of Interconnect revenues were positive with revenues growing by 11%.
In the UK, there was good, The Controls businesses increased revenues by 10% to 94.6m across-the-board demand for specialist tubing and for added value services 2013:86.2m, including part year contributions from Specialty Fasteners such as re-spooling wire onto compact spools for repair and refurbishment and Components SFC, acquired in June 2014 and Sacee, a small customers.
In Germany, there was also a strong performance in the connector distributor acquired in October 2013.
After adjusting for the Industrial markets, despite the uncertain manufacturing environment in contribution from these acquisitions and for the impact of currency the Eurozone countries.
IS-Sommer continued to win business through translation, underlying revenues increased by 8%.
an invigorated field sales team, again supported by superior stocking and value added services.
Sales in the US benefited from the generally positive Adjusted operating profits increased by 10% to 15.3m 2013: 13.9m manufacturing environment.
and adjusted operating margins held steady at 16.2% 2013: 16.1%.
Overall gross margins in the Controls businesses remained resilient with Motorsport accounts for ca.
20% of Interconnect revenues and this sector their focus on specialised markets and added value opportunities.
The delivered revenue growth of 21% in 2014.
There were gains in the UK, benefits from investment programmes completed last year also enabled Germany and the US and across both the harnessing and fastener product the businesses to gain some operational leverage which offset the groups.
It was a record year for Motorsport revenues, primarily driven by the impact from the lower initial operating margin of SFC.
changes introduced to the Formula 1 racing series.
For the 2014 season, the new 1.6 litre V6 turbo engine was introduced as well as upgraded Energy Free cash flow increased by 0.6m to 11.4m 2013: 10.8m, with Recovery Systems.
These changes required substantial development working capital increasing to take advantage of opportunities within engineering and design work and our businesses closely supported the existing markets: this investment more than offset the contribution teams and engine manufacturers to ensure the new technologies were from increased operating profits.
Capital expenditure reduced by successfully introduced.
Beyond Formula 1, the Formula E series prepared 0.4m to 0.5m 2013: 0.9m following completion last year of the for the inaugural race and there was continued success in the US in new IS-Rayfast facility and Hawcos investment in a new ERP system, servicing the Nascar and United Sports Cars series.
In Germany, Filcon as part of the Groups broader Investment for Growth programme.
continued to grow its sales to VW and Porsche for the supply of connectors The IS-Group invested 0.2m in upgrading its IT infrastructure by for the VW World Engine and for the Le Mans and GT car series.
replacing older servers and adding further functionality to its existing manufacturing systems at IS-Cabletec.
Hawco invested 0.2m in the In the Energy market ca.
10% of Interconnect revenues, IS-Sommer relocation of its sales and administrative offices and extending the new supplies components used in repair and refurbishment of low and medium ERP system into the Abbeychart business.
voltage electricity distribution in Germany.
In 2014, revenues increased by 13% driven by a higher level of refurbishment work by its customers and Interconnect benefiting from development work carried out in the prior year.
Following The Interconnect businesses, which account for ca.
70% of Sector its acquisition of Rayquick in late 2012, IS-Sommer secured its appointment revenues, increased revenues by 10% in UK sterling terms.
After adjusting as one of only two German master distributors for its key energy products for acquisitions and currency translation effects, underlying revenues supplier.
In the UK, the businesses are focused on a small number of key increased by 8%, reflecting good demand across the market sectors and customers involved in portable electricity generators, subsea power particularly strong performances from the Civil Aerospace, Energy and transmission cables and the manufacture of batteries.
As the market is Motorsport markets.
concentrated in a small number of key customers, demand can vary significantly and 2014 was a particularly positive year.
Aerospace and Defence accounts for ca.
40% of Interconnect revenues and in 2014, revenues increased by 5%, with Civil Aerospace maintaining strong In October 2013, Filcon acquired the assets and goodwill of the Sacee positive momentum while the Military segments appeared to be stabilising.
business which supplies specialist connectors to the Satellite sector In Civil Aerospace, the supply of fasteners to the premium aircraft seating in France: its operations were successfully integrated into Filcon in Munich.
industry continued to grow, with Clarendon extending production line-side In June 2014, the fastener business was strengthened by the acquisition of support to key customers and exploiting further opportunities to export to SFC, a UK based distributor of fasteners and ancillary products to the sub-contract manufacturers.
There was also steady demand for the full Aerospace, Industrial and Motorsport sectors.
SFC has a strong fit range of electrical harnessing and protection products.
In Military DIPLOMA PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Report 33 with Clarendon and brings a long-standing reputation for technical competence, design skills and added-value assembly expertise to our Highlights from the Year rapidly expanding fastener activities.
These acquisitions have strengthened the Groups position in attractive segments of the Interconnect market and the performance of both businesses since acquisition has been good and Interconnect in line with expectations.. Strong performance in Civil Aerospace with further penetration into premium aircraft seating Fluid Controls The Fluid Controls businesses, which account for ca.
30% of Sector The acquisition of SFC, strengthened position in the revenues, increased revenues by 9%.
The Hawco business made fasteners business and added design skills and significant gains in the core Food & Beverage sector, following a added-value assembly expertise subdued prior year which had included delayed investments by customers and a hang-over of surplus catering equipment from the Record year for Motorsport, with success across all 2012 London Olympics.
racing formats in the UK, Germany and the US In Food Retailing, Hawco has had to respond to significant structuralchanges in the industry and now is seeing the benefits of its Outstanding sales growth in German Energy repositioning and developmental activities.
The trend away from major sector:deserved return for development activities out-of-town food retail stores and towards convenience stores initially inearlier periods dampened demand for Hawcos equipment, but Hawco is now having good success in both the UK and Europe with its range of scroll Sacee acquisition extended Filcons business into the compressors which offer a smaller footprint and greater efficiency.
Satellite sector in France Hawco is also seeing growing demand for refrigeration units used in transport applications reflecting the increased use of home shopping Fluid Controls and delivery.
Sales into the Brewery sector have also been buoyed by Encouraging gains in the UK Food and Beverage the introduction of scroll compressors and other improved products designed to provide at source cooling for smaller outlets such as cafes sector: platform for technology transfer to other and bars.
This reduces the need for cellar cooling space, is more energy geographies efficient and avoids product waste as the beer is only cooled whenneeded.
Relocation of Hawco sales and administrative offices and consolidation of warehouse facilities The Abbeychart business faced a mixed environment in its key markets with Coffee and Catering continuing to perform well but with demand Extension of Hawcos new ERP system into from the Vending machine and pure Water applications weakening.
In Abbeychart, leading to further efficiencies the Coffee and Catering markets, Abbeychart supplies to the equipment OEMs and in the traditional hot and cold drinks Vending market, the primary customers are the equipment operators that supply ingredients and maintain the machines.
There have been attempts to drive consolidation in the fragmented Vending operators market and it may Potential for Growth take some time before the results of this activity are clear.
The Hawco Group will continue to realign the Abbeychart business model and resources to match changes in end-user tastes and to focus on In Interconnect, further penetrate specialised market growthmarkets where technical expertise can add value.
sectors in Europe Broaden the range of high performance products and added value services In Fluid Controls, reposition the businesses to take advantage of structural market changes Expand geographical reach outside Northern Europe
