08 DIPLOMA PLC Strategic Report Growth Strategy The Groups Acquire, Build, Grow strategy is designed to deliver strong, double-digit growth.
A principal focus this year has been on the Grow phase of our strategy.
Cross-selling Joint purchasing Shared back-office operations ACQUIRE BUILD GROW DIPLOMA PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Report 09 THIS YEARS GROWTH Acquire The Group invested 16.5m this Clear business criteria have been The principal financial criteria are: yearin acquisitions designed to build established to guide the Groups larger, broader based businesses in acquisition programme: Track record of stable, profitable the Groups three Sectors and extend growth and cash generation: the Groups geographic coverage.
Fit with the Groups business model Exceed IRR threshold of 13% to These acquisitions comprised: of essential products, solutions ensure 20% return on investment.
and values: Life Sciences Marketing led with strong customer Chemzyme Australia relationships: DSL 20% Australia Secure supply of high quality, : Seals Capable management.
Kentek 80% Finland, Russia and Baltic States Ramsay UK AB Seals UK HPS 49% US Controls SFC UK Sacee France Build Acquisitions are intended to give entry Working with the management, we into new but related markets and provide the investment required to build thereby extend the reach of the a solid foundation to allow the company existing businesses and bring new to move toa new level of growth.
investment will normally be in new facilities and IT systems, increased but 5% The acquisitions we make are of better managed working capital and of Group revenues ca.
20m on companies which are already successful additional management resource.
annualised basis were contributed and with a good track record.
However, from businesses acquired in 2014 these businesses have typically reached the point where additional resources are needed to take them to the nextlevel ofgrowth.
Grow Once the acquisition is integrated Typically synergies come in the into the Group, with a solid platform following areas: established, the focus is on delivering stable, profitable growth.
Cross-selling between the businesses: Joint purchasing between the Except in the case of smaller, bolt-on businesses: acquisitions, the acquisitions will maintain Shared back-office functions for their distinct sales and marketing identity finance and administration.
andwill be managed as independent business units.
However, where there are opportunities for synergies with other Group businesses, these will be managed within larger businessclusters.
