68 DIPLOMA PLC Financial Statements Directors Report This section contains information which the Directors are required by law and regulation to include within the Annual Report & Accounts.
Shareholders office of the Company or any other place as the Board may decide Incorporation and principal activity accompanied by the certificate for the share s to be transferred and or Diploma PLC is domiciled in England and registered in England & Wales such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably require to show under Company Number 3899848.
At the date of this Report there were the right of the transferor to make the transfer: ii in respect of only one 113,239,555 ordinary shares of 5p each in issue, all of which are fully paid class of shares: iii in favour of a person who is not a minor, infant, up and quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
bankrupt or a person of unsound mind: or iv in favour of not more than four persons jointly.
The principal activity of the Group is the supply of specialised technical products and services.
A description and review of the activities of the Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out using CREST and Group during the financial year and an indication of future developments the Directors can refuse to register a transfer of an uncertified share in is set out on pages 4 to 39: the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 39 accordance with the regulations governing the operation of CREST.
incorporates the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
Participants in the Companys SMP pledge investment shares to a Annual General Meeting nominee for a period of three years, during which period these shares The Annual General Meeting AGM will be held at midday on cannot be transferred.
There are no other restrictions on the transfer of Wednesday, 21January 2015 in the Brewers Hall, Aldermanbury Square, ordinary shares in the Company except certain restrictions which may London EC2V 7HR.
A circular setting out the proposed resolutions, from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example including a resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP as the auditor, will be insider trading laws : or where a shareholder with at least a 0.25% set out in the Notice of the AGM which is a separate document which interest in the Companys certified shares has been served with a will be sent to all shareholders and published on the Groups website.
disclosure notice and has failed to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares.
Substantial shareholdings At 14 November 2014 the Company had been notified of the following Shares held by the Diploma Employee Benefit Trust interests amounting to 3% or more of the voting rights in its ordinary While ordinary shares are held within the Diploma Employee Benefit share capital: Trust, the voting rights in respect of those shares are exercisable by the Trustees in accordance with their fiduciary duties.
The Trustees of the Percentage Diploma Employee Benefit Trust also waive dividends on all shares held of ordinary share capital for the purposes of the Companys long term incentive arrangements.
Mondrian Investment Partners Ltd. 7.96% Share allotment Standard Life Investments Ltd 5.84% A general allotment power and a limited power to allot shares in specific Royal London Asset Management Ltd. 4.42% circumstances for cash, otherwise than pro rata to existing shareholders, BlackRock Inc. 4.15% were given to the Directors by resolutions approved at the AGM of the Mawer Investment Management Limited 3.39% Company held on 15 January 2014.
In the year ended 30 September Baillie Gifford & Co. 3.32% 2014, the Company has not allotted any shares.
These powers will Fidelity Management & Research Co. 3.28% expireat the conclusion of the 2015 AGM and resolutions to renew Invesco PLC 3.07% theDirectors powers are therefore included within the Notice of the Schroders PLC 3.05% AGM in 2015.
As far as the Directors are aware there were no other interests above 3% Authority to make market purchases of own shares of the issued ordinary share capital.
An authority to make market purchases of shares was given to the Directors by a special resolution at the AGM of the Company held on Share capital 15 January 2014.
In the year to 30 September 2014 the Company has The rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, as well as the not acquired any of its own shares.
This authority will expire at the powers of the Companys Directors, are set out in the Companys conclusion of the 2015 AGM and a resolution to renew the authority Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained from the Group is therefore included within the Notice of the AGM in 2015.
Company Secretary and are available on the Companys website.
Financial The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders Results and dividends that may result in restrictions on the transfers of securities and or voting The profit for the financial year attributable to shareholders was 35.5m rights, other than those relating to the Companys Share Matching Plan 2013: 34.5m.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 11.6p per SMP, described further below.
No person holds securities in the ordinary share 2013: 10.7p, to be paid, if approved, on 28 January 2015.
Company carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
This, together with the interim dividend of 5.4p 2013: 5.0p per ordinary The Companys Articles of Association may be amended by special share paid on 18 June 2014 amounts to 17.0p for the year 2013: 15.7p.
resolution of the Companys shareholders.
The results are shown more fully in the consolidated financial Restrictions on transfer of shares statements on pages 70 to 97 and summarised in the Finance Review on The Directors may refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share that pages 18 to 20. is not fully paid, provided that the refusal does not prevent dealings in shares in the Company from taking place on an open and proper basis, Details of post balance sheet events are included in note 29 to the or where the Company has lien over that share.
The Directors may also consolidated financial statements.
refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share, unless the instrument of transfer is: i lodged, duly stamped if necessary, at the registered DIPLOMA PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Financial Statements 69 Directors assessment of going concern For the Parent Company financial statements, state whether The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to its future development, performance and position are set out in the any material departures disclosed and explained in the Parent Strategic Report on pages 1 to 39.
The financial position of the Group, Company financial statements: its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, unless it in the Finance Review on pages 18 to 20.
In addition, pages 82 to 84 of is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company the Annual Report & Accounts include the Groups objectives, policies will continue in business.
and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position The Group has considerable financial resources, together with a broad ofthe Parent Company and enable them to ensure that the financial spread of customers and suppliers across different geographic areas and statements comply with the Act.
They are also responsible for sectors, often secured with longer term agreements.
As a consequence, safeguarding the assets of the Parent Company and hence for taking the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other business risks successfully.
The Group also has a committed multicurrency revolving bank facility The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the of 25m which expires on 23 June 2017.
At 30 September 2014, the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Group had cash funds of 21.3m and had no borrowings.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that Directors Responsibility Statement the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they the Groups consolidated financial statements, prepared in continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, and the Parent Report & Accounts.
Company financial statements, prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, Statement of disclosure liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group and Parent Each of the Directors has reviewed this Annual Report & Accounts and Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation confirmed that so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information taken as a whole: of which the Companys auditor is unaware and that he has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself the Annual Report & Accounts includes a fair review of the aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the development and performance of the business and the position Companys auditor is aware of that information.
ofthe Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks Statement of Directors responsibilities for preparing the and uncertainties faced by the Group: and financialstatements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report & Accounts, including the Group and Parent Company financial the Annual Report & Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced statements, in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent model and strategy.
Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law theDirectors are required to prepare Group financial statements in This responsibility statement was approved by the Board of Directors accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU and on 17 November 2014 and is signed on its behalf by: Article 4 of the IAS Regulations and have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom BM Thompson Generally Accepted Accounting Standards UK Accounting Standards.
Chief Executive Officer The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRSs as NP Lingwood adopted by the EU, to present fairly the financial position and the Group Finance Director performance of the Group: the Companies Act 2006 provides in relation to such financial statements, that references in the relevant part of that Registered office: Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view, are references 12 Charterhouse Square to their achieving a fair presentation.
London EC1M 6AX In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: For the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs, as adopted by the EU:
