40 DIPLOMA PLC Governance Directors and Advisors 1,3 1,2, 3 John Rennocks Bruce Thompson MarieLouise Clayton Nigel Lingwood Chairman Chief Executive Officer NonExecutive Director Group Finance Director Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: Joined the Board in July 2002 Joined the Board in 1994 as a Joined the Boardin November Joined the Company in June and appointed Chairman in Group Director and appointed 2012 and appointed Chairman, 2001 and appointed Group January 2004.
Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: John is a Chartered Accountant Brucestarted his career in the MarieLouise is a Chartered Priortojoining the Company, with over 41 years of experience automotive industry, first as a Certified Accountant with some Nigel was the Group Financial incommerce and industry, design engineer and then in 30 years experience in commerce Controller at Unigate PLC including nearly 20 years as product marketing.
He then and industry, who has held senior where he gained experience of the Finance Director of FTSE spent three years in international positions in Alstom formerly, working in a large multinational 100 companies.
He has been marketing with a construction Alsthom GEC and was previously environment and on a number a nonExecutive Director of materials company, developing Group Finance Director of Venture of large corporate transactions.
many companies, including as new markets in Europe, the Production PLC.
She has also been Nigelqualified as a Chartered Chairman of six other public Middle East and North Africa.
anonExecutive Director of Forth Accountant with Price or private companies across Prior to joining Diploma, he was a Ports PLC and Ocean Rig ASA.
severalindustrial or support Director with Arthur D Little Inc. service sectors.
the technology and management consulting firm, initially in the UK and then asDirector of the firms Technology Management Practice based in Cambridge, Massachusetts.
External appointments: External appointments: External appointments: External appointments: John is currently nonExecutive None.
MarieLouise is Chairman of None.
Director of Greenko Group PLC, the Audit Committee and a Chairman of Bluefield Solar nonExecutive Director of Income Fund Ltd and Deputy Zotefoams plc.
MarieLouise is Chairman ofInmarsat plc.
also a nonExecutive Director of Independent Oil and Gas plc and of two private companies.
DIPLOMA PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Governance 41 1,2, 3 1,2, 3 Auditor John Nicholas Iain Henderson Charles Packshaw Deloitte LLP Senior Independent Chief Operating Officer NonExecutive Director 2 New Street Square NonExecutive Director London EC4A 3BZ Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: Solicitors Joined the Board in Joined the Board as a Director Joined the Board in June 2013.
Ashurst LLP June 2013 and appointed in 1998 and appointed Chief Broadwalk House Chairman, Remuneration Operating Officer in 2005.
5 Appold Street Committee in July 2013.
London EC2A 2HA Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: A Chartered Certified Accountant Iain qualified as a Chartered Charles is Head of UK Advisory Bankers with a Masters degree in Management Accountant and and Managing Director in HSBCs Barclays Bank PLC Business Administration from began his career in the food global banking business.
Over 1 Churchill Place Kingston University.
John industry, progressing to be an 30 years of City experience, London E14 5HP has a wealth of business and operations general manager with including 18 years at Lazard in commercial experience and H J Heinz.
Since 1988, Iain has London, where he was Head of HSBC Bank plc spent much of his early career in specialised in the acquisition and Corporate Finance, prior to joining City Corporate BankingCentre technologyfocused international development of small to medium HSBC in 2002.
Charles has been 60 Queen Victoria Street manufacturing and service sized enterprises within group a nonExecutive Director of two London EC4N 4TR companies involved in analytical structures.
This was firstly within listed companies and he is also a instruments, fire protection and the privately owned Bricom MBO, Chartered Engineer.
where he ran ANC Holdings and Lazard from 1994in a public company 50 Stratton Street He has been Group Finance environment as a Director London W1J 8LL Director of Kidde plc on its ofGlenchewton plc.
demerger from Williams Holdings Corporate Stockbrokers and of Tate & Lyle PLC.
Numis Securities 10 Paternoster Square London EC4M 7LT External appointments: External appointments: External appointments: John is currently nonExecutive None.
Charles is a nonExecutive Director and Chairman of the Director of BMT Group Limited.
Audit Committees of Mondi plc and Hunting PLC.
John is Senior Independent Director of Rotork plc.
John is also a member of the Financial Reporting Review Panel.
Member of: 1 the Remuneration Committee 2 the Audit Committee 3 the Nomination Committee
