Directors Report Strategic Summary Our Markets Specialist electrical retailers are the predominant destination Innovation brings new products and products with improved for customers in the European market.
Buying groups, general functionality, such as Ultra High Definition and Smart TVs, merchants and independents also have a retail presence Apples iPad, and other tablets, as well as converging products through stores and or on-line in most European markets.
that combine the flexibility of a tablet with a keyboard in turn The market is served by a relatively small number of global driving sales growth.
New content, such as social media, apps, manufacturers supplying goods to local, regional, national digital media and cloud computing, also help to drive hardware and international electrical retailers.
Product sales are also driven by structural shifts, such as analogue to digital and standard format The electrical retail market can be split between specialist through to Ultra HD television.
In addition, innovation drives new electrical retailers, such as Dixons Retail, and general retailers service requirements, such as TV installation, data backup, which sell certain electrical goods as part of a wider offering, computer set up and instructional Showhow teach-ins.
In this such as catalogue retailers, department stores, large increasingly complex world we believe our assisted sales model supermarket chains and single channel internet retailers.
The is best placed to help customers navigate the products available market can also be broken down into two distinct distribution and to help them choose a complete solution that best meets channels: assisted and unassisted.
In the assisted channel, their needs.
specialist retailers, such as us, help customers through the buying process in the form of product advice, add-on services, Electrical products, and in particular brown goods, are delivery and installation.
The unassisted channel, which predominantly discretionary purchases.
However, increasing includes single channel internet retailers as well as general penetration of digital technology in the home drives replacement retailers, tends not to offer all of these services.
cycles as these products become less discretionary.
The economic backdrop also determines whether customers buy We are one of the largest specialist electrical retailing and up or down price points.
Accordingly, the electrical market tends services companies in Europe and with leading market shares to grow at a rate which is at or exceeding the economy during in the UK, Ireland, the Nordic region and Greece we benefit boom years.
While the opposite can be true during a downturn, from long established and widely recognised brands.
In each this may be influenced by new innovation and products.
of our markets there are varying numbers of specialist retailers who compete in the assisted market.
While we do compete The rapid innovation cycle leads to price deflation in brown against general retailers, this is generally limited to certain lower goods and computing, but also drives volume as products unit price product categories as these operators do not offer become more affordable and replacement cycles accelerate.
the full range of products, assisted sale or associated ancillary For larger ticket items, the low frequency of purchases limits services we are able to provide.
the impact of price deflation on total market sales as consumers typically trade up to higher specification products.
Our We have seen some significant shifts in capacity in many of Customer Journeys are designed to explain the features our markets over the last 12 to 24 months with some mass and benefits of the latest technology to customers and merchandisers reducing space for electrical products, some help them understand the reasons for trading up to the single channel internet operators, as well as some specialists, newer technologies.
These shifts have helped us gain market share and it underpins our view that a strong service led multiThe sale of white goods is underpinned by the replacement channel operation satisfies both customer and supplier needs cycle.
Due to higher costs of repair, it often makes better while delivering a sustainable business as customer shopping economic sense for consumers to replace white goods outright habits continue to evolve.
We believe further consolidation will rather than to arrange for their repair.
The sale of white goods occur in some of our markets going forward.
is also driven by the dynamics of the housing market as new construction, house sales and refurbishment trigger new The internet has established itself as an integral part of the retail purchases.
It brings enhanced product information as well as price comparability for consumers.
It is therefore becoming an Technology and the digitised world increasingly embed important part of the shopping trip for customers combining the themselves into our customers lives, whether it be keeping up internet with stores as they consider their purchase, particularly with friends and family through social media, on-line gaming, for high ticket discretionary products such as electricals.
Larger watching movies on the move, sharing pictures with others or retailers with an integrated multi-channel offer with scalable across different technologies in the home, backing up precious distribution and systems, together with proven after sales memories in the cloud or through energy efficiency.
The latest service and support are increasingly attractive to customers.
technology allows our customers to do all this and more with Our collect@store service, where customers can order on the tablets, Smart TVs and apps.
The ecosystems behind the internet and collect from a convenient store at a time to suit current digital revolution are simplifying our customers lives.
them, and our pay&collect service, where customers can Customers come to us not just for the enabling technology, access a wider range of products than is typically available but to find a solution.
in their local store for either home delivery or later collection from the store, are both proving to be increasingly popular.
The UK and Nordic markets have high broadband penetration and a maturing on-line sales platform.
The increase in on-line penetration provides us with the opportunity to increase both the range of goods on offer and the availability of product information.
Our multi-channel approach is well placed to exploit synergies between our internet sites and stores.
Dixons Retail plc 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support
