Directors Report Strategic Summary Our Resources Customers People Dixons Retail is an organisation spanning Europe, with over People 30,000 colleagues in over 900 stores, offices, call centres and Suppliers distribution centres.
For our colleagues, we believe there are four core values that constitute who we are, as individuals and Distribution and logistics as a team: Store portfolio We love to make our customers happy.
Intellectual property Energy We know our stuff.
Cash and capital We love to work here.
To deliver on our strategies and to ensure we continue to respond to customers needs, we must listen and respond To support this we have a comprehensive Customer Plan that effectively to them.
We have comprehensive customer research involves improving every possible aspect of the shopping trip, programmes spanning a variety of tools including exit surveys, whether that be in our exciting new stores, better ranges at mystery shops, focus groups and effective data gathering great value, untangling the shopping trip, helping customers get through, for example, our Happy or Not tools in our Elkjp their products up and working, or keeping them working as business.
technology gets more and more embedded into daily lives.
Through this research, managed internally, we have developed We continue to make huge progress each year, however, a clear and detailed understanding of what we are doing we must never be satisfied and we can and must make well and more importantly of where we can target further further improvements to delight customers and to outpace improvements.
Customers tell us that they need us to deliver the competition.
This year, the Customer Plan will remain a strong combination of Value, Choice and Service across all our vehicle for demonstrating to the team what needs to be our shopping channels and it is clear from their feedback that delivered, building on last years successes, introducing new more and more, they recognise that we are doing this.
We will work streams and sharing our practices across Europe.
continue to deliver easier, more exciting places to shop for customers whether that be in store, on-line or a multi-channel We are focusing on building a career development framework combination of both.
that rewards customer centric behaviour and instils a sense of pride in our colleagues.
We now provide tailor-made Listening to customers extends into how we approach the sales development programmes and support further education process in store.
Our unique training programmes combined qualifications for our colleagues throughout the business.
with our customer journeys are designed to ensure customers Our development programmes use modules, training leave our stores with a complete solution that is right for them.
workshops and a dedicated e-learning intranet service that Doing this is a key part of our ongoing strategy and delivery helps provide the skills colleagues need to succeed at every of a sustainable business model, as well as enabling us to level and career stage.
differentiate our offer from competitors.
We use our sophisticated tracking and measuring processes, By maintaining our absolute focus on the customer and including regular mystery shops and exit surveys, to measure delivering what they want in a retail environment that is individual and store performance, and to ensure we reward constantly evolving, we will continue to attract new customers appropriate behaviours.
Each region within the Group defines and retain existing ones.
its own reward system as is appropriate to local customers expectations and colleague behaviours.
However, all these systems incentivise a combination of good customer service and contribution to a store or teams performance.
Dixons Retail plc 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support Directors Report Strategic Summary Our Resources continued Suppliers Store portfolio With our market leading positions, growing reputation and We operate a wide variety of stores to suit the local customer being increasingly seen as the go to location for all the latest demographics.
We operate small, very popular outlets in airport technology, our relationship with suppliers becomes ever more locations up to Megastores in out-of-town locations, up to important as well as ever stronger.
Product sourcing offices for 60,000 square feet.
each of the UK & Ireland division, Nordics and Greece continually monitor current and future product cycles with We constantly review our store portfolio to ensure we have the existing and potential suppliers.
right store for customers in the most competitive location and for the way shopping habits evolve.
As part of this ongoing review In a complex multi-channel environment, suppliers trust us in the UK, we are currently reducing our exposure to the High with their new product releases and stock allocations, as they Street, only maintaining a presence in the most profitable appreciate the superior service and advice offered by our stores locations.
We are also transitioning stores to a 2-in-1 format in and indeed our websites, as well as the exciting environments the UK & Ireland.
These stores allow us to offer the best of both offered by our transformed stores in which customers can worlds to customers, attracting new footfall and often at a lower experience their brands and products.
We work closely with suppliers of all sizes to help them deliver In the Nordic region and Greece we also operate a number the right product for customers, through the forecasting and of franchise stores.
This arrangement allows our brands to be planning stages to ensure we deliver the right levels of stock present in a wider range of catchments, while increasing the for customers at the right time.
The electrical and computing volume of purchases and therefore buying power of the Group.
industry is characterised by a number of large global manufacturers, who account for a large proportion of our sales.
However, we also source product from a large number of smaller suppliers.
We seek to maintain strong relationships with all of these suppliers, not just to source the right product for customers, but also to ensure the Group can purchase the appropriate level of stock on favourable terms.
While we leverage the Groups scale and buying power through an international buying team, we also maintain strong relationships at a local level.
We continue to refine our own-brand ranges to suit all budgets and tastes.
Our most notable successes have been the launch of our own Sandstrm cables brand alongside our Currys and PC World Essentials ranges as key entry level products in our good, better, best line-up.
These products are sourced by the Groups teams based in the UK and Hong Kong in collaboration with manufacturers in, for example, Asia.
Distribution and logistics The Group sees distribution as one of the keys to success in maintaining highly competitive margins and delivering outstanding, market-beating service to customers.
We operate a centralised system of distribution centres for each of the regions in which we operate.
This delivers significant competitive advantages, including reduced operating costs, reduced supplier delivery costs, reduced stock volumes in store, increased flexibility as to where to deliver and when, and a more efficient home delivery network for both us and our customers.
While continuing to reduce costs, we are also constantly raising the bar, both in terms of successful delivery and installation rates, but also the range and quality of services we offer customers nationwide.
In our Nordic operations Jnkping, Sweden and the UK Newark, we operate two of the largest distribution centres of their kind in Europe.
In the UK alone we now make some 2.5 million deliveries, including some 500,000 installations per year.
Dixons Retail plc 11 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support Directors Report Strategic Summary Our Resources continued Intellectual property Dixons Retail is one of the largest electrical and computing specialist groups in Europe, and leads the market in a number of its operations, in the UK & Ireland through Currys and PC World, in the Nordics through its various Elkjp brands and in Greece through Kotsovolos.
These brands are extremely wellestablished and respected in their markets.
The Group is also building a strong service business branded KNOWHOW in the UK and Nordics, aiming to delight customers while generating significant new business opportunities.
As well as our retail and service brands outlined above, we also sell a range of own brand products such as Sandstrm, Goji, Logik, Essentials and Advent.
Each of these brands have specific target markets defined in conjunction with our customer research findings.
Energy Saving energy is good for the business, good for customers and of course good for the environment.
We take energy efficiency extremely seriously and whilst we have already made progress in a number of areas, we are investing in a wider range of initiatives to significantly reduce our consumption going forward.
Over the past four years we have developed an ongoing programme to reduce energy consumption throughout our estate through, for example, low energy lighting and centralised monitoring of consumption.
Cash and capital It remains the Groups policy to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain the future development of the business.
Through careful working capital and balance sheet management, a focus on cost reduction as well as efficient use of capital management is focused on ensuring we deliver a sustainable business with strong cash generation.
As a Group we need to make the right choices as to how each division utilises or preserves cash, whether it be in determining ranges and stock held in store or managing returns and related processes.
This focus has enabled the Group to be cash generative in each of the last four financial years.
The strengthening cash position of the Group has meant that the revolving credit facility has remained undrawn through the financial year.
Dixons Retail plc 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support
