Directors Report Corporate Governance Board of Directors At 25 June 2014 Committee membership Audit Nominations Remuneration John Allan 3 3 Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen 3 3 3 Andrea Gisle Joosen 3 3 3 Tim How 3 3 3 Jock Lennox 3 3 3 Dharmash Mistry 3 3 3 Denotes the Chair of the Committee.
John Allan CBE, Chairman Humphrey Singer, Group Finance Director John Allan joined the Board on 23 June 2009 and was Humphrey Singer joined the Board on 1 July 2011.
Since joining appointed Chairman on 2 September 2009.
He is also chairman Dixons Retail in 2007 he has held a number of finance roles, of the Nominations Committee and a member of the namely Finance Director of Currys, Group Financial Controller Remuneration Committee.
John is chairman of WorldPay and and Finance Director of the UK & Ireland division.
Prior to the DHL UK Foundation, non-executive director of Royal Mail joining the Group, he was Finance Director of Coca-Cola Group and a senior advisor to Alix Partners.
He is a regent of Enterprises UK Ltd and prior to that also held a number of the University of Edinburgh.
He was previously Chief Executive finance roles at Coca-Cola Enterprises UK Ltd and Cadbury of Exel plc and, following its acquisition by Deutsche Post, Schweppes plc.
a member of its management board and subsequently Chief Financial Officer of Deutsche Post.
He has extensive board Katie Bickerstaffe, Chief Executive UK & Ireland experience having been chairman of Samsonite Corporation Katie Bickerstaffe joined the Board on 20 February 2012 after and Care UK Health & Social Care Holdings Limited, a director joining the Group in June 2008 as Director of Marketing, People of BET plc and a non-executive director of PHS Group plc, and Property.
In addition to her executive position she is also ISS A S, National Grid plc, Wolseley plc, Hamleys plc, 3i plc non-executive director of Scottish and Southern Energy plc.
and Connell plc and a non-executive member of the Home Previously, Katie was Managing Director of Kwik Save Ltd and Office Supervisory Board.
He has also served on the Group Retail Director and Group HR Director at Somerfield plc.
supervisory boards of both Lufthansa AG and Deutsche Her earlier career included roles at Dyson Ltd, PepsiCo Inc. Postbank.
His early career was with Lever Brothers, Bristoland Unilever plc.
Myers Company Ltd and Fine Fare Ltd. Sebastian James, Group Chief Executive Sebastian James joined the Board on 20 February 2012.
He joined the Group in April 2008 and held various roles before his appointment to the Board including Operations Director.
He is an advisor to the government on the building and maintenance of schools, a Trustee of Save the Children and was previously Chairman of INK Publishing Holdings Limited.
Prior to joining the Group he was Chief Executive of Synergy Insurance Services Limited, a private equity backed insurance company.
He has wide retail experience and was Strategy Director responsible for developing and implementing the turnaround strategy at Mothercare plc in 2003.
He started his career at The Boston Consulting Group having completed an MBA at INSEAD and an MA at Oxford University.
Dixons Retail plc 29 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support Directors Report Corporate Governance Board of Directors continued Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen, Independent Non-Executive Dharmash Mistry, Independent Non-Executive Director Director Dharmash Mistry joined the Board on 27 September 2010 and Utho Creusen joined the Board on 1 February 2010 and is is a member of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration a member of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
Dharmash is currently non-executive director of Committees.
Utho has extensive international retail experience Hargreaves Landsdown plc and a director of Lemon Cube Ltd and his external appointments include non-executive director and Blow Ltd.
He was formerly a Partner at Balderton Capital of M. Video the leading Russian electrical retailer and UK LLP and Board Director of Lovefilm, Achica, KupiVip, Unternehmensgruppe Theo Mller, chairman of the Jury My-Wardrobe, MOG and Ewise & Tictail.
Prior to joining of the European Retail Institute, vice-president of Modern Balderton Capital, Dharmash was part of the Executive team Market-Methods Association in Germany and consultant at Emap Plc, as Group Managing Director of Emap Consumer to the Al-Faisaliah Group JSC.
He is also honorary professor Media & Emap Performance.
His earlier career was at at both Westflische Wilhelms-Universitt Mnster and the The Boston Consulting Group and as Brand Manager at Catholic University, Eichsttt-Ingolstadt.
Utho is the owner Procter & Gamble.
of a management consultancy, Positive Leadership, and co-owner of Grid-International.
Previously, Utho was Human Resources Director of Media Saturn Holding GmbH and co-owner of the German electronics chain Alpha-tecc.
He spent 22 years with European DIY retailer OBI AG where he rose to become a member of its executive board and chairman of OBI Franchise GmbH.
Andrea Gisle Joosen, Independent Non-Executive Director Andrea Gisle Joosen joined the Board as a non-executive director on 1 March 2013 and is a member of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committee.
She is currently a non-executive director of ICA Gruppen AB and Neopitch AB.
Former roles include Chief Executive of Boxer TV Access AB in Sweden and Managing Director Nordic Region of Panasonic, Chantelle AB and Twentieth Century Fox.
Her early career involved several senior marketing roles with Procter & Gamble and Johnson & Johnson.
Tim How, Senior Independent Director Tim How joined the Board as non-executive director on 8 September 2009 and became Senior Independent Director on 9 May 2012.
He is chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of both the Audit and Nomination Committees.
Tim holds a variety of external board positions including chairman of Woburn Enterprises Limited, Senior Independent Director of Henderson Group plc and the Norfolk and Norwich University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, non-executive director of Roys Wroxham Limited and Wine and Spirit Education Trust.
Former roles include chairman of Rayner and Keeler Limited and Enotria Wine Group and non-executive director of Peabody Capital plc.
Tim served as Chief Executive of Majestic Wine plc, where he led the management buy-out of the business and subsequent Alternative Investment Market AIM flotation.
Prior to this, he was Managing Director of Bejam Group plc.
Jock Lennox, Independent Non-Executive Director Jock Lennox joined the Board on 10 January 2012.
He is chairman of the Audit Committee and is also a member of the Nominations and the Remuneration Committees.
Jock is a Chartered Accountant and has extensive accounting and finance experience having worked for over 30 years 20 years as a partner for EY formerly Ernst & Young where he led a number of relationships with international clients and held a number of leadership positions in the UK and globally.
Jock retired from EY in 2009 and subsequently has acted as a non-executive director of a number of companies and was formerly a council member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
He is currently a trustee of the Tall Ships Youth Trust and non-executive director of A&J Mucklow Group plc, Enquest plc, Hill and Smith Holdings plc and Oxford Instruments plc.
Dixons Retail plc 30 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support
