Directors Report Performance Review Divisional Summary UK & Ireland million repairs of laptops, tablets, PCs and flat panels.
Underlying operating profit growth of 24% to 141.0 million Added value services, such as Showhow, provide an exciting opportunity to help customers get the most out of their products Strong market share gains, especially in white goods as well as new revenue streams.
In the year these added value Total sales in the UK & Ireland division were up 3% to 4,148.6 services sales continued to grow strongly.
million 2012 13 4,014.5 million and like for like sales were up 5%.
Underlying operating profits increased 24% to 141.0 During the year our IT teams successfully transferred million 2012 13 113.3 million.
the IT infrastructure supporting www.
co. uk to the UK, supported by our shared The UK & Ireland division has delivered a strong performance services centre in Brno, Czech Republic.
This was a seminal across the year with significant growth in profitability delivering development for our multi-channel offering as it puts us firmly in a 3.4% return on sales.
With these results the division has firmly control of our IT platform.
We are now focused on delivering a established a sustainable business model in a multi-channel world class experience on-line experience for our customers.
In the early part of the year the business continued to take advantage of the exit of Comet, establishing itself as the Nordics leading service led multi-channel operator in electrical retailing.
Nordics delivered another year of record sales, growing This benefit anniversaried out during the third quarter, and since by 2% to 2.79 billion then we have consolidated our market share gains and continue Delivered a 4.2% return on sales, in line with the Groups to trade ahead of the market.
The establishment of Black objective Friday as a new promotional period in the lead up to Christmas this year moved trading patterns around in the important The Elkjp group in the Nordics continues to perform strongly.
However, these types of planned promotional Sales grew by 3% at constant exchange rates, while in sterling, periods are a particular strength of ours and enable us to underlying sales grew by 2% to 2,789.8 million 2012 13 perform ahead of the market, indeed, we experienced record 2,733.3 million.
Like for like sales were up 2%.
Underlying trading on Boxing day and a strong sale in the period after operating profits were 116.9 million 2012 13 125.4 million.
A shift in the Easter trading period year on year gave the business a challenging final quarter to anniversary, but with This has been another very satisfactory year for the Elkjp a strengthened market position and great offers for customers business across the Nordics.
It has consolidated its position as the out turn was better than we had anticipated.
market leader, delivered record sales and improved its already very strong customer services.
The electrical retailing landscape A continued focus on serving our customers with the best remains competitive, and Elkjp continues to trade robustly advice, expertise and help means that we have achieved even against the competition supported by its low cost structure and higher levels of advocacy.
96% of customers said they would be its efficient sales and logistics platform, enabling it to deliver a likely to recommend our stores following their shopping trip, 4.2% return on sales.
while 88% said they were very likely to recommend.
319 stores recorded a 100% very likely to recommend score at least once In the Spring of 2013 we introduced Happy or Not kiosks into during the year.
This is a fantastic achievement and is a the stores across the region, this enables the store to monitor testament to our teams up and down the country who strive customer satisfaction scores in real time and make dynamic each and every day to make customers feel welcome and help adjustments in response, such as adjusting shift patterns.
them as best they are able whenever a customer comes into Encouragingly we have seen a steady improvement in these our stores.
scores through the year with 85% of customers in April 2014 saying they were happy with their store visit.
We continue to innovate our stores to make them even better places to showcase the exciting range of products we sell.
During the year, we rebranded the Elkjp groups brands with During the year we opened new High Street formats in a new logo that underlines our commitment to our customers.
Bluewater and Canary Wharf and a new larger format 2-in-1 In Denmark, El Giganten was recognised as the second store in Aylesbury.
These stores trial a number of retailing strongest brand across all categories while in Norway, Elkjp innovations such as mobile and flexible fittings, new playtables, was ranked as one of the top 10 most recognised brands.
Showhow areas around the store, and tablets for colleagues to better help customers.
We opened a new kitchen department in We continue to embed the KNOWHOW services brand into the Thurrock which extends our traditional product range into other Nordics with KNOWHOW bars in all our megastores.
Initial products for the kitchen such as cookware, utensils and cooking customer response to the range of KNOWHOW services has accessories.
More recently we have opened Connected World been very encouraging.
departments in five megastores to showcase, amongst other things, home automation, such as heating, lights and security cameras, as well as some of the latest wearable technology.
It is early days for these trials, and we will develop them further as the range of products evolves further.
The Connected World is a particularly exciting opportunity most notably in connection with the proposed merger with Carphone Warehouse, but as it takes us into new product areas and potentially new services.
KNOWHOW, our market leading end to end services offering continues to perform strongly.
During the year we made 2.2 million two man deliveries achieving a 97.2% right first time, of which 230,000 involved gas and electric installations.
In our state of the art repair facility we processed more than half a Dixons Retail plc 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support Directors Report Performance Review Divisional Summary continued Greece Proposed merger with Carphone Warehouse Robust performance in difficult markets Our proposed merger with Carphone Warehouse will bring together two strong businesses to provide customers with Work ongoing to improve financial and strategic footings a great offer across electrical, mobile, connectivity and Total sales in Kotsovolos in Greece were down 3% at constant services for the connected world that is already upon us.
exchange rates and flat in sterling at 279.2 million 2012 13 Our two businesses are coming together from positions of 278.8 million, with like for like sales down 9%, largely as a strength which will enable us to focus on adding value in result of the weak economic environment being experienced three clear ways.
in Greece coupled with a mild summer and the digital switchover benefit in the prior year.
Underlying operating Firstly, in bringing two sizeable companies together we can loss was 10.5 million 2012 13 loss of 11.0 million.
leverage significant synergies from the combination.
We believe that we can deliver at least 80 million of synergies on Kotsovolos has proved to be incredibly robust in the face of a a recurring basis, with delivery expected in the 2017 18 financial very challenging economic environment in Greece over the last year.
These are a combination of costs, revenue opportunities few years.
With a strong brand recognition amongst customers, from putting a Carphone Warehouse mobile offering in all of our a service led approach, learnings from its sister companies in stores as well as some benefits from having increased scale in the Group around accessories and services as well as a focus administrative purchasing, such as marketing.
We confirm that on managing costs stringently, the business has fared better the synergy statements that were set out in our joint merger than its peers.
During the year Kotsovolos has been able to announcement with Carphone Warehouse on 15 May 2014 increase both its conversion rate as well as the number of remain valid.
Deloitte LLP and Deutsche Bank AG, London transactions, despite continued weak markets through much of Branch reported on these synergy statements in that joint the year.
In addition a number of weaker operators have exited announcement and we expect them to confirm to Carphone the market, or are showing some signs of economic distress.
In Warehouse on publication of the shareholder documentation the last quarter of the year we saw some evidence that the relating to the merger that their reports continue to apply.
economic environment is showing signs of stability.
As the outlook has started to improve, management has initiated a In addition, by being a unique place for customers to experience number of actions to improve its offer for customers, particularly new products that will make up the connected world as well as around services and multi-channel, by introducing new get advice from our highly trained colleagues we can truly be customer relationship tools that make the shopping trip even the go to expert for this new, exciting and complex world for more integrated between the stores, sales colleagues and customers.
Not only can we help them in navigating their way to on-line.
It is early days for this technology and process, but a truly connected home, we can bring existing and new services initial indications are positive and the tools that have been to them to keep their world functioning and connected.
This will developed have the potential to be rolled out across the Group not only open up new products and services for us, but can take and are highly complementary to Carphones honeyBee our relationship with our customers from a transactional one, to platform.
Alongside this Kotsovolos is improving the way it a longer term relationship.
communicates with customers through, for example, its marketing.
Management are also investigating and trialing a Further, both we and Carphone Warehouse have started to number of initiatives to deliver a wider range of services under explore how we can leverage the platforms we have created its Support360 brand, as well as opportunities to extend its that support our core retailing and services expertise to further franchise network across Greece.
We are confident, benefit our shareholders.
Carphone Warehouse have made therefore, that the outlook for Kotsovolos is improving and great strides in this field with their Connected World Services the management team are focused on returning the business business that provides a selection of services to support to profitability.
retailers wishing to add connectivity to their offering.
We already provide two man delivery logistics for certain manufacturers in the UK and are in discussions to leverage our Hong Kong white label product sourcing operations for other retailers around the world.
Together we can offer a full range of services to businesses customers with the potential to build a significant operation across the globe, adding real value for our shareholders.
Dixons Retail plc 21 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support
