Directors Report Strategic Summary Strategy and Business Model Strategy Over the last two years the Group has made very significant i.
Work closely with suppliers to harness benefits available progress on delivering against our key priorities, and we have to our business model: Suppliers want to ensure that seen the benefits of this in our financial performance.
By customers not only choose their brands, but also experience changing the pricing model, driving service and the selling the benefits of the latest products they have developed of complete solutions, by embracing and driving a true multito meet customers needs.
As a multi-channel operator channel proposition and by leveraging our ability to tell we work with our suppliers to ensure we can explain suppliers stories better, we have built what we believe to the benefits of these products and demonstrate them to be a business model that will flourish in an internet world.
customers in our stores and our suppliers support us in In addition, we have been relentless in managing our portfolio this work in a variety of tangible ways.
so that we are now the market leader, and growing market share in all of our key markets.
Focus on complete solutions for customers: Customers buy products in order to achieve something, such as washing This enables us to drive the Group forward from a position clothes, or entertaining the children.
This does not just mean of strength with a focus on the three strategic priorities as set buying the hardware, but increasingly includes delivery, out below.
By focusing on these we can deliver not only a better explanation and peace of mind through product support and business for our customers and colleagues, but also better after sales services, as well as accessories and eventually, returns for shareholders.
In delivering each of these priorities recycling.
The conversations our colleagues have in store the proposed merger with Carphone Warehouse will add with customers gives us an opportunity to explain the additional strength as well as a new category of products and benefits of these solutions and sell more of them than services across which these benefits can be brought to bear.
The three strategic priorities are: iii.
Drive our service proposition: We need to be able to stand shoulder to shoulder with our customers and for them to 1.
Continue to enhance and drive a successful and sustainable know they can come to our stores and get knowledgeable business model in a multi-channel world.
advice and great service to help them buy the right product.
They need to be confident that we will solve their problem 2.
Leverage our national and pan-European scale, our for them quickly and efficiently.
KNOWHOW in the UK offers knowhow, and our unique asset base to drive growth in customers one cohesive services brand that can help them new product areas including growth in services both to with their product throughout its life from purchase, help and our retail and business customers.
support, repair and through to disposal.
When we get this right we know that customers are prepared to pay us for 3.
Become a major player in connectivity and associated this service.
services and so be uniquely positioned to benefit from major technology changes as the majority of devices iv.
Reduce costs: The scale of our operations across stores, become connected.
ranges, logistics, distribution, repairs and services means that we can continually improve processes to reduce costs.
Looking at each of these in turn: We have removed a considerable amount of cost from the business over the last few years by making the business 1.
Continue to enhance and drive a successful and simpler, easier to operate and more efficient and we remain sustainable business model in a multi-channel world relentlessly focused on managing costs to make our business more efficient.
The way in which a customer shops continues to evolve.
Our customers tell us that they want advice, to experience products The proposed merger allows us to further expand and and to ensure they are making the right choices, particularly as strengthen our proposition to customers, our service capability these are often major purchases that they will own for several and our relationship with suppliers to underpin and drive even years.
The internet empowers customers with lots of information greater advantage in the markets in which we operate.
including product knowledge and price transparency.
Single channel internet operators have a different model whose 2.
Leverage pan-European scale and knowhow, including principal advantage is structurally lower costs and which have growth in services historically been able therefore to offer competitive prices versus store based operators.
By focusing on those aspects that we, The Group has many best practices in each of its business as a multi-channel specialist, can offer customers and suppliers divisions.
Some work has taken place to align these and share we can eliminate the cost advantage that pure play internet them across the Group, such as the new store formats, supplier operators have historically enjoyed.
As a result we are able relationships and, to a limited degree, own brands.
However, to offer customers very competitive prices against all our there remain many opportunities to share knowledge, expertise competitor set and still be more profitable.
and best practice across the Group.
For example Our Experts Love model that aligns recommendations for customers with There are four distinct activities that we believe are the key suppliers new technology operates in some form in each of strengths of our multi-channel, service-based model and which our key markets.
will support our competitive advantage going forward: Dixons Retail plc 7 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support Directors Report Business Overview Strategy and Business Model continued Growing complexity and interconnectivity of products means It is for this reason we have announced the proposed merger that customers are increasingly demanding help and support, with Carphone Warehouse.
We believe that combined with their not just in choosing the right product, but also installation, leading position in independent mobile retailing and connectivity connection, support and repair.
Our KNOWHOW services are we will be best placed to help customers navigate this at the forefront of this in the UK and we have started to roll out increasingly complex matrix of device, connectivity and content our KNOWHOW services across the Nordics.
In Greece we in all the markets in which the Group operates.
By combining are rolling out services under the Support360 brand.
We can these two already strong businesses, with industry-leading and will do more to make sure that innovation in local markets management teams, we can provide the opportunity to create is rewarded and rolled back to other territories.
a new retailer for the new digital age.
We must continue to innovate new services to help customers Having set a clear view of the future and understood the actions and to remain relevant to the way products and connectivity is that are required to deliver against this.
We aim to ensure that evolving.
Behind our end to end service operation we have a the recognition and reward systems can accurately help to comprehensive infrastructure, including technical phone support these ambitions.
As a result the Board measures support, delivery, installation, repair and recycling.
We can a variety of metrics including profits, cash and return on capital leverage this infrastructure to widen our customer base either employed ROCE.
to customers who bought their products through a third party for example, our fault&fix computer service, or for business Our UK & Ireland and Nordics divisions together delivered a customers for example deliveries for Beko and Bosch 3.7% EBIT return after associated central costs in the 2013 14 Siemens for products bought directly.
By doing this we can financial year, in-line with our strategic objective of a 3 4% lower the cost density of utilising this infrastructure and deliver EBIT return.
In Greece the economic backdrop remains even better value services for our customers.
As we move challenging, but with a focus on costs and customer service forward with our proposed merger, this thinking has been management have been able to limit the impact of the downturn further evolved and fits very neatly with Carphone Warehouses on bottom line performance.
As the Greek economy shows ambitions to grow its Connected World Services business.
early signs of a stability returning to the markets, Kotsovolos is well placed to see improvements in its returns in the 3.
Drive a leadership position in mobile and connectivity medium term.
in each of the markets in which the Group operates Cash is an important part of this and the Group has been cash In the markets outside the UK & Ireland, we have successful generative in each of the last four financial years.
Indeed we mobile retailing operations within our specialist electrical stores.
ended the 2013 14 financial year with an improved net cash However, in the UK & Ireland we do not have our own mobile position for a second year of 70.9 million.
As a Group we need and connectivity offering.
We currently operate a joint venture to make the right choices as to how each of our divisions utilise shop in shop offer in 160 stores with Phones4U under a or preserve cash, whether it be determining ranges and stock contract that runs until May 2015. held in store, managing returns and related processes or improving working capital and stock turn.
The consumer electronics and mobile phone retail landscapes have evolved significantly over the last few years.
In particular, We must make sure we use capital efficiently and ensure we the growth of smartphones, tablets and speed of internet access are making it work to the best advantage of shareholders which both in and out of the home, together with an increasing number is why ROCE is an important KPI.
ROCE for the financial year of connected devices, are altering the way people live their 2013 14 was 16.3%, an improvement from the prior financial lives, communicate and use technology.
This has made year figure of 14.9%.
available to Dixons a number of markets, like health, security, content, home management and others in which we are not able to operate today but which are developing and will continue to develop into large connected markets in the next few years.
Linked to this market development will be a need for a raft of new services that will ensure that these technologies work and are maintained and monitored so that they can achieve what they are supposed to achieve: They can make peoples lives better.
Dixons Retail plc 8 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support Directors Report Strategic Summary Strategy and Business Model continued Business model Products Our business model, driven by customer insight, comprises Combining our customer insight with our market strength three pillars of an integrated multi-channel offering including across Europe we can make sure we have the right range of a wide range of products together with after sales service products in our stores to suit customers needs.
Our scale and and support, underpinned by a low cost operating model.
relationships with suppliers means that we can work with them to showcase the latest technology and products in our stores Customer insight with areas dedicated to key suppliers products.
In order to ensure we understand what products and services our customers want, how they use the products they buy from Own brand products enable us to offer customers greater us and what they think of the service they get from us, we use choice and access to a range of products at competitive prices.
This includes discussions at We have defined a clear good, better, best brand range of: customer panels, interviews, home visits and detailed surveys.
Currys and PC World Essentials: Logik: iWantit: Advent: Goji: We use this information to build our ranges, improve our stores and Sandstrm brands.
We see particular opportunities in the and services and other business decisions.
This is supported by area of accessories and essentials with, for example, our own mystery shops in our own and competitor stores, exit surveys range of Sandstrm cables.
During the year our UK and Nordics businesses made considerable progress in customer After sales services and support satisfaction metrics as we continue to improve the business.
Our customers need help with their products, whether it be delivery and installation, help keeping their products up and Taking each of the three pillars in turn, our model can be running or repair should things go wrong.
Our business in the described as follows: UK & Ireland sets the benchmark for our services infrastructure under our KNOWHOW brand, which we are now rolling out Multi-channel across the Nordics.
The shopping trip for customers is constantly evolving.
Our objective is to provide our customers with a seamless We operate the largest network of two man deliveries in the experience where convenience, ease of navigation and UK with an average of 50,000 deliveries per week enabling us simplicity are key in attracting customers to shop with us to provide customers with the convenience of next day delivery whether it is on-line, in-store or a combination of both.
We in a three hour time slot or the value of a free delivery later.
constantly aim to develop and improve our stores making them easier to shop with, for example, improved navigation, better Our KNOWHOW teams in stores, in our call centre and field signage, play tables to allow customers to interact with products technicians can provide set up and upgrade services as well as before they buy, as well as good advice on features and on-line fix and back up services.
Our market leading range of benefits from our colleagues and our websites are an integral help and support services ensure a customer has the backing part of the customer shopping trip.
of expertise and support that keeps their technology up and running.
In the event that a customer has a problem with their In recognition of how customer trends are evolving we have product, we can fix it.
For example, our state of the art repair made it easier for our colleagues to access products and facility in Newark is able to repair and return a laptop in seven extended ranges in store.
For example, our store colleagues days.
Our network of field technicians offer white goods repair are rewarded for all sales in their catchment, whether it be onin a market we estimate to be worth around 500 million.
We have also introduced pay&collect, alongside provide customers with a choice of support agreements such our existing collect@store service, where customers can buy as Premier services which provide customers with a loan TV, products not immediately available in their local store for for example, if theirs needs to be taken away for repair.
Through ownership of the service infrastructure we can ensure Our training programmes combined with our Product Learning the quality of service delivered to customers.
This, we believe, Centres and Customer Journeys provide our colleagues with provides us with a significant competitive advantage in meeting the right tools to really understand customers needs and to the needs of our customers, as well as a revenue stream provide them with the complete solution to properly meet not readily available to single channel on-line and mass those needs.
We will continue to improve the training of our market competitors.
colleagues and the ways in which we can really make them experts in the products we sell.
Dixons Retail plc 9 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support
