STRATEGIC PRIORITIES CUSTOMER FIRST WESTERN REGION USA In recognition of emerging anti-counterfeiting legislation in the North American pharmaceutical industry, we have significantly invested in our Life Sciences sector programme, as a key part of our global commitment to theindustry.
Government mandated initiatives in North America, such as DQSA and UDI, address counterfeiting of pharmaceuticals and medical devices.
This means it is important to be able to print compliant serialised codes on products and packaging.
As a consequence, we have introduced our Life Sciences sector programme in North America, incorporating: Comprehensive market insight, to enable a clear sector-driven strategy Effective organisational infrastructure Best-in-class product and customer service solutions.
12 | Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS STRATEGIC PRIORITIES CUSTOMER FIRST EASTERN REGION INDIA India remains a strong market for Domino.
This year we have again enjoyed double-digit growth, ahead of GDP, supported by a strengthened market orientation across all our operations in the region.
Critical to our success in 2014 has been developing an organisation-wide focus on increasing value to our customers, as a means of creating competitive advantage.
Key deliverables this year have included: Improving overall response times for our customers, by restructuring the Indian team and improving alignment with Dominos global operations Improving customer intimacy and efficiency, from simplifying business processes and automation Reducing time to market, by localising manufacturing for key coding and marking technologies, including thermal ink jetprinting.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report 2014 | 13 STRATEGIC PRIORITIES PRODUCT PORTFOLIO Agility and innovation are increasingly critical to successful product development.
This is particularly true for Dominos marking materials, where we have been formulating ink solutions that improve our customers efficiency while reducing waste.
In 2014, we developed a number of key ink technology platforms using advanced materials, enabling us to respond more rapidly to changing market requirements while delivering high performance.
This has resulted in several successful product introductions, offering improved overall equipment effectiveness OEE through wider manufacturing process tolerances.
These have included: New pigmented ink products for the industrial coding market Higher performing inks for the flexible packaging sector in Asia.
Equally, our target for best-in-class environmental performance from our products has delivered leadership in materials selection and use for coding applications.
We have achieved this through a combination of programmes, including: Growing our innovation ecosystem, inside and outside our business Driving cutting-edge collaborations with academia Working with the Royal Society of Chemistry to deliver professional Chartered Chemist training.
Our platform approach to technology development, combined with environmental sustainability, has delivered commercial results this year and underpins our longerterm innovation strategy.
14 | Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS STRATEGIC PRIORITIES BUSINESS EXCELLENCE ANDSUSTAINABILITY Domino has a long tradition of driving excellence across its operational sites.
Thisyear, we have started the process of delivering best-in-class practices across ourglobal network.
In 2014, we devoted significant time to mapping our customers journey with Domino.
The first initiatives, which aim to redesign our processes to deliver an outstanding customer experience, have already started to produce real benefits.
Our first milestone project in this programme improved the speed and accuracy of quotes generated by our field sales team in Europe and the USA.
By developing and implementing a cloud-based quotation tool, we have been able to: Reduce the time to quote from hours tojust a few minutes Free up significant capacity within our sales team Deliver more accurate and informativequotes.
In addition, we have continued our focus on sustainability, by driving efficiency, eliminating waste and improving financial returns through careful resource management.
Having established some early success with our programme, we expect to build momentum in our drive for more efficient business processes.
During 2015, we will increase our focus on customer experience management, process automation and network integration.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report 2014 | 15 STRATEGIC PRIORITIES CULTURE, PEOPLE & VALUES This year, we strengthened our shared focus by updating and further embedding our corporate guide, The Domino Effect, across our organisation.
The principles of The Domino Effect have been a major factor in developing our Group into a FTSE 250 company, while retaining the special culture of a much smaller, more intimate business.
We have kept the programmes fundamental elements but sought to more clearly articulate our objectives and the means by which we will achieve them, in part to recognise our increasingly global footprint.
We have done this throughout the year with activities across the global business, designed to engage with all levels of the organisation.
This involved: Communication workshops and multimedia support tools, to communicate, engage and retain the key messages Putting empowerment and continuous learning at the centre of the programme for our employees, reinforced with strong leadership and clear management.
This has energised and aligned our efforts across our international operations, to focus on the factors essential to our success.
16 | Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS STRATEGIC PRIORITIES STRATEGIC INVESTMENT Domino continues to invest in initiatives where our expertise in industrial and packaging markets, combined withour development capability, allow us to take leadership positions.
In digital printing, we are addressing the need for faster and shorter run production of high-resolution print in mono and colour applications.
In 2014, we continued to develop our leading digital ink jet label press, the N610i.
Central to this was the introduction of our sevencolour capability, adding orange and violet to the existing CMYK and white inks we launched at LabelExpo 2013.
These new inks increase the range of colours available to label convertors and end users, offering the inherent benefits of digital ink jet to a wider range of customers.
During the year, the N610i has continued to prove its performance and value to customers, as shown by: Repeat sales to a number of major European label convertors Growth in our North American business, including a number of important US-based label convertors.
Outside colour, our range of mono products, including the K600i, has continued to be the choice of many customers requiring high-speed, variable data over-printing in mailing, addressing, security and .
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report 2014 | 17
