STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 OCTOBER 2014 The Directors present their annual report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 October 2014.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The Group remains firmly committed to research and development to maintain its position as a market leader in high-speed industrial coding, marking and printing systems and variable laser marking.
During the year, the Group spent 18.2 million 2013: 19.5 million on research and development.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS The results of the Group are set out on page 82.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 14.76 pence per share for the year ended 31 October 2014.
This, together with the interim dividend of 7.98 pence per share paid on 15 August 2014, amounts to 22.74 pence per share 2013: 21.66 pence.
Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, the final dividend will be paid on 10 April 2015 to shareholders appearing on the register at the close of business on 6 March 2015.
DIRECTORS The Directors who were in office at the end of the year and their interests in the shares of the Company are shown in note 7 to the financial statements.
All the Directors listed in note 7 held office throughout the financial year except for Garry Havens who retired on 31December 2013 and Phil Ruffles who retired on 19 March 2014.
Sucheta Govil was appointed as an independent non-executive Director on 25 November 2014.
Rachel Hurst was appointed to the Board on the same date as an executive Director.
As each of these Directors was appointed since the last AGM both will stand down at the AGM on 18 March 2015 and offer themselves for election by shareholders.
The other Directors then in office will also retire at the AGM on 18 March 2015 and offer themselves for re-election by shareholders.
All the executive Directors have service contracts with the Company that are terminable on 12 months notice.
The Chairman and non-executive Directors do not have service contracts with the Company.
The appointments of the Chairman and non-executive Directors are terminable on six months notice.
No Director was interested during or at the end of the year in any contract that was significant in relation to the Groups business.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS As at 31 October 2014, the Company had been notified, in accordance with chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following significant holdings of voting rights in its shares: Percentage of voting rights Number and issued of ordinary Nature of Name of holder share capital shares holding Schroders Plc 9.64 10,842,799 indirect Blackrock Inc 8.03 9,033,928 indirect Heronbridge Investment Management LLP 5.13 5,768,123 indirect Ameriprise Financial Inc 5.04 5,666,857 direct & indirect Aberdeen Asset Managers Ltd 5.03 5,651,434 indirect Mondrian Investment Partners Ltd 5.02 5,640,561 direct Montanaro Asset Management 4.05 4,552,324 direct Legal & General Group plc 3.84 4,322,528 indirect Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report 2014 | 75 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CONTINUED INDEPENDENT LEGAL ADVICE During the period commencing on 1 November 2014 and ending There is a procedure in place for Directors to take independent 15 December 2014 the Company had been notified, in accordance professional advice at the Companys expense if this is necessary in with chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the connection with their duties.
following significant holdings of voting rights in its shares.
DIRECTORS INSURANCE AND INDEMNITY ARRANGEMENTS Percentage of voting rights Number of The Company has purchased and maintained throughout the year and issued ordinary Nature of Directors and officers liability insurance.
The Directors also have Name of holder share capital shares Holding the benefit of the indemnity provision contained in the Companys APG Asset Management N. V. 5.01% 5,639,000 direct Articles of Association.
The Company has made qualifying third Aberdeen Asset Managers Ltd 4.88% 5,485,164 indirect party indemnity provisions for the benefit of its Directors.
SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS AND OTHER ARRANGEMENTS AUTHORITY OF THE DIRECTORS TO ISSUE SHARES The Company has various contractual arrangements for the supply At the last Annual General Meeting on 19 March 2014, the of materials, components and equipment.
It also has contractual Directors were given authority to allot up to 842,202 in nominal arrangements in place for the distribution of its products by third value of relevant securities.
This figure represented approximately party distributors.
15 per cent of the Companys total issued ordinary share capital at that time.
The Company has a borrowing facility agreement which includes change of control provisions.
On a change in control of the Also at the last Annual General Meeting the Directors were given Company this facility could be withdrawn or renegotiated.
authority to allot shares in the Company for cash without regard to the pre-emption provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
This There are a number of other agreements that may be terminated authority expires on the date of the Annual General Meeting to be on a change in control.
None is considered to be significant in held on 18 March 2015 and the Directors will seek to renew this terms of the potential impact on the Group.
authority for the following year under the Companies Act 2006.
CAPITAL STRUCTURE PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES Details of share capital are shown in note 25.
The Company has At the last Annual General Meeting, shareholders authorised one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
theCompany to make market purchases on the London Stock Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of Exchange of up to 16,282,582 ordinary shares, representing theCompany.
approximately 14.5 per cent of its issued share capital at that time.
This authority will expire at the end of the next Annual General There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on Meeting of the Company unless renewed at that meeting.
the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general AMENDMENT TO ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION provisions of the Articles and prevailing legislation.
The Directors The Articles of Association the Articles may be amended by are not aware of any agreements between holders of the special resolution of the shareholders.
Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer ofsecurities or on voting rights.
APPOINTMENT OF DIRECTORS The Articles give the Directors the power to appoint additional No person has any special rights of control over the Companys orreplacement Directors.
The Articles also require Directors share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
toretire and submit themselves for election at the first Annual General Meeting following appointment and for one third of the SHARE SCHEMES WAIVER OF DIVIDENDS Directors to retire by rotation at each Annual General Meeting.
The trustees of the Companys employee benefit trust and the The Board has decided that each Director will retire at each qualifying employee share trust the Trusts have agreed to waive Annual General Meeting.
dividends payable on the Companys shares held by the Trusts, except for the shares relating to the Share Incentive Plan.
As at The non-executive Directors were appointed for specific terms 15December 2014 the Trusts held 35,867 shares on which subject to re-election and to the Companies Act provisions dividends payable had been waived.
This represents 0.04% per relating to the removal of a Director.
The terms of appointment cent of the issued share capital at the year end.
ofthe non-executive Directors are available on the Company's SHARE SCHEMES VOTING RIGHTS REGARDING CONTROL OF website or can be obtained from the Company Secretary.
THE COMPANY The trustees of the qualifying employee share trust have the POWER OF DIRECTORS discretion to sell the shares held in the trust or to consent to the The Directors may exercise all powers of the Company subject to acquisition of control of the Company by another party.
The relevant statutes, any directions given by shareholder resolution trustees of the Share Incentive Plan have the discretion to seek and the Articles.
The Articles, for example, contain specific direction from participants as to how to exercise the voting rights provisions relating to the Companys power to borrow money.
attaching to the shares held in the trust.
If no direction is given the The Articles also contain powers relating to the issue of shares trustees are prohibited from exercising the voting rights.
andthe purchase of the Companys own shares.
76 | Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS AUDITORS For shares held in trust under the Long-Term Incentive Plan, the A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP as the Companys auditor trustee has discretion as to the exercise of voting rights in respect will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND ETHICAL ISSUES The following applies to each of those persons who were The Board takes account of the significance of environmental, Directors at the time this report was approved: social and ethical matters to the business of the Group and a separate Corporate Responsibility Report is set out on pages 34 so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit to 37.
This report contains disclosures of the Groups greenhouse information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and gas emissions.
Nigel Bond is the Director responsible for they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a environmental, social and ethical issues.
Director in order to make themself aware of any relevant audit POLITICAL DONATIONS information and to establish that the Companys auditors are No political donations were made 2013: nil.
PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance Applications for employment made by disabled persons are given with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. full and fair consideration, having regard to the abilities and aptitudes of the candidates.
If existing employees become disabled, Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on behalf of every effort is made to accommodate them within their existing theBoard.
jobs or, if this proves to be impossible, to find them suitable alternative employment.
Opportunities for development and promotion are open to all employees.
EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT Employee communication is organised both centrally and locally.
Richard Pryn Centrally organised communication deals with the affairs of the Company Secretary Group as a whole and the media used for this purpose include the 15 December 2014 annual report and accounts, information circulars and meetings.
Directors and other senior managers provide regular briefings by Registered Office: Bar Hill, Cambridge, CB23 8TU webinar to managers throughout the Group.
Operating units RegisteredNumber: 1363137 organise local presentations by Directors or managers and hold briefings to pass on information to employees and to ascertain their views.
Regular employment engagement surveys are also used to obtain feedback from employees.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Reports on corporate governance are set out on pages 38 to 74.
GOING CONCERN The Groups business activities together with the factors likely toaffect its future development, performance and position are described within the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 37.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position andborrowing facilities are also described on pages 32 to 33.
The Group has considerable financial resources together with a broad spread of customers across different geographic areas and industries.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
The Directors have also considered the Groups forecasts and projections, as well as the principal risks and uncertainties to which the Group is exposed see pages 26 to 29.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report and accounts.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report 2014 | 77
