CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors report The Directors have pleasure in presenting their statutory financial Share capital statements for the Group for the 52weeks ended 28 December 2014.
As at 28 December 2014, the Companys authorised share capital was The sections that are required to be included in this Annual Report 4,000,000 divided into a single class of 256,000,000 Ordinary shares andAccounts in accordance with section 414C 11 of the of 1.5625p each and there were 165,909,827 Ordinary shares in issue.
CompaniesAct 2006 are set out below.
The Ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange and can be held in certificated or uncertificated form.
Holders of Ordinary shares The Company has chosen in accordance with section 414C 11 of the are entitled to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, Companies Act 2006 to include the disclosure of likely future toappoint one or more proxies and, if they are corporations, corporate developments in the strategic report.
representatives are entitled to attend general meetings and to exercise o Strategy on pages 15 to 17 voting rights.
Allissued Ordinary shares are fully paid up.
o Chairmans statement on pages 4 and 5 On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company, every holder of Ordinary shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote o Chief Executive Officers review on pages 6 to 9 shall have one vote unless the proxy is appointed by more than one o Financial review on pages 25 to 27 shareholder and has been instructed by one or more shareholders to vote for the resolution and by one or more shareholders to vote against o Corporate governance report on pages 36 to 43 the resolution, in which case the proxyhas one vote for and one vote o Risk management on pages 20 to 24 against.
This is to reflect the Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 which have amended the Companies Act 2006.
On a poll, every o Corporate social responsibility report on pages 28 to 33 member present inperson or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have Together, this information is intended to provide a fair, balanced and one vote for every Ordinary share held.
None of the Ordinary shares comprehensive analysis of the development and performance of the carry any special voting rights with regard to control of the Company.
Groups business, its strategy going forward, its performance during The AGM specifies deadlines for exercising votingrights and appointing theyear, likely developments and any principal risks and uncertainties a proxy or proxies to vote in relation toresolutions to be passed at the associated with the Groups business.
The relevant proxy votes arecounted and the number for, against or withheld in relation toeachresolution are announced at the AGM and Details of the Groups policy on addressing financial risks is given inrisk published ontheCompanys website after the meeting.
management and details about financial instruments areshown in note 28 to the Group financial statements on page 103.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of Ordinary shares in the Company other than certain restrictions that may be imposed fromtime Pages 62 to 64 inclusive together with sections of the Annual Report to time by laws and regulations and pursuant to the Listing Rules of the and Accounts incorporated by reference consist of the Directors report Financial Services Authority whereby certain Directors, officers and that has been drawn up and presented in accordance with and in employees of the Group require the approval of the Group to deal in reliance upon applicable English company law and the liabilities Ordinary shares of the Group.
The Group is not aware of any agreements oftheDirectors inconnection with that report shall be subject tothe between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the limitations andrestrictions provided by such law.
Results and dividends Shares held by employee share trusts Group results The Group has had an employee benefit trust EBT for a number The Group profit for the period after taxation was 42,738,000 ofyears, the trustee of which is Ogier Employee Benefit Trust Limited.
This is after a taxation charge of 11,059,000 As at 28 December 2014, the EBT held 56,252 shares, which are used 2013:9,467,000 representing an effective tax rate of 20.6% to satisfy reversionary awards.
The voting rights in relation to these 2013:43.8%.
The financial statements setting out the results shares are exercisable by the trustee: however, in accordance with oftheGroup for the period ended 28 December 2014 are shown investor protection guidelines, the trustee abstains from voting.
Purchase of own shares Dividends At the AGM in 2014, a special resolution was passed to authorise theCompany to make purchases on the London Stock Exchange of The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 9.69p per upto 10% of its Ordinary shares.
During 2014 up to and including Ordinary share, to be paid on 27 April 2015 to members on the Register at 28December 2014 the Company purchased 380,000 Ordinary shares the close of business on 6 March 2015 ex-dividend date 5 March 2015, with a nominal value of 1.5625p under this authority at a total cost subject to shareholder approval.
Together with the interim dividend of of2,220,395 with those Ordinary shares currently held in treasury.
7.81p per Ordinary share paid on 5 September 2014, the total dividend Thisrepresents 0.2% of the Companys called up share capital as in respect of the period will be 17.50p compared with 15.90p for the at28December 2014.
The Company engages in share buybacks previous year, an increase of 10.1%.
Dividends are recognised in tocreatevalue for shareholders when cash flows permit and there theaccounts inthe year in which they are paid or, in the case of isnoimmediate alternative investment use for the funds.
thefinal dividend, when approved by shareholders.
Therefore, the amount recognised in the 2014 accounts, as described in note 13 Taking into account all of the buybacks since 2004, 16.6% of the onpage 89, comprises the2013 final dividend and the 2014 Companys issued Ordinary share capital has been purchased.
Shareholders will be requested to renew this authority at the forthcoming AGM of shareholders, to be held on 21 April 2015.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 62 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS required to be disclosed as and when they arise.
There is an annual Share capital continued review of conflicts disclosed and authorisations given.
The register of Substantial shareholdings Directors conflicts ismaintained by the Company Secretary.
As at 6 February 2015, the Company has been notified of the following Directors indemnities interests in 3% or more of the issued share capital of the Company: The Directors have the benefit of an indemnity provision contained in % of share capital the Articles of Association.
The provision, which is a qualifying third-party Oppenheimer Funds 10.77 indemnity provision as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act MFS Investment Management 8.85 2006, was inforce during the year ended 28 December 2014 and remains in force and relates to certain losses and liabilities which the Newton Investment Management 4.43 Directors may incur to third parties in the course of acting as Directors Vontobel Asset Management US 4.16 or employees oftheCompany.
JPMorgan Asset Management 3.79 The Group maintained a directors and officers liability insurance policy Liontrust Asset Management 3.35 throughout the financial year, although no cover exists in the event Wasatch Advisors 3.20 Directors or officers are found to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
No indemnity is provided for the Groups auditor.
BlackRock 3.12 Montanaro Investment Managers 3.04 Employees Using the total voting rights figure applicable at 31 January 2015 of 165,539,379.
UK and ROI Except for the above, the Group is not aware of any shareholders with In the UK and ROI, the Group employed an average of 504 people up interests of 3% or more in the issued share capital of the Company.
TheCompany has not been notified of any other changes to the notifiable voting rights in its shares up to 6 February 2015.
Head Office United Kingdom 228 Milton Keynes Supply Chain Centre 181 Directors and their interests Penrith Supply Chain Centre 65 The Directors in service at 28 December 2014 were Stephen Hemsley, David Wild, Sean Wilkins, Colin Halpern, Michael Shallow, Helen Keays, Naas Supply Chain Centre 30 Ebbe Jacobsen and Kevin Higgins.
Germany As set out in the Annual Report and Accounts 2013, Lance Batchelor resigned as Chief Executive Officer on 16 March 2014 and Lee Ginsberg In Germany, the Group employed an average of 196 people up to and retired as Chief Financial Officer on 2 April 2014.
After 15 years, Nigel Wray including 28December 2014 2013: 382. stepped down as non-executive Director on 29 July 2014 and John Hodson stepped down on 29 July 2014 having completed nine years as an German Head Office 27 independent non-executive Director.
On 20 September 2014, Syl Saller German Supply Chain Centre 8 resigned as independent non-executive Director and on 20 January German corporate stores 161 2015, Sean Wilkins announced his resignation from the Company.
On 31 January 2014 Ebbe Jacobsen was appointed as a non-executive Switzerland Director of the Company and on 8 September 2014 Kevin Higgins was In Switzerland, the Group employed an average of 242 people up to appointed as a non-executive Director.
The biographical details of the and including 28December 2014 2013: 212. present Directors are set out on pages 34 and 35 of this Annual Report.
The appointment and replacement of Directors is governed by the Swiss Head Office 11 Articles of Association of the Company, theUK Corporate Governance Swiss corporate stores 231 Code, the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation.
Subject to the Articles of Association, the Companies Act 2006 andany directions given For further details please refer to note 8 on page 64. by special resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the Employment policies Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company.
The Group is committed to the principle of equal opportunity The interests of Directors and their immediate families in theshares of inemployment.
The Group recruits and selects applicants for the Company, along with details of the long-term incentives awarded to employment based solely on a persons qualifications and suitability Executive Directors, are contained in theDirectors remuneration report forthe position, whilst bearing in mind equality and diversity.
It is the set out on pages 44 to 61.
Groups policy to recruit the most capable person available for each No Directors have a beneficial interest in the shares of any subsidiary.
The Group recognises the need to treat all employees honestly Should any Ordinary shares be requested to satisfy awards of reversionary and fairly.
The Group is committed to ensuring that itsemployees feel interests, these may be provided by the EBT.
Further details relating to respected and valued and are able to fulfil their potential and recognises the rewards of reversionary interests, the EBT and the current LTIP can that the success of the business relies ontheir skill and dedication.
be found on pages 57 and 58 of this Annual Report.
The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for There have been no changes in the interests of the Directors, including employment from disabled persons, with regard to their particular share options and reversionary interest awards, intheshare capital of aptitudes and abilities.
Efforts are made to continue the employment the Company as at 26 February 2015. ofthose who become disabled during their employment.
In line with the Companies Act 2006, the Board has clear procedures For more information on the Companys employment practices please for Directors to formally disclose any actual or potential conflicts to see page 32. thewhole Board for authorisation as necessary.
All new conflicts are Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 63 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors report continued General information Auditor EY has signified its willingness to continue inoffice as auditor to the Annual General Meeting Company and the Group is satisfied thatEY is independent and there are The Notice convening the AGM for 2015 to be held at 12 noon on adequate safeguards in place to safeguard its objectivity.
A resolution 21April 2015 at the Company's Head Office, Supply Chain Centre, tore-appoint EY as the Companys auditor will be proposed at the AGM 1Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK64BB is contained in 2015. inacircular sent to all shareholders.
Fulldetails of all resolutions to beproposed are provided in thisshareholder circular.
The Directors Directors statement of disclosure of information consider that all of the resolutions set out in the notice of AGM for 2015 toauditor are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a Having made the requisite enquiries, the Directors in office at the date whole.
The Directors will be voting in favour of them and unanimously of this Annual Report and Accounts have each confirmed that, so far recommend that shareholders vote in favour of each of them.
asthey are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Significant agreements and change of control provisions Groups auditor is unaware and each Director has taken all the steps he she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself herself aware The most significant agreements to the Groups business are as follows: of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups UK and ROI Master Franchise Agreement: Know How Licence Agreement: auditor is aware of that information.
Germany Master Franchise Agreement: and Switzerland, Luxembourg and Liechtenstein Master Franchise Agreement, pursuant to which Going concern certain of the Groups companies are granted the right to franchise The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely to stores and operate commissaries in the territories by DPIF.
affect its future development, performance and position are set out The Groups most significant agreements listed above do not terminate inthe strategic review on pages 1 to 33.
The financial position of the on a change of control.
The Group does not have agreements with any Company, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are Director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office described in the Financial review on pages 25 to 27.
In addition, notes or employment resulting from a takeover except that provisions of the 27 and 28 to the Group financial statements include the Companys Groups share schemes andplans may cause options and awards objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial granted to employees andDirectors under such schemes and plans risk management objectives, details of its financial instruments and tovest on a takeover.
The Groups banking arrangements do contain hedging activities and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
change of control provisions which, if triggered, could limit future The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company utilisations, require the repayment of existing utilisations or lead hasadequate resources to continue in operational existence for the toarenegotiation of terms.
foreseeable future and have therefore continued to adopt thegoing Articles of Association concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The Articles of Association remained unchanged during the 2014 Events after the balance sheet date financial year and may only be amended by special resolution There have been no significant events since the balance sheet date atageneral meeting of the shareholders.
which would have a material effect on the financial statements.
Branches Cautionary statement Dominos Pizza Germany Limited a subsidiary company of the Company This Annual Report and Accounts contains forward-looking statements.
continued to operate via a branch in Germany, Dominos Pizza These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future Deutschland, during 2014. performance: rather they are based on current views and assumptions Environmental and social responsibility and as at the date of this Annual Report and Accounts and are made by the Directors in good faith based on the information available to them at the 'GHG'emissions time of their approval of this report.
These statements should be treated The Group acknowledges that it is part of a wider community and with caution due to the inherent risks and uncertainties underlying any recognises that it has a responsibility to act in ways that respect such forward-looking information.
The Group undertakes no obligation theenvironment and the social wellbeing of others.
Details of the toupdate these forward-looking statements.
Groups approach to these issues and emissions attributable to all activities are set out in the corporate social responsibility report on By order of the Board pages30 and 31.
Political donations Paul Waters The Company makes no political donations 2013: nil.
Company Secretary 25 February 2015 Key Performance Indicators KPIs Details of the Groups KPIs can be found on pages 18 and 19.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 64 Annual Report & Accounts 2014
