STRATEGIC REPORT Our markets UK market overview Macroeconomic environment UNITED KINGDOM We continue to remain optimistic about the economic situation in the UK.
However, we are mindful that the growth in gross domestic product, decline in unemployment, a prolonged period of low interest rates and a fall in inflation have been partially offset by continued stagnation in pay as wages have not recovered to pre-recessionary levels, impacting real disposable income 813 and consumer confidence.
STORES We believe that customers' value consciousness has changed forever asa consequence of the recession.
We recognise that the recovery in the economy is not being recognised by everyone and that there is a polarisation in disposable income across the country, which our locally owned franchised model is ideally positioned to optimise.
We also recognise that customers are still finding it hard to afford luxury items SUPPLY CHAIN and are prioritising the essentials, and that customers are more willing CENTRES to use vouchers, access discounts via online sites, and trade down to 56 own label discount brands.
SCOTLAND 2 Whilst the recent, much publicised, decline in the oilprice does not MOBILE UNITS have a major direct impact on the business model, it does contribute to a generally benign food environment which we believe will continue as amajor trend in 2015, and contribute to overall low levels of inflation.
23 NORTH-EAST 22 NORTHERN IRELAND #1 60.2% 46 IN THE UK FOR PIZZA OF OUR UK SALES YORKSHIRE AND THE DELIVERYSALES ARE ONLINE 87 HUMBER NORTH-WEST 56 Eating out market EAST MIDLANDS We operate within the eating out market, that is, food that is not prepared 62 at home for consumption.
This broader definition of the market includes 95 WEST MIDLANDS full service restaurants, pubs, bistros, quick service restaurants including EAST OF ENGLAND 36 delivery and takeaway restaurants as well as canteens and vending WALES machines.
It is comprised of international and national chains and 114 independent operators, and encompasses a broad range of food types LONDON such as pizza, chicken, burgers, fish and chips, Indian, Chinese 144 70 SOUTH-EAST andMexican.
SOUTH-WEST 40 2.9% NEW STORES OPENED INCREASE IN IN 2014 CONSUMERSPENDING THE UK HAS OUTPERFORMED THE EATING OUT MARKET AND WAS THE FASTEST GROWING CHAIN TODECEMBER 2014.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 12 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Technological One of the most remarkable social trends of our time is just how quickly technology is adopted.
Whilst it took 50 years for 25% of the population to adopt the telephone, 22 years to adopt the television and seven years to adopt the internet, it only took two years for a social media channel such as Facebook to be adopted by 25% of the population.
We have always embraced change and technological innovation: from our first foray into online ordering in 1999 to the development of mobile ordering platforms in 2010, this mindset has underpinned our market-leading performance and will continue to do so.
It is anticipated that 2015 will see smartphone penetration exceedbroadband penetration in the UK for the first time, driving  and the need to enhance services and design viamobile platforms.
Our understanding of how social media has become increasingly mobile was best epitomised by #pizzaonatrain.
The UK eating out market is arguably one of the most competitive and vibrant in Europe, with a number of new food types, concepts and chains emerging, in stark contrast to countries that have more traditional and nationalistic approaches to food and cooking.
The recovery in the wider economy has been felt within the eating outmarket, with growth in the UK outstripping other parts of Europe.
Quickservice restaurants have outperformed full service restaurants, demonstrating the value conscious nature of the recovery and customers' willingness to trade down.
One of the hallmarks of the recession within the eating out market was consumers willingness to retain their weekend but sacrifice their midweek eating out treats.
Encouragingly, the market has seen growth in eating out occasions during the week and at the weekend.
Similarly, consumers were willing to retain their dinner but sacrifice their lunchtime eating out treats.
The market has seen growth in lunchtime and dinner occasions.
As in the wider retail environment, the provision of value for money is critical.
We already live in a multi-device world, with each household in the UK However, something that is more unique to the eating out market is the having on average four connected devices.
It is increasingly important to customer's desire for improved quality and taste.
Post-recession, customers have a good understanding of how each device influences behaviour on are not willing to compromise on quality and taste for price they want it all.
the other and what that means for marketing messaging and e-commerce The UK has outperformed the eating out market and was the fastest platform development.
We are preparing for a post-PC world as younger growing chain to December 2014.
Despite this market-leading performance, generations are growing up increasingly familiar with tablet ownership.
there is still tremendous opportunity for growth, as we only represented 14.7% Our understanding of the connected home led to our partnership with of all pizza visits, 1.1% of all delivery takeaway visits and 0.6% of all eating Microsoft and the launch of the first ordering platform for the Xbox One.
out visits over the year ended 28 December 2014 source: NPD Crest.
Content marketing has increasingly been used by brands as advertising, Demographic as social media channels have developed.
Our social media presence has had a positive impact on brand equity and behaviour, with customers It is fair to say that the modern family unit is in flux with fewer people now stating that social media channels are the third highest influencer getting married or getting married and having children later.
This gives of purchase behind the menu and TV advertising.
In 2015, we will pay rise to new, bigger household structures containing multiple generations, increased attention to what customers want to hear from the brand to and challenging the traditional notion of mum as being the gatekeeper guide conversation and response.
This, coupled with an ageing population, provides targeting and communications opportunities beyond traditional definitions The digitalisation of traditional media channels has continued in 2014. of young adults and families.
Having become a predominantly e-commerce retailer, we have positioned ourselves well to take advantage of this.
To us, digital isnotanother channel but an integrated part of our media mix as demonstrated with some of our award-winning work with our sponsorship of the X Factor app.
We have developed strong relationships with UK media owners and have been at the forefront of testing and integrating data to improve our single view of the customer and fuel new targetingstrategies.
Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 13 STRATEGIC REPORT Our markets continued Germany market overview With a population greater than that of GERMANY the UK, a disposable income 28% WE ARE ENCOURAGED BY THE higher than the OECD average, and atake-away delivery sector that is RECOVERY SEEN IN THE IRISH stilldominated byindependents, the 22 opportunity to establish a sizeable ECONOMY AND HAVE A STORES presence is great.
Economic performance has been weak and we expect it to continue tobe sluggish.
Encouragingly, the eating out market has shown growth with overall visits up on the previous year.
This growth has been outstripped by visits to pizza places, whilst growth in visits to take-away delivery focused outlets Ireland market overview has grown even faster as Germans are typically working longer hours, increasingly time poor and starting to embrace eating out at home.
We are encouraged by the recovery Historically, the relatively high cost of labour and delivery has proven ROI seen in the Irish economy and have abarrier to growth in the delivery market and, as a consequence, German a positive outlook.
There has been customers have been underserved.
The increase in minimum wage is likely to put low-priced independents under more pressure and provide anincrease in gross domestic apremium-branded proposition like ours with a great opportunity to reset product for the first time since 2008, 48 customers' expectations of pizza delivery.
inflation levels remain low and STORES Internet penetration is high in Germany and e-commerce is in growth.
unemployment rates are down and Our m-commerce platforms and infrastructure are well positioned to take there is also encouraging sentiment advantage of this.
from customers with more people claiming to have more disposable Switzerland market overview income than a year ago.
However, we are conscious of the urbanisation of the country, withmorepeople living in urban areas than rural areas than in With a population greater than pre-recessionary times.
Alongside this we are also conscious that the SWITZERLAND Ireland, a robust economy, and a economic recovery is being felt most significantly in Dublin and that relatively narrow wealth divide we therecovery in rural Ireland is lagging behind.
remain confident that we can build The delivery take-away market is an established category within Ireland: asizeable and profitable business oneof the interesting dynamics of the market is the presence of established 11 inSwitzerland.
Whilst Chinese remains one of the most popular food STORES types for delivery take-away, it is fair to say that generally speaking there Consumer confidence remains strong and so are fewer types of food available for delivery take-away compared to the too do employment levels, which are driving a UK eating outmarket.
Alongside this, the combination of longer working hours and the The digitalisation of ROI continues to excite us.
Broadband penetration rise of single parent households is increasing isincreasing as speeds are improving, driving an increase in online the demand for convenient meal solutions.
shopping, on which we are well positioned to capitalise.
One of the unique aspects of the digital market in ROI has been the higher This has been demonstrated by the growth in the delivery and take-away incidence of m-commerce as a consequence of historically poor category.
Growth in visits to the delivery and take-away category broadband connection alongside the more rapid adoption of hasoutstripped growth in visits to pizza places, which has also smart-phone technology.
outstripped growth in visits to the general eating out market.
The delivery and take-away category is dominated by independents, with90% of outlets independently run, accounting for 79% of sales.
Thequality and image of these independents is poor and their focus ondelivery has been limited.
Switzerland is an expensive market: however the relative price of ourpizzas to other local products demonstrates that customers believe weoffer value for money.
We have an opportunity to demonstrate better thequality of our food and the modernity of our store image, and embrace e-commerce in a market that has an internet usage as high asthe UK, and further leverage our delivery credentials.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 14 Annual Report & Accounts 2014
