STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our strategy UK Dominos global vision is to become the number one pizza company in the world andinevery neighbourhood.
We set ourselves big, bold and audacious targets.
We have reframed our competitive set and recognise that the opportunity is beyond delivered pizza, We have broadened our horizons to every pizza eating occasion in the UK.
We will open up new store opportunities that were previously believed to be unviable.
We will be better connected with our customers in our neighbourhoods and communities.
Dominos is not a WE WILL CONTINUE TO GROW big, corporate faceless brand, but one that is made up of local business owners who provide employment and opportunity to tens of thousands LIKE-FOR-LIKE SALES BY of team members across the country.
We are driven day in, day out by our brand purpose 'to feed the power CONTINUING TO GROW SALES AT ofpossible, one pizza at a time'.
This inspires and motivates us on three levels.
First, it taps into the entrepreneurial spirit embodied by our THE MIDWEEK AND WEEKEND franchisees.
It recognises the opportunity the brand has afforded to people to pursue their own dream of business ownership, populating DINNER OCCASION.
our company culture with stories of 'driver to manager to single store franchisee to multi-store business owner'.
Second, it aligns with our desire to never stand still and continuously innovate to improve our The digitalisation of our business has been truly remarkable.
In just 15 years product, service, image and increasingly our use of technology.
we have gone from being a bricks-and-mortar outfit to a genuine Innovation is in the DNA of the brand, be that from the invention of omni-channel retailer.
Our ambitions are to grow these channels even the'spoodle', our patented heatwave technology, the launch of 'pizza faster.
The work completed in 2013 on the engines that sit behind our tracker' or the development of online and mobile ordering platforms.
platforms created a more secure and reliable foundation to build our Finally, it inspires us to relentlessly commit to delivering one pizza new customer-facing platform on in 2014.
We have been encouraged by atatime.
We know that downtime is precious: we know that money the traction we have seen across our critical e-commerce performance isstilltight, and we understand that delivered food cannot be a indicators, with improvements across the board on conversion rate, disappointment.
We know that we have to deliver a hot, fresh, bounce rate, basket abandonment rate and spend, following the roll-out tastypizza when we say we will, whenever we say we will.
We will increase investment in development of our e-commerce platforms and have built a back-log of work to action.
We will continue to grow like-for-like sales by continuing to grow sales at In2015, we will optimise and drive commercial performance across the midweek and weekend dinner occasion.
We will continue to deliver ourplatforms: we will innovate and develop the platforms to ensure that the best tasting pizzas in the UK pizza delivery market: create and we are at the forefront of our customers' mind and give them confidence maintain a product offering that provides a complete meal experience: that their order is on its way, putting them in control of the ordering process.
deliver value for money, and we are driven to create a stronger emotional connection in consumers lives we know were not saving lives, but Franchisee profitability has and always will be at the core of our weare making them that little bit better.
In2015, we look forward business model.
We will continue to drive top-line sales with world-class tobringing customers some exciting new products, new promotions marketing and e-commerce support and have committed a number of andnew technology.
In 2015, we will increase investment in marketing price reductions to franchisees already for 2015.
This is, in part, driven significantly a virtue of having outperformed against our expectations by a benign food environment but also by the great work completed by in2014 : we have already seenthe impact of this investment with our our procurement teams and supply chain centre division, which are long-term partnership with Hollyoaks.
We will continue to optimise the working in partnership with our suppliers on driving efficiencies within return on investment from our national advertising fund to demonstrate our supply chain.
We remain committed to growing franchisee value to our franchisees and continue to increase investment in digital profitability year on year.
channels to further optimise sales attribution.
We are excited about As a consequence of such strong sales growth we are working closely thelaunch of a new customer satisfaction survey which will provide us with franchisees to understand and remove any operational bottle-necks with more quantitative data on customer satisfaction will help us and at a store level.
This work is essential in future proofing the operational our franchisees to improve their operations and demonstrate to performance of the estate.
customers that we listen and act upon their feedback.
We will open more new stores in 2015.
We are confident of opening upmore sites in virgin territories and we are committed to working with Our strategic objectives franchisees to find the right location to build a second store within a page 16 trade-zone or to relocate.
Our new store opening pipeline, which details target locations and allocated sites, has never looked healthier.
As well as opening more new stores in 2015, we and our franchisees are committed Key Performance Indicators to reimaging more stores than ever before.
Our store image has been page 18 well received by customers as it creates a far more welcoming experience and makes them feel part of the theatre of making a pizza.
Risk management page 20 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 15 STRATEGIC REPORT Our strategy ACCELERATE LEADERSHIP IN 111 ACCELERATE SALES GROWTH IN THE UK 222 DIGITALANDMOBILE STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES o Grow like-for-like sales driven predominantly by an o Increase incidence of sales from online and mobile.
increase in like-for-like order count.
o Improve commercial performance of online and mobile o Open new stores in existing and virgin territories.
o Innovate in digital to ensure the brand remains top ofmind, places customers in control of the ordering process and gives them confidence that their order ison its way.
PERFORMANCE IN 2014 PERFORMANCE IN 2014 o We successfully grew like-for-like sales by 11.3% fuelled by o We accelerated UK sales from online from 53.0% to 60.2% like-for-like order count growth of 8.3%.
On a two-year basis, our andfrom 31.0% to 44.1% in mobile, demonstrating how like-for-like sales performance stands at 19.0% and our two-year thebusiness has become a genuine e-commerce retailer.
like-for-like order count growth at 12.8%.
Our three-year like-for-like Wehaveseen UK online sales increase by 30.6% and sales performance stands at 25.2% and our three-year like-for-like mobilesalesincrease by94.0%.
order count growth at 13.4%, which gives us confidence that the o We launched new performance engines behind all of our business has momentum.
e-commerce platforms which have improved reliability and security o We opened 40 new stores across a balance of existing and virgin of these platforms.
A new customer-facing interface rolled out in territories and saw sales from new store openings hit record levels 2014 has already significantly increased performance of our key at an average of 13.6k.
Sales from immature stores rose by 27.9% performance indicators of conversion rate, average value per basket on 2013, giving us further confidence about future sales and basket spend.
performance from new store openings.
o We have continued to increase allocation of national marketing o Independent econometric analysis has demonstrated we have spend across digital channels and seen improvements in efficiency increased return on investment from national marketing spend, of driving orders.
Our commitment to innovate in this space has been asalarger store footprint benefits better from national advertising demonstrated by our award-winning sponsorship of the X Factor activity, and the digitisation of the business enables us to attribute companion app and our partnership with Microsoft which has seen more sales directly from digital marketing spend.
us achieve a global first with the launch of the first-ever ordering platform on the Xbox One platform.
FOCUS FOR 2015 FOCUS FOR 2015 o Continue to grow sales at the midweek and weekend dinner occasions o Continue to improve performance of our key performance metrics by providing the best quality and the most convenient complete of conversion rate, basket abandonment rate, bounce rate and mealsolutions.
basket spend from desktop and tablet platforms.
o Continue to optimise marketing spend effectiveness through a o Drive a step change in performance from our mobile platforms.
combination of broadcast and digital marketing channels.
Our recent o Increase e-commerce development resource to accelerate broadcast sponsorship of Hollyoaks on Channel 4 has seen us access development of a number of software initiatives to improve the number one tea-time TV programme in the UK affordably.
thecustomer experience online and on mobile.
o Convert a healthy pipeline of new store targets and franchisee interest into new store openings and accelerate our store re-image programme.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 16 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCELERATE IMPROVEMENT IN 333  444 GROW INTERNATIONAL MARKETS PROFITABLY STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES o Improve franchisee profitability year-on-year.
o Drive sales growth in ROI as the economy starts torecover.
o Ensure lowest food cost supply.
o Establish store-level profitability in Germany.
o Grow sales and open new corporate stores in Switzerland.
PERFORMANCE IN 2014 PERFORMANCE IN 2014 o We successfully improved franchisee profitability per store o We have been encouraged by the like-for-like sales growth in ROI, from102k per annum in 2013 to 129k per annum in 2014.
We are acutely aware that this level of o As a consequence of the benign food environment and some sales growth has not been witnessed across the country and that goodwork from our procurement teams we have successfully Dublin is leading the charge.
lowered food costs to franchisees by 0.6% in 2014. o In Germany, we have spent the majority of our time focused on o We paid 5.9m in rebates to franchisees, which increased store manager level and on store training to improve operational by37%in 2014. performance.
We are now more confident of our store-level operation delivering the premium delivery service the brand is famous for theworld over.
o Progress made in Switzerland has been solid and focused onimproving the operational gearing in this corporate market.
Weare now in a position to grow this business.
FOCUS FOR 2015 FOCUS FOR 2015 o Increase marketing investment to grow sales per store to leverage o Drive like-for-like sales growth in ROI through a combination store-level profitability grow the top line to grow the bottom line.
ofnewproduct, new value and new technological initiatives.
o Continue to work with suppliers in long-term partnership to ensure o Sustain improvement in store-level operations and delivery consistently high food quality and lowest food cost supply with ofmarketing communications plans in Germany that drive sales better rewards for volume growth.
tounlock store-level profitability in existing stores and open new stores in territories that complement our existing footprint.
o Improve business partner resource to help franchisees find opportunities to improve profitability through a greater focus on o Drive like-for-like sales in Switzerland through improved labour and non-food items within the store profit and loss account.
e-commerceplatforms and opening of new corporate stores.
Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 17
