STRATEGIC REPORT Our business model Dough, third-party suppliers, distribution 111 DOMINOS PIZZA INC. DOMINOS 333 444 PIZZA GROUP PLC FRANCHISEES CUSTOMERS 222 SHAREHOLDERS People Our business structure Dough, third-party suppliers, distribution We manufacture all the dough for our pizzas in our Supply Chain Centres, apart from thin crust and gluten-free bases, and supply all our stores with fresh, tasty dough and most 111 333 other food products three times a week.
We have an extensive network of trusted DOMINOS PIZZA INTERNATIONAL FRANCHISEES third-party suppliers.
In the UK and ROI we The Group has a committed and FRANCHISING INC. operate our own distribution but in Germany entrepreneurial group of franchisees and One of the Groups key relationships is with and Switzerland this is outsourced to local actively seeks to recruit new franchisees to the Domino's Pizza International Franchising Inc logistics providers, with whom we are business.
The growth of existing franchisees is 'DPIF', the master franchisor of Dominos building long-term relationships and aim to critical to the continued growth of the Group.
We have three Master get the best commercial terms possible.
Whilst nearly all of the stores in the UK and Franchise Agreements in place with DPIF, ROI are franchised, the Group operates some relating to the territories in which the Group corporate stores in Germany and all of the sub-franchises in 1 UK and ROI: 2 Germany: stores in Switzerland are corporate stores.
People and 3 Switzerland, Liechtenstein and Most of the people that work in stores are Luxembourg.
The Company also purchased Franchisees enter into a standard franchise employees of the franchisee that owns and from DPIFthe option to acquire the master agreement in respect of each store for an operates that store.
The Group employs franchise rights in relation to Austria on or initial term of ten years with an option to staff at its Head Office in Milton Keynes, before 31December 2014, but the Board renewfor a further ten years.
Dsseldorf and Zurich and Supply Chain subsequently decided not to exercise Centres in the United Kingdom, ROI, thisoption.
We recognise the importance of a happy workplace and believe our employees are one of the main champions of the brand, 222 444 so we place significant emphasis on how we recruit and how we develop them.
SHAREHOLDERS CUSTOMERS We put safeguards in place to ensure our The cash generated by the Group allows us to Our goal is to be the number one pizza franchisees treat their staff with respect sustain a generous shareholder return in the company in each neighbourhood in which and in accordance with brand standards.
form of a progressive dividend policy as well weoperate.
Customers can order online, We continuously strive to update and as share buybacks, whilst also investing in the byphone or in store.
train all staff on a regular basis.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 10 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR VISION IS TO BE THE 1 PIZZA COMP 1 PIZZA COMPANY ANY IN EVER IN EVER IN EVERY NEIGHBOURHOOD Y NEIGHBOURHOOD Y NEIGHBOURHOOD Our strategy page 15 INCREASE IN UK ONLINE 14.6 SYSTEM SALES 24.3 ORDERS IN2014 % MILLION Why do customers choose us?
Our revenue model Product quality We generate most of our revenues from three mainstreams: Our customers tell us that they would rather spend a little bit more on a hot, Royalties, sales to franchisees and corporate store sales fresh meal made with superior ingredients, be that our fresh dough, This includes revenue from pizza sales in our corporate stores as well our100% mozzarella, our unique recipe tomato sauce or our thicker asrevenue from sales of food, equipment and delivery charges to our cutpepperoni.
It also includes royalties generated from store sales to customers Value for money referred to as 'system sales, which our franchisees pay to us.
We make margin on our sales of food and equipment, as well as royalties, whereas we Customers are savvier than ever, claiming to shop 'on deal' more than seek to recover costs on the range of other services we provide to franchisees.
theyused to and are looking for offers tailored to their needs, whether thatmeans family meals, social snacking or eating on the go.
Rental income Innovation This arises from leasehold properties, for which the Group holds the head lease, that are sub-let to franchisees.
Whilst value and quality are important, consumers are also increasingly adventurous in their food preferences.
They want to be enticed with new Finance lease income flavour choices and experiences, not just in core pizza offerings but also Interest income from financing provided to franchisees, associates and across a range of supporting side dishes and desserts that can turn joint ventures in the form of finance leases for assets in new stores.
These revenue streams generate cash for the Group, which is collected on Speed of delivery aregular basis from franchisees.
The cash received is used to pay for the Customers trust us to deliver a high-quality product on time, rather than main costs to the Group, including food, salaries, rental and royalty payments.
opting for a cheaper alternative that means they end up with something Weinvest in assets such as plant, property, equipment and IT systems.
cold, late and made from inferior ingredients.
Our markets Financial review page 12 page 25 AVERAGE NUMBER ORDERS PER OF STORES PER SECOND IN 2014 8.7 FRANCHISEE 1.6 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 11
