CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Board of Directors N STEPHEN HEMSLEY COLIN HALPERN DAVID WILD A R A N R KEVIN HIGGINS EBBE JACOBSEN MICHAEL SHALLOW Audit Committee member A Nomination Committee member N Remuneration Committee member R Committee Chairman A R HELEN KEAYS PAUL WATERS Dominos Pizza Group plc 34 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Stephen Hemsley Colin Halpern David Wild Non-executive Chairman Non-executive Vice-Chairman Chief Executive Officer Stephen joined the Board as Finance Director Colin acquired the Dominos Pizza Master David was appointed to the Board as a in 1998.
In 2001 he was appointed Chief Franchise Agreement for the UK and Republic non-executive Director in November 2013, Executive.
Stephen was appointed Executive of Ireland in 1993 through International became Interim Chief Executive Officer in Chairman of the Group in 2008 and became Franchise Systems Inc.
In 1999, with Colin January 2014 and was appointed as Chief non-executive Chairman in 2010 and from asChairman, the Company was taken public Executive Officer on 30 April 2014.
David is September 2014 became Chairman of the and listed on AIM.
Colin is the managing anon-executive director of the multi-channel Nomination Committee.
Stephen is also director of HS Real Company LLC, Dayenn consultancy Practicology and also Bankers chairman of Franchise Brands Worldwide Limited and non-executive director of several Investment Trust.
Previously, David was chief Limited and its subsidiary companies.
executive officer of Halfords Group plc and Stephenis a chartered accountant held senior roles within Walmart Stores Inc. byprofession.
Tesco Stores plc and RHM Foods Limited.
Kevin Higgins Ebbe Jacobsen Michael Shallow Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Kevin was appointed to the Board in Ebbe was appointed to the Board on Michael was appointed to the Board in 2006.
He is Chairman of the 31January 2014.
He has wide experience He is Chairman of the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee and a member of ofoperating in Germany and other European Senior Independent Director of the Company.
His career spans more countries, most recently with Delsey.
Michael is a non-executive director of than 20 years in branded consumer foods in Hehasbeen in retail all his working life and Revolution Bars Group Ltd. Michael has both Europe and the United States.
Kevin has haspan-EU retail knowledge with significant worked in the food and drinks sector for served as president of Burger King Europe, experience in franchising, multi-site and single thepast 15 years, and was previously a Middle East and Africa.
Prior to his role with brand retail.
He pioneered the introduction non-executive director of Britvic plc and Burger King, Kevin served as general manager ofUS fast food chain Burger King into the wasthe finance director for Greene King plc.
Brands Pizza Hut, KFC and Taco Bell Nordics in the 1970s and held the position Europe and Russia Franchise Business Unit ofdirector and operating partner when the based in Switzerland.
Earlier in his career he franchise wassold in 1985.
Other significant held executive roles with PepsiCo and Mars.
retail experience includes having been CEO ofIKEAin Germany, CEO of Delsey and CEO ofHabitat.
Helen Keays Paul Waters Non-executive Director Company Secretary Helen was appointed to the Board in 2011 Paul was appointed as Company Secretary andis a member of the Companys Audit and with effect from 1 August 2014.
Helen has over as a solicitor and is a Fellow of the ICSA.
Paul 20years experience in travel, retail, consumer brings with him a wealth of commercial and markets and telecoms.
She is currently a legal expertise having served as company consultant and a non-executive director of secretary and legal counsel for two FTSE 100 Majestic Wine plc, a non-executive director constituent companies, Misys plc and ENRC ofCommunisis plc and a trustee of the plc, together with three FTSE 250 constituent Shakespeare Birthplace Trust.
The majority companies, Benfield plc, RHM plc and most ofher career was spent at GE Capital and recently EnQuest plc.
Vodafone Group plc, where she held various senior marketing roles.
Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 35
