59 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Directors biographies Phil Cox CBE Dorothy Thompson CBE Tony Quinlan Independent non-executive Chief Executive Finance Director director and Chairman designate Phils background is in finance and he As Chief Executive, Dorothy is As Finance Director, Tony is responsible also has a recent and successful decaderesponsible for all aspects of the running for the financial management of the long track record in the power industry.
of the Groups business, including Group, and for relationships with the In recent years, he has concentrated on developing an appropriate business Groups bankers and financial advisers.
his non-executive portfolio, developing strategy for Board approval and securing In addition to the Finance function, valuable board experience.
its timely and effective implementation.
he is responsible for the Groups She provides leadership to the executive communications function.
team and takes responsibility for the important external relationships with customers, suppliers, regulatory agencies and government bodies.
Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: 1 January 2015.
20 October 2005, having joined Drax in 1 September 2008.
Committee membership: Committee membership: None.
Tony is also on the Board of the Executive.
Groups US subsidiary, Drax Biomass Inc.
External appointments: A non-executive director, Senior Independent External appointments: External appointments: Director and Audit Committee Chairman A non-executive director of Johnson Matthey Vice Chairman of the Port of London Authority, of Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC and a plc and a non-executive director of the Court of where he also chairs the Audit Committee.
non-executive director of PPL Corporation, a the Bank of England.
Previous experience: US-listed energy utility company.
Previous experience: Tony qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Previous experience: Dorothy was previously the head of the Coopers & Lybrand and subsequently joined Phil was previously Chief Executive Officer, European business of InterGen NV, the power Marks & Spencer where he went on to hold International Power plc: Senior Vice President, generation subsidiary of Shell NV and Bechtel a number of senior positions within Internal Operational Planning, Invensys plc: and Finance Inc. responsible for the management and Audit, Corporate Finance, Investor Relations Director of Siebe PLC.
He was also previously operation of four gas-fired power plants, and Financial Control.
From 2005, he was a non-executive director and Chairman of the totalling some 3,160MW of capacity across Director of Finance, the deputy to the Group Audit Committee of Wincanton plc and a nonthe UK and the Netherlands.
Prior to joining Finance Director.
executive director of Meggitt PLC.
InterGen NV in 1998, Dorothy was initially in Qualifications: banking and subsequently was assistant group Qualifications: BSc Hons in Chemistry with Business Studies treasurer for Powergen plc.
MA in Geography and a Fellow of the Institute of and an Associate of the Institute of Chartered Chartered Accountants in England and Wales Qualifications: Accountants in England and Wales ACA.
BSc Hons and MSc in Economics.
Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview 60 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Directors biographies continued Peter Emery Paul Taylor Tim Cobbold Production Director Retail and Trading Director Independent non-executive director As Production Director, Peter is As Retail and Trading Director, Paul Tims blend of financial and engineering responsible for the operation of has responsibility for the trading of experience means that he is well the Groups plant and equipment.
power, other associated commodities placed to contribute significantly to the This includes all aspects of safety and freight and logistics.
He is also Board and its committees.
His role as management, plant integrity, plant responsible for the retail division, a serving Chief Executive in a different operations, engineering support, Haven Power, which sells electricity sector provides an added dimension to maintenance and plant design.
to customers in the industrial and his contribution.
commercial, and small and medium enterprises markets.
Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: 20 October 2005, having joined Drax in 1 September 2011, having joined Drax in 27 September 2010.
Committee membership: Committee membership: Committee membership: Audit, Nominations and Remuneration.
Paul is also Chairman of the Groups External appointments: retail subsidiary, Haven Power Limited.
External appointments: Chief Executive of UBM Plc.
A non-executive director of NG Bailey Limited.
External appointments: Previous experience: A member of The Energy Research Partnership.
Tim was previously the Chief Executive and Previous experience: Previous experience: an executive director of fide La Rue Plc, and Peter joined Esso Petroleum upon leaving Paul has more than 15 years experience in prior to that was the Chief Executive Officer of university and held a number of analyst and energy trading previously working for TXU Chloride Group plc, the leading international managerial roles in the UK before moving to Europe and Powergen E. ON UK.
At TXU Europe provider of secure power solutions having Essos parent, Exxon in the US to co-ordinate Paul led the UK electricity trading function joined them in 2007 as Chief Operating Officer.
its downstream marketing and distribution responsible for trading a combined portfolio of Following Emerson Electrics takeover of investments outside North America and over 7GW of power plant and a retail position of Chloride he held a senior position in Emerson, Canada.
Peter returned to Essos Fawley Oil more than 50TWh.
Before energy trading Paul responsible for the Chloride Group of companies.
Refinery in 1992 as plant technical services worked in operational research.
He trained as a Mechanical Engineer and manager.
In 1997 he became refinery qualified as a Chartered Accountant in 1987 and Qualifications: maintenance manager, and in 2002 he was joined Smiths Group plc formerly TI Group plc in BSc Hons in Business Operation and Control.
appointed operations manager with full 1989 where he held a number of senior financial management and operational responsibility for and operational management positions over an Fawley Oil Refinery, the UKs largest refinery.
He was also a member of ExxonMobils Qualifications: European leadership team for refining.
BSc Hons in Mechanical Engineering and a Qualifications: Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants BSc Hons in Mining Engineering, Fellow of in England and Wales FCA.
the Institute of Materials, Minerals and Mining FMIMM and completed the Advanced Management Programme at INSEAD in 2007.
61 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Melanie Gee David Lindsell Tony Thorne Independent non-executive director Senior independent Independent non-executive director non-executive director Melanies blend of financial and Davids recent and relevant experience Tonys experience of operating in corporate experience means that she is in the areas of finance and audit are a different geographical territories is of able to make a significant contribution significant asset to the Board in his role great value to the Board as the Groups to the Board and its committees.
as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Her advisory role in a City firm brings added insight to the Board.
Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: 1 January 2013.
Audit Chairman, Nominations Remuneration Chairman, Audit and Remuneration.
External appointments: A senior adviser to Lazard & Co. Limited and a External appointments: External appointments: non-executive director of The Weir Group PLC.
A non-executive director and Audit and Risk Chairman of the South East Coast Committee Chairman of Premier Oil plc: a Ambulance Service.
Previous experience: non-executive director and Remuneration Melanie joined Lazard & Co. Limited in 2008 as a Previous experience: Committee Chairman of HellermannTyton Managing Director and became a Senior Adviser Tony was Chief Executive of DS Smith plc, the Group PLC: the deputy chair of governance of at the end of 2012.
Prior to that, she was at UBS international packaging and office products the University of the Arts London and a trustee Investment Bank 1982 to 2007, where she group, from 2001 until his retirement from the and Audit Committee Chairman of Cancer held a number of senior positions in Corporate Board in May 2010.
Previously he was President Research UK.
Melanie was an alternate member of of SCAs corrugated packaging business.
Prior to The Takeover Panel between 2006 and 2013.
Previous experience: this he spent 20 years with Shell International, David was a partner at Ernst & Young for working throughout the world in senior Qualifications: nearly 30 years.
He specialised in audit management roles, including strategic planning MA in Mathematics.
and assurance services and has extensive and President of the Shell companies in Mexico.
experience across a range of industry sectors.
Qualifications: He was Deputy Chairman of the Financial BSc Hons in Agricultural Economics.
Reporting Review Panel from 2008 to 2012 and has served on a number of professional bodies relating to financial reporting, including the IFRS Advisory Council, the Auditing Practices Board, the Turnbull Committee and the European Financial Reporting Advisory Group.
Qualifications: Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales FCA.
Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview
