58 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 The Board of directors Membership and process: Board of directors Role of the Board Chairman The Board determines: the Groups strategy: the Groups appetite Charles Berry for risk: the internal control and risk management policies: the Business Plan and principal performance indicators: acquisitions and disposals and other transactions outside delegated limits: material changes to accounting policies or practices: significant financial decisions: capital structure and dividend policy: shareholder communications: prosecution, defence or As Chairman, Charles is responsible for the leadership of the Board and settlement of material litigation: Group remuneration policy: ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role.
He liaises closely with the terms of reference and membership of Board committees: the Chief Executive and ensures that the non-executive directors are provided with the right information to enable them to challenge and and the Board structure, composition and succession.
monitor the executive in a robust manner.
Terms of reference Appointment to the Board: 15 December 2005 and was appointed Chairman on 17 April 2008.
The Board has adopted a schedule of matters reserved for its Charles will retire as Chairman and a non-executive director at the decisions and formal terms of reference for its committees.
conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in April 2015.
These are reviewed annually and are available to view on the Committee membership: Groups website at www.
Matters which are not specifically reserved to the Board and its External appointments: committees under their terms of reference, or to shareholders A non-executive director and Chairman of Senior plc and The Weir Group PLC.
in General Meeting, are delegated to the Chief Executive or otherwise delegated in accordance with a schedule of Previous experience: Charles has extensive experience within the UK power sector.
He joined delegated authorities approved by the Board.
ScottishPower in 1991 and was appointed to the Board in 1999.
From 2000 to 2005, Charles was Chief Executive of the companys UK operations.
Charles is also a former non-executive Chairman of Eaga plc, Impax Environmental Markets, Securities Trust of Scotland and of THUS Group plc.
Qualifications: BSc Hons in Electrical Engineering and MScin Management.
Composition Number of meetings held in 2014 With the exception of Phil Cox, who was appointed as a director on 1 January 2015 all of the directors listed below served throughout 81 the year and continued to be directors as at 23 February 2015.
The Board has eight scheduled In addition, the Board Their biographical details appear on pages 58 to 61. meetings each year.
An additional meetsat least annually meeting was held by telephone toconsider strategy.
to address matters requiring NonExecutive: executive: formal decisions.
4 5 Philip Hudson Group Company Secretary Board diversity Executive Chairman Independent The following chart illustrates the proportion of female and directors non-executive Charles Berry male directors.
directors Dorothy Thompson Chief Executive Phil Cox Peter Emery Tim Cobbold Production Director Melanie Gee Male: Female: Tony Quinlan 80% 20% David Lindsell Finance Director Senior Independent Paul Taylor Director Retail and Trading Tony Thorne Director
