22 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Marketplace We play an essential part in the electricity market Each of our businesses is positioned in the key parts ofthe electricity supply chain.
Complex practices and arrangements characterise the marketplace in which we operate.
The structure of the electricitymarket Source The electricity market in Great Britain is characterised by six large vertically At Drax Power Station, electricity Sustainable forest management integrated companies, with interests is generated from both sustainable Sustainable forest management in both the generation and supply of biomass and coal.
practices are fundamental to electricity, and a number of smaller maintaining healthy and productive independent companies, some of working forests with stable which are purely generation or supply Sourcing biomass and increasing carbon stocks.
companies and others which have We only burn sustainable biomass When the fibre harvested from forests an interest in both sectors.
Drax is to produce renewable power.
is completely offset by new growth an independent company, with both Predominantly the biomass we the losses of carbon are also offset.
source comes from woody forest Therefore, when comparing forest material, the remainder comes from growth to harvest in any one year, if agricultural residues, such as straw, The electricity mix the growth exceeds the harvest there and purpose grown energy crops, such is surplus of fibre which equates to an Today, the electricity mix benefits from as miscanthus.
Fibre taken a diversity of fuel sources, including gas, from forests with a surplus means that coal, nuclear and renewables.
The shares Forest product industry there is no addition to the carbon levels 1 of 2013 the latest figures available in the atmosphere.
In 2013, across The global forest industry is already a generation by fuel type, on an output the southeast US states, where Drax large, well-established marketplace, basis, are given below.
sources much of its fibre, there was a serving the building, furniture and paper significant surplus.
industries with high and low grade wood fibre.
In producing electricity from % Ensuring sustainable sourcing biomass, we are able to use the low 36 grade wood fibre, such as, thinnings, Coal It is a prerequisite that all our biomass branches and tops, as well as sawmill comes from sustainable sources.
The table opposite gives a To ensure this we have implemented % 27 breakdown of the woody biomass a sustainability policy which embeds Gas sourced and burnt by Drax in 2014 comprehensive criteria into our bytype and country.
Through a programme of information exchange, % Sometimes such fibre and residues 20 documentary evidence, due diligence have no other alternative use.
Nuclear activities and independent third party Providing a market for them increases verification we are confident that all the production efficiency and the % the biomass we procure comes from economics of the forest, incentivising 14.9 sustainable sources.
Read more about forest and land owners to keep their Renewables biomass sustainability and procurement land forested.
in the Sustainable business review on % page 56.
2.4 Other 1 Digest of UK Energy Statistics, 2014.
23 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 We calculate the life cycle carbon Woody biomass footprint of all the biomass we burn, by type and country, 2014 from forest or field to furnace.
In that ForestSawmill- 1 2 derived derived Total way we take account of the carbon US 1.9Mt 0.4Mt 2.3Mt emissions along the biomass supply chain, including those associated Canada 0.1Mt 0.8Mt 0.9Mt with harvesting, processing and Other 0.4Mt 0.3Mt 0.7Mt transportation.
In 2014, the average Total 2.4Mt 1.5Mt 3.9Mt greenhouse gas saving over the full life Notes: 1 Forest-derived thinnings, branches, tops and other low cycle resulting from burning sustainable grade wood.
biomass in place of coal was 86%.
Woody biomass Sourcing coal by country, 2014 We buy coal from a range of sources.
Other In 2014, 38% of the coal we burnt came 18% from UK deep and surface mines with the remainder coming from major supply basins around the world, including the US, Colombia and Russia.
Our focus is on responsible procurement, and our continued membership US of Bettercoal, an organisation that Rather than leading to wide-scale loss 59% Canada promotes continuous improvement in 23% of forest lands, growing markets for corporate responsibility in the supply tree products can provide incentives chain, supports that focus.
See more for maintaining or increasing forest onour coal procurement practices stocks and land cover, and improving Forest products intheSustainable business review forest health through management.
Intergovernmental Panel residues on Climate Change, 2014 Small dimension Pellets e. g. Pulpwood Using materials, products and fuels Wood panel mills Where we source coal from Pulp paper mills made from forest biomass instead of more fossil fuel-intensive alternatives USA Colombia UK Russia is one key approach to mitigating Sawmills Large dimension e. g. Sawlog increases in atmospheric CO. 2 Moreover, demand for forest products helps keep land in forests and can increase carbon stocks.
Demand for wood and products derived from it helps preserve forests, expand forested area and ultimately promotes sustainable forest management.
World Business Council for Sustainable Development, Forest Solutions Group, 2015 Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview 24 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Marketplace continued Generate Drax Power Station typically meets Wholesale prices around 7-8% of the UKs electricity Power prices are driven by a number of needs.
There are two routes to market factors, such as underlying commodity for the power we generate the prices, the availability of generating wholesale market see below and the capacity on the electricity system, retail market see Supply on page 25. and the physical positions taken by individual market participants.
The wholesale The wholesale market operates on electricitymarket price and the relative prices of gas Various mechanisms exist to allow and coal.
Carbon costs for fossil power to be traded at the wholesale fuelled generators along with the level.
Trading can take place bilaterally operating efficiencies of the various or on exchanges, and contracts power stations will determine which for electricity can be struck over of gas-fired generation or coal-fired timescales ranging from several years generation is the more expensive ahead to on-the-day trading markets.
and so operates at the margin.
If gas It can also be traded for specific prices are high relative to the costs of periods, for example, specific half hours coal-fired generation then gas-fired or specific seasons.
The wholesale generation becomes the marginal electricity market trades across three plant.
These dynamics of price setting sub-markets: can be expected to change in the future when higher penetration of, long-term forward market allowing renewable generation combined with contracts to be struck up to several nuclear generation displace fossilyears ahead of delivery in response fuelled generation.
to market participants requirements:, short-term bilateral market operated As well as selling power through the through power exchanges which wholesale electricity market, we gives market participants the are selling an increasing proportion opportunity to fine tune their of our output directly to business contractual positions: and customers through our retail company, Balancing Mechanism real-time Haven Power.
This provides us with market through which the System a credit-efficient route to market Operator accepts offers and bids for power, as well as a good route to for electricity to enable it to balance market for Renewables Obligation supply and demand on the system.
Certificates and Levy Exemption Certificates earned by our renewable power generation.
25 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Supply The supply market GB electricity supply market by sector, 2012 1 In 2012 the latest figures available, electricity sales in Great Britain to all I&C very large Domestic consumers accounted for 291TWh.
27% 38% The electricity supply market is characterised by three sectors: domestic, industrial and commercial I&C, and small and medium-sized enterprises SMEs.
The domestic sector accounts for 38% of the total electricity sales in Great Britain, the I&C I&C large sector 44% and SMEs 18%.
SME 17% 18% Through our retail company, Haven Sources: Power, we serve businesses of all sizes.
Digest of UK Energy Statistics, 2014: Cornwall Energy, 2014.
In 2014, Haven Power sold 11.8TWh to the I&C and SME sectors.
Haven Powers share of the business market The business sectors of the market have continued to be very competitive Haven Power with our established competitors being joined by a number of new entrants.
Against this backdrop, Haven Power has succeeded in growing its market share by offering innovative and tailored contracts at competitive prices.
Notes: 1 Digest of UK Energy Statistics, 2014.
Other suppliers Sources: Digest of UK Energy Statistics, 2014: Cornwall Energy, 2014.
Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview
