06 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Our business model Maximising our value Our objective is to maximise the value of the Draxbusiness.
There are several steps in the Drax value chain, with each one providing incremental value to the business.
Read more: A look at the detail 2829 Source How we maximise value Fuel, Currently we burn sustainable biomass in two converted units, which earn ROCs and LECs.
In our coal units we havethe ability to burn other fuels, such as petcoke and pond fines, which can be economically advantageous.
By diversifying ourfuel sources not only are we less reliant on asingle fuel type, but we are also able to capture value from commodity market cycles, and in the case ofbiomass avoid the cost of carbon.
Our value chain, Our investments in the US will help secure the timely delivery of reliable wood pellet supplies to Drax Power Station, and consolidate third party and own supplies tosecure more efficient and cost-effective delivery logistics.
Read more: Operational and financial performance 2645 07 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Supply How we maximise value Trading, Weare always looking to increase the trading options available to us, such as through our retail business.
We benefit from having a physical asset to trade around and a seamless interface with the operations side of the business.
Retail, We have already achieved significant growth inacompetitive marketplace and have become an Generate established supplier to businesses across the UK.
How we maximise value, We have plans to grow further anddeliver our supply contracts tomore business customers.
Our retail business increases the trading options available Generation providing an important and  route to, Through our turbine upgrade project we secured our market for our power, as well as a route to market for our position as the most efficient coal-fired power station in ROCs and LECs.
the UK, and together with our increasing use of biomass we are delivering coalandCO savings.
2, With leading operational performances across all aspects of the generation business, from safety to maintenance, we are able to deliver highreliability.
Inaddition, the flexibility of our despatch allows us to respond quickly to changes in demand.
Environment, Through burning increasing volumes of sustainable biomass and our efficiency improvements we are able tosignificantly reduce emissions of CO, the amount 2 ofcoal we burn and save on carbon costs.
We generate additional revenue through sales of ourby-products, which also reduces disposal costs.
Byreducing emissions of SO, we produce gypsum 2 which, like ash, issold to .
Read more: Operational and financial performance 2645, We are investing to continue to meet increasingly stringent emission control requirements.
Read more: Sustainable business review 5057 Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview
