62 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 The Executive Committee Membership and process: The Executive Committee Role of the Committee Committee members The Executive Committee is the Chief Executives committee The biographical details of the members below appear on pages 58 and assists her in the execution of her duties focusing on and 61 executive directors and page 63 senior management strategy, financial structure, planning and performance, succession planning, organisational development and Group wide policies.
Senior Executive: management: 3 3 Committee Chairman Dorothy Thompson CBE Executive Chairman Senior Chief Executive directors management Dorothy Thompson Chief Executive Peter Emery Philip Hudson Production Director Group Company Secretary Tony Quinlan Finance Director Andy Koss Director of Strategy Paul Taylor Number of meetings held in 2014 Retail and Matthew Rivers TradingDirector Director of Fuel 12 The Committee has 12 scheduled meetings each year, andarranges additional meetings if the need arises.
The Deputy Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
New structure of the executive management team From March 2015 a new structure of the The new structure will see the creation of, Andy Koss will take up the new position executive management team will come a Group Executive Board GEB, which of CEO, Drax Power Limited and will draw into operation.
will replace the Executive Committee and together the management team to lead our be responsible for the overall running of power generation business: The Group is now made up of three separate the business.
There are some changes to business units: Drax Biomass, Drax Power and, Tony Quinlan will continue in his current role: the roles and responsibilities of the senior Haven Power.
and management team: The new structure is designed so that:, Peter Bennell, CEO, Haven Power Limited, Peter Emery will become Group Operations will continue in his current role, but will join, each business unit will run under its own Director, overseeing operational excellence the GEB.
management team: and across the Group: This structure is designed with an eye to the, the services needed to support the three, Paul Taylor will become Group Commercial future and with growth of the business in business units, and operate and optimise Director, with responsibility for strategy and mind.
Drax has made good progress on its the Group will be managed centrally through commercial optimisation across the Group: biomass transformation strategy.
Matthew Rivers will become Group plans to launch a full strategic review in 2015 Sustainability Director.
In this role he will to consider what other opportunities might be lead the sustainability strategy and activities attractive to the Group.
across the Group, and he will also retain responsibility for Drax Biomass:
