63 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 The Executive Committee members biographies Philip Hudson Andy Koss Matthew Rivers Group Company Secretary Director of Strategy Director of Fuel As Group Company Secretary Philip is Andy has responsibility for regulatory Matthew is responsible for our biomass responsible for the Groups corporate issues, environmental strategy and and coal purchases.
Successful biomass compliance and for the application business development.
Andy joined Drax sourcing is at the core of the realisation of good standards of corporate in 2005 to lead the refinancing as part of our strategy.
An important part of governance.
Philip is also Chair of of the initial public offering in that year.
Matthews biomass responsibilities is Trustees for the Drax section of the He has subsequently held a number of that he has Group level responsibility for Electricity Supply Pension Scheme.
positions, leading the corporate finance, our upstream investment activities in the investor relations and commodity risk US.
These activities are growing rapidly management functions.
as we move from the initial development phase into commissioning pellet plants and running an operational business.
Appointment to the Executive Committee: Appointment to the Executive Committee: Appointment to the Executive Committee: 8 May 2007 upon joining Drax.
1 November 2013, having joined Drax in 1 November 2013, having joined Drax in June 2005.
Previous experience: Philip joined Drax as General Counsel and Previous experience: Previous experience: Company Secretary.
He was previously at Kelda Prior to joining Drax, Andy was Deputy Group Matthew has previously been the Director Group plc owner of Yorkshire Water, where he Treasurer at Provident Financial plc.
He has also Energy Biomass and then Director Overseas held the same role.
Philip has previously been worked in investment banking managing middle Wood & Biomass Sourcing at UPM in Finland.
He also spent office functions for derivatives trading at UBS Prior to that, Matthew was Managing Director several years as a solicitor in the in-house legal and Dresdner Kleinwort Benson.
of Forestal Oriental Uruguay, responsible for department at Powergen.
plantation management and wood supply.
Qualifications: Matthew has also been Managing Director, Qualifications: BSc Hons Maths, Associate of the Institute UPM Tilhill, the UKs largest private sector forest LLB Hons, Solicitor.
of Chartered Accountants England and Wales management and timber harvesting business.
Member of the Association of Corporate Treasurers MCT.
Qualifications: BSc For Hons, MBA, FICFor, CEnv.
Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview
