08 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Achieving our vision Power in perspective Our business is influenced by a number of factors.
Through focusing on our fivekey priorities we aim toachieve our vision and maximise our value.
Our vision for Drax is... To be a bold, customer orientedpower generation and retail business, driven by biomass innovation.
Enabled by our strategy... Wehave three key strategic initiatives to enable ustoachieve ourvision, namely:, Developing our biomass fuel supply business in the US.
Our project to convert Drax Power Station into a predominantly biomass-fuelled generating asset.
Our programme for the expansion ofour retail business, Haven Power.
This is delivered through fivekey priorities...
Deliver our biomass strategy Drive Group operational excellence Grow our retail business Maximise the value of the Group Deliver excellent people leadership across our business 09 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Deliver our biomass strategy In 2012, we announced our plan to transform Drax Power Station into a predominantly renewable generator through converting three of its six generating units to burn sustainable biomass in place of coal.
Today, two generating units have been converted and the third is on track to be converted by mid-2016.
On completion, around 12 million tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions will be saved each year, making the transformation the largest decarbonisation project in Europe.
Read more: Chief Executives statement 1619 12Mt On track to deliver carbon dioxide savings of 12Mt ayearoncompletion of our biomass transformation This image features a typical sample of the woodpellets we receive at DraxPower Station.
Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview 10 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Achieving our vision continued Drive Group operational excellence Our operational interests span the supply chain from sourcing and processing sustainable biomass, through generating reliable supplies of power, to supplying 0.33 power to business customers.
Total recordable injury rate in 2014 We are committed to maintaining operational excellence, with leading performances.
Read more: Plant operational performance 26.
8TWh Retail sales in 2014 This image features a process control module at Drax Power Station.
11 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview 12 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Achieving our vision continued 13 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Grow our retail business Haven Power continues to deliver significant growth in a highly competitive market with our renewable power offer becoming increasingly attractive amongst UK businesses.
An excellent standard of customer service is central to our proposition for our retail operation.
Read more: Retail financial performance 36 % 46 Growth in retail sales volume in 2014 compared to 2013 This image features part of the runway lighting at London Stansted Airport, one of Haven Powers significant contract wins.
Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview 14 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Achieving our vision continued Maximise the valueof the Group A wider focus on all areas across the Group will help drive our ultimate value.
By maximising the value of the Group we are positioning ourselves for future development.
Read more: Operational and financial performance 2645 229m Group EBITDA for 2014 This image represents the importance we attach to all areas across the Group that underpin value.
15 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Deliver excellent people leadership across our business We are committed to developing leadership atall levels within the organisation.
Our aim is to help our people be better leaders in the job they do, whichever stage of their career they are at.
Read more: Sustainable business review 5057 20 1 5 Pilot year for our UK-wide leadership development programme This image represents vision and direction: qualities we link with excellent leadership.
Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview
