12 Strategic Report Key Performance Indicators We have identified a number of key performance indicators to measure value creation, quantify our social impact and benchmark customer service.
We have set testing medium-term targets.
We aim to satisfy our four key stakeholders customers, employees, shareholders and the environment because we believe that this is the way to build a sustainable business.
To delight our To realise the potential customers of our people To deliver consistent shareholder value On-time, in-full delivery Accident Frequency Rate Like-for-like corrugated Return on sales AFR volume growth 97% 7.6% 94% 93% 2.2% 2.2% 6.9 6.8% 6.6% 6.2 1.9% 1.8% 4.8 0.6% 0.5% 1 1 1 2 1 11 12 12 13 13 14 11 12 12 13 13 14 11 12 12 13 13 14 11 12 12 13 13 14 1 Not pro forma therefore does not Weighted GDP 1% target.
1 Restated for IAS 19 Revised 2011. include a full 12 month contribution 2 Pro forma for SCA Packaging acquisition.
Target Target Target Target 97% Nil GDP 1% 7-9% Definition Definition Definition Definition Proportion of orders fulfilled on-time, The number of lost time accidents Volume of corrugated box products sold Earnings before interest, tax, in-full, across all businesses.
excluding the effect of acquisitions and amortisation and exceptional items disposals measured by area.
This measures our commitment Safety is our highest priority.
We aim to high standards of service to to provide employees with a safe, We target volume growth above GDP The margin we achieve is a reflection customers.
It is part of our aim productive and rewarding workplace.
because we expect the market to of the value we deliver to our to provide more than a box.
favour recycled packaging and customers and our ability to charge Performance because we aim to win market share for that value.
It is also driven by our Performance We are very pleased to have reduced by delivering value to our customers scale.
We aim to maintain our margin Service levels have remained relatively AFR by a further 22 per cent this year.
in this range at all points in the flat year-on-year.
Quality, measured by Any accident is one too many, and we economic cycle, not only on average.
Performance defects parts per million, has improved are pleased that 70 per cent of our Performance by 19 per cent.
We are committed to sites had no lost time accidents in For 2013 14, GDP for our regions, continuing improvement in our service the year.
We continue to strive to weighted by our sales in those Our margin has improved year-on-year and quality.
achieve our target of no accidents, regions, is estimated at 0.9 per cent reflecting the benefit of synergies and across the entire Group.
the value delivered to customers.
This has been achieved despite a headwind Volume growth in 2013 14 has from rising input costs.
exceeded our target of GDP 1 per cent, driven particularly by growth in Germany and eastern Europe, both areas identified as strategic priorities.
Link to our Values Link to our Values Link to our Values Link to our Values Be trusted Be caring Be responsive Be challenging Be responsive Be challenging Be tenacious Be trusted Be tenacious Be trusted Be responsive Be tenacious See page 58 to read more about how our Executive Directors are rewarded against our financial performance.
2 Pro forma for SCA Packaging acquisition.
Target Target Target Target 12-15% 2.0x 120% 20% Definition Definition Definition reduction over the Earnings before interest, tax, Net debt at the period end, over Free cash flow before tax, net 10 years to 2020 amortisation and exceptional items earnings before interest, tax, interest, growth capex, pension Definition as a percentage of average capital depreciation, amortisation and payments and exceptional cash Total CO emissions per tonne of employed over the 12 month period.
exceptional items for the preceding flows as a percentage of earnings 2 12 month period.
before interest, tax, amortisation production ktonnes.
ROACE is our key measure of financial Why is it a KPI?
We actively play our part in the drive success and sustainability.
With a cost Net debt EBITDA is a key measure of capital of c. 9.5 per cent, our target of balance sheet strength and We focus on cash conversion because to reduce CO emissions through 2 investment in energy and material of 1215 per cent throughout the financial stability.
this ensures we are able to sustain economic cycle is above this.
See our progressive dividend policy.
Performance page 10 for further explanation.
Performance Performance Our net debt EBITDA ratio is in Performance Increased production volumes and our target range.
Cash conversion remains our target even greater efficiency in our This year we have sustained our reflecting further year-on-year processes per unit of energy input has focus on ROACE which has benefited improvement in working capital.
resulted in a reduction in our intensity both from synergies driving our ratio of CO per tonne of production.
profitability, but also continued 2 This trend has also been aided by reductions in our working capital, investments in fuel switching and which liberates capital to be used combined heat and power technology elsewhere in the business.
increasing the energy yield per tonne of CO emitted.
2 Link to our Values Link to our Values Link to our Values Link to our Values Be challenging Be challenging Be challenging Be caring Be trusted Be tenacious Be tenacious Be tenacious Be tenacious Be challenging dssmith.
