6 Strategic Report Our Supply Cycle Delivering more than a box.
Our Supply Cycle touches every part of our customers operations.
Supply chain only tells half the story and misses the bigger picture.
For everything that goes one way in the chain, something moves the other way too.
1 Delivering more... transport cost reductions DS Smith Recycling Manufacturer 2 5 Delivering more... Delivering more faster packing recycling PRODUCT lines SUPPLY Logistics Consumer provider CYCLE Regional Shop distribution centres 4 3 Delivering more Delivering more sales cost savings Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Report 7 We call this Supply Cycle Thinking.
WE ARE SUPPLY CYCLE It is a unified approach for every area STRATEGISTS of our business.
It makes our customers Were driven by anticipating and solving lives easier by creating simplicity in our customers problems.
By using our otherwise complicated supply chains.
expertise from design to production and d supply to recycling, we can offer high quality, innovative solutions and great service that looks at the whole of their packaging needs, not just one part.
Delivering more... transport cost 1 reductions Our customers are looking to DS Smith to support them in reducing freight costs within their increasingly global and complex supply cycles.
We have developed a packaging module for one of the top 10 global automotive parts manufacturers which generates substantial supply chain cost savings.
The solution eliminates staples and strapping operations, reducing injury risks and labour costs, whilst also reducing recycling costs with a single material design.
However, the biggest saving is in transportation costs, with our customer shipping c. 200,000 modules per year from Europe to Brazil.
The packaging solution offers freight savings amounting to c. 15 per cent of their annual shipment 15% costs, with 76 thousand tonnes of packaging materials no longer being shipped across oceans, and our customers CO 2 saving in footprint improved at the same time.
com 8 Strategic Report Our Supply Cycle continued Delivering more... faster packing lines 2 The point at which a box is filled with the primary product on our customers' packing lines can slow up the packing line process.
We have patented technology that means that our customers packing lines run faster and with fewer breakdowns.
One of our largest customers finds that this delivers them such benefits, we now license this technology to manufacturers in the US and Japan, where we do not operate, so that our customer benefits globally.
20% faster packing lines Delivering more... with DS Smith technology 3 cost savings We look at the whole supply chain.
One customer, Nestl, was looking for savings in relation to its display packaging unit for their Purina cat-food range.
One point of expense was co-packing, where the packs coming from the factory were being manually unpacked and re-assembled into the display for the retailer.
Working with Nestl, we helped them re-design the packaging so that the whole process was automated.
In doing so, our customer achieved savings worth approximately 50 per cent of their expenditure on this type of packaging.
A An nnual nual R Re ep po or rt t & & Acc Acco oun unfit ts s 20 201 14 4 Strategic Report 9 Delivering more... 4 sales Retail-ready packaging is packaging that serves a dual purpose, both protecting the product during transportation, then transforming into part of the consumer display at the point of sale at the retailer.
This saves the retailer time and reduces their costs as the products slide directly onto the shelf rather than requiring unloading and stacking.
Advanced retail-ready packaging may also feature self merchandising mechanisms that push product to the front of the display, which are shown to improve the rate of sales.
Once used, retailers then collect the corrugated packaging used in store which can then be recycled.
2.2% volume growth in corrugated box sales 2013 14 #1 packaging supplier to Nestl 2013 Delivering more... recycling 5 In Poland, Tesco uses its logistics network to return used cardboard from stores to their distribution centres, where DS Smith have installed balers to facilitate the collection of baled material to be delivered into DS Smith Paper mills in Germany and local Polish partner mills.
This has resulted in 67 per cent of cardboard being sent direct to the mill.
Similarly, in the Czech Republic DS Smith worked with Tesco to improve the efficiency of used cardboard collection, using the retailers own delivery vehicles to take recyclate to its purpose built recycling facility.
5.4 million Since October 2013 over 83 per cent of cardboard tonnes recovered fibre collected has gone direct to mill.
handled by DS Smith per By joining up processes and adopting DS Smiths annum Supply Cycle Thinking, this has resulted in a significant uplift in income from waste across Tescos estate in Poland and Czech Republic.
