2 Strategic Report Our Business Model Delivering value by bringing our packaging, paper, recycling and plastics operations together, letting us see the bigger picture.
Our business model is simple we design and manufacture corrugated packaging.
In order to support that model, we have a recycling business that collects used paper and corrugated cardboard, from which our paper manufacturing facilities make the recycled paper used in corrugated packaging.
We also design and manufacture certain types of plastic packaging, in particular, the plastic bags and taps for bag-in-box packaging and rigid crates for bottled liquids.
Balance of our combined businesses million tonnes Corrugated 3.0 Packaging Corrugated Paper 2.2 manufacture Fibre sourcing 5.4 Recycling Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Report 3 OUR BUSINESS MODEL See page 4 for an in-depth look into our business model.
RECYCLING CUSTOMER SUPPLY CYCLE PAPER PACKAGING See page 6 for more about our Supply Cycle.
PLASTICS View our Supply Cycle Thinking at www.
com company who-we-are  ds ds dss s smith.
mi mit thc h. com co om 4 Strategic Report Our Business Model continued We work to leverage our scale and geographic footprint to supply our customers with the innovative products they need, with a level of service and quality that they demand, to optimise the efficiency of their supply chains.
MARKET CONTEXT OUR BUSINESS The collection of old corrugated card OCC is part DS Smiths recycling business sources used paper and OCC direct of the waste and recycling industry.
In the UK, from retailers and also from traders.
It is primarily used by our 7.9 million tonnes of used fibre are collected own paper mills to make recycled paper, with the remainder sold annually Source: CPI, of which DS Smith handles to other paper manufacturers or traders.
For some recycling c. 3.1 million tonnes, the largest participant in this customers, we extend our service by also collecting other used part of the market.
In Europe the market size for products e. g. glass or food waste and recycle them in RECYCLING used fibre is 57 million tonnes Source: CEPI of partnership with subcontractors.
which DS Smith handles 5.4 million tonnes.
OCC DS Smith is different to other recyclate collectors because we is traded within Europe and exported around the do not operate landfill sites we are solely focused on recycling.
OCC makes up approximately half of the total market volumes for used fibre.
The European market for corrugated case material DS Smith manufactures recycled paper, primarily CCM which CCM is c. 26 million tonnes per annum Source: is the paper grade used to make corrugated board.
We also CEPI of which 21 million tonnes is testliner CCM manufacture c. 360 thousand tonnes of other paper grades such from recycled material and the remainder is as core board and plasterboard liner, which are sold externally.
principally kraftliner CCM from virgin fibre.
The majority of the recycled CCM we make is used by our DS Smith manufactures 2.2 million tonnes of packaging manufacturing operations with some sold externally.
Paper is readily transportable and is traded globally.
The European market for corrugated packaging is DS Smith designs and manufactures corrugated packaging for 22 million tonnes Source: FEFCO 2012.
Germany is customers across Europe.
In a fragmented industry, we are able the largest market, at c. 21 per cent of the European to offer our customers a pan-European solution for their packaging total, followed by Italy, France, Spain and the UK.
needs using our network of 163 manufacturing sites across The market for corrugated packaging is fragmented 20 countries.
We also have the scale to invest in research and with a large number of local suppliers.
Due to the development, and to support a network of 15 design centres plus PACKAGING bulky nature of corrugated packaging and the three innovation centres, which we expect to expand to at least 30 customer requirements for short lead times, it is design centres and 10 innovation centres over the next two years.
typically transported no further than 200km.
The plastic packaging market is highly fragmented, Our Plastics business comprises two separate businesses: comprising numerous niche plastic packaging Flexible Packaging and Dispensing products.
In our core business of Flexible Packaging We design and manufacture plastic bags and taps fitments for and Dispensing we have a particularly strong use in bag-in-box packaging for liquids.
Our products are used position in the US.
Plastic packaging is readily for the transportation of beverages, concentrates, chemicals transportable and has a global market.
Bag-in-box packaging ranges from PLASTICS industrial containers, units for dispensing in a retail outlet, to units designed to be purchased by the end consumer.
We also have a modified atmosphere packaging business for transporting fresh food produce.
Rigid Packaging We design and manufacture a range of rigid plastic packaging typically used for the transit of beverages, healthcare products, automotive products and in retail.
This business is largely based in Europe.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Report 5 HOW WE CREATE VALUE We add value to our customers by helping them to improve their recycling rates and maximise the revenue they receive by maintaining clean and well segregated used paper, board and other Operating in recyclates.
This then assists our customers achieve their environmental goals.
We make our the UK, France, Germany, profit through the efficiency and scale of our fibre sourcing operations and value added services we provide to our customers.
Benelux, Poland and In addition to sourcing paper fibre, the Recycling business is important to our Packaging business Czech Republic because it gives us a direct point of contact with retailers, who set the requirements for the packaging of the products they sell.
c. 600 employees We seek to integrate our paper manufacturing operations with our packaging operations as much as practicable.
We are therefore investing in recycled paper best suited for high quality 5 major mills recycled packaging, such as white-top and light-weight CCM grades.
Nearly half of our recycled in the UK, Netherlands, CCM produced is either light-weight, high performance or white-top grades, and production of value-adding grades has increased by 35 per cent versus the prior year.
By using this type of Germany and Italy paper, in combination with design changes, we are able to reduce the amount of virgin fibre used in our corrugated products.
c. 2,000 employees Good packaging is more than just a box.
We work with our customers, analysing every point in We have a presence in their supply chain touched by packaging.
We look at each stage and consider how to maximise the value for our customer through the design of the packaging.
We then manufacture and 20 countries and deliver the packaging with high quality and service leading standards.
Our customers are principally fast-moving consumer goods companies, who require packaging for 163 manufacturing sites the grocery goods supplied to supermarkets across Europe.
We also serve the industrials market, for example, supplying packaging for the transportation of car parts, or for wholesale quantities of chemicals.
c. 16,700 The customer then sells its product to the retailer, delivered in our packaging.
The product is employees then either unpacked on to the retailers shelf immediately, and the packaging recycled, or the packaging is converted to its retail-ready form on the shelf.
Specialist plastic packaging applications are developed in collaboration with our customers and can include significant intellectual property.
We own hundreds of patents covering our 26 manufacturing sites plastics products.
Where we have a design that fulfils a customers particular requirement, we can then roll out across wide geographic areas from our existing manufacturing sites as 14 countries the product is easily transported.
