10 Strategic Report Our Strategy Delivering growth through offering great service, quality, innovation and environmental solutions to our customers.
Our Recycling, Packaging and Plastics Building a sustainable business businesses deliver higher returns on capital model to deliver sustainable on a more consistent basis compared to the returns is core to our strategy manufacture of paper and, therefore, it is what do we mean by this?
part of our strategy to be a net purchaser of paper rather than a fully integrated operator.
A sustainable business is one that consistently delivers returns on capital Within our packaging business, we focus above its cost of capital year-in, year-out.
in particular on fast-moving consumer That is why return on average capital goods FMCG customers businesses employed ROACE is our most important that produce everyday consumer goods key performance indicator.
ROACE above such as food, drink and household products.
the cost of capital means that a business The demand for these products is relatively is able to pay for its capital expenditure, consistent, even in difficult economic times, service its debt and deliver acceptable which means that the demand for packaging returns to equity providers.
If ROACE falls for these products is also steady.
It is a beneath the cost of capital then, mediumstrategic aim to increase our proportion Miles Roberts term, there will be pressure on these areas of revenue from FMCG customers in the Group Chief Executive and the business would not be sustainable.
In a capital-intensive business such as the By focusing on our strategic goals, as set manufacture of paper and packaging, out in more detail on the following pages, return on capital is, therefore, key.
we are confident we will build a successful What does that mean in practice?
First, we and sustainable business.
focus on where we have the opportunity to deliver good returns on capital.
Second, we focus on businesses where the returns are consistent because it is not enough to deliver on our targets some years and not others.
Miles Roberts Group Chief Executive Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Report 11 OUR VISION To become the leader in recycled packaging for consumer goods.
OUR STRATEGIC GOALS To delight our To realise the To deliver consistent To lead the way customers by: potential of our shareholder value by: in recycling by: people by: Delivering on all our Creating a place where Winning market share Building sustainability commitments people are proud to work and expanding into into our decisions and give their best new markets Further improving our Growing our recycling quality standards Building a common culture Building a resilient and platform across Europe sustainable business model Driving innovation Ensuring the safety of all Building industry-leading customer services STRATEGIC GROWTH AREAS Pan-European Germany, Service and and FMCG Central product customers & Eastern innovation Europe We expect these regions to deliver We plan to grow our revenues from We invest significantly in research and volume growth in excess of the Group pan-European customers and from development, with substantial further growth rate by organic growth, driven FMCG customers.
We expect to grow investment at the product design and by the opportunity to serve customers with our pan-European customers, who development level which takes place on a pan-European basis and, in the are predominantly FMCG businesses, throughout the business.
We are case of Central and Eastern Europe, by expanding our service to these investing in our network of design strong market growth.
customers across their European base, centres, where our packaging technicians with consistent high standards of work with customers to design packaging, service, quality and innovation.
using our technical database of designs in conjunction with retail simulation tools.
We are extending our network of design centres from 15 to 30 and impact and innovation centres, from three to 10, by the end of 2015.
See pages 12-13 to see how we measure our performance against each of our strategic goals.
