DIRECTORS AND A Audit and Risk Committee member OFFICERS B Nominations Committee member C Remuneration Committee member Geoff Cooper B C Leads investor presentations and attends Non-Executive Chairman shareholder meetings.
Key strengths: A former CEO with extensive Joined Dunelm Board: November 2004. experience in international general management, Previous Experience: Qualified accountant.
the retail sector, finance and IT.
Long-standing plc Formerly a Director of Gateway subsequently experience and shareholder understanding.
Then Finance Director and Dunelm role: Chairs the Board.
Member of the subsequently Deputy Chief Executive of Alliance Remuneration and Nominations Committees and UniChem plc.
Chief Executive of Travis Perkins plc attends Audit and Risk Committee meetings between 2005 and 2013. by invitation.
Other Commitments: Non-Executive Chairman of Regularly visits stores to meet store colleagues Bourne Leisure Holdings Limited and Card Factory plc: and members of the senior management team.
Non-Executive Director of Informa plc.
Will Adderley B Committee and attends Audit & Risk Committee Chief Executive meetings by invitation.
Key strengths: Has worked in, and is familiar with, Joined Dunelm Board: 1992, and has worked for all parts of the Group.
Specific strengths in buying Dunelm for his whole career.
He took over the dayand trading with strong and long-standing supplier to-day running of the Group from his father in 1996. relationships.
Has been instrumental in growing the Remained as Chief Executive through the Groups Group to its current size having developed the out-ofIPO in 2006.
Became Deputy Chairman in town format in the late 1990s.
February 2011 and was reappointed Chief Executive in September 2014.
Dunelm role: Leads the Group and chairs the Executive Board.
In addition to his board role, provides Previous Experience: All parts of Dunelms business.
liaison with the Remuneration Committee for reward Other Commitments: None.
Member of the Nominations David Stead Joined Dunelm Board: September 2003.
Finance Director Previous Experience: Qualified accountant.
Formerly Key strengths: Finance background and extensive plc 14 years at Boots where he was Finance Director of experience.
Understanding of investor community and Boots The Chemists and Finance Director of Boots company secretarial matters.
An experienced strategic Healthcare International.
and financial perspective across all Group functions.
Other Commitments: Non-Executive Director of Dunelm role: Leads the finance and HR departments, Card Factory plc.
as well as taking responsibility for a number of crossfunctional initiatives.
Participates in Audit and Risk Committee meetings by invitation and sits on the Executive Board.
A B Simon Emeny C Joined Dunelm Board: June 2007.
Non-Executive Director Previous Experience: Sales and marketing, Key strengths: A current CEO with extensive general customer service and general management in the management experience in a retail model, customer brewing and hospitality sector.
Long-standing plc Other Commitments: Chief Executive of Fuller Smith experience and shareholder understanding.
Dunelm role: Regularly visits stores to meet store colleagues and members of the senior management team.
Attends investor presentations and shareholder meetings.
Marion Sears A B C on corporate governance matters.
Attends investor Non-Executive Senior Independent Director presentations and shareholder meetings.
Chair of Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
Key strengths: Extensive City, investor and banking Previous Experience: Robert Fleming, JP Morgan experience including mergers and acquisitions.
Long-standing plc Other Commitments: Non-Executive Director of experience and shareholder understanding.
Persimmon plc, Fidelity European Values plc and Dunelm role: Regularly visits stores to meet store Octopus AIM VCT plc.
colleagues and members of the senior management team.
Together with the Chairman, takes specific responsibility for co-ordinating the Boards corporate governance duties and for liaising with shareholders 30 Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financials Matt Davies A B C Dunelm role: Regularly visits stores to meet store Non-Executive Director colleagues and members of the senior management team.
Attends investor presentations and shareholder Chair of Audit and Risk Committee.
Chairs the Audit and Risk Committee.
Key strengths: A current Chief Executive with Joined Dunelm Board: February 2012. extensive general management experience in retail with focus on HR, marketing, trading and customer service.
A successful track record of building a branded outChief Executive of Pets at Home.
of-town retail group nationwide in the UK with a strong Other Commitments: Chief Executive of service offer.
Experience of the private equity industry Halfords Group plc.
Liz Doherty A B C Joined Dunelm Board: May 2013.
Non-Executive Director Previous Experience: Qualified accountant.
Finance Key strengths: A former Finance Director with Director of Reckitt Benckiser plc, Brambles Limited extensive operational experience in international Australia and Group International Finance Director of consumer and retail businesses, specifically with Tesco plc.
Nokia Corporation and Delhaize Group.
A B C Andy Harrison Joined Dunelm Board: September 2014.
Non-Executive Director Previous Experience: Chief Executive of easyJet Key strengths: A current CEO with considerable plc from 2005 to 2010.
Chief Executive of RAC plc experience of leading large consumer facing between 1996 and 2005.
Non-Executive Director organisations with a strong service offer.
and chair of Audit Committee at EMAP plc from Long-standing plc experience and shareholder 2000 to 2008. understanding.
Other Commitments: Chief Executive Officer of Dunelm role: Regularly visits stores to meet Whitbread PLC.
store colleagues and members of the senior management team.
Dawn Durrant Joined Dunelm: November 2011.
Company Secretary Previous Experience: Qualified as a solicitor at Allen Key strengths: Extensive plc company secretarial & Overy.
Company Secretary of Geest plc.
and legal experience including corporate governance, Other Commitments: None.
legal and regulatory compliance, mergers and acquisitions, company and commercial, retail and consumer law.
Dunelm role: Responsible for governance, legal and regulatory matters.
Bill Adderley Founder and Life President Together with his wife Jean, founded the business in 1979.
Although no longer on the Board or actively involved in management, Bill and Jean remain major shareholders.
Nick Wharton was a Director and Chief Executive of the Group during the financial period and up until 10 September 2014.
Note that with effect from 12 September 2014 the above responsibilities change.
Please see the section headed Change of Non-Executive Director Responsibilities on page 35.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 31
