Strategic report Governance Financials DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their report together with the audited financial statements for the year ended 28 June 2014.
Where reference is made to other sections of the Annual Report and Accounts, these sections are incorporated into this report by reference.
Strategic report The Groups Strategic Report is set out on pages 2 to 28.
This contains an indication of likely future developments in the business of the Company and the Group.
Results and dividends The consolidated profit for the year after taxation was 89.1m 2013: 81.5m.
The results are discussed in greater detail in the Finance Directors review on pages 12 to 13.
A final dividend of 15.0 per share 2013: 11.5p is proposed in respect of the year ended 28 June 2014 to add to an interim dividend of 5.0p per share paid on 11 April 2013 2013: 4.5p.
The final dividend will be paid on 19 December 2014 to shareholders on the register at 28 November 2014.
Special dividend On 11 October 2013, 25.0p per Ordinary Share was returned to shareholders by way of a Special Dividend.
Shareholder and voting rights All members who hold Ordinary Shares are entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting.
On a show of hands at a general meeting every member present in person shall have one vote and on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every Ordinary Share held.
On 2 October 2006, Jean Adderley, Bill Adderley and Will Adderley all shareholders entered into a Relationship Agreement with the Company, pursuant to which each of Jean Adderley, Bill Adderley and Will Adderley undertook to the Company that, for so long as, individually or together, they are entitled to exercise, or to control the exercise of, 30% or more of the rights to vote at general meetings of the Company or they are able to control the appointment of directors who are able to exercise a majority of votes at Board meetings of the Company, they will: conduct all transactions and relationships with any member of the Group on arms length terms and on a normal commercial basis: not take any action which precludes or inhibits any member of the Group from carrying on its business independently of Jean and Bill Adderley and their associates as defined in the Listing Rules : not exercise any of their voting rights or other powers to procure any amendment to the Articles of Association of the Company which would be inconsistent with or undermine any of the provisions of the Relationship Agreement: abstain from voting on any resolution to which LR11.7.
R 4 of the Listing Rules applies involving Jean Adderley, Bill Adderley or Will Adderley or any of their associates as the related party: not carry on other than through their holding of securities of the Company or have any financial interest other than a financial interest in securities which are held for investment purposes only in any person who carries on a business as a homewares retailer, to the extent that it would be inconsistent with or undermine any provisions of the Relationship Agreement: and only enter into, amend or terminate any transaction, agreement or relationship between themselves or any of their associates and any member of the Group with the approval of a majority of the independent Non-Executive Directors.
WA Capital Limited and Nadine Adderley, to whom Will Adderley has transferred shares by way of a gift, have subsequently become party to this agreement.
In July 2014, the Relationship Agreement was amended so as to comply with Listing Rule LR 9.2.
2A 2 a, which came into effect on 16 May 2014.
The following additional undertakings were given by the parties: No action will be taken that would have the effect of preventing the Company from complying with its obligations under the Listing Rules: and No resolution will be proposed, or procured to be proposed, which Is intended to, or appears to be intended to circumvent the proper application of the Listing Rules.
In addition, a resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting in 2014 to amend the Articles of Association of the Company so that it allows the election and re-election of Independent Directors to be conducted in accordance with the election provisions set out in LR9.2.
This means that the election or re-election of each Independent Director at the Annual General Meeting will be subject to an additional resolution upon which parties controlling 30% or more of the voting shares of the Company are not eligible to vote.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 73 DIRECTORS REPORT continued The Company confirms that it has complied with its obligations under the Relationship Agreement during the financial period under review, and that so far as it is aware all other parties to that agreement have complied with it.
The Company confirms that there are no contracts of significance between any member of the Group and any of the parties to the Relationship Agreement, with the exception of Will Adderleys service agreement as a Director of the Company, the terms of which are outlined in the Remuneration Report.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of Ordinary Shares in the Company other than certain restrictions imposed by laws and regulations such as insider trading and marketing requirements relating to close periods and requirements of the Listing Rules whereby Directors and certain employees of the Company require Board approval to deal in the Companys securities.
Change of control The Company is not party to any significant agreements which take effect, alter or terminate solely on a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for additional compensation for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Share capital and treasury shares The Company has only one class of shares, Ordinary Shares of 1p each.
The issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company has increased by 3,743 Ordinary Shares during the period due to the exercise of share options.
Details of option exercises by Directors are set out above.
At 28 June 2014 the Company held 936,498 Ordinary Shares in treasury 2013: nil.
During the period the Company purchased 1,706,154 Ordinary Shares into treasury, and transferred 769,656 to employees who exercised options under a share incentive scheme.
4,731 Ordinary Shares have been moved out of treasury since the period end to employees who exercised options under a share incentive scheme.
Substantial shareholders At 11 September 2014 the following had notified the Company of a disclosable interest in 3% or more of the nominal value of the Companys Ordinary Shares: Percentage Ordinary of Shares share capital 61,890,303 30.6 Will Adderley 48,070,000 23.7 Bill Adderley 7,514,493 3.72 Kames Capital Will Adderley is also deemed to hold a legal interest in 1,167,250 Ordinary Shares held by The Stoneygate Trust formerly known as The Leicester Foundation and 172,750 Ordinary Shares held by the Paddocks Discretionary Trust, by virtue of the fact that he is a trustee of those trusts.
Directors The Directors of the Company and their biographies are set out on pages 30 to 31.
Details of changes to the Board during the period are set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 33.
Powers of Directors Specific powers of the Directors in relation to shares and the Companys Articles of Association are referred to in the Corporate Governance report on page 40.
Employee information Information relating to employees of the Group is set out in the Corporate Social Responsibility report on page 22.
Share incentive schemes in which employees participate are described in the Remuneration Report on pages 51 and 52.
74 Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financials Greenhouse gas emissions The Corporate Social Responsibility report on page 28 sets out the greenhouse gas emissions disclosures required by the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
Treasury and risk management The Groups approach to treasury and financial risk management is explained in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties section on page 19.
Going concern The Directors have made appropriate enquiries and formed a judgement at the time of approving the financial statements that there is a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Auditor On 14 January 2014,  LLP were appointed auditor to the Group following the resignation of KPMG LLP, who were unsuccessful in the audit tender.
In accordance with section 489 of the Companies Act 2006 and the recommendation of the Audit and Risk Committee, a resolution is to be proposed at the AGM for the appointment of  LLP as auditors of the Group.
Disclaimer This Directors Report and Business Review and the Financial Statements contain certain forward-looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results, operations and business of Dunelm Group plc.
These statements and forecasts involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend upon circumstances that will occur in the future.
There are a number of factors that could cause actual results or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forwardlooking statements and forecasts.
Nothing in this Directors Report and Business Review or in these Financial Statements should be construed as a profit forecast.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at 9.30am on Tuesday 11 November 2014 at the offices of MHP Communications, 60 Great Portland Street, London W1W 7RT.
A formal notice of meeting, explanatory circular and a form of proxy will accompany this report and accounts.
This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 11 September 2014.
Dawn Durrant Company Secretary 11 September 2014 Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 75
