Strategic report Governance Financials STRATEGY Dunelm aims to provide market leading choice and The value, breadth of choice and expertise inherent in the complementary expertise at great value.
proposition are communicated to customers via the strapline Theres no place like Dunelm.
Dunelms customer proposition offers industry-leading choice of quality products at keen prices, with high levels of availability Dunelm has four strategic pillars that deliver an unbeatable and supported by expert, friendly service.
Core ranges include customer proposition and underpin further profitable growth.
many exclusive designs and premium brands such as Dorma, supported by a frequently changing series of special buys.
The superstore format provides an average of 30,000 sq ft of selling space with over 20,000 products across a broad spectrum of categories, extending from the Groups home textiles heritage bedding, curtains, cushions, quilts and pillows to a complete homewares offer including kitchenware and dining, lighting, wall art, furniture and rugs.
1 2 Develop our specialist proposition Develop the store portfolio Dunelms competitive advantage stems from our success in Our store opening programme is intended to exploit the complementing strong product credentials range, choice strength of our in-store proposition by making it accessible and value with excellent customer service and increased to more customers.
This will allow us to grow market share, brand awareness.
The first pillar of our strategy is to ensure revenues and profit.
We aim to grow the portfolio to 200 we retain and build this advantage.
superstores over the medium term.
Current position Current position 20,000 products across different Homewares categories 137 superstores stores trading providing 4.0 million sq ft available with 30% of ranges refreshed annually selling space Customer First service ethos embedded across the 11 stores legally complete and expected to open in the business next 12 months Nationwide coverage of made-to-measure curtains and Consistently strong payback on new store openings blinds service, including free in-home consultations significantly ahead of our 36 month target Growing brand awareness through cross-media Refit programme maintains a contemporary retail chain campaigns 3 4 Grow multi-channel Develop and exploit our infrastructure Recognising the trend for customers to interact with retailers Investment in our business infrastructure across IT systems, across multiple touch points, our aim is to drive growth by supply-chain facilities and people has been a key contributor providing a high quality experience in new channels on-line to Dunelms success.
Our strategy is to continue to invest and contact centre as well as in stores.
ahead of our anticipated growth curve.
Current position Current position 60% of Dunelm shopping journeys now include more than Enterprise wide SAP system in place, upgraded in 2013 one channel New Made to Measure system developed and deployed 6% of Company revenues now generated on-line to all stores to enhance bespoke curtains offer Dedicated web fulfilment centre supporting 15,000 lines Central warehouse reconfigured to support increased available for next day home delivery with on-line only direct sourced product and store-efficient deliveries range extensions in furniture and outdoor categories Investments in specialist central teams including Senior New website platform to be launched imminently, Management, IT, Buying and Multi-channel enhancing customer experience and supporting future growth Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 5
