Board of Directors John Barton Charles Gurassa Carolyn McCall OBE Non-Executive Chairman Non-Executive Deputy Chairman Chief Executive and Senior Independent Director John 1944 was appointed to the Board of Carolyn 1961 joined easyJet on 1 July 2010 easyJet as Chairman on 1 May 2013.
He is also as Chief Executive and was appointed to the Charles 1956 was appointed to the Board Chairman of Next plc and Catlin Group Ltd Board of easyJet.
Prior to this, she was Chief of easyJet as an independent Non-Executive the international insurance underwriters.
Executive of Guardian Media Group.
Director on 27 June 2011 and became Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director on John has also served as Chairman of Cable Carolyn joined the Burberry plc board as a 1 September 2011.
Charles is the Chair of the and Wireless Worldwide plc, Brit Holdings plc, Non-Executive Director in September 2014.
Wellington Underwriting plc and was previously She was a Non-Executive Director of Lloyds He is currently Non-Executive Chairman of Senior Independent Director of WHSmith plc TSB from 2008 to 2009, Non-Executive Genesis Housing Association and NetNames and Hammerson plc.
He was also the Chief Director of Tesco PLC from 2005 to 2008 and Senior Independent Director at Merlin Executive of the insurance broker JIB Group and Non-Executive Director of New Look from Entertainments plc.
After JIBs merger with 1999 to 2005.
She was Chair of Opportunity Lloyd Thomson in 1997, he became Chairman Now and a former President of Women in Charles career has been spent primarily in the of the combined group, Jardine Lloyd Advertising and Communications London travel, tourism and leisure industries, where he Thompson Group plc, a role he held until 2001.
She has also sat on the Royal has held a number of senior positions including Academy of Arts Corporate Board since Chief Executive of Thomson Travel Group Plc, John is a chartered accountant and received September 2008.
Director of TUI AG, Executive Chairman of TUI an MBA from Strathclyde University.
Northern Europe and Director of Passenger Carolyn was awarded the OBE for services to and Cargo at British Airways.
Previously he women in business in 2008.
In April 2008, she was Non-Executive Chairman of LOVEFiLM, was named Veuve Clicquot Business Woman Phones4U, Virgin Mobile plc, Alamo National of the Year.
Rent a Car and Tragus, a Non-Executive Director at Whitbread plc, and an advisory Carolyn graduated from Kent University with Board member of Alpitour.
Charles is Deputy a BA in History and Politics and from London Chairman of the National Trust and a trustee University with a Masters in Politics.
of the Migration Museum project.
Dr. Andreas Bierwirth John Browett Professor Rigas Doganis Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Andreas 1971 was appointed to the Board John 1963 was appointed to the Board of Rigas 1939 was appointed to the Board of of easyJet on 22 July 2014.
Andreas is easyJet on 27 September 2007 and is the easyJet on 1 December 2005 and is Chair of currently Chief Executive Officer of T-Mobile Chair of the IT Governance and Oversight the Safety Committee.
Rigas is an aviation Austria GmbH, a position he has held since Committee.
He is currently Chief Executive consultant and strategy adviser to airlines, 1 September 2012.
Officer of Monsoon Accessorize and was airports, banks and governments around the previously Senior Vice President of Retail at world.
He is Chairman of the European Aviation Andreas previously served as a Member of Apple Inc.
Prior to joining Apple in 2012, John Club in Brussels.
the Board at Austrian Airlines AG between was Chief Executive Officer of Dixons Retail plc 2008 and 2012, where he held the role of He is a former Chairman and Chief Executive for four years and also held a number of Chief Commercial Officer.
Between 2006 Officer of Olympic Airways and was formerly a Executive Director positions at Tesco PLC, and 2008, Andreas served as Vice President Non-Executive Director of South African Airways.
including Operations Development Director, Marketing of Deutsche Lufthansa AG Group Strategy Director, and running Rigas was Professor and Head of the Air Frankfurt.
Prior to this, Andreas was first tesco.
com from 2000 to 2004 where he was Transport Department at Cranfield University Deputy Managing Director and later Managing responsible for formulating and delivering its and is still a Visiting Professor there.
He is also Director at Germanwings between October strategy from launch to profitability.
Between the author of books on aviation economics 2002 and September 2006.
During this time 1993 and 1998, John was at the Boston and management.
the foundation and the business launch of Consulting Group.
Germanys first low-cost airline took place.
Rigas is stepping down from the Board on John is a graduate of Cambridge University 1 December 2014.
Andreas trained as a banker and economist and Wharton Business School.
as well as being licensed as a commercial pilot.
54 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Governance Chris Kennedy Adle Anderson David Bennett Chief Financial Officer Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Chris 1964 joined easyJet on 1 July 2010 as Adle 1965 was appointed to the Board of David 1962 was appointed to the Board of Chief Financial Officer and was appointed to easyJet on 1 September 2011 and was appointed easyJet on 1 October 2005.
He is currently the Board of easyJet.
Chair of the Audit and Finance Committees on Chairman of Homeserve Membership Ltd and 12 June 2014 and 1 July 2014, respectively.
Until a Non-Executive Director of Jerrold Holdings After graduating from Cambridge with a July 2011, Adle was a partner in KPMG and held Ltd, PayPal Europe S. a. r. l et Cie, S. C. A. and degree in Engineering, Chris worked in audit roles including Chief Financial Officer of KPMG Cheshire Mortgage Corporation Ltd. and consultancy before spending two years UK, Chief Executive Officer of KPMGs captive as a venture capitalist and banker.
David has had a long career in the financial insurer and Chief Financial Officer of KPMG services sector and was both Group Finance Europe.
Adle is also a Non-Executive Director In 1993, Chris joined EMI Music where he Director and Group Chief Executive of Alliance of Intu Properties plc, where she chairs the worked both in the UK and the US, covering & Leicester plc until its sale to Santander Audit Committee and is a member of the a variety of roles including UK Chief Financial in 2008.
David has also held a number of Remuneration Committee.
She is a member of Officer, European Chief Operating Officer senior positions in Abbey National, Alliance the Board of Trustees of both Save the Children and International Chief Financial Officer.
In & Leicester, Cheltenham & Gloucester, Lloyds UK and Save the Children International and chair early 2008 he joined the EMI Music Board TSB and the National Bank of New Zealand.
of the Audit Committee of Save the Children as Chief Financial Officer and then Chief International.
Adle graduated from Kent Investment Officer.
David stepped down from the Board on University with BSc Hons in Mathematics 1 October 2014. and Computer Science.
Keith Hamill OBE Andy Martin Franois Rubichon Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Keith 1952 was appointed to the Board of Andy 1960 was appointed to the Board of Franois 1963 was appointed to the Board easyJet on 1 March 2009.
He has considerable easyJet on 1 September 2011.
He is currently of easyJet on 22 July 2014. experience as a director of listed companies Group Chief Operating Officer-Europe, UK Franois is currently serving as the Executive and is currently a Non-Executive Director of and Japan for Compass Group PLC.
Vice President of Human Resources, General Samsonite International SA and Max Property Prior to joining Compass Group in 2004 as Affairs and Organisation at Socit Franaise Group plc, as well as being chairman of a Group Finance Director, Andy was a partner du Radiotlphone SFR, a position which number of private equity-financed and AIM in Arthur Andersen and held senior financial he has held since September 2013.
positions with Forte PLC and Granada Group Prior to this, Franois was Deputy Chief He was previously Chairman of Go prior PLC.
Following the disposal of the Hotels Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officer to its acquisition by easyJet in 2002 and Division in 2001, Andy joined First Choice of Aroports fide Paris for seven years.
He was Chairman of Tullett Prebon, Holidays PLC now TUI Travel PLC as Group 2002 and 2005, he worked in a number of Collins Stewart, Heath Lambert and the Finance Director.
advisory positions within government for the Council of The University of Nottingham and a Andy graduated from Manchester University Minister of Transport, Infrastructure, Housing, Non-Executive Director of Electrocomponents with a BA in Economics and is a member Tourism and Maritime Affairs, and as a social and Cadmus Communications Corp.
He was of the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
advisor to the French Prime Minister.
Franois Finance Director of WHSmith, Forte and also formerly held the positions of Chairman United Distillers and a partner in Price of Publi-Trans La Poste Group, Chief Waterhouse from 1986 to 1988.
Executive Officer of GeoPost Logistics, Keith is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered and Managing Director of Sofipost holding Accountants.
company for La Poste subsidiaries.
Franois graduated from the Paris Institut dtudes Politiques 1985 and the cole Nationale Suprieure, Post et Tlcommunications 1989. www.
