Governance Directors report The Directors present the Directors report, together with Dividend the audited accounts for the year ended 30 September The Directors are recommending an ordinary dividend, 2014.
The Directors report comprises pages 89 to 92, with a payout ratio of 40% of profit after tax, of 180 and the sections of the annual report incorporated by million or 45.4 pence per share.
The ordinary dividend is reference are set out below: subject to shareholder approval at the Companys Annual General Meeting to be held on 12 February 2015.
Appointment and retirement of Directors Membership of Board during 2014 See pages Subject to applicable law, a Director may be appointed by financial year 54 to 55 an ordinary resolution of shareholders in general meeting following nomination by the Board or a member or members entitled to vote at such meeting, or following Financial instruments and financial See pages retirement by rotation if the Director chooses to seek risk management 122 to 128 re-election at a general meeting.
In addition, the Directors may appoint a Director to fill a vacancy or as an additional Director, provided that the individual retires at the next See pages Greenhouse gas emissions Annual General Meeting.
A Director may be removed by 47 to 48 the Company as provided for by applicable law, in certain circumstances set out in the Companys Articles of Association for example bankruptcy or resignation, See pages Corporate governance report or by an ordinary resolution of the Company in general 52 to 70 meeting.
All Directors stand for election at the Annual General Meeting following their appointment, and Future developments of the business See page stand for re-election on an annual basis in line with the of the Group 17 recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Powers conferred on the Directors in relation to issuing or buying back shares See page Employee equality and diversity Subject to applicable law and the Companys Articles of 41 Association the Directors may exercise all powers of the Company, including the power to authorise the issue and or market purchase of the Companys shares subject to See pages Employee involvement an appropriate authority being given to the Directors by 38 to 41 shareholders in general meeting and any conditions attaching to such authority.
The shareholders delegated In accordance with the UK Financial Conduct the following powers in relation to the issuing or market Authoritys Listing Rules LR 9.8.
4C, the information purchase by the Company of its shares at the Companys to be included in the Annual report and accounts, 2014 Annual General Meeting: where applicable, under LR 9.8.
4, is set out in this authority to allot equity securities with a nominal value of Directors report, with the exception of details of up to approximately 10% of its issued share capital: and transactions with controlling shareholders which is set out on page 129 note 27 to the accounts.
authority to make market purchases of its own shares, up to a maximum of approximately 10% of the Companys issued share capital.
The annual report has been drawn up and presented in These standard authorities will expire on 13 May 2015, or accordance with English company law and the liabilities of at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2015, the Directors in connection with the report shall be subject whichever is the earlier.
The Directors will seek to renew to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
the authorities at the Annual General Meeting in 2015.
As easyJet plc is incorporated as a public limited company at 17 November 2014, neither authority had been exercised.
and is registered in England with the registered number During the 2014 financial year, 351,564 ordinary shares in 3959649. easyJet plcs registered office is Hangar 89, the Company were issued for cash to satisfy the exercise London Luton Airport, Luton, Bedfordshire, LU2 9PF.
of options granted under the Companys Discretionary The Companys registrars are Equiniti Limited who are Share Option Scheme see note 19 to the accounts.
situated at Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, However, these do not count against the allotment West Sussex, BN99 6DA.
authority granted by shareholders in accordance with Political donations and expenditure the Companies Act 2006. easyJet works constructively with all levels of government across its network, regardless of political affiliation.
easyJet believes in the rights of individuals to engage in the democratic process, however easyJet itself does not make any political donations and does not incur any political expenditure.
com 89 Directors report continued where a proposed transferee of the Companys shares Directors indemnities Directors and officers insurance cover has been has failed to furnish to the Directors a declaration of nationality together with such evidence as the Directors established for all Directors to provide cover against their reasonable actions on behalf of the Company.
A deed was may require as required by the Companys Articles of Association: and executed in 2007 indemnifying each of the Directors of the Company and or its subsidiaries as a supplement to the the powers given to the Directors by the Companys directors and officers insurance cover.
The indemnities, Articles of Association to limit the ownership of the which constitute a qualifying third party indemnity provision Companys shares by non-UK nationals and powers as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006, to enforce this limitation including the right to force were in force during the 2014 financial year and remain in a sale of any affected shares.
force for all current and past Directors of the Company.
There are no restrictions on exercising voting rights save Directors conflicts of interest in situations where the Company is legally entitled to Directors have a statutory duty to avoid situations in which impose such a restriction for example under the Articles they have, or may have, interests that conflict with those of of Association where amounts remain unpaid in the shares easyJet, unless that conflict is first authorised by the Board.
after request, or the holder is otherwise in default of an The Company has in place procedures for managing obligation to the Company.
The Company is not aware of conflicts of interest.
The Companys Articles of Association any arrangements between shareholders that may result in also contain provisions to allow the Directors to authorise restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights.
potential conflicts of interest so that a Director is not in breach of his her duty under company law.
Should a Employee share schemes rights of control Director become aware that he she has an interest, directly The trustee of the easyJet UK Share Incentive Plan or indirectly, in an existing or proposed transaction with the Plan will, on receipt of any offer, compromise, easyJet, he she should notify the Board in line with the arrangement or scheme which affects ordinary shares Companys Articles of Association.
Directors have a held in the Plan, or in relation to any resolutions proposed continuing duty to update any changes to their conflicts at a general meeting including the Annual General of interest.
Meeting, invite participants to direct the trustee on the exercise of any voting rights attaching to the ordinary Share capital and rights attaching to shares shares held by the trustee on their behalf and or direct how Details of the movements in authorised and issued the trustee shall act in relation to those ordinary shares.
share capital during the year are provided in note 18 to The trustee shall take no action in respect of ordinary the accounts on page 118. shares for which it has received no direction to vote, or ordinary shares which are unallocated.
On a poll, the On 30 September 2014 there was a single class of 396,857,135 ordinary shares of 27 2 7 pence in issue, trustee shall vote in accordance with directions given by participants.
In the absence of directions, or on a show each with one vote.
There were no shares held in treasury at that date.
of hands, the trustee shall not vote.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys The trustee of the easyJet plc Employee Benefit Trust the Trust, which is used to purchase shares on behalf ordinary shares are set out in its Articles of Association.
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled, subject to any of the Company for the benefit of employees, including in connection with the easyJet Long Term Incentive Plan and applicable law and the Companys Articles of Association, to: the International Share Incentive Plan, has the power to have shareholder documents made available to them, vote or not vote, at its absolute discretion in respect of including notice of any general meeting: any shares in the Company held unallocated in the Trust.
However, in accordance with good practice, the trustee attend, speak and exercise voting rights at adopts a policy of not voting in respect of such shares.
general meetings, either in person or by proxy: and Both the trustees of the easyJet UK Share Incentive Plan participate in any distribution of income or capital.
and the easyJet plc Employee Benefit Trust have a dividend Voting rights and restrictions on transfer of shares waiver in place in respect of shares which are the beneficial None of the ordinary shares carry any special rights property of each of the trusts.
with regard to control of the Company.
There are no Amendment of the Articles of Association restrictions on transfers of shares other than: The Companys Articles of Association may only be certain restrictions which may from time to time be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting imposed by laws or regulations such as those relating of the shareholders.
to insider dealing: Change of control provisions pursuant to the Companys Share Dealing Code, whereby The Company is not party to any significant agreements the Directors and designated employees require approval that would take effect, alter or terminate following a to deal in the Companys shares: change of control of the Company.
where a person with an interest in the Companys shares The Company does not have agreements with any Director has been served with a disclosure notice and has failed or employee that would provide compensation for loss of to provide the Company with information concerning office or employment resulting from a change of control interests in those shares: on takeover, except that provisions of the Companys share schemes and plans may cause options and awards granted to employees under such schemes and plans to vest on a takeover.
90 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Governance The Board confirms that, in accordance with the Listing Substantial interests In accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules Rules, on 14 November 2014, the Company entered into such an agreement with Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou easyJets DTR 5, the Company, as at 30 September 2014, has been notified of the following disclosable interests in its issued founder and easyGroup Holdings Limited, an entity in which Sir Stelios holds a beneficial interest and which ordinary shares: holds shares in the Company on behalf of Sir Stelios % of the Relationship Agreement.
Under the terms of the Number of issued share shares as capital as at Relationship Agreement, Sir Stelios and easyGroup Holdings notified to the 30 September Limited have agreed to procure the compliance of Polys Company 2014 and Clelia Haji-Ioannou with the independence obligations The Haji-Ioannou family 137,400,553 34.62% contained in the Relationship Agreement.
Sir Stelios, concert party shareholding, easyGroup, Polys and Clelia Haji-Ioannou together comprise consisting of easyGroup controlling shareholders of the Company who have a Holdings Ltd holding vehicle combined total holding of approximately 34.62% of the for Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou Companys voting rights.
and Clelia Haji-Ioannou The Board confirms that, since the entry into the and Polys Haji-Ioannou Relationship Agreement on 14 November 2014 until through his holding vehicle 17 November 2014, being the latest practicable date prior Polys Holding Limited to the publication of this Annual report and accounts: The Capital Group 35,932,207 9.05% i the Company has complied with the independence Companies, Inc. provisions included in the Relationship Agreement: Blackrock, Inc. 19,819,175 4.99% ii so far as the Company is aware, the independence Standard Life Investments Ltd provisions included in the Relationship Agreement have in relation to shares held been complied with by Sir Stelios, easyGroup, and Clelia through Vidacos Nominees 19,707,961 4.97% and Polys Haji-Ioannou and their associates: and Note: On 5 November 2014, The Capital Group Companies, Inc, iii so far as the Company is aware, the procurement disclosed an increase in shareholding to 10.01% 39,725,742 ordinary shares.
No other changes to the above have been disclosed to the obligation included in the Relationship Agreement has Company in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules been complied with by Sir Stelios and easyGroup.
DTR 5, between 30 September and 14 November 2014.
All interests disclosed to the Company in accordance with DTR 5 that have occurred since 30 September 2014 can be found at easyJets corporate website: http: corporate.
com investors Independent auditors A resolution to reappoint  LLP as auditors of the Company will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Relationship agreement with controlling shareholders Any person who exercises or controls on their own or together with any person with whom they are acting in concert, 30% or more of the votes able to be cast on all or substantially all matters at general meetings of a company are known as controlling shareholders.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules require companies with controlling shareholders to enter into a written and legally binding agreement which is intended to ensure that the controlling shareholder complies with certain independence provisions.
The agreement must contain undertakings that: a transactions and arrangements with the controlling shareholder and or any of its associates will be conducted at arms length and on normal commercial terms: b neither the controlling shareholder nor any of its associates will take any action that would have the effect of preventing the listed company from complying with its obligations under the Listing Rules: and c neither the controlling shareholder nor any of its associates will propose or procure the proposal of a shareholder resolution which is intended or appears to be intended to circumvent the proper application of the Listing Rules.
