Executive Management Team Alita Benson Warwick Brady Mike Campbell Group People Director Chief Operations Officer Group Director, Transformation Alita 1967 joined easyJet in February 2011 as Warwick 1964 is currently Chief Operations Mike 1957 is currently Group Director, Head of HR Central Services and in June 2011 Officer responsible for all of easyJets Transformation.
He joined easyJet in October was appointed Group People Director.
He joined easyJet in May 2009 2005 as People Director and was Group as Procurement Director responsible for fleet Director, Europe from 2011 to 2014.
Before joining easyJet, Alita was Head of management, airport, central procurement and HR Business Partners at T-Mobile for nine Before joining easyJet, Mike worked for a regulation.
In October 2010 he was appointed years and led the T-Mobile UK HR input for number of luxury goods brands in a variety of Director of Group Operations.
roles including Director of People and Brands Warwick joined the FirstGroup plc board as and Managing Director for Canada, Australia Alita is a fellow of CIPD and graduated from a Non-Executive Director in June 2014. and Pan-Asia.
Prior to that, Mike worked for Southampton University with a BA Hons 14 years in the technology sector in low-cost in English Literature.
She received a Post Before joining easyJet, Warwick was Chief businesses within the Fujitsu group in a range Graduate Diploma in Personnel Development Executive Officer at Mandala Airlines in Asia.
of transformation, integration and human at Manchester Polytechnic.
He also spent two years as Chief Operating resources roles and board positions across Officer of Air Deccan Kingfisher which, at the Europe, Asia, Africa and the Middle East, time, was Indias second-largest airline.
Prior to ending up as Chief Personnel Officer for this, Warwick was Deputy Operations Director Fujitsu Siemens.
His early career was in at Ryanair from 2002 to 2005 where he held education and research.
various senior executive roles including Deputy Chief Executive Officer of Buzz, following its Mike has a BSc in Mathematics and a Masters acquisition from KLM.
Prior to this Warwick worked in private equity for six years as well as a number of years with Thomson Airways.
Rachel Kentleton Cath Lynn Carolyn McCall OBE Group Director: Strategy and Group Commercial Director: Chief Executive Implementation Markets, Network and Pricing See Board of Directors profiles.
Rachel 1969 joined easyJet as Head of Investor Cath 1964 joined easyJet in 2002 following Relations in 2007 and in 2011 moved to the role the merger with Go.
Cath has carried out a of Director of Strategy and Investor Relations number of senior leadership roles at easyJet before moving into her current role in January including Head of Ground Operations, Head 2014.
She is responsible for strategy of Airport Development and Procurement and development, corporate finance activities and the Head of Network Development.
Cath joined prioritisation and governance of easyJets change the Airline Management Board in September programme.
Prior to joining easyJet, Rachel 2009 as Network and Planning Director.
In worked for Unilever, NatWest, Diageo and April 2011 she was appointed Customer and SABMiller in a variety of finance roles and gained Revenue Director, and Group Commercial significant experience in business partnering, Director in April 2012.
She currently holds the group reporting and investor relations.
role of Group Commercial Director: Markets, Network & Pricing.
Rachel has a BA in Politics and Psychology from Liverpool University.
Cath spent 12 years in retail at J Sainsbury before joining Go where she was part of the management buy-out team and headed up cabin services, ground operations and customer service.
Cath graduated from the University of Leicester with a BA Hons in Geography.
56 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Governance Trevor Didcock Peter Duffy Chris Kennedy Chief Information Officer Group Commercial Director: Chief Financial Officer Customer, Product and Marketing Trevor 1963 joined easyJet in September 2010 See Board of Directors profiles.
He is responsible Peter 1966 is currently Group Commercial for all aspects of IT across easyJet.
Before Director: Customer, Product and Marketing, easyJet, Trevor was Chief Information Officer and is responsible for brand and marketing at Homeserve plc, The AA and RAC Motoring services, digital, customer relationship Services and spent nine years in IT management management and insight, customer operations roles at Mars, Inc, including three years running and experience, in-flight, holidays and business.
His earlier career was Peter joined easyJet in February 2011 as in IT, finance and engineering roles at JP Morgan Marketing Director.
Before joining easyJet, he was Marketing Trevor has an MBA from Cranfield and a Director for Audi in the UK.
Prior to that, Peter BSc in Mechanical Engineering from was Marketing Services Director at Barclays.
Peter has a degree in Economics and an MBA.
Paul Moore Giles Pemberton Communications Director Group General Counsel and Director of Corporate Governance Paul 1962 joined easyJet in November 2010 as Communications Director.
Giles 1968 joined easyJet in April 2006 and heads the Legal, Regulatory and Company Before joining easyJet, Paul was Group Public Secretarial departments.
He has been a Affairs and Communications Director for member of the Executive Management Team FirstGroup.
Prior to that Paul worked for Virgin since July 2010.
Atlantic Airways for 10 years as its Director of Corporate Affairs.
Before joining easyJet, Giles was Assistant General Counsel and Director of Compliance at Paul started his career as a civil servant and Cable & Wireless plc where he spent 10 years first joined the transport sector with the as a legal adviser within the UK and Australian Department of Transport.
operating divisions, and then in its head office.
He is a qualified solicitor England & Wales who spent the first four years of his career with the City law firm Freshfields.
Giles holds an LLB Hons degree from Nottingham University and obtained his professional qualification from The Guildford College of Law.
