STRATEGIC REPORT CONTINUED SOLID TRADING PERFORMANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT The Group delivered asolidtrading performance inachallenging year Ken Hanna Chairman The Group delivered a solid trading performance in 2014, We spent 226 million on new fleet in the period admirably handling the change in senior management and 2013: 205 million, equivalent to 93% of the depreciation difficult operating conditions in a number of our markets.
charge: non-fleet capital expenditure was 25 million.
Net debtat 31 December 2014 of 494 million was only I am delighted that Chris Weston joined us as Chief Executive 131 million higher than last year, despite having returned at the beginning of January this year, and I know that he has 200 million to Shareholders in June.
Cash flow from enjoyed spending the first two months in the role travelling operatingactivities was 498 million, which helped fund around the Group and getting to know customers, the totalcapital expenditure of 251 million, the return of value Aggreko team and the business.
toShareholders and dividend payments of 70 million.
Across the year as a whole, two of our regions, the Americas Our financial position continued to be strong with net debt and EMEA, performed well, whilst APAC had a challenging toEBITDA Earnings before Interest Tax Depreciation & year with difficult trading conditions in Australia and Indonesia.
Amortisation of 0.9 times 2013: 0.6 times at 31 December 2014, compared to our bank covenant of 3 times.
Interest cover, Solid trading performance measured on an EBITDA basis, was at 27 times 2013: 26 times, comfortably within our covenant of 4 times.
In 2014, the Group delivered a solid set of results with 1 underlying revenue increasing by 9% and trading profit decreasing by 2%.
On the same underlying basis, revenue inour Local business grew 8%, while revenue in our Power Projects business grew 10%.
The underlying trading margin decreased to 20% 2013: 22% driven by our Japanese andUS Military contracts off hiring and the competitive environment in Indonesia in our Power Projects business and by the impact of the mining sector decline on our Australian Local business.
As we anticipated, the reported results were significantly impacted by adverse currency movements, largely in the USDollar, with reported revenue in line with last year andtrading profit down 13%.
Reported profit before tax decreased by 13% to 289 million 2013: 333 million and diluted earnings per share decreased by 10% to 82.49 pence 2013: 92.03 pence.
4 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 1 2 3 4 Strong Shareholder returns People In June 2014 we completed a 200 million return of value Aggreko had a challenging year in 2014, with significant toShareholders, equivalent to 75 pence per ordinary share.
management change, difficult operating conditions in a In addition, the Board is recommending a 3% increase in the number of our markets and an unpredictable economic and dividend for the year as a whole: this will comprise a final geopolitical backdrop.
Throughout this, the Group performed dividend of 17.74 pence per ordinary share which, when added very well, delivering a solid set of results: which is testament to the interim dividend of 9.38 pence, gives a total for the year to the Aggreko culture and the pragmatic, can-do, attitude of 27.12 pence 2013: 26.30 pence.
In aggregate, on a cash ofour people.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to express basis Shareholders have received 102 pence per ordinary mysincere thanks to all of our colleagues across the Group share in 2014. for their outstanding commitment and support in 2014.
Key business developments Looking ahead Over the last year we have seen two senior management The market for our services remains large, and continues to changes with Rupert Soames and Angus Cockburn leaving grow: exposure to both emerging and developed countries, Aggreko after 11 years and 14 years respectively.
We are combined with sector diversity and a market leading position verygrateful for their tireless dedication to the Group over leave us well positioned to benefit from this growth.
thatperiod and wish them well in their new endeavours.
Our business model is intrinsically cash generative and Following athorough process, further details of which are enables us to invest or return capital to shareholders as included in the Nominations Committee Report on page 90, market conditions determine.
weappointed Chris Weston as Chief Executive Officer, Our new senior management team are settling in well and effectivefrom 2 January 2015 and Carole Cran was areundertaking a review of the priorities for the business appointedChief Financial Officer effective from 1 June 2014. going forward.
Chris initial impressions of the business and The Group has performed broadly in line with its strategic thoughts on business priorities are covered overleaf, and we 2 targets during the year.
As outlined later in the report on will report back on the results of this exercise at our interim page24, we announced in 2013 that we expected underlying results in August.
growth for the Group to be over 10% CAGR over the five year life of our strategy, with trading margins and returns on capital employed ROCE, to both be in excess of 20%.
Over the first two years of the strategy cycle, Group revenue has grown 3 10%on this basis, with Local business growth of 9% and Power Projects business growth of 12%.
Reported Group margins were 19% and return on capital employed was also 19% marginally below the targets set in 2013.
Board On the 1 February 2015, Uwe Krueger joined the Board as aNon-Executive Director.
Uwe is Chief Executive Officer of WSAtkins and serves as a Non-Executive Director on three TRANSPARENT REPORTING other boards.
I would like to welcome Uwe to Aggreko: welookforward to working with him and to benefiting from We are committed to ensuring that our reporting is transparent hisexperience in the engineering and services sectors and andof a high quality.
This year we took the opportunity to refresh thefield of renewable technology.
the format of our Annual Report: we gathered feedback on our previous reports and have worked hard to retain the candidness and transparency that we have become known for.
We have also produced a document that illustrates what Aggreko does and provides an at-a-glance understanding, complemented by a more interactive online report.
I hope that you like the new style report, and as always we welcome any feedback.
1 Underlying excludes currency and pass-through fuel revenue from In addition, and as part of our broader aim to improve PowerProjects, where we provide fuel to our contracts in Mozambique communications with Shareholders, we have recently launched onapass-through basis.
A bridge between reported and underlying revenue anInvestor Relations App.
This will allow interested parties to easily andtrading profits is provided at page 50 of the Financial Review.
access the latest reports, results and presentations and includes 2 These are targets over a five year period and there will be years when enhanced multimedia functionality.
wemaybe outside one of these ranges.
Revenue growth is underlying, i. e. excluding London Olympics, Poit acquisition, Military, Japan, pass-through Finally, we have noted the change in reporting regulations that fuel revenue from Power Projects where we provide fuel to our contracts givescompanies the option to no longer report on a quarterly basis.
inMozambique on a pass-through basis and currency translation.
We would like to reassure Shareholders that we plan to continue to Margin andROCE are on a reported basis.
report to the market four times a year.
Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 5
