STRATEGIC REPORT CONTINUED OUR MARKETS STRONG POTENTIAL THE MARKET DEMAND FOR AGGREKOS SERVICES IS CREATED BY EVENTS: OURCUSTOMERS GENERALLY TURN TO US WHEN SOMETHING HAPPENS WHICH MEANS THEY NEED A FAST AND FLEXIBLE SOLUTION FOR POWER OR TEMPERATURE CONTROL.
SITUATIONS THAT STIMULATE DEMAND RANGE FROM THE VERY LARGE AND INFREQUENT TO THE SMALL AND RECURRENT EXAMPLES OF INFREQUENT EVENTS: Large-scale power shortage South Africa, Bangladesh, Argentina Major sporting occasions Olympic Games, FIFA World Cup, Glasgow Commonwealth Games Natural disasters Japan post-tsunami, Hurricane Sandy inNorthAmerica in 2012, Brisbane floods in 2011 Post-conflict re-construction and military support Congo, Iraqand Afghanistan EXAMPLES OF MORE FREQUENT EVENTS: An oil refinery needs additional cooling during the Summer tomaintain production throughput A glass manufacturer suffers a breakdown in its plant and needspower while its own equipment is being repaired A city centre needs chillers to create an ice-rink for the Christmas period 12 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 1 2 3 4 Customers LOCAL BUSINESS Our Local business serves any customer that uses power ortemperature control.
They could be banks, manufacturers, filmstudios, utilities, oil companies, miners, military forces, Dynamics telecoms companies, party planners or major sporting The Local business is linked to local economies and varies in eventorganisers.
The customer base is very diverse, both size and nature fromcountry to country.
There are three main geographically and by market segment, which gives us some demand drivers: protection against the vagaries of any one particular market.
Being global allows us to quickly move resources between GDP sectors and countries in response to customer demand.
As an economy grows, so does demand for energy in general and rental equipment in particular, as businesses tend to Competitors bebusy and therefore choose to rent additional power or Customers have the choice to either buy or rent and our temperature control solutions, rather than lose production.
largestcompetitors are not rental companies but equipment Propensity to rent manufacturers.
Where the need is urgent or for a limited How inclined people are to rent rather than buy is driven by duration, customers tend to rent.
In the rental market issues such as the tax treatment of capital assets: the growing competitors are either privately-owned specialist rental awareness of outsourcing: and the availability and cost of businesses or divisions of large plant hire companies.
In almost finance for purchasing equipment.
every country that we operate in, we are the number one or number two player, and we are the only competitor with a Events global footprint.
However, in every region there are a large High value low frequency events change the size of a market number of regional, national and local businesses in the market: on a temporary basis: for example the FIFA World Cup in competition is fierce, but few competitors are able to compete Brazil, 2014. for large-scale or technically demanding work.
Local business competition Market Size It is very difficult to accurately determine the size of the global Global Local business market.
We operate in a niche segment of the Aggreko rentalmarket across a very broad geography, which is further 1015 regional complicated by the fact that our own activities serve to create Hertz, URI, Sunbelt, Speedy Hire, CAT market demand.
Furthermore, major events such as hurricanes in North America, the Olympic Games or major droughts in Hundreds of national Africa can influence market size in the short term.
Whilst it ispossible, albeit difficult, to size our market in large and Thousands of local small businesses developed markets, it is impossible in emerging markets, wherewe are growing fastest: therefore our approach is to usea market potential estimation.
From this, we estimate Market during the year thatour worldwide market share is around 25%, which implies Localmarket potential of around 4 billion based on The oil & gas sector performed well in 2014, although we note Aggrekos 2014Local business revenue.
the recent decline in the oil price and are assessing its impact.
The slowdown in the mining sector as a result of the drop in Read more about market potential estimation commodity prices had the most significant impact in 2014: Inside back cover 1 asan example, iron ore fell from $135 to $71 per tonne.
Initially this was felt in our Australian business, but as the year progressed, we also saw an impact on our mining businesses in Chile and Peru.
Elsewhere, we experienced challenging Estimated Local worldwide market share economic conditions in Brazil andmuch of Continental Europe.
The competitive environment was stable.
Outlook Looking forward, we continue to expect the market to grow atabout twice the rate of GDP, and probably faster than that 25% inemerging market countries.
In the short term, the slowdown in global mining and oil & gas will make growth more challenging, 4.0bn but the homogeneity of our fleet allows us to switch into local market potential othersectors.
1 Source: Bloomberg Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 13 STRATEGIC REPORT CONTINUED OUR MARKETS CONTINUED Demand POWER PROJECTS In developing countries demand is growing, driven by industrialisation, urbanisation and access to electrical appliances.
Dynamics Under-investment As populations continue to grow and urbanise, and as Investment in new and replacement permanent power industrialisation drives economic growth, greater demands infrastructure has not kept pace with demand and so frequent areplaced on power infrastructures in many emerging markets.
breakdowns and damaging power cuts have resulted.
Electrification rates are typically low in many of these countries, with the World Bank estimating that only 31% of people in Financing lowincome countries have access to electricity.
Even in Capital markets are less willing to support long-term thoseplaces where power is available, reliability is often poor: infrastructure projects in many developing countries, itis estimated that the average sub-Saharan manufacturing particularly when fide-carbonisation and ageing infrastructure business can be without power for over 50 days a year.
in developed countries requires trillions of dollars in investment.
These countries may have plans for permanent capacity, butlending processes can take a considerable period of Many emerging market countries experience power shortages timeto realise and the volume of investment required can and load shedding on a regular basis.
A country needs to bechallenging to obtain from traditional sources: it typically haveenough generating and transmission capacity to cater takesbetween five and10 years for a new plant to be forthe absolute peak demand, plus a safety margin called commissioned.
Delays inrealising new capacity, ageing thereserve margin to cater for unexpected breakdowns, infrastructure and reliance on intermittent hydropower can scheduled maintenance and spikes in demand.
If a country alsoexacerbate an existing shortfall.
Meanwhile, the global does not have a big enough reserve margin, power cuts population is forecast to grow by over 1% per annum between inevitably result.
In the early stages of power shortages, power 2015 and 2020, and double this rate in the least developed cuts may be rare, seasonal and bearable.
But as the reserve countries according tothe United Nations: therefore the power margin drops, they become more frequent, disruptive and start shortfall is likely to increase.
to have a serious impact on the life and economy of a nation: concern over a growing shortfall may spur countries to react.
As a result, we believe that in many parts of the world, and mostparticularly in many emerging market countries, there Overlaid above this structural demand are other factors which willbe continued power shortages and load shedding, impact the conversion into power.
Different countries have causedby a combination offactors, including those outlined differing propensities to rent and country-specific factors onthe right: strongly influence the purchasing decision.
These can include acountrys US Dollar reserves as contracts and fuel are largely priced in US Dollars : supporting infrastructure it may be thatacountry has adequate capacity but the transmission cannot transfer it to where it is needed and so want off-grid generation : the availability of fuel gas generation is more Utility Decision Making Factors WHY Economic growth Hydro shortage Social pressure Permanent capacity delays shortfall Ageing infrastructure OPTIONS Flexibility Do nothing Speed Decision Permanent power making Modularity Temporary power Pay-as-you-go CONSIDERATIONS Flexible Fuel availability power Transmission capacity Affordability Opportunity cost 14 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 1 2 3 4 economic than diesel : and the opportunity cost of not Market during the year havingpower.
Flexible power solutions are attractive for being Since 2012, we have seen lower economic growth in emerging pay-as-you-go, fast to deliver and modular.
Aggreko proactively markets, and therefore lower electricity demand growth over assesses the situation at a country level and offers solutions the same period.
In addition, significant currency devaluation that solve problems for the local utility and their customers.
has meant that the cost of temporary power has increased and In recent years pressure on reserve margins has lessened as the combination of these factors, we believe, has prevented economic growth has slowed and the opportunity cost of not some of the expected shortfall from being realised.
Our order having power is less acute.
intake in 2014 was 757MW, an improvement on 2013 725MW, but below the historic levels that we have seen.
As important Market Size asorder intake, is the off-hire rate, which was in line with the Our core market is in emerging markets excluding China, historic average, at 32%.
where GDP and demand for power is growing fastest.
We have Read more about off-hire rates recently updated our models using the latest projections from Inside back cover the IMF and IEA and they predict that the worldwide demand for power will grow by 3.7% per annum between 2015 and 2020.
This forecast, combined with generating capacity Outlook assumptions, means that we estimate that the shortfall of In the long term, the drivers of growth increasing demand for power generating capacity will be around 140GW in our core electricity and insufficient investment in supply are structural markets by 2020: this implies a compound growth rate of 12% and we will secure work by understanding the market and between 2014 and 2020.
The projected deficit is not as great tailoring solutions to solve customer problems.
The decision as previously forecast, given slower economic growth in many topurchase power using flexible solutions is usually a political markets: that said, the sheer scale of the deficit and the growth one and given slower economic growth in recent years, the forecast demonstrate that the structural market drivers in this opportunity cost of not having power is less acute.
In the business remain strong and will drive continued demand for shortterm, the fall in oil price should prove supportive, as it power generation.
Additionally, in any given year, the market makes diesel fuelled power substantially cheaper.
Overall, can substantially increase as a result of droughts, which can thestructural shortfall will create substantial opportunities for lead to power shortages in countries reliant on hydro power.
theGroup and we will continue to win work by understanding the market, customer needs and offering solutions that meet We estimate that our market share in 2014 was around their requirements.
40%, based on the volume of contract wins and extensions across the industry.
Relative Shortfall Growth 2009-2020 Source: IMF, IEA, Baringa 4 Customers Power Projects customers are almost all in emerging markets: 3 89% of our revenues excluding pass-through fuel come 2 fromutilities.
These are often state owned and the state may play asignificant role in determining the ability to finance 1 utilityoperations and power purchase through tariff setting.
These contracts can take a number of forms: gas-to-power, Non-OECD Ex-China 0 OECD where we monetise stranded gas, such as our contract in 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Mozambique: extended power, where we become part of the power infrastructure, such as in Venezuela: and grid support, for example providing peak power in Saudi Arabia and Oman Source: IMF Emerging Markets Growth % over the summer months.
We also serve armed forces and the 9 extractive industries, like mining and oil and gas, in some cases 8 7 through our Local business.
6 5 Competitors 4 3 The largest competitive force that we face is for a share of 2 agovernments budget.
In most emerging market countries 1 Real GDP Growth % theutilities are state controlled and money spent on power ismoney that cannot be spent elsewhere.
We compete with 1980 1990 2000 2010 2020 anumber of other companies around the world: we have onecompetitor with whom we compete on a global basis and a number ofbusinesses compete with us either locally orregionally, inparticular some of the larger Caterpillar dealers.
Our key differentiator is our global scale and large homogenous fleet, which facilitates fast deployment and economies of scale.
Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 15
