1 2 3 4 STATUTORY DISCLOSURES Directors report Dividend payments and DRIP The Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2014 This year we have introduced a Dividend Reinvestment Plan comprises pages 67 to 124 of this report, together with the DRIP for Shareholders.
This allows Shareholders to purchase sections incorporated by reference.
We have included some of additionalshares in Aggreko with their dividend payment.
the matters normally included in the Directors Report which we Further information and a mandate can be obtained from consider to be of strategic importance in the Strategic Report ourRegistrars, Capita, whose details are set out on page 185 on pages 2 to 66.
Specifically these are: and the Shareholder information pages of our website.
Future Business Developments on page 22 Greenhouse Gas Emissions on pages 59 to 60 Share capital Employee Involvement, Equal Opportunities and Employees On 31 December 2014 the Company had in issue 256,118,395 with Disabilities on pages 62 to 64 329 Ordinary Shares of 4 395 pence each, 1,989,357 B Shares Risk Information on the Use of Financial Instruments on page 158 84 84 of9 775 pence each, 188,251,587 Deferred Shares of 9 775 1 pence each, 18,352,057,648 Deferred Shares of 775 pence Disclosures in relation to Listing Rule LR 9.8.
4R, where 18 each and 182,700,915 Deferred Shares of 6 25 pence each applicable, are included on page 97 in relation to long-term comprising 29.35%, 0.43%, 40.61%, 0.56% and 29.08% incentive plans and page 122 in relation to the dividend waiver respectively of the Companys issued share capital.
Details of arrangements in place for our Employee Benefit Trust.
the changes in issued share capital during the year are shown The award made under the scheme established under LR 9.4.
2 in Note 21 to the accounts onpage 154. cannot be altered to the advantage of Chris Weston without the approval of Shareholders in general meeting except for minor Material share interests amendments to benefit administration, to take account of a As at 31 December 2014, the Company had received change in legislation or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, notifications of the following major shareholdings, representing orregulatory treatment for either party.
A copy of the agreement 3% or more of the voting rights attached to the issued Ordinary setting out the terms of the award will be available for inspection Share capital of the Company: at the offices of New Bridge Street, 10 Devonshire Square, Number of % of total London EC2M 4YP, during normal business hours on any Shareholder shares voting rights weekday Saturdays and English public holidays excepted 1 Prudential Plc 15,860,093 5.94 untilthe close of the Companys Annual General Meeting 1 andatthe place of the Annual General Meeting for at least Ballie Gifford & Co 13,518,442 5.04 2 15 minutes prior to and during the Annual General Meeting.
A E H Salvesen 9,995,283 3.73 Both the Directors Report and Strategic Report have been 1 Including direct and indirect subsidiary interests 2 Including immediate family and trustee interests presented in accordance with applicable company law, and the Notifications received prior to the share capital consolidation in June 2014, liabilities of the Directors in connection with those reports subject 549 number of shares disclosed relates to Ordinary Shares of 13 775 pence each to the limitations and restrictions provided.
Other information to Between 31 December 2014 and 5 March 2015, the Company be disclosed in the Directors Report is given in this section.
received notifications of major shareholdings.
The Directors are not aware of any other material interests Management report amounting to 3% or more in the share capital of the Company.
The Strategic Report and the Directors Report together include the management report for the purposes of Disclosure and Rights and obligations attached to shares Transparency Rule DTR 4.1.
Subject to applicable statutes in this section referred to as the Companies Acts and to any rights conferred on the holders 2015 Annual General Meeting ofany other shares, any share may be issued with or have The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held at 11.00 attached to it such rights and restrictions as the Company may am 29 April 2015 at the Grand Central Hotel, 99 Gordon Street, by ordinary resolution decide or, if no such resolution has been Glasgow G1 3SF.
The Notice of Meeting isgiven together with passed or so far as the resolution does not make specific explanatory notes, in the booklet which accompanies this report.
provision, as the Board may decide.
Dividends Voting The interim dividend of 9.38 pence per Ordinary Share was Subject to any special terms as to voting upon which any paid on 3 October 2014.
The Directors recommend a final shares may be issued or may for the time being be held and dividend of 17.74 pence per Ordinary Share inrespect of the toany other provisions of the Articles of Association for the year, making a total for the year of 27.12 pence per Ordinary Company the Articles, on a show of hands every member Share 2013: 26.30 pence, payable on 26 May 2015 to whois present in person or by proxy or represented by Shareholders on the register at the close of business on acorporate representative at a general meeting of the 24 April 2015.
Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 119 GOVERNANCE CONTINUED STATUTORY DISCLOSURES CONTINUED On a poll every member who is present in person or by proxy Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, the Board or represented by a corporate representative has one vote for may pay such interim dividends as appear to the Board to be every share of which he or she is the holder.
In the case of joint justified by the financial position of the Company and may also holders of a share the vote of the senior who tenders a vote, pay any dividend payable at a fixed rate at intervals settled by whether in person or by proxy, is accepted to the exclusion the Board whenever the financial position of the Company, ofthe votes of the other joint holders and, for this purpose, inthe opinion of the Board, justifies its payment.
If the Board seniority is determined by the order in which the names stand acts in good faith, it shall not incur any liability to the holders in the register in respect of the joint holding.
ofany shares for any loss they may suffer in consequence of the payment of an interim or fixed dividend on any other class The holders of B Shares are not entitled, in their capacity as of shares ranking pari passu with or after those shares.
such, to receive notice of any general meeting of the Company nor to attend, speak or vote at any such general meeting The holders of B Shares are entitled, in priority to any payment unless: a the business of the meeting includes the of dividend or other distribution to the holders of any Ordinary consideration of a resolution for the winding-up excluding any Shares and before profits are carried to reserves, to be paid a intra-group reorganisation on a solvent basis of the Company, non-cumulative preferential dividend the B Share Continuing in which case the holders of the B Shares have the right to Dividend at such annual rate on a value of 75 pence per attend the general meeting and are entitled to speak and vote BShare as is calculated in accordance with Articles 6A B i only on any such resolution: or b at the date of the notice to6A B x. convening the meeting, the B Share Continuing Dividend On a return of capital on winding-up excluding any intra-group asdefined in Article 6A B iii of the Articles has remained reorganisation on a solvent basis, holders of B Shares are unpaid for six months or more from any B Share Payment entitled, in priority to any payment to the holders of Ordinary Date as defined in Article 6A B iv of the Articles, in which Shares, to 75 pence per B Share held by them, together with a casethe holders of the B Shares have the right to attend sum equal to the relevant proportion of the B Share Continuing thegeneral meeting and are entitled to speak and vote Dividend if any which would have been payable if the windingonall resolutions.
up had taken effect on the last day of the then current B Share The holders of the Deferred Shares are not entitled to receive Calculation Period, the relevant proportion being the number of notice of any general meeting of the Company or to attend, days from and including the preceding B Share Payment Date speak or vote at any such meeting.
or, if the date of such winding-up is prior to 29 May 2015 from and including the Single B Share Dividend Date to, but excluding, the date of such winding-up, divided by 365.
Restrictions on voting The Deferred Shares confer no right to participate in the profits No member is, unless the Board otherwise decides, entitled of the Company.
inrespect of any share held by him to vote either personally orby proxy or by a corporate representative at any general On a return of capital on a winding-up excluding any intrameeting of the Company or at any separate general meeting Group reorganisation on a solvent basis, holders of Deferred ofthe holders of any class of shares in the Company if any Shares are entitled to be paid the nominal capital paid up or callsor other sums presently payable by him in respect of that credited as paid up on such Deferred Shares after paying to share remain unpaid or if he is a person with a 0.25% interest theholders of the Ordinary Shares the nominal capital paid up as defined in the Articles and he has been served with or credited as paid up on the Ordinary Shares held by them arestriction notice as defined in the Articles after failure respectively, together with the sum of 100,000,000 on each toprovide the Company with information concerning Ordinary Share.
interestsin those shares required to be provided under theCompanies Acts.
The Board may deduct from any dividend or other moneys payable to a member by the Company on or in respect of any The Company is not aware of any agreement between holders shares all sums of money if any presently payable by him to of securities that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
the Company on account of calls or otherwise in respect of shares of the Company.
The Board may also withhold payment Dividends and other distributions of all or any part of any dividends or other moneys payable inrespect of the Companys shares from a person with a Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, the 0.25% interest as defined in the Articles if such a person has Companymay by ordinary resolution from time to time been served with a restriction notice as defined in the Articles declaredividends in accordance with the respective rights after failure to provide the Company with information ofthe members, butno dividend can exceed the amount concerning interests in those shares required to be recommended by the Board.
120 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 1 2 3 4 Variation of rights Articles of Association Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, rights Our Articles are available on our website at attached to any class of shares may be varied either with the http: www.
com about-aggreko corporateconsent in writing of the holders of not less than three-fourths governance .
Unless expressly specified in nominal value of the issued shares of that class excluding to the contrary in the Articles, the Articles may be amended any shares of that class held as Treasury Shares or with the bya special resolution of the Companys Shareholders.
sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of those shares.
The necessary quorum Appointment and replacement of directors applying to any such separate general meeting is two persons The rules for the appointment and replacement of Directors are holding or representing by proxy not less than one-third in contained in the Companys Articles.
They include: the number nominal value of the issued shares of the class excluding any of Directors must not be less than two or more than 15, the shares of that class held as Treasury Shares, but at any Board may appoint any person to be a Director: any Director adjourned meeting one holder present in person or by proxy soappointed by the Board shall hold office only until the next whatever the number of shares held by him will constitute a general meeting and shall then be eligible for election: each quorum : every holder of shares of the class present in person Director must retire from office at the third Annual General or by proxy excluding any shares of that class held as Treasury Meeting after the Annual General Meeting at which he was last Shares is entitled on a poll to one vote for every share of the elected.
However, in line with the UK Corporate Governance class held by him subject to any rights or restrictions attached Code, all Directors will stand for annual election at the to any class of shares and any holder of shares of the class 2015 AGM.
present in person or by proxy may demand a poll.
A Director may be removed by special resolution of the Company.
In addition, the office of a Director must be vacated Conversion of B Shares into Ordinary if: i he resigns his office by notice in writing delivered to the Shares at the Companys option office or tendered at a meeting of the Board: or ii by notice The Company may subject to the provisions of the Companies inwriting he offers to resign and the Board resolves to accept Acts at any time after the Companys AGM to be held in 2015 such offer: or iii his resignation is requested by all of the other on the giving of not less than 10 days nor more than 42 days Directors and all of the other Directors are not less than three in notice in writing to the holders of the B Shares, convert all number: or iv a registered medical practitioner who is treating butnot some only of the outstanding B Shares into Ordinary that Director gives a written opinion to the Company stating Shares on the date specified in the notice the Conversion that that Director has become physically or mentally incapable Date.
The conversion would take place in accordance with of acting as a Director and may remain so for more than three Article 6A G of our Articles.
months: or v by reason of a Directors mental health, a court makes an order which wholly or partly prevents that Director Restrictions on transfer of securities from personally exercising any powers or rights which that Director would otherwise have: or vi he is absent without the intheCompany permission of the Board from meetings of the Board whether There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities in the or not an alternate Director appointed by him attends for six Company, except that: consecutive months and the Board resolves that his office is certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by vacated: or vii he becomes bankrupt or compounds with his lawsand regulations for example, insider trading laws : creditors generally: or viii he is prohibited by law from being pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct aDirector: or ix he ceases to be a Director by virtue of the Authority certain employees and Directors of the Company Companies Acts or is removed from office pursuant to require the approval of the Company to deal in the the Articles.
Companys Ordinary Shares: and the Deferred Shares are not transferable except in Directors conflicts of interest accordance with the paragraph headed Powers in relation tothe Company issuing or buying back its own shares The Company has procedures in place for monitoring and below or with the written consent of the Directors.
Should a Director become awarethat they, or their connected parties, have an interest The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders inan existing or proposed transaction with Aggreko, they of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer should notify the Board in writing or at the next Board meeting.
Directors have a continuing duty to update any changes to these conflicts.
Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 121 GOVERNANCE CONTINUED STATUTORY DISCLOSURES CONTINUED Powers of the Directors Securities carrying special rights Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, the Articles No person holds securities in the Company carrying special and to any directions given by the Company in general meeting rights with regard to control of the Company.
by special resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the Board, which mayexercise all the powers of the Rights under the employee share scheme Company whether relating tothe management of the business Appleby Trust Jersey Limited, as Trustee of the Aggreko of the Company or not.
In particular, the Board may exercise all Employees Benefit Trust, holds 0.27% of the issued share the powers of the Company to borrow money and to mortgage capital of the Company as at 5 March 2015 on trust for the or charge all orany part of the undertaking, property and benefit of the employees and former employees of the Group assets present and future and uncalled capital of the and their dependents.
The voting rights in relation to these Company and to issue debentures and other securities, shares are exercised by the Trustee and there are no whether outright or as collateral security for any debt, liability restrictions on the exercise of the voting of, or the acceptance orobligation of the Company or any third party.
of any offer relating to, the shares.
The Trustee is obliged to waive all dividends on the shares unless requested to do Powers in relation to the Company issuing otherwise by the Company in writing.
or buying back its own shares The Directors were granted authority at the last Annual General Going concern Meeting held in 2014 to allot relevant securities up to a nominal In adopting the going concern basis for preparing the financial amount of 12,291,627 in connection with an offer by way statements, the Directors have considered the business ofarights issue.
That authority will apply until the earlier activities set out in the Strategic Report as well as the Groups of30 June 2015 and the conclusion of the Annual General principal risks and uncertainties as set out on pages 20 to 33.
At this years Annual General Meeting Based on the Groups cash flow forecasts and projections, the Shareholders will be asked to grant an authority to allot Board is satisfied that the Group will be able to operate within relevantsecurities up to anominal amount of 4,125,579, the level of its facilities for the foreseeable future.
For this reason suchauthority toapply until the end of next years Annual the Group continues to adopt the going concern basis in General Meeting or, if earlier, until the close of business on preparing its financial statements.
A special resolution will also be proposed to renew the Change of control Directors power to make non-pre-emptive issues for cash in The Company has in place a number of agreements with connection with rights issues and otherwise up to a nominal advisers, financial institutions and customers which contain amount of 618,898. certain termination rights which would have an effect on a change of control.
The Directors believe these agreements to The Company was also authorised at the Annual General be commercially sensitive and that their disclosure would be Meeting held in 2014 to make market purchases of up to seriously prejudicial to the Company: accordingly they do not 26,902,954 Ordinary Shares.
This authorisation will expire intend disclosing specific details of these.
In addition, all of the onthe earlier of the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting Companys share schemes contain provisions which in the of the Company for 2015 and 30 June 2015. event of a change of control, would result in outstanding A special resolution will also be proposed at this years Annual options and awards becoming exercisable, subject to the General Meeting to renew the Directors authority to repurchase rulesof the relevant schemes.
the Companys Ordinary Shares in the market.
The authority There are no agreements between the Company and its will be limited to a maximum of 25,611,839 Ordinary Shares Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of andsets the minimum and maximum prices which may be paid.
office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
The Company may at any time, without obtaining the sanction of the holders of the Deferred Shares: a appoint any person to execute on behalf of any holder of Deferred Shares a transfer of all or any of the Deferred Shares and or an agreement to transfer the same to the Company or to such person as the Directors may determine, in any case for not more than one penny for all the Deferred Shares then being purchased from him: and b cancel all or any of the Deferred Shares so purchased by theCompany in accordance with the Companies Acts.
122 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 1 2 3 4 Disclosure of information to the Branches Companysauditor Subsidiaries of the Company have established branches inanumber of different countries in which they operate.
In accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 theDirectors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, Auditor there is no relevant audit information as defined by Section Resolutions re-appointing PwC as the Companys and Groups 418 3 of the Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys auditor and authorising the Audit Committee to determine their Auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself awareof any relevant audit information and to establish that the Important events since 31 December 2014 Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
There have been no important events affecting the Company orany subsidiary since 31 December 2014.
Indemnity of officers Under Article 154 of the Articles, the Company may indemnify Political donations any Director or other officer against any liability, subject to the No political donations were made during the financial year provisions of the Companies Acts, and the Articles grant an 2013: nil.
indemnity to the Directors against any liability for the costs of legal proceedings where judgement is given in their favour.
Approval of the Strategic Report and Under the authority conferred by Article 154, the Company has Directors Report granted indemnities to Directors and officers of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The indemnities do not apply to any claim The Strategic Report set out on pages 2 to 66 and Directors which arises out of fraud, default, negligence or breach of Report set out on pages 67 to 124 were approved by the Board fiduciary duty or trust by the indemnified person.
on 5 March 2015 and have been signed by the Company Secretary on behalf of the Board.
In addition, the Company may purchase and maintain for anyDirector or other officer, insurance against any liability.
The Company maintains appropriate insurance cover against legal action brought against its Directors and officers and the Directors and officers of its subsidiaries.
Peter Kennerley Pensions Group Legal Director and Company Secretary 5 March 2015 The assets of the UK defined-benefit pension fund are controlled by the Directors of Aggreko Pension Scheme TrusteeLimited: they are held separately from the assets of theCompany and invested by independent fund managers.
These segregated funds cannot be invested directly in the Company.
Four trustees have been appointed by the Company and, in addition, two member-nominated trustees have been appointed.
This fund was closed to new employees joining the Group after 1 April 2002: new UK employees are now offered membership of a Group Personal Pension Plan.
Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 123
