STRATEGIC REPORT CONTINUED A FRESH PERSPECTIVE Q&A With Chris Weston Chief Executive Officer ABOUT CHRIS Chris joined Aggreko in January 2015 from Centrica plc, where he was responsible for both British Gas and its US sister Company, Direct Energy, which together constituted the Groups largest division.
He has senior level experience in the energy industry, provenleadership skills in a large international business and hasconsistently succeeded in driving performance and growth inhis career.
Read about Chris induction Page 79 6 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 1 2 3 4 Q Q Why did you want to join Aggreko?
What are your initial impressions ofthebusiness?
A A First and foremost, it is a great opportunity.
Aggreko is a market leader, with a great customer proposition operating Extremely favourable: I like what I see.
My first exposure to in a market space where demand is only set to grow: the business, to its people and products reinforce all I heard thatis very attractive.
Secondly, in speaking to people about Aggreko before I joined the Company.
I continue about Aggreko, they were extremely positive about the tobelieve that we have a huge opportunity ahead of us: Company, its people and the achievements of the past thatwe play an important role in peoples lives, we are 10years.
The culture is highly regarded externally and veryrelevant: and I am excited about what we can do.
Icontinue to be impressed since joining the business.
Q Q Aggreko has a unique culture, What have you spent your first couple howdoyou plan to retain this?
ofmonths as CEO focusing on?
A A I have been impressed by both the people in Aggreko I have spent my first couple of months learning about andthe culture, I suspect it is unique: it is often summed up thebusiness.
I was able to do a certain amount of by the words Pace, Passion and Performance, and I have familiarisation before starting in January, but nothing seen all three in my first few months.
beatsseeing the operations first hand.
People are passionate about the Company and work So far, I have visited our businesses in Scotland, extremely hard to provide a service that they can be proud NorthAmerica, Panama, Singapore, Australia, of.
We often work in challenging environments, to short Bangladesh, Dubai, South Africa and Mozambique.
deadlines, bringing power to those that may desperately In each case, I have spent time with the teams, need it.
The culture that has evolved within the Company talkingtothe people on the ground, to our customers, clearly supports this.
It is the focus on the customer, the understanding our business and its operations.
pride in delivering a high quality product in a safe and securemanner, coupled with experienced people and I have also taken the time to speak to our largest lastly, leadership at all levels.
From all I have seen, I believe Shareholders, to analysts, to the banks that support myleadership style is well suited to Aggreko and my usand to our key suppliers: I have been keen to hear aimistobuild on this, to nurture and evolve the culture.
Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 7 STRATEGIC REPORT CONTINUED A FRESH PERSPECTIVE CONTINUED Q Q How would you describe your Are you planning a detailed review leadershipstyle?
ofthe business in order to put your stamp on the Group?
A A Leadership is extremely important to me.
I like to build astrong team, to set clear direction and priorities, and My first task is to understand the business, the markets tofocus on giving people the confidence to succeed.
itoperates in and to meet the people that make Aggreko what it is today.
Whilst this is underway I have also started To do this I believe you have to be approachable, to ask a process to look at the priorities for the Group with the questions, to be interested in other peoples views and objective of driving continued growth over the next five to tolisten.
This has to be inextricably linked to clear decision 10 years and thereby creating value for our Shareholders.
making, accountabilities and a focus on delivery.
It is a The work is assessing all aspects of the business: the difficult balance to achieve, an art not a science, but economics: technology: and the dynamics of the markets whenpeople are aligned, confident and assured, it is that we operate in.
It will allow me and my team to define avery powerful combination.
Leadership is right at the the key priorities for the Group and I expect to return heart of this.
tothe market at the time of our Interim Results in August2015, to talk in more detail about that.
Q How do you think that your past experiences are going to help you inthisnew role?
A I have considerable experience running different businesses, in different countries, in different sectors, including in the energy sector: providing service to consumers and to businesses.
Some of these businesses were very large, like British Gas, others smaller and more nimble.
All of these businesses, including Aggreko, required leadership: they had to grow: to provide a high quality service to customers: and to operate efficiently: that all provides a wealth of experience for me to drawupon.
You cant look at my experience in isolation: Icertainly dont have all the answers.
My experience, coupled with that of my team, and more importantly across Aggreko, provides for a powerful combination thatwill serve Aggreko well.
8 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 1 2 3 4 Q Q Are you confident that growth Do you see competitive can be maintained and, if so, pressure asabig risk?
A A In any industry, when a business is as successful as Aggreko has been, it is bound to attract competition.
Well, in the short time I have been in post I do not think In theLocal business, competition has always been intense, we are short of opportunities.
We operate in exciting and and my understanding from speaking to the teams on the growing markets and we have a market leading position.
ground is that this hasnt particularly changed.
In Power Projects, the structural growth story is intact, despite the economic slowdown that weve seen in In Power Projects, our teams are telling me that we have recent years, and the deficit between supply and demand seen increased competitive pressure in certain markets is projected to continue to grow.
In the Local business, inthe last few years.
This underlines the importance history has shown that the demand for rental services ofproviding the best possible service to customers, increases as markets grow and we are well positioned somethingwe have a reputation for doing.
As we consider totake advantage of this.
the appropriate priorities for Aggreko we will assess thecompetitive environment, it is an important factor I am intrigued by the concept of flexible power and indetermining how we develop our capability clearlyengine efficiency is key here, but if we can .
continue tomake advances in this area, it begs the question, whybuild permanent facilities at all?
Customers wantflexibility to provide power where it is needed, toincrease decrease the MWs required as necessary, Q and in many instances to pay as they go: this could be ahuge opportunity for us.
At this stage, I dont know What is the main focus what that will mean with regards to growth rates, for the yearahead?
butIdobelieve that it will lead to further growth.
Read more about our markets A Page 12 Initially understanding the business, listening to our people, our customers and other key stakeholders.
Working to determine the key areas of focus to drive growth: then organising to deliver those priorities.
I suspect, over the Summer we will begin to focus more on implementation.
Whilst all that is underway we also have to keep thebusiness running and deliver the results that ourShareholders expect: always busy: always fun.
Chris Weston Chief Executive Officer Watch Chris video online: www.
com Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 9
