STRATEGIC REPORT CONTINUED FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL REVIEW Reconciliation of underlying growth to A summarised Income Statement for 2014 as well as related reported growth ratios are set out below.
The table below reconciles the reported and underlying Movement revenue and trading profit growth rates: 1 2014 2013 As Underlying Trading m m Reported change Revenue profit Revenues 1,577 1,573 % 9% million million Revenues excl 2013 As reported 1,573 352 pass-through fuel 1,529 1,531 % 9% Currency 126 40 Trading profit 306 352 13 % 2 % 2013 pass through fuel 42 2 Operating profit 310 358 13 % 2014 pass through fuel 48 3 Net interest expense 21 25 15% Underlying growth 124 5 Profit before tax 289 333 13 % 2014 As reported 1,577 306 Taxation 74 87 15% As reported growth % 13 % Profit after tax 215 246 13 % Underlying growth 9% 2 % Diluted earnings per share pence 82.49 92.03 10 % Interest Trading margin 19% 22% 3 pp The net interest charge of 21 million was 4 million lower than last year reflecting lower average net debt year on year, and Underlying Trading arrangement fees included in the 2013 interest number for debt margin 20% 22% 2 pp refinanced during the year.
Interest cover, measured against ROCE 19% 21% 2 pp rolling 12-month EBITDA Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Revenue excluding Depreciation and Amortisation, remained very strong at pass-through 27times 2013: 26 times relative to the financial covenant fuel to average gross attached to our borrowing facilities that EBITDA should be rental assets 62% 64% 2 pp noless than 4 times interest.
1 Underlying is defined as: adjusted for currency movements and pass-through fuel contracts in Mozambique.
Taxation Tax Strategy Currency translation Our strategy is to manage all taxes, both direct and indirect, The movement of exchange rates during the year had the such that we pay the appropriate amount of tax in each effectof reducing revenue and trading profit by 126 million countrywhere we operate, whilst ensuring that we respect and40 million respectively.
The largest currency impact on theapplicable tax legislation and utilise, where appropriate, revenue came from the US dollar followed by the Argentinean anylegislative reliefs available.
Peso and then the Australian dollar and Brazilian Reals.
This tax strategy is aligned with the Groups business strategy Currency translation also gave rise to an 9 million decrease and is reviewed and endorsed by the Board.
In addition, the inthe value of net assets as a result of year-on-year movements profile of our tax risk is reviewed by the Board on a regular in the exchange rates.
Set out in the table below are the basis.
Responsibility for tax strategy and risk management principal exchange rates which affected the Groups profits sitswith our Chief Financial Officer.
Day to day delivery of the andnet assets.
strategy is executed by a global team of tax professionals who are regionally aligned with our business and who are based in 2014 2013 avariety of locations where they work closely with the Aggreko per sterling Average Year End Average Year End operations, local tax authorities and local advisors.
Principal Exchange Aggreko recognises the importance of the tax we pay to Rates theeconomic development of the countries in which operate.
United States Dollar 1.65 1.55 1.57 1.65 We aim to be transparent in terms of the geographic spread of Euro 1.24 1.27 1.18 1.19 where we pay corporate tax by showing a regional breakdown UAE Dirhams 6.06 5.71 5.75 6.08 of this at Figure 2 below.
Australian Dollar 1.83 1.92 1.62 1.86 Brazilian Reals 3.87 4.18 3.38 3.89 Given the nature of the tax environment in many of the Argentinian Peso 13.37 13.29 8.57 10.70 100countries in which we operate, local compliance and governance is a key area of focus.
This is particularly so for Source: Bloomberg ourPower Projects business, where we will generally be in a country for a relatively short period of time.
The complexity andoften uncertain nature of tax rules in many of the countries where we operate means we seek to manage our tax affairs 50 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 1 2 3 4 proactively by engaging with local tax authorities and advisors The increase of 9 million in corporate taxes paid in 2014 as appropriate, to agree and confirm our tax positions in a compared to 2013 is principally due to: timely manner.
However, due to the volatile nature of the tax An increase in tax paid in the US as a result of increased environment in many of the countries in which we operate, profits and the temporary suspension of accelerated capital itcan take some time to settle our tax position.
We therefore allowances: create tax provisions for any potential uncertain or contentious An increase in Argentina due to increased activity there, tax positions.
As at 31 December 2014 we had tax provisions offset by: of 69 million 2013: 70 million.
A reduction in Australia given the lower levels of activity in 2014.
Through the course of 2014 we closely monitored developments in the OECDs work on Base Erosion and Profit Figure 2 shows where the 77 million 2013: 68 million of Shifting BEPS and Country-By-Country Reporting CBCR.
corporate tax was paid, broken down by region.
Overall our We do not expect that any of our tax arrangements should be indirect tax payments were largely flat with 101 million paid materially impacted by any legislative changes arising from the in2014 2013: 105 million.
However, we recognise that the proposals are still not finalised so we will continue to follow Our business is organised into the three regions of the developments in this area.
It is our intention to carry out a Americas, consisting of North and Latin America, Asia Pacific CBCR exercise early in 2015 to ensure that we are ready to APAC, and EMEA, consisting of Europe, Middle East and comply with the requirements for UK headed multinational Africa.
The percentage split of total corporate taxes paid by groups when they come into force.
each region for 2013 and 2014 was as follows: Total Taxes In 2014, Aggrekos worldwide operations resulted in direct and Figure 2 Corporate taxes paid by region indirect taxes of 178 million 2013: 173 million being paid to 1.
This amount represents all corporate taxes paid 5 2.
Latin America 28% on operations, payroll taxes paid and collected, import duties, 1 3.
North America 23% sales taxes and other local taxes.
Middle East 6% The breakdown of the 178 million by type of tax is shown in 5.
Africa 11% 21 18 2014 10 8 8 7 3 2 Corporate Payroll taxes Payroll taxes Import Sales Other taxes collected paid duties taxes taxes 1 North Americas corporate tax paid has significantly increased from 2013 to 2014 and now accounts for the largest proportion of corporate tax payable to the Group.
This is principally due to increased profits and the temporary suspension in 2014 of accelerated allowances on capital investments.
2 In 2013 and 2014 the UK tax authorities closed their review of prior years and agreed claims for Double Tax Relief resulting in repayments of tax being made.
These repayments in the UK exceeded the amount of corporate tax paid by the rest of our European business.
Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 51 STRATEGIC REPORT CONTINUED FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE CONTINUED Tax Charge Net debt of 494 million at 31 December 2014 was 131 million The Groups effective corporation tax rate for the year higher than the prior year.
As a result of the increase in net was26% 2013: 26% based on a tax charge of 74 million debt, net debt to EBITDA increased to 0.9 times 2013: 87 million on profit before taxation of 289 million 2013: 0.6 times.
There was a 73 million working capital outflow in the year Further information, including a detailed tax reconciliation of 2013: 25 million outflow mainly driven by an increase in thecurrent year tax charge, is shown at Note 9 in the Annual accounts receivable balances, particularly in our Power Report and Accounts.
Projects business, where debtor days increased to 110 days 2013: 95 days.
The Group monitors the risk profile and debtor Reconciliation of Income statement tax charge and cash position of all contracts regularly, and particularly those in tax paid Power Projects, and deploys a variety of techniques to mitigate The Groups total cash taxes borne and collected were the risk of delayed or non-payment: these include securing 178 million, reflecting 101 million of non-corporate taxes and advance payments, bonds and guarantees.
The increase in 77 million of corporate taxes.
The latter cash tax figure differs debtor days reflects slower payments by a small number of from the tax charge reported in the income statement of customers in EMEA and APAC, partially offset by a better 74 million by 3 million with the two figures reconciled below: payment profile in the Americas.
We have forms of payment million protection in place for these customers in EMEA and APAC, Cash taxes paid 178 and therefore this increase had little impact on the overall level Non-corporate taxes 101 of provision.
Overall, the Power Projects bad debt provision at Corporate tax paid 77 31 December 2014 of 38 million was 11 million lower than at Movements in deferred tax 3 31 December 2013 driven by our contracts in Argentina where Corporate tax charge per income statement 74 7 million was a release of provision reflecting improved cash collections in the second half of the year and the balance asmall discount given on the services provided since the Return to Shareholders contracts inception in 2008.
In June 2014 we completed a 200 million return of value to Shareholders, equivalent to 75 pence per ordinary share: as Net operating assets part of this, a further 2 million will be paid in 2015 to those The net operating assets of the Group including goodwill at Shareholders who elected to defer all or part of their return.
31 December 2014 totalled 1,690 million, 92 million higher Following the return, at 31 December 2014 our net debt stood than 2013.
The main components of net operating assets are:- at 0.9 times EBITDA December 2013: 0.6 times relative to ourtarget level of around 1 times net debt to EBITDA.
Movement Const 1 million 2014 2013 Headline Curr.
Rental Fleet 1,086 1,082 % 2 % Dividends Property & Plant 91 83 10% 18% Subject to Shareholder approval the proposed final dividend Inventory 163 149 10% 10% of17.74 pence will result in a full year dividend of 27.12 pence Net Trade Debtors 326 285 15% 15% 2013: 26.30 pence per ordinary share, giving dividend cover 1 Constant currency takes account of the impact of translational exchange Basic EPS divided by full year declared dividend of 3 times movements in respect of our businesses which operate in currency other 2013: 3.5 times, consistent with our objective of reducing cover than sterling.
A key measure of Aggrekos performance is the return Cashflow expressed as operating profit generated from average net The net cash inflow from operations during the year totalled operating assets ROCE.
The average net operating assets 498 million 2013: 603 million.
This funded total capital in2014 were 1,635 million, down 4% on 2013.
In 2014, expenditure of 251 million which was up 23 million on the theROCE decreased to 19% compared with 21% in 2013. prior year.
Of the 251 million, 226 million was spent on fleet This decrease was mainly driven by the reduction in trading with about 70% going to the Local business and the balance margin in our Power Projects business and in our Local tothe Power Projects business.
Within Power Projects, businesses in Australia Pacific and Brazil.
asubstantial portion of the spend was for the upgrade ofourdiesel sets to our higher output, more fuel efficient G3 engines, a portion of which are also HFO compliant.
52 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 1 2 3 4 Property, plant and equipment Pensions Rental fleet accounts for 1,086 million, or around 92%, of the Pension arrangements for our employees vary depending net book value of property, plant and equipment used in our onbest practice and regulation in each country.
The Group business: the great majority of equipment in the rental fleet is operates a defined benefit scheme for UK employees, depreciated on a straight-line basis to a residual value of zero whichwas closed to new employees joining the Group after over 8 years, with some classes of non-power fleet depreciated 1 April 2002: most of the other schemes in operation around over 10 years.
The annual fleet depreciation charge of the world are varieties of defined contribution schemes.
243 million 2013: 257 million relates to the estimated service Under IAS 19: Employee Benefits, Aggreko has recognised lives allocated to each class of fleet asset.
Asset lives are apre-tax pension deficit of 7 million at 31 December 2014 reviewed regularly and changed if necessary to reflect current 2013: 6 million which is determined using actuarial thinking on their remaining lives in light of technological change, assumptions.
The 1 million increase in the pension deficit is prospective economic utilisation and the physical condition of mainly driven by a reduction in corporate bond yields resulting the assets.
in a lower discount rate which has increased the value placed on the liabilities of the scheme.
This has been partially offset by Acquisition of Golden Triangle the additional contribution of 2 million paid by the company inJanuary 2014 in line with the recovery plan agreed for the GeneratorsLimited Scheme following the actuarial valuation at 31 December 2011.
On 6 November 2014, the Group acquired Golden Triangle Generators Limited, a power rental business in the UK with The main assumptions used in the IAS 19 valuation for the revenue of around 3 million.
previous two years are shown in Note 27 of the Annual Report & Accounts.
The sensitivities regarding these assumptions are shown in the table below.
Shareholders equity Income Shareholders equity decreased by 62 million to 1,078 million, statement represented by the net assets of the Group of 1,572 million Increase Deficit m cost m before net debt of 494 million.
The movements in Shareholders Assumption decrease Change Change equity are analysed in the table below: Rate of increase in salaries 0.5% 2 Rate of increase in pension increases 0.5% 8 1 Movements in Shareholders Equity million million Discount rate 0.5 % 15 1 As at 1 January 2014 1,140 Inflation 0.5% increases on Profit for the financial year 215 1 pensions increases, deferred Dividend 70 revaluation and salary Retained earnings 145 increases 0.5% 15 1 Employee share awards 3 Longevity 1 year 3 Issue of shares to employees under shareoption schemes 3 Return of value to Shareholders 198 Capital structure & dividend policy Re-measurement of retirement benefits 3 The objective of Aggrekos strategy is to deliver long-term value Currency translation 9 to its Shareholders whilst maintaining a balance sheet structure Movement in hedging reserve 3 that safeguards the Groups financial position through As at 31 December 2014 1,078 economic cycles.
From an ordinary dividend perspective our 1 Reflects the final dividend for 2013 of 17.19 pence per share objective is to provide a progressive through cycle dividend 2013: 15.63pence and the interim dividend for 2014 of 9.38 pence recognising the inherent lack of visibility and potential volatility per share 2013: 9.11pence that were paid during the year.
The 215 million of post-tax profit in the year represents a return of 20% on Shareholders equity 2013: 22% which compares to a Group weighted average cost of capital of 9%.
Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 53 STRATEGIC REPORT CONTINUED FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE CONTINUED Foreign exchange risk Treasury The Group is subject to currency exposure on the translation The Groups operations expose it to a variety of financial risks into Sterling of its net investments inoverseas subsidiaries.
that include liquidity, the effects of changes in foreign currency In order to reduce the currency risk arising, the Group uses exchange rates, interest rates, and credit risk.
The Group has a direct borrowings in the same currency as those investments.
centralised treasury operation whose primary role is to ensure Group borrowings are predominantly drawn down in the that adequate liquidity is available to meet the Groups funding currencies used by the Group, namely USDollar, Canadian requirements as they arise, and that financial risk arising from dollar, Mexican Peso and Brazilian Reals.
the Groups underlying operations is effectively identified and managed.
The Group manages its currency flows to minimise foreign exchange risk arising on transactions denominated in foreign The treasury operations are conducted in accordance with currencies and uses forward contracts and forward currency policies and procedures approved by the Board and are options, where appropriate, in order to hedge net reviewed annually.
Financial instruments are only executed currency flows.
forhedging purposes, and transactions that are speculative in nature are expressly forbidden.
Monthly reports are provided Credit risk tosenior management and treasury operations are subject to Cash deposits and other financial instruments give rise to periodic internal and external review.
creditrisk on amounts due from counterparties.
The Group manages this risk by limiting the aggregate amounts and their Liquidity and funding durationdepending on external credit ratings of the relevant The Group maintains sufficient facilities to meet its funding counterparty.
In the case of financial assets exposed to credit requirements over the medium term.
At 31 December 2014, risk, the carrying amount in the balance sheet, net of any these facilities totalled 858 million in the form of committed applicable provision for loss, represents the amount exposed bank facilities arranged on a bilateral basis with a number of tocredit risk.
international banks and private placement notes.
The financial covenants attached to these facilities are that EBITDA should Insurance be no less than 4 times interest and net debt should be no The Group operates a policy of buying cover against the more than 3 times EBITDA: at 31 December 2014, these stood material risks which the business faces, where it is possible to at 27 times and 0.9 times respectively.
The Group does not purchase such cover on reasonable terms.
Where this is not consider that these covenants are restrictive to its operations.
possible, or where the risks would not have a material impact The maturity profile of the borrowings is detailed in Note 17 on the Group as a whole, we self-insure.
Net debt amounted to 494 million at 31 December 2014 2013: 363 million and, at that date, un-drawn committed facilities were 367 million.
Interest rate risk The Groups policy is to manage the exposure to interest ratesby ensuring an appropriate balance of fixed and floating rates.
At 31 December 2014, 305 million of the net debt of 494 million was at fixed rates of interest resulting in a fixed tofloating rate net debt ratio of 62:38 2013: 79:21.
54 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 1 2 3 4 BUILDING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS THE BIGGER PICTURE Aggrekos role in society We live in a world reliant on power: it is an essential part In our Local business, we provide temporary power or ofeveryday life.
temperature control to individual businesses across many sectors, including oil and gas and mining, helping them to Huge numbers of people across the globe do not have grow and by extension helping economies grow.
We service access to reliable on-demand power and sometimes this is the sport and entertainment industry and have powered some forgotten in the developed world.
Perhaps more importantly, of the worlds most famous events, such as the Olympicsand electricity helps ensure survival in hospitals and educate the FIFA World Cup.
children in schools, whilst also helping to improve peoples quality of life through simple appliances such as air conditioning It is important that we conduct ourselves with integrity at all units and fridges.
Our Power Projects business typically times.
We conduct our business dealings ethicallyand safely provides power to government utilities to support a countrys and aim to minimise our impact on the environmentwhilst grid infrastructure, thus helping to keep the lights on.
working to supportour customers and their communities.
JAPAN DISASTER RELIEF BUILDING LONG-TERM RELATIONSHIPS Following the 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan, Aggreko provided 350MW of power to assistthe country through the challenging period that followed and provide power stability to help thecountry get back on its feet.
Our pricing reflected the challenges of operating in an environment at risk from nuclear fallout and seismic activity.
We have worked withour customers in Japan sharing knowledge withtheir engineers, andbenefiting from their experience in the provision of power.
As a result, ourinitial customer, TEPCO, recommended us to our second customer HEPCO and we have now been present in Japan forover three years.
Read the full case study Page 44 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 55 STRATEGIC REPORT CONTINUED BUILDING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS CONTINUED OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability reporting is an evolving process and one that What matters most we plan to develop.
With this in mind, we have added to our There are four areas of sustainability focus within the business: reporting this year to further explain how we engage with our stakeholders.
The Group is committed to ensuring that our HEALTH, SAFETY AND success also brings long-term social and economic benefits ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT tothe communities and countries where we operate, whilst protecting their environments.
Priorities Ensure the health and safety of our people at work Responding to our customers Minimise our environmental impact Be accountable and transparent with regards to our The provision of power and temperature control are essential environmental footprint activities in our global economy: however, they come with challenges, particularly environmental challenges.
We are Outcome for the business committed to growing our business and supporting our Retain our reputation for HSE customers.
In succeeding in this aim, it is inevitable that Gain commercial benefit someof our activities will have an impact on the environment.
Read more on page 57 Our equipment and solutions are designed to comply with applicable laws, regulations and industry standards wherever we operate in the world.
Legislation over the last 20 years OUR PEOPLE haslargely focused on reducing emissions such as Nitrogen Priorities and Sulphur Dioxide, and engine manufacturers have been Promote equal opportunities verysuccessful at this: however, perversely, lower emissions Provide career and personal development usually result in higher fuel consumption and therefore Ensure security whilst at work moreCO.
2 Operate with due regard for human rights We innovate both in response to customer demand and to Outcome for the business improve the efficiency of our products and therefore reduce Attract and retain the best people their environmental impact where we can.
As fuel is the greatest element of cost in producing temporary power, Read more on page 62 particularly running diesel, we have worked to improve the fuel efficiency of our diesel engines.
In the last couple of years wehave introduced a solution for our customers in the oil and ETHICS AND INTEGRITY gas sector whereby we are able to take the gas by-product Priorities from wells and rather than flare it, use it to run our gas Ensure we operate with integrity and honesty generators.
In addition, we support low-carbon emissions Make sure that we are in compliance with laws generation such as wind and hydro, and help to make andregulations thesesolutions viable.
Renewable energy is intermittent and therefore providing support, for example when the rain fails Outcome for the business tocome, such as inPanama, is a core part of our business.
Retain our reputation for acting with integrity Read more about our engine technology Read more on page 65 Page 61 SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION Read more about using field gas Priorities Page 57 Engage with local communities and work in partnership Recruit, train and develop local people Read more about supporting the hydro shortage in Panama Participate in activities that make a difference Page 39 Outcome for the business Continue to operate in a responsible manner Gain new talent for the organisation Read more on page 66 56 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 1 2 3 4 HSE policy HEALTH, SAFETY AND The Executive Director with overall responsibility for HSE is ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT HSE ChrisWeston, Chief Executive Officer, and our commitment toHSE is reflected in ourGlobal HSE Policy Statement.
Context Ron Sams, Group Operations and Technology Director, Our activities, the generation of power, cool air and heat, hasbeen nominated as the senior manager responsible for whileessential to the global economy, produce waste and ensuring that the HSE policy is implemented and its operation greenhouse gases and pose health and safety risks in the monitored throughout Aggreko, via the globalHSEteam.
We are committed to minimising The Board is committed to ensuring that thenecessary these wherever possible, which not only reduces harm to organisation and resources exist to facilitate theachievement theenvironment and keeps people safe, but helps us to gain ofour HSEgoals and we monitor this through monthly board commercial benefit.
reports, prepared by the global HSE team, andreports from each of the Regional Executive Directors onHSE incidents Our approach within their region.
Aggrekos equipment is designed to function on all continents We recognise our responsibility to understand the risks and in all types of terrain.
By careful design and use of the most associated with our operations, how they could potentially suitable technology, we manage all of our operations in such a affect people and the natural environment.
Aggreko is manner to ensure minimal negative impact on our people, our committed to monitoring and ensuring the effectiveness of neighbours and the environment in which we operate.
In order designed control measures and taking action as appropriate.
toachieve this we must first understand the potential hazards Furthermore, Aggreko complies with legal requirements as a and risks associated with our operations and implement minimum and takes a transparent approach to reporting any mitigating measures to manage these.
We take a robust incidents that may occur.
approach, considering each element of HSE in our product design, system design, client interfaces and we complete task and activity risk assessments, to manage our on-site operations during the installation and operation of our equipment.
The twomajor environmental issues we have to deal with areemissions-to-air from our generators and the safe handlingand disposal of fueland oil.
REDUCING THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF SHALE In the shale basins of the US, customers had beenrelying on diesel generators to power the drilling and pumping equipment and then flaring thefield gas that was produced as a by-product.
Aggreko developed an alternative fuel solution that takes field gas and treats it so that it can be used to power a natural gas generator, replacing the existing diesel solution.
This has substantially reduced the cost to the customer whilst also reducing the environmental impact of burning flare gas and diesel fuel.
Switching from diesel to gasfuelled power reduces greenhouse gas emissions and eliminates the potential for fuel spills, whilst also lowering refuelling lorry emissions and road damage.
As a result, Aggreko was awarded the Environmental Stewardship Award at the Eagle Ford Excellence Awards in 2014.
Read the full case study Page 40 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 57 STRATEGIC REPORT CONTINUED BUILDING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS CONTINUED Safety ORANGE RULES Rigorous safety processes are absolutely essential if we are toavoid accidents which could cause injury to people and damage to property and reputation.
Leadership on safety Orange Rules focuses on modifying behaviours comes from the Executive Committee and we consider byraising awareness of hazards, which could safetyprocesses abasic benchmark of operational discipline.
It actively encourages the In recognition ofthis, we launched Orange Rules in2014, reporting of hazards, nearmiss events and risks which supports our Safety for Life programme.
and enforces the message that everybody working for Aggreko is empowered to stop work if they have Aggreko monitors safety performance using Frequency any concern about safety.
By focusing the Orange Accident Rating FAR : this is one of our KPIs.
Rules on specific hazard groups, proven through Read more about FAR analysis of our incidents and risks that present ouremployees with the most considerable risk Page 26 ofinjury, we are able to improve our injury rate.
The launch of the Orange Rules in 2014 was acompany-wide event, championed by our Key HSE actions in 2014 and future actions ChiefExecutive Officer and supported by video, interactive training materials and all employee During 2014 we initiated a number of actions to helpus communications, translated into local languages.
furtherimprove our capabilities in mitigating HSE risk.
We held launch events at each of our sites HSE Review: We have engaged a specialist consultant andproject locations to reinforce the importance toundertake an independent review of HSE in 2015, ofthe message.
benchmarking our policies and processes against global Orange Rules have been successfully best practice, to identify areas for improvement and assist embeddedwithin the organisation and forms in developing our long-term HSE strategy: partof our HSEmonitoring processes, including Orange Rules: We launched Orange Rules in 2014 to support management safety walks, risk and incident our Safety for Life programme: analysis, audit and inspection processes and Energy Safety Rules: These user-friendly rules introduce a technical training development.
new approach to effectively manage the risks our employees are exposed to when undertaking intrusive work or working in the direct vicinity of a high risk area, such as high voltage Watch the video online: overhead conductors.
We ran successful pilot schemes www.
com intwo locations in 2014 and planning is underway for a fullroll-out across the Group in 2015: HSE Metrics: There will be a full review of the HSE indicators used across the business during 2015.
These measures will consider the current business operations and associated risks identified in our Global Incident and Risk Reporting Database: Reinforcing our Positive Safety Culture: We believe that by encouraging an open and honest reporting culture, with direct and visible management engagement, we will continue to improve our positive safety culture and in turn our safety performance.
We will continue to actively encourage risk reporting and will act on risk and hazards identified as appropriate.
We will continue to support our managers in undertaking management safety walks and help to ensure that the approach and experience continues to be positive for all involved.
58 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 1 2 3 4 The tables below present the principal findings from Emissions-to-air GHGanalyses of the previous two years: Emissions-to-air are an inevitable by-product of hydrocarbon fuelled engines.
Over the years, as engines have become more Total GHG emissions by GHG protocol scope efficient and legislation to limit emissions has become stricter, tCO e year 2014 2013 2 emissions have reduced sharply.
Aggreko works in cooperation Scope 1 15,714,575 16,287,898 with the manufacturers of engines in order to meet new Scope 2 18,188 14,554 emission requirements in a timely manner.
Scope 3 2,940,471 3,071,360 It is essential for us to manage emissions-to-air and to ensure Total 18,673,234 19,373,812 that we meet new emissions requirements in order to enable usto continue operating in a number of countries.
It is equally Total GHG emissions by fleet non-fleet important that we play our part in helping to reduce the global tCO2e year 2014 2013 environmental impact of burning hydrocarbons, where we can.
Fleet 18,523,108 19,225,517 Carbon dioxide emissions Non-fleet 150,126 148,295 We are constantly exploring new ways of reducing emissions Total 18,673,234 19,373,812 and have gradually over the last few years increased the useofmore environmentally friendly gas fuelled generators.
Total GHG emissions by GHG protocol scope Gas generators now represent 16% of our fleet.
Natural gas isconsidered an  clean fuel, with Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 emissions of sulphur dioxide that are negligible in comparison to coal or oil and levels of NOx and CO that are significantly 2 20,000,000 lower.
Where gas fuel is essentially a by-product of production, such as in the US shale plays, or derived from a biological 15,000,000 source, a CO and greenhouse gas reduction is realised.
2 10,000,000 In addition to the work we have undertaken developing natural gas-powered generators, we are constantly reviewing product technologies, looking for advances that we can adopt into our 5,000,000 product portfolio.
These include: 0 Bio-fuels We have seen the emergence of bio-diesel across 2011 2012 2013 2014 some of our markets and these fuels are compatible with most of our generator fleet.
Our main concern is the sustainability of the sources of production and the environmental impact Total GHG emissions by fleet non-fleet ofcertain production methods.
Consequently, whilst we will Non-fleet Fleet support customers that wishtorun bio-fuel, we are not yet actively promoting its use: 20,000,000 Fuel Cells We continue to keep abreast of developments infuel cell technology, but we do not currently see any 15,000,000 commercial application in our business.
This may change astechnology improves and costs reduce: 10,000,000 Renewables Technology is not yet advanced enough to enable us to pursue a hybrid renewable option.
We have reviewed, for example, the application of battery technology 5,000,000 in combination with a diesel generator to provide hybrid power which can improve efficiency and reduce fuel consumption, 0 but this is not yet a commercially viable solution.
2011 2012 2013 2014 In line with the Companys Act 2006, we are reporting on our The results show that 99% of GHG emissions arise from the greenhouse gas GHG emissions.
We have used the method operation of our fleet when it is out on rent.
There are three outlined in the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and main factors driving our annual GHG emissions: the fuel type Reporting Standard revised edition, together with the latest ourcustomers use: the pattern of their usage: and the fuel emission factors from recognised public sources including Defra, efficiency of the fleet.
the International EnergyAgency, the US Energy Information Administration, theUS Environmental Protection Agency and the Intergovernmental panel on Climate Change.
Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 59 STRATEGIC REPORT CONTINUED BUILDING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS CONTINUED In 2014 we emitted 18,673,234 tonnes of CO e, a decrease Exhaust gases and particulates 2 of3.6% over 2013.
As expected, and in line with the 2012 In an increasing number of countries, air quality regulations and2013 assessments, the emissions associated with our stipulate emission standards for new equipment.
Generally generator fleet accounted for the majority of emissions, countries allow mobile equipment already operating to representing 99% of the total footprint.
In line with best continueto do so for its useful life: this is called grandfathering.
practice, our GHG accounting systems include an estimate The US EPA has introduced the most stringent regulation in ofthe upstream GHG emissions associated with fuel supply thisarea, with targets for the reduction of NOx and particulate chains which typically add 18.5% to combustion emissions: inTiers, starting with Tier 1 in 1996 moving to the forthcoming this18.5% accounts for 98% of scope 3 emissions.
The EPA requirements have therefore been the maindriver of new generator development.
As a result ofimproved fuel efficiency in our refurbished 1MW diesel generators and an increased proportion of gas fuelled All our engine suppliers produce engines which comply with the generation, we have achieved a decrease in GHG emissions latest emissions standards and we work with them to introduce despite a 15% increase in fleet running hours.
Without these them into the fleet.
Our Tier 4 Interim product range is complete improvements the total GHG emissions in 2014 would have and over 600 units have been introduced into the rental fleet for been approximately 987,782 tonnes CO e or 5% higher.
The first Tier 4 Final units are undergoing testing 2 toensure the new technologies are fully proven before being In terms of the non-fleet activities, emissions from third-party integrated into our rental fleet in line with the US EPA transitional vehicle use, company vehicles and business travel have all arrangements.
In Europe, we have released the full range decreased slightly.
Conversely, emissions from activities on ofStage 3a products into our fleet, which is in line with ourpremises have increased, largely due to an overall increase EUemissions regulations.
inboth electricity and fuel consumption, in particular from fuelused for generator testing in Jebel Ali, where we conduct We continue to work closely with engine manufacturers and our refurbishment programme.
primary technology developers to derive appropriate solutions for these requirements.
The intensity ratio expresses the GHG impact per unit of physical activity or economic output, with a declining intensity To further reduce emissions-to-air for specific projects, ratio reflecting a positive performance improvement.
In 2013 wehavedeveloped an after-treatment that can be applied wechose Revenue Intensity as the most suitable metric for toour existingfleet at our customers request.
In Japan ourbusiness for then and future years.
wehave used a unit to reduce NOxby 90%, inorder to meetJapanese air quality standards.
This technology can As can be seen from the table below relative emissions bereadily applied globally as anoperational bolt on to our havedecreased, with a 3.7% reduction in the emissions standard equipment.
NOx and particulate reduction targets Revenue intensity ratio tCO e 2 0.6 Tier 1 0.5 0.4 12.3 11.8 0.3 Tier 3 9.5 0.2 8.6 Tier 2 0.1 Tier 4 final 0 Tier 4 interim 0 2 4 6 8 10 NOx g kWh Refrigerant emissions 2011 2012 2013 2014 In accordance with the timelines and accords set out by the Montreal protocol, Aggreko has phased out chlorofluorocarbon CFC plant from its temperature control rental fleet and is in the process of phasing out  HCFC plant.
Hydrofluorocarbon HFC product, the replacement for CFC and HCFC, is available across our full equipment range and hasbeen adopted as standard for all new fleet.
60 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Particulate g kWh 1 2 3 4 Pollution incidents REFURBISHING Aggreko and its customers handle a considerable quantity of diesel fuel and the rare occurrence of accidental fuel spills is an OUR DIESEL ENGINES area that we monitor very closely.
The management of pollution is extremely important to Aggreko, both from a safety and environmental perspective.
Our equipment is specifically designed to minimise the risk of fluid spillage through features such as double-walled storage tanks and fail-safe valves.
Considerable effort has been put intoreducing the incidence of fuel spills, and continued in 2014 through the Orange Rules Health and Safety programme.
In the event of a fuel spill, corrective action is taken immediately to reduce any potential impact, with spill kits used by trained staff for small-scale spills and for large quantity spills the appointment of specialist contractors to assist with the collection of spilt fluid and ground remediation.
Following this, we also review our processes and equipment to identify any potential improvements for implementation.
Reporting of fuel spills is reviewed monthly by the Board.
The performance measure used is the Petroleum Release Rating PRR, which is calculated as follows: Litres of Diesel Oil Spilt to Ground PRR MW on Rent We have continuously invested in extending the PRR performance in 2014 was 0.38 which is a slight useful life of our fleet, so instead of scrapping a improvement over our performance in 2013.
We are committed large diesel generator when it reaches the end to continuing to improve our PRR performance and the target ofits useful life, we re-build it by re-cycling and for 2015 is 0.35. re-using the components that do not deteriorate with age and replacing those parts that wear.
Read more about Orange Rules Therefore we can effectively produce a brand new Page 58 like-for-like G3 diesel generator for half the capital cost of buying anew one.
In 2009 we launched a development programme to further enhance our PRR Performance diesel engines through the refurbishment process.
As a result, our new G3 diesel engines have 15%more power output and are 4% more fuel 0.62 efficient than the original engines they were derived from and have a capital cost that is 70% ofthe original G3 generator.
The G3 generator 0.41 0.39 0.38 delivers substantial environmental savings: ifeachunit produces more power, you need lessunitson-site and therefore are reducing the transport emissions associated with mobilising theequipment.
Added to which the generators arenowmore fuel efficient.
At present, 25% of thediesel fleet are refurbished engines.
2011 2012 2013 2014 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 61 STRATEGIC REPORT CONTINUED BUILDING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS CONTINUED Minimising noise OUR PEOPLE Noise pollution is another important environmental factor that we take very seriously.
We aim to provide helpful solutions to Context our customers, minimising the noise associated with producing power or air solutions.
Our talented employees are a critical contributor to our success and embrace our culture of agility and efficiency, We have built a competitive advantage through a fleet that ascharacterised by pace, passion and performance.
This is done through the use of Feedback from our most recent Global Opinion Survey shows custom-built acoustic enclosures as well as high performance that 88% of employees consider Aggreko to be an exciting isolation and attenuation systems.
In addition, in designing place to work and 89% are proud to say they work for a Power Project site, we aim to position the equipment such Aggreko.
We believe this is due in large part to our unique thatthenoise it does produce has the least effect on the culture which encourages a can-do attitude where immediate environment.
employees are empowered to make decisions quickly in order In 2014, we used the latest design technologies to introduce to satisfy our customers.
However, we have long recognised improvements to our generator fleet to further reduce noise that operating at a global level requires agility to be allied with levels on average by approximately 10%.
This is a challenging combination of character traits to find, which is why we seek to retain high-performing staff Our equipment achieves performance standards that are through atalent development programme, while continuing wellbelow the maximum levels permitted by current tobring innew employees through our graduate training and European legislation: apprentice schemes.
Size of generator Certified noise level Sound Power LWA Our approach Prime Maximum Aggreko Aggreko Power EUlimit StandardProduct PremiumProduct We are proud that so many of our employees love what they 30kVA 96.47 92.0 78.0 do and we seek to increase employee satisfaction through 60kVA 96.77 92.0 80.0 more than just financial incentives.
We encourage mobility across countries and divisions by prioritising internal transfers 125kVA 97.10 93.5 83.0 and ensuring that all positions are advertised internally.
200kVA 97.30 92.5 91.0 An example of this isthe2014 FIFA World Cup Brazil, where 350kVA 97.55 92.0 90.0 wehad over 100employees working full-time on the project, ofwhom 48were secondees from outside the country.
Waste and re-cycling We also recognise that localisation of talent provides many In the normal course of our business, we regularly have to benefits to the Company and to the communities in which replace consumables such as engine oil and filters.
If these are weoperate, which is why we actively recruit local talent not appropriately disposed of, they can cause environmental wherever possible and use programmes like Aggreko University damage such as leakage into the ground water and Cote dIvoire, SelecTech USA and our apprenticeship contamination of the local water supplies.
If left unattended programme at our Dumbarton manufacturing facility UK theyare also unsightly and typically not biodegradable.
todevelop the skills of school leavers.
After graduating from Therefore it is imperative that we remove and safely dispose ourapprenticeship scheme, most of our apprentices go on to ofour waste products.
full-time employment at Aggreko and continue their education through our internal training programmes.
We are proud of the In the Local business, these are normally returned to our fact that many of oursenior technical positions are filled with service centres where they are safely disposed of, or re-cycled ex-apprentices.
These positions include Product Managers, where appropriate.
In our Power Projects business, we Power Specialists, Supply Chain Managers, Development haveprocedures in place to collect waste on-site and then Engineers, Area Operations Managers and Site Managers.
site-specific arrangements are made for the safe handling of these items.
We commit to returning our Power Project sites We continue to learn from the feedback we receive from our tothe condition in which we found them, and therefore work employees: one of our most useful feedback mechanisms very hard to minimise the impact we have.
isthe Global Opinion Survey, which invites feedback from allofour employees every two years.
One area that was Read more about our generator refurbishments highlighted in the 2013 Global Opinion Survey as needing Page 61 improvement was internal communications.
In response tothis, we launched MyAggreko, a company-wide intranet, inearly 2015.
MyAggreko will encourage collaboration between employees and allow for knowledge sharing across business units.
It will also provide a channel for company news such asproject wins and new initiatives.
Commenting on articles, 62 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 1 2 3 4 sharing links and documents and participating in discussions will allow our employees to work more collaboratively and SELECTECH, UNITED STATES break down barriers of distance.
Internal communications will continue to be an area of focus and in addition to our regular team briefings and publicising our annual results through targeted employee mailings, we will be trialling new methods of communication, allowing us to connect more effectively toour remote and mobile workforce.
As these employees areoften customer-facing, it is critical that they have an understanding of our global strategy and goals.
People management and development In 2014 the global HR leadership team reaffirmed its commitment to creating an HR function at Aggreko which is truly global.
We recognise that it is in the best interests of the Company and of our employees to create standardised processes wherever possible and to utilise technology to consolidate our HR information systems HRIS.
As part of this journey, we are rolling out several global initiatives to improve these systems.
This includes the adoption of our global HRIS system across the Group during 2015 and the implementation of mobility software whichwill enable us to better support our expatriate employees as they move around the globe.
Learning and development continues to be an area of focus forus, as we firmly believe that investment in our employees Aggreko SelecTech Accelerated Career Program has a direct and positive impact on our employee retention is a two-year rotational programme that allows rates and the engagement levels of our staff.
students to earn valuable work experience while earning an Associate in Applied Science Degree In 2014 we delivered over 200,000 hours of training across in Diesel and Heavy Equipment Technology from theGroup.
Many of our training programmes are tailored Oklahoma State University Institute of Technology specifically for Aggreko employees and utilise case studies OSUIT.
The programme has been running since andexamples taken from employee experience.
This approach 2008and to date 72 students have graduated results in training programmes which are standardised and fromthe programme.
Of these, 68 have gone on which reinforce our core values.
Another example of our approach to training and development Upon acceptance into the Aggreko programme, is the senior management training programme, developed in SelecTech students take technical training classes association with the International Institute for Management at OSUIT, while repairing Aggreko equipment Development IMD.
In 2014, 37 senior managers attended during their six trimesters on campus.
The course training courses run by IMD and since 2008 over 225 people also covers the real-life aspects of Aggrekos have passed through.
We have also trained over 1,800 people business, including, assisting with disaster in continuous improvement techniques through our Orange reliefoperations, supporting gas shale plays Excellence programme.
andproviding power andcooling services for special events.
Students travel at least 75-80% of the time, giving them a valuable insight into our entire business andproviding them with a well-rounded learning experience.
My experience since joining SelecTech has been absolutely great!
I have worked in Phoenix, Jacksonville, Oklahoma, Chickasha, Atlanta, Miami, Denver, as well as at some major events.
I truly believe that deciding to join SelecTech was the best decision that I have made.
Quote from current SelecTech student Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 63 STRATEGIC REPORT CONTINUED BUILDING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS CONTINUED Succession planning Diversity We have an internal talent management system and The table below shows the breakdown by gender of our succession planwhich covers our senior managers and permanent employees as at 31 December 2014.
We have includes individual assessments and development plans.
included the information below on Subsidiary Directors as this Succession planning isone of our global HR priorities for is required bythe Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and 2015and is being coordinated by the Group and Regional Directors Reports Regulations 2013, however we believe that HRDirectors.
By the end of 2015 we intend to have an a better reflection of Senior Management are those employees updatedsuccession planning strategy in place which will who are the direct reports to the Executive Directors, so this ensure that wehave contingency plans for all key personnel.
We acknowledge that we need toimprove on gender diversity across the Group.
Safety and security Gender: 31 Dec 2014 Total % Given that we operate in many areas of the world which canbecategorised as high risk, we consider the safety of our 1.
Male employees working in these locations to be one of our most 2 2 2 critical issues.
We have recently appointed a Group Head of 7 70 Security to oversee the implementation of standard tools and 2 processes to ensure the safety and security of our people.
Female PLC Board Senior management Subsidiary Directors Whole Group We also have an ongoing partnership with Control Risks Group, who provide uswith the on-the-ground knowledge that we 3 30 1 need to make decisions on our operations in high risk areas.
1 1 1 Equal opportunities Aggreko is committed to promoting equal opportunities for all, irrespective of disability, ethnic origin, gender or any other 1.
Male 2 considerations that do not affect a persons ability to perform 2 2 their job.
Our policies for recruitment, training, career 33 87 2 development and promotion of employees are based on the suitability of the individual and give those who are disabled 2.
Female PLC Board Senior management Subsidiary Directors Whole Group equal treatment with the able bodied where appropriate.
Employees disabled after joining the Group are given suitable 5 13 1 training for alternative employment with Aggreko or elsewhere.
1 1 1 Human rights As we continue to grow our business in developing countries, we recognise that human rights are a concern in many regions 1.
We have a responsibility to all of our 2 stakeholders, to ensure that all of our interactions with them 86 95 2 meet or exceed the standards of compliance set out in our 2.
Female ethics policies, approach to equal opportunities, health and PLC Board Senior management Subsidiary Directors Whole Group safety policies, environmental policies and grievance 5 5 mechanisms, all of which are explained in detail throughout 1 thesustainability section of this report.
We have also identified 1 1 safety, emissions and people as matters to be considered as 1 part of the principal risks facing the business.
Read more about our risks Page 28 1.
Male 2 2 2 Whilst all these matters are linked, to a greater or lesser extent, 2 5,320 84 to human rights, we prefer to address them aspart of our 2.
Female operations, rather than as a separate issue.
We continue to PLC Board Senior management Subsidiary Directors Whole Group evaluate all potential risks and do not think that human rights present material issues for our business.
1,038 1 6 1 1 1 1 64 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 1 2 3 4 Key processes that support our approach ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Our compliance programme has a number of elements designed to ensure that we effectively manage Context compliance risks: Integrity and honesty are core values for Aggreko.
We are Ethics Policy proud that we have a reputation for conducting business Every employee receives a copy of, and is required to sign, fairlyand professionally.
Maintaining these values in all theEthics Policy when they join Aggreko.
We also require all ofourbusiness dealings is key to our success.
employees to sign an annual compliance statement confirming that they have complied with and will continue to comply with We recognise that our business is exposed to risks of unethical our Ethics Policy and the relevant laws.
conduct because of the nature and value of many of our contracts: standards of integrity are not consistent across all Training the countries in which we operate.
However, we have a robust Every employee receives training, which is refreshed every compliance programme in place to allow us tomanage this twoyears via our multi-lingual online ethics compliance training risk effectively.
This online training is supplemented by additional Read more about our risks ethics workshops withsenior management to ensure they remain alert to risks.
Page 28 Third-Party Risks All of our third-party sales consultants are comprehensively reviewed before they are engaged by Aggreko and this exercise Our approach is refreshed at least every two years.
Our sales consultants Our core values of integrity and honesty are at the heart of arecontractually required to comply with our Ethics Policy ourculture.
These values are enshrined in our Ethics Policy andwe require our sales consultants to confirm compliance andwe expect all Aggreko employees, consultants and those with the policy annually.
We also provide ethics training to our acting on behalf of Aggrekoto adopt these values at all times.
sales consultants to ensure they remain alert to potential risks.
We also have controls in place in relation to the remuneration We have a full-time Compliance Officer who coordinates ofconsultants and we monitor all payments to sales Aggrekos compliance programme with support from consultants to ensure that the remuneration structure theregions and the central functions.
We also have an doesnotincentivise unethical behaviour.
EthicsCommittee, composed entirely of Non-executive Directors, whooversee the effectiveness of our compliance We recognise that some supply chain partners could also programme.
potentially attract risk for the business owing to the nature ofthe services performed.
We have adopted a risk based We are also a subscriber of the Institute of Business Ethics, duediligence process for our supply chain partners which which promotes ethical business practice.
Our subscription iscurrently being implemented.
allows us to share knowledge of best practice and experience of ethical issues amongst members.
Gifts, Entertainment and Hospitality We have a clear approval process for all gifts, entertainment Read more in our Ethics Committee report andhospitality offered by or given to Aggreko employees.
Page 88 All gifts, entertainment and hospitality above the nominal value arerecorded centrally and monitored by the Compliance Officer.
Speaking Up We encourage all employees to speak up if they have any concerns.
We have an independent compliance hotline operated by an external agency.
This multi-lingual hotline ETHICS TRAINING AND isavailable to all employees and allows any employee who SALES CONSULTANTS hasanyconcerns to report them on an anonymous basis.
All reports are followed up, and we regularly analyse the In order to ensure our third-party sales consultants typesofreports we receive.
Where appropriate, our Group totally understand Aggrekos values and approach Internal Audit team is asked to investigate the issue and to ethical issues and to ensure that they remain reporton the outcome.
alert to potential risks, we deliver ethics workshops to every sales consultant every two years.
The sales consultants have provided positive feedback on these sessions as it reinforces the standards expected byAggreko and provides anopportunity to raise any concerns.
Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 65 STRATEGIC REPORT CONTINUED BUILDING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS CONTINUED Community investment SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION We actively engage in supporting the local communities we work in and we do this in a number of ways.
We are very proactive in recruiting locally from the community: in Africa, Context 90% of the workforce is comprised of African Nationals.
Aggreko is fortunate to work in a wide variety of countries We provide extensive on-the-job training for new recruits and andsocial contribution is one way of giving back to the give them the skills to become technicians.
Its about supporting the communities in which business as we are able to train people on our equipment, wework, whilst being respectful of different cultures.
rather than re-train already competent technicians that have worked elsewhere.
It also helps us build relationships in the Our approach local community which are very important when we might be operating a contract for a number of years.
Each year, Aggreko engages in a number of initiatives which give back to the communities in which we work, as well as Charitable donations are largely focused on the education providing support to those affected by natural disasters.
We have contributed to the development of a During 2014, Aggreko contributed to a range of charitable, number of libraries and community learning centres.
In 2014, community and disaster relief organisations.
Our policy we continued our partnership with Book Aid International, encourages employees to support local initiatives, particularly acharitypromoting literacy in Africa, with whom we have those relating to education and sport, and is based on giving beenworking since 2006.
Book Aid has provided hundreds donations to many organisations which are involved with the ofthousands of books to schools and libraries.
We admire communities in which we work.
theirwork enormously and donations from Aggreko in 2014 provided10,000 books to the Books Change Lives programme insub-Saharan Africa as well as funding a secondary school library development programme.
MOZAMBIQUE PRIMARY SCHOOL SPONSORSHIP As part of our cross-border Power Project at Ressano Garcia, Aggreko undertook a commitment to sponsor the Escola Primaria Completa fide Ressano Garcia, a primary school in the village close to the site.
Since 2012 we have been working with the school to address issues relating to physical infrastructure and skills shortages in order to create an environment that is conducive for effective teaching and learning.
This has included the renovation of classrooms, supply of furniture, purchasing of text books and building a library.
In 2014, uniforms were bought for students, the school wall was renovated and 400 students had their eyes tested, with 25 receiving spectacles.
In addition, a programme was implemented to improve the literacy of the teachers in English and Portuguese, to which seven community members also enthusiastically joined.
Since the start of our involvement, there has been a great improvement inthe school morale and that of the surrounding community.
The culture of teaching and learning atthe school has dramatically improved, in part through the improvements we have facilitated but also due to the enthusiasm from all those involved.
66 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 1 2 3 4 GOVERNANCE 2 Governance Corporate Governance 68 Our Board 72 Audit Committee report 84 Ethics Committee report 88 Nomination Committee report 90 Remuneration Committee report 92 Statutory disclosures 119 Statement of Directors responsibilities 124 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 67
