STRATEGIC REPORT CONTINUED HOW WE CREATE VALUE THROUGH OUR BUSINESS MODEL KEY INPUTS FLEET Human Power We have a highly skilled and professional workforce of over 7,700 employees worldwide 9, 6 9 5MW 926m Supply chain 1 assets We work with suppliers to ensure the components and services they provide comply with our Chillers qualitystandards Design and manufacture 1, 294MW 53m We work closely with engine manufacturers and 1 technology partners to design and manufacture assets equipment that is fuelefficient, emissions compliant and with a uniquecapital cost advantage Oil-free air Financial The Group has a strong balance sheet with sufficient facilities available 634cfm 12m 1 assets Intellectual We invest in our technology and operating Ancillaries procedures to deliver better performance 95m 1 assets KEY INPUTS Relationships We have longstanding relationships with many of our suppliers, notably Cummins, our main engine supplier.
We alsohave sourcing relationships across the globe where we work very closely with suppliers to ensure that the components and services provided comply with our quality standards.
1 Net asset value 16 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 1 2 3 4 How our strategy maximises performance Page 22 Risks that are involved Page 28 LOCAL BUSINESS GLOBAL FOOTPRINT & KEY OUTPUTS LOGISTICS POWER PROJECTS Maintain and Service Local business revenue The value we create Supporting industry and commerce 211 904m Sales and Service Centres Average contract value: 21k Providing power for worldwide operating a hub countries and communities The Local business rents andspoke model power and temperature control Enabling key events equipment to a diverse range around the world of customers who operate it themselves: we service and Innovating to build a 4 maintain it sustainable business Power Projects hubs on majorshipping routes Power Projects revenue Global employment excluding pass-through Strong brand and good 625m fuel reputation Average contract value: 5 millionperannum Rewarding careers The Power Projects business sells electricity which we deliver Shareholder returns using power plants built, owned and operated by ourselves OUR PROJECT LIFE CYCLE IS EXPLAINED ON THE NEXT PAGE Understand Design and Proposal Mobilise, Operate Service and Demobilise Service and the Plan Install and Maintain Refurbish requirement Commission Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 17 STRATEGIC REPORT CONTINUED HOW WE CREATE VALUE ACROSS THE PROJECT LIFE CYCLE THE TYPICAL LIFE CYCLE OF A PROJECT Understand Mobilise, Install therequirement Design and Plan Proposal andCommission 1 2 3 4 Local business 68,500 580 people 27,400 h ours days quotes per year dedicated sales force pieces of equipment installation time Customers approach us Typically, we meet the production Based on the plan, a quote is Once the contract is signed, we throughsales channels or existing manager on-site toget a better drawn up with guidance from the begin mobilising the equipment.
relationships: our sales people indication of what is needed.
A proposal We install it on-site, test it and alsooffer solutions before Then we drawup a design, taking is then made tothe customer and commission the contract.
We meet the account of any environmental or once agreed, a contract is signed.
cases the customer is responsible customer, discuss their needs regulatory requirements.
Power Projects c. 250 30 people 4,881MW w eeks months quotes per year dedicated sales force available installation time In most cases a tender is Following a site survey and Based on the contract Equipment is shipped from the produced, whilst in other caseswe additional exploratory work, specification a quote is drawn up.
nearest hub or another project present solutions to the customer wedraw up a plan to meet This is either presented directly which has recently demobilised to show how we can solve their thecustomer requirements, tothe customer, or in the case of and usually travels by sea, railand power issues.
Both involve including all the logistics and atender, the bid isoften opened road to the site.
Installing a project meeting the customer and sitecivil works.
This can vary publicly infrontof the local press.
typically takes a number of weeks understanding their needs.
considerably in complexity, from Negotiations will typically then and once this is complete the site asimple, small diesel contract, takeplace before a final price is iscommissioned and operational.
toalarge gas contract which agreed anda contract signed.
In most instances, thecustomer is might include building a gas responsible forproviding the fuel.
18 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 1 2 3 4 Service Service Operate and Maintain Demobilise and Refurbish 5 6 7 8 Local business 50 1,500 76,500 3 days days average average time to turnaround contractduration dedicated engineers sets off-hired in 2014 a diesel generator After an explanation on operating Our service engineers will visitthe The customer retains the right Equipment coming off-hire is procedures, customers operate site as necessary.
Our remote todetermine whether or not returned to our service centres, the equipment themselves and monitoring equipment can alert tooff-hire the equipment or extend where it is serviced and made callus if there are any issues.
customers and engineers to the contract.
When they choose to available to go back out on-hire.
potential problems before they off-hire, we remove our equipment occur.
For some short contracts, and demobilise.
servicing may not be needed.
Power Projects 1 year 1,100 1,21 9MW 290MW average contract off-hired and of refurbishments duration dedicated engineers demobilisedin 2014 in 2014 We sell power.
We own and The equipment needs regular At the end of the initial contract Equipment that is demobilised operate our facilities which servicing and maintaining, the term, customers have the option isreturned to one of the hubs, arerunby Aggreko employees.
frequency ofwhich depends tooff-hire or extend thecontract.
where it is serviced or refurbished.
These tend to be a combination onhow hard it is running.
Typically around athird of Our 1MW diesel generators that oflocally trained teams and Our technicians are permanently contracts on hire atthe beginning have reached the end of their Aggreko personnel with previous on-site and will service and of the year willoff-hire during the useful life are refurbished which PowerProjects experience.
When acustomer decides can include an upgrade to our tooff-hire, we remove our more fuel efficient higher electrical equipment and leave the output engine at around 70% siteexactly as we found it.
ofthe original cost and giving another eightyears of useful life.
Read more about refurbishments Page 61 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 19 STRATEGIC REPORT CONTINUED HOW WE CREATE VALUE USING OUR RESOURCES Human Design and Manufacture Aggreko has over 6,300 permanent and 1,400 temporary Unusually for a rental company, we design and assemble employees worldwide, united by our unique culture which has mostof our power equipment.
Our specialist in-house teams developed over more than 50 years.
Our people are highly based in Dumbarton, Scotland, understand intimately the skilled and are used to reacting quickly, doing a professional requirements of the environment in which the fleet operates.
job in a safe manner and above all, responding effectively We operate equipment for itsuseful life: we do not build our under pressure.
This gives apowerful incentive to maintain itwell, which gives a longer life and better reliability.
We have enormous strength and depth throughout the business.
Our sales and commercial teams are highly trained Designing and assembling our own fleet gives us a unique and understand the financial, regulatory and environmental competitive advantage: logistics of operating in challenging markets: our engineers Optimise equipment to meet our particular andtechnicians are trained to problem solve in even the operational requirements mostdifficult situations to keep our equipment operating: supported by strong back office functions.
Design equipment for reliability and longevity Material capital cost advantage through economies Our people are our biggest asset.
Therefore it is essential of scaleand not paying the final assembly margin thatour people are properly trained and are remunerated 20 40% over competitors andincentivised appropriately.
Each part of the business hastraining programmes in place to provide our employees React quickly to customer requirements with lead with the necessary skills to perform their role: training is times of only a few months from engine order to acombination of on-the-job learning and specific skill theequipment being in the fleet development through training courses.
We currently purchase most of our temperature control Read more about our people equipment externally to suit the needs of local markets.
Page 62 Fleet is managed on a real time basis across the world and is The Companys remuneration policy, set out in the Corporate transferable across all sectors and applications, which enables governance report, is aligned with the key objectives of us to optimise utilisation and therefore its deployment growingearnings and delivering strong returns on capital and returns.
These metrics are used for the Groups long-term incentive scheme and senior managers annual bonuses.
We also encourage all employees to own shares in the Company and currently over 2,400 people participate in Financial theSharesave programme.
The Group has sufficient facilities to meet our funding Read more about our remuneration policy requirements over the medium term.
These facilities have a Page 92 range of maturities and are satisfied by the following covenants: Funding Source Covenants Performance as at December 2014 Supply Chain Lenders EBITDA 4x Interest EBITDA to Interest: Aggrekos supply chain capability in managing suppliers to 27x provide goods and services in around 100 countries is a key Net debt EBITDA 3x Net debt to part of our business model, including the logistics of getting EBITDA: 0.9x equipment and supplies into and out of these countries in a The Group does not consider these covenants restrictive short period of time.
We have long standing relationships with andunder normal business conditions looks to operate many of our suppliers, notably Cummins, ourmain engine thebusiness with net debt EBITDA ratio of around one.
We also have sourcing relationships across the globe The Group believes that this is the appropriate level given where we work very closely with suppliers toensure that the thecharacteristics of the Group, including the inherently components and services provided comply with Aggrekos riskynature of where we operate, in particular in the quality standards.
20 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 1 2 3 4 Fleet is at the heart of any rental business: it is the core of the service we offer and managing it effectively is necessary to ensure the long-term sustainability of our business OUR DESIGN AND ASSEMBLY CAPABILITY 230 20,978 9,695MW permanent Dumbarton employees power units available power in the fleet Purpose-built facility 20-40% capital cost to flex volume advantage on new diesel and gas Flexible employee base generators 230 permanent and up to 275 contractors Refurbished and upgraded diesel forc.
70% of Design and originalcost per MW assembly with 50 years experience HFO as refurbishment for c. 85% of original Major sub-assembly diesel cost per MW bought in from key strategic suppliers Engine c. 50% In the fleet within Alternator c. 10% 10-12 weeks of order Container c. 10% 90% 226m 20 40% of cost is major sub-assemblies fleet capex in 2014 capital cost advantage Intellectual Furthermore, in recent years we have invested in the We have built a competitive advantage by designing our underlyingtechnology to deliver better performance and new ownequipment that is fit for purpose.
Key attributes of our capability inour 1MW generators.
We were the first company equipment are: intheworldto develop and assemble 1MW gas generators in 20foot containers: we have increased the power output of our Durable and portable has to be lifted and 1MW diesel engines by 15% whilst improving fuel consumption transported hundreds of times during its life by 4% and we have re-engineered the same engines to allow Ability to work in extreme conditions, them to run on Heavy Fuel Oil.
bothtemperature and altitude We have also developed a process to allow us to re-cycle and Fuel efficient refurbish our large diesel generators at the end of their useful Safe life, for significantly less than the cost of a new generator.
Quiet At thesame time, we re-engineer it to the latest specification.
Reliable Read more about generator refurbishments Compliant with environmental and safety regulations See page 61 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 21
