ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC LSE Stock Code: ECM Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 42 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Board of Directors Peter Johnson Ian Mason Simon Boddie Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director Joined in October 2010 Joined the Board in July 2000 Joined in September 2005 External roles External roles External roles During the year Peter was appointed None Simon is a Non-Executive Director of Vice-Chairman of the Supervisory Board PageGroup and Chairman of its Audit Past roles of Wienerberger AG, having been a Committee.
Ian joined the Group from The Boston Member for a number of years.
Consulting Group in February 1995 as Past roles Past roles Director of Business Development and Previously, Simon worked for Diageo plc Previously, Peter was Chairman of DS was appointed to the Board of Directors where he held a variety of senior finance Smith plc, a Non-Executive Director of in July 2000 as Chief Operating officer.
positions, latterly as Finance Director of SSL International plc, Chief Executive of He became Group Chief Executive in Key Markets.
George Wimpey plc and Chief Executive July 2001.
He was a Non-Executive Skills and experience of The Rugby Group plc.
Director at Sage Group plc from t International operations November 2007 until November 2013.
Skills and experience t Emerging markets t International operations Skills and experience t Recent financial experience t Emerging markets t International operations t Distribution t Mergers and acquisitions t eCommerce t Manufacturing t Distribution t Distribution t Service industry t Sales and marketing t Manufacturing Committee membership t Manufacturing t Service industry Chairman of the Treasury Committee t Service industry t Chief Executive Officer and Member of the Group Executive t Chairman Committee membership Committee.
t Chief Executive Officer Chairman of the Group Executive Committee membership Committee and Member of the Treasury Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Our Business Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC www.
com Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 43 Rupert Soames Paul Hollingworth Adrian Auer Senior Independent Director Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Joined in July 2007 Director Director Joined in May 2008 Joined in July 2009 External roles Rupert was recently appointed as Group External roles Adrian will be standing down as a NonChief Executive at Serco Group plc.
None Executive Director at the end of June.
Past roles Past roles External roles Up to April of this year, Rupert was Previously, Paul was Group Chief Adrian is Chairman of Shanks Group Group Chief Executive of Aggreko plc.
Financial officer of Thomas Cook plc and a Non-Executive Director of Previously, he was Chief Executive of Group plc and prior to that he was AZ Electronic Materials S. A.
He is also the Banking and Securities Division of Chief Financial officer of Mondi Group.
Chairman of Addaction, Britains largest Misys plc and a Non-Executive Director He has also held positions as Group specialist drug and alcohol treatment Finance Director of BPB plc, fide La Rue of Baggeridge Brick plc.
Skills and experience Past roles Skills and experience t International operations Previously, Adrian has held the position t International operations t Emerging markets of Finance Director in a number of t Emerging markets t Digital major companies and has extensive t Recent financial experience t Manufacturing international business experience.
t Mergers and acquisitions t Service industry Skills and experience t Corporate law and governance t Chief Executive Officer t International operations t Manufacturing t Emerging markets Committee membership t Service industry t Sales and marketing Chairman of the Remuneration Committee membership t Supply chain and logistics Committee.
Member of the Nomination Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Member of the Nomination and t Distribution Remuneration Committees.
t Digital t Mergers and acquisitions t Management consultancy t Manufacturing t Service industry t Chairman t Chief Executive Officer Committee membership Member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC LSE Stock Code: ECM Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 44 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Karen Guerra John Pattullo Ian Haslegrave Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive General Counsel and Company Director Director Secretary Joined in January 2013 Joined in January 2013 Joined in September 2006 External roles External roles External roles Karen is a Non-Executive Director of During the year John became Chairman None Amcor Limited, Swedish Match AB and of NHS Blood and Transplant and NonPast roles Davide Campari-Milano S. p. A.
Executive Chairman of Marken Group.
Previously, Ian was International Legal Past roles Past roles Director at Viacom Outdoor Limited.
Previously, Karen was a Non-Executive John recently retired from the Board He has also worked at United Biscuits Director at Inchcape plc, More Group of CEVA Group plc but continues to Limited and Freshelds Bruckhaus plc and Samlerhuset Group BV.
She has be a Special Advisor, having previously Deringer.
also held senior executive positions at served as Chief Executive officer of Skills and experience Colgate-Palmolive, including Managing CEVA Logistics.
Previously, he was t International operations Director and Chairman of both their UK Chief Executive officer of the Europe, t Mergers and acquisitions and French businesses.
Middle East and Africa division of t Corporate law and governance Exel and when Exel was acquired by Skills and experience t Risk management Deutsche Post DHL he went on to run t International operations t Manufacturing the combined Exel and DHL contract t Sales and marketing t Service industry logistics business in EMEA.
He spent t Manufacturing most of his early career working in Committee membership t Service industry supply chain management roles with Member of the Treasury Committee.
Committee membership Member of the Audit, Nomination and Skills and experience Remuneration Committees.
t International operations t Emerging markets t Supply chain and logistics t Manufacturing t Service industry t Chief Executive Officer Committee membership Member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
com Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 45 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Report The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements of Electrocomponents plc Company together with its subsidiary undertakings Group for the period to 31 March 2014.
A summary of the disclosures required to be made in, and incorporated into, this Directors Report is given below: Page Numbers: 1 Likely future developments 18 1 Policy on disability 36 1 Employee engagement 36 1 Greenhouse gas emissions 39 Names and biographies of Directors who served during the year 42 Directors indemnities 46 Results and dividends 46 Share Capital and acquisition of own shares 46 Directors disclosures of information to Auditors in respect of the audit 47 Appointment and replacement of Directors 89 Amendment of Articles of Association 89 Significant agreements: change of control 89 Powers of Directors 89 Share capital and shareholder rights: Substantial shareholders 46 Restrictions on transfer of shares 88 Rights attaching to shares 88 Restrictions on voting 88 Details of employee shares scheme 107 Principal subsidiary and associated undertakings and branches 120 Financial risk management including hedging 123 1.
Information required by the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 and included in the Strategic Report ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC LSE Stock Code: ECM Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 46 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT Results and dividends Directors indemnities Results for the year are set out in the Group income In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, statement on page 96.
An analysis of revenue, profit and the Company entered into a deed in 2007 to indemnify the net assets by region is shown in Note 3 on page 104.
The Directors and Ofcers from time to time of the Company to Directors have declared dividends as follows: the extent permitted by law.
A copy of this indemnity which remains in force as of the date on which this report was approved is available at the registered ofce of the Company.
Ordinary shares Paid interim dividend of 5p per The Company purchased and maintained Directors and share paid on 10 January 2014 2013: 5p per share Ofcers liability insurance throughout 2013, which was Proposed final dividend of 6.75p per renewed for 2014. share to be paid on 29 July 2014 2013: 6.75p per share Total ordinary dividend of 11.75p per Neither the indemnity nor insurance provide cover in the event share for year ended 31 March 2014 2013: 11.75p per share that a Director or officer is proved to have acted fraudulently.
Share capital Financial instruments Full details of share options and awards and shares issued For information on the Groups use of financial instruments, under the terms of the Companys share incentive plans can including financial risk management objectives and policies be found in Note 7 to the accounts on page 107. of the Group, and exposure of the Group to certain financial risks, see Note 21 on page 123.
As at 31 March 2014, the Companys issued share capital comprised a single class of 439,586,456 ordinary shares of Political contributions 10p each, totalling 43,958,645.60.
The Group made no political contributions during the year.
The Company was authorised by shareholders at the Annual Annual General Meeting General Meeting AGM held on 17 July 2013 to purchase up to The Notice of the AGM, which will be held at 12 noon on 10% of its ordinary share capital in the market.
This authority Thursday, 24 July 2014 at the Companys premises, The will expire at the end of the 2014 AGM and the Company is International Management Centre, 8050 Oxford Business Park proposing a resolution to renew it for another year.
North, Oxford, OX4 2HW, is set out in a separate circular.
Substantial shareholders As at 21 May 2014, the Company has been notied, in accordance with the FCA Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following interests in the voting rights of the Company: Nature of interest Number of shares Percentage held Silchester International Investors LLP Direct 83,089,855 19.05% Sprucegrove Investment Management Direct 33,046,296 7.58% Ameriprise Financial, Inc. and its group Direct and Indirect 22,383,083 5.11% Majedie Asset Management Ltd Indirect 21,819,825 4.96% Sanderson Asset Management Ltd Direct 18,240,445 4.18% Our Business Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC www.
com Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 47 Disclosure of information to Auditors The Directors who held ofce at the date of approval of this Directors report each confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as Directors to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Auditors are aware of that information.
Conicts of interest The Companys Articles of Association give the Board the power to authorise situations that might give rise to Directors conicts of interest.
The Board has in place a formal conicts of interest management procedure.
The Board is responsible for considering whether authorisation is required, and if it can be given, in relation to new situations as they arise.
The Board reviews annually any conict authorisations it has given and any limitations that have been applied.
