ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC LSE Stock Code: ECM Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 88 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Additional Information Set out below is a summary of certain provisions of the Companys current Articles of Association Articles and applicable English law concerning companies, the Companies Act 2006 Companies Act.
This is a summary only and the relevant provisions of the Articles or the Companies Act should be consulted if further information is required.
Dividends and distributions Variation of rights Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the Company Subject to the relevant law, the Articles specify that rights may by ordinary resolution from time to time declare attached to any class of shares may be varied with the written dividends not exceeding the amount recommended by the consent of the holders of not less than three-quarters in Board.
The Board may pay interim dividends whenever the nominal value of the issued shares of that class, or with the financial position of the Company, in the opinion of the Board, sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate general justifies such payment.
The Board may withhold payment of meeting of the holders of those shares.
all or any part of any dividends or other monies payable in Transfer of shares respect of the Companys shares from a person with a 0.25% All transfers of shares may be effected by transfer in writing in interest as dened in the Articles if such a person has been any usual or common form or in any other form acceptable to served with a notice after failure to provide the Company with the Directors.
The instrument of transfer shall be signed by or information concerning interest in those shares required to be on behalf of the transferor and except in the case of fully paid provided under the Companies Act.
shares by or on behalf of the transferee.
Transfers of shares which are in uncerticated form are effected by means of the Voting rights CREST system.
Subject to any special rights or restrictions attaching to any class of shares, at a general meeting, every member present The Directors may, in the case of shares in certicated form, in person and every duly appointed proxy has, upon a show of in their absolute discretion and without assigning any reason, hands, one vote and on a poll every member who is present refuse to register any transfer of shares not being fully paid in person or by proxy has one vote for each share.
In the case shares provided that such discretion may not be exercised in of joint holders of a share the vote of the senior who tenders such a way as to prevent dealings in the shares of that class a vote whether in person or by proxy shall be accepted to the from taking place on an open and proper basis.
exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and for this purpose seniority shall be determined by the order in which The Directors may also refuse to register an allotment or the names stand in the Register of Members in respect of transfer of shares whether fully-paid or not in favour of more the shares.
If the Directors refuse to register an allotment or transfer they shall within two months after the Restrictions on voting date on which the letter of allotment or transfer was lodged No member shall be entitled to vote either in person or by with the Company send to the allottee or transferee a notice proxy at any general meeting or class meeting in respect of of the refusal.
any shares held by him if any call or other sum then payable by him in respect of that share remains unpaid.
In addition no Subject to statutes and applicable CREST rules, the Directors member shall be entitled to vote if he has been served with may determine that any class of shares may be held in a notice after failure to provide the Company with information uncerticated form and that title to such shares may be concerning interests in those shares required to be provided transferred by means of the CREST system or that shares of under the Companies Act.
any class should cease to be so held and transferred.
Deadlines for exercising voting rights A shareholder does not need to obtain the approval of the Voting rights may be exercised in person, by proxy, or in Company, or of other shareholders of shares in the Company, relation to corporate members, by corporate representative.
for a transfer of shares to take place.
The Articles provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms of not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting.
Our Business Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC www.
com Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 89 Appointment and replacement of Directors Directors shall be no less than three and no more than twelve in number.
A Director is not required to hold any shares of the Company by way of qualication.
The Company may by ordinary resolution increase or reduce the maximum or minimum number of Directors.
Any Director who was elected or last re-elected a Director at or before the AGM held in the third calendar year before the current calendar year shall retire by rotation.
In addition, each Director, other than the Chairman and any Director holding an executive ofce shall retire at each AGM following the ninth anniversary of the date on which he was elected.
A retiring Director is eligible for re-election.
The Board may appoint any person to be a Director so long as the total number of Directors does not exceed the limit prescribed in the Articles.
Any such Director shall hold ofce only until the next AGM and shall then be eligible for re-election.
Powers of the Directors Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act and any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company will be managed by the Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company.
The Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money and to mortgage or charge any of its undertaking, property and uncalled capital and to issue debentures and other securities, whether outright or as collateral security for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company or of any third party.
significant agreements: change of control All of the Companys share plans contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and options would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
Amendment of Articles of Association Any amendments to the Articles of the Company may be made in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act by way of special resolution.
By order of the Board Ian Haslegrave General Counsel and Company Secretary 22 May 2014 ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC LSE Stock Code: ECM Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 90 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and Parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: t select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently t make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent t for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU t for the Parent Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Parent Company financial statements t prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company will continue in business The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
com Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 91 Responsibility Statement of Directors in respect of the Annual Report and the financial statements We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: t the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and t the Strategic Report and the Directors Report include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the issuer and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face: and t the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
By order of the Board Ian Mason Simon Boddie Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director 22 May 2014 The report and accounts contain certain statements, statistics and projections that are or may be forward-looking.
The accuracy and completeness of all such statements including, without limitation, statements regarding the future financial position, strategy, projected costs, plans and objectives for the management of future operations of Electrocomponents plc and its subsidiaries is not warranted or guaranteed.
These statements typically contain words such as intends, expects, anticipates, estimates and words of similar import.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will occur in the future.
Although Electrocomponents plc believes that the expectations reected in such statements are reasonable, no assurance can be given that such expectations will prove to be correct.
There are a number of factors, which may be beyond the control of Electrocomponents plc, which could cause actual results and developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Other than as required by applicable law or the applicable rules of any exchange on which our securities may be listed, Electrocomponents plc has no intention or obligation to update forwardlooking statements contained herein.
ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC LSE Stock Code: ECM Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 92 S St trategy in A rategy in Ac ction tion Driving performance in Europe through eCommerce eCommerce with a Human Touch An 8% increase in eCommerce revenues in Continental Europe during 2014 has driven online business from the regions 17 local language websites to nearly 70% of sales.
eCommerce has transformed the way customers.
In fact, eProcurement sales we do business.
We have successfully growth has increased by 15% in Europe transitioned from a catalogue-led product over the past year.
offer to an e-centric, multichannel B2B business model whilst retaining a For us, eCommerce means growth in consistent service for customers.
sales and customers, whilst reducing costs.
We can see and capture demand Providing a cost-effective entry into new through the internet, and analyse it to markets, such as in Eastern Europe, tailor and target other forms of marketing eCommerce offers benefits of scale to to specific customers.
We can manage the business.
It is also a competitive our customer base more profitably, whilst advantage enabling us to make market more merchandise provides us with more share gains from smaller competitors.
eCommerce is now the entry point eCommerce also allows us to better for long-term customer relationships, manage the customer life cycle, driving with our catalogue, sales and customer customer acquisition and development, support teams providing direction to and supported by a highly skilled sales force: supporting our online offer.
thats what we call eCommerce with a Human Touch.
eCommerce is also driving market-leading customer satisfaction.
Our customers See page 14 for Group prefer to shop online because it provides Chief Executives Review superior content and value-added services, such as DesignSpark, Live Chat Watch the videos online and eProcurement solutions for large www.
com Our Business Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC www.
com Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 93
