ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC LSE Stock Code: ECM Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 10 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR BUSINESS BUSINESS MODEL Business Model Our business model is focused on saving our customers time and money, and delivering them peace of mind.
1 2 Supplier Offer management presentation 12 We start each day with minimal orders and nish the day with minimal orders, 5 9 3 but in between we process and despatch Reliable around 44,000 parcels delivery to customers 3 Inventory management 6 4 Order receipt & management See page 28 for Principal Risks and Uncertainties Our Business Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC www.
com Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 11 We price our offer competitively, changing prices on our Global component distribution leading global brands regularly and offering own-brand The business model we operate today is largely unchanged products within certain parts of our product range to in principle from that designed by the Companys founders supplement our offer to customers.
The key stages are highlighted in the diagram on the opposite page and described below.
Inventory management We make money by providing reliable and fast delivery Our global network of 17 distribution centres houses around of small quantities of a vast range of quality products to 500,000 products.
Fast-moving products are stored close to customers.
We provide multiple ways for them to transact the local market to enable next day delivery, with mediumwith us, and provide support and tools to help them make moving products being stored regionally and new products their transaction with us a quick and simple process.
With and slower-moving products stored at a global warehouse.
this focus on providing high levels of customer service, the 4.
Order receipt and management business is able to earn a high return on the broad range of Customers can place orders via the internet, phone, email, stock it holds.
No minimum order quantity is 1.
Orders are picked and packed within several hours We work closely with over 2,500 major suppliers of receipt, with around 44,000 orders being processed of semiconductors, interconnect, passives and every day.
electromechanical components, automation and control 5.
Reliable delivery components, electrical, test and measurement products We pride ourselves on giving our customers peace of and tools and consumables to ensure we have the right mind by delivering the full order on time.
The majority of products in stock to fulfil customer demand.
our orders are for next day delivery and we outsource the 2.
Offer presentation, sales and marketing transportation of parcels from the distribution centres We present this offer of leading products using rich and to customers to the major global freight forwarding full content via web and catalogue, backed up by technical companies.
support and design tools, so that customers can make See page 12 for Our Strategy to execute this business informed purchase decisions.
model in the manner that we believe will most effectively Our highly-skilled sales teams are deployed to optimise this serve our marketplace and take advantage of the structural stage of the process for our high-value customers, whilst growth opportunity available to us.
our digital resources are used to market to all customer types.
Why customers choose us Range and availability we stock the broadest range of products, which saves customers the time and expense of managing multiple suppliers and minimises their inventory costs.
We sell genuine, high-quality products from over 2,500 known and trusted brands.
Service accuracy customers trust our fast and reliable on-time delivery: they benefit from same-day despatch and avoid downtime.
We also provide online and telephone technical support to help customers with their purchase decisions.
Ease of doing business with no minimum order, customers can buy as few or as many parts as they need.
They can choose how to transact with us online, in person, by phone, mobile, email or fax, when they want to.
Our awardwinning, easy-to-use free design tools and eCommerce solutions save customers time and money.
All at a fair price we change over 15 million prices every year to ensure we stay competitive and provide a range of around 40,000 own-brand products, ensuring best value for money.
