Board of directors 1 2 3 Key: A: Audit Committee N: Nomination Committee R: Remuneration Committee c : Chairman of Committee 4 5 6 7 1.
Andrew Duff Chairman Age 55 a UK managing director in the European Investment Banking Group Committee membership: N c at Credit Suisse.
In his prior role at Credit Suisse, he was head of Andrew Duff joined the Board as a non-executive director and Deputy Investment Banking, Asia Pacific, based in Hong Kong and, before Chairman on 1 April 2014 and was appointed non-executive Chairman that, held the same position with Barclays fide Zoete Wedd.
He is a and Chairman of the Nomination Committee on 24 April 2014, following non-executive director of Helios Underwriting plc and holds an MBA the conclusion of the AGM.
He has been non-executive chairman of and a BSc.
Severn Trent plc, the FTSE 100 water and waste treatment services company, since July 2010 and was a non-executive director of Wolseley 5.
Steve Good Non-executive director Age 53 plc, the international plumbing and building materials company, between Committee membership: A, N, R 2004 and December 2013, where he was also the senior independent Steve Good was appointed a non-executive director on 20 October 2014. director and chairman of the remuneration committee.
From 2003 until Since 1 October 2014 he has been a non-executive director of Zotefoams 2009, he was chief executive officer of npower, the successor entity to plc.
He was chief executive of Low & Bonar plc between September 2009 Innogy plc which in 2000 was demerged from National Power and then and September 2014.
Prior to that role, he was managing director of its sold to RWE, the German electricity and gas company, where he was Technical Textiles division between 2006 and 2009, director of new also a member of the group executive committee.
Before that he spent business between 2005 and 2006, and managing director of its Plastics 16 years at BP in downstream international markets.
Prior to joining Low & Bonar he spent Honours degree in mechanical engineering and is a member of the CBI 10 years with BTP plc now part of Clariant in a variety of leadership Presidents Committee, trustee of Macmillan Cancer Support and of positions managing international speciality chemicals businesses.
Earth Trust and a Fellow of the Energy Institute.
David Dutro Group Chief Executive Age 59 6.
Anne Hyland Non-executive director Age 54 David Dutro was appointed Group Chief Executive in January 2007.
He Committee membership: A c, N, R joined Elementis in November 1998 as President of Elementis Pigments Anne Hyland was appointed a non-executive director in June 2013 and then became President and Chief Operating Officer of Elementis Chairman of the Audit Committee on 1 August 2013.
She is CFO of Kymab Worldwide in October 2005.
He was vice president and general manager Ltd a biopharmaceutical company funded by the Wellcome Trust and the of Universal Foods Dairy and Food Ingredient businesses now Sensient Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.
Most recently, she was CFO and company Technologies Corp, and also spent time with ICI in their colours, polymer secretary of BBI Diagnostics Group Ltd and FTSE-listed Vectura Group plc.
David Dutro was born and Prior to her role at Vectura, she held a number of senior finance positions educated in the US and holds a BSc.
including director of corporate finance at then FTSE 100 Celltech Group plc, Medeva plc and KPMG.
She is a chartered accountant FCA, a 3.
Brian Taylorson Finance Director Age 59 corporate tax adviser CTA AITI and holds a degree in business studies Brian Taylorson was appointed Finance Director in April 2002.
He is from Trinity College, Dublin.
She is also a trustee of the charity Sustrans also a trustee of the Elementis Group Pension Scheme.
Before joining sustainable transport which campaigns for national cycling networks.
Elementis he was head of the European chemicals M&A group at KPMG Corporate Finance.
He joined KPMG in 2000 from the Dow Chemical 7.
Nick Salmon Senior Independent Director Age 62 Company where he held a number of positions in finance over a period Committee membership: A, N, R of 17 years, living and working in several countries including the UK, Nick Salmon was appointed a non-executive director on 20October 2014 South Africa, Switzerland, Canada and the US.
He holds an MA degree and Senior Independent Director on 16 December 2014.
Since August in engineering from Cambridge University, is a member of the Institute 2014 he has been a non-executive director of Interserve plc.
He was a of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and a member of the non-executive director of United Utilities Group plc between April 2005 Association of Corporate Treasurers.
He was a non-executive director and July 2014, where he was also the senior independent director of Fiberweb plc between September 2006 and August 2012. between 2007 and 2014.
He was chief executive of Cookson Group plc from July 2004 to December 2012 when Cookson demerged to create 4.
Andrew Christie Non-executive director Age 58 two new listed companies, Vesuvius plc and the specialty chemicals Committee membership: A, N, R c company, Alent plc.
He was formerly executive vice-president of Alstom Andrew Christie was appointed a non-executive director in August 2008 S. A. and chief executive of Babcock International Group plc.
He held and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 1 October 2013. other senior management positions including at GEC and GEC Alsthom in He has over 25 years of investment banking and international corporate the UK and France and the China Light and Power Company, Hong Kong.
He is a partner of Smith Square Partners LLP, a He holds a BSc.
degree in mechanical engineering and is a Fellow of the corporate finance advisory firm, and before that was, until March 2008, Royal Academy of Engineering.
26 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Senior executives 8 9 10 11 12 8.
Greg McClatchy President of Elementis Specialties comprising 11.
Daniel Hughes Chief Information Officer Elementis Specialty Products and Elementis Surfactants Daniel Hughes was appointed Chief Information Officer in September Greg McClatchy was appointed President of Elementis Specialties 2013.
He has held various senior leadership roles in Elementis Specialties in January 2007.
He joined Elementis Pigments in 1999, served as since February 2007.
Primarily he has served as Vice President, Global managing director of its Durham UK operations, and was appointed Procurement and Supply Chain and been deeply engaged in our President of Specialty Rubber in 2002 and President of Elementis worldwide end to end business transactions.
He also served as Chromium in 2005.
He was previously with Universal Foods now Sensient integration manager for the Deuchem, Yuhong, Fancor, Watercryl and Technologies Corp and ICIs polymer additives business.
He holds a BA Honours degree from the University his undergraduate studies in chemistry and economics at the University of East London and, prior to joining Elementis, held various senior of Delaware.
procurement and supply chain positions at Engelhard Corporation and Ford Motor Company.
Dennis Valentino President of Elementis Chromium Dennis Valentino joined Elementis as President of Elementis Chromium 12.
Wai Wong Company Secretary in April 2009.
His previous positions at Elementis included managing Wai Wong joined Elementis and was appointed Company Secretary director of Asia Pacific and President of Elementis Pigments until it was sold in May 2007.
He is also a trustee of the Elementis Group Pension Scheme in August 2007.
Prior to Elementis, he joined Pfizer Pigments in 1975 and and manages insurance, risk and corporate responsibility matters at held various positions there including vice president of manufacturing and Group level.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries vice president of its North America Coatings business.
He completed his and Administrators ICSA and a member of the Chartered Institute of undergraduate studies in chemical engineering at the University of Missouri Public Relations.
Prior to joining Elementis, he held a number of senior Rolla, and obtained his MBA from St. Louis University.
company secretarial positions including at John Menzies plc, ICSA and .
Walker Allen General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer and law from the University of Edinburgh and an LLM degree in corporate Walker Allen joined Elementis as General Counsel in 1999 and was also and commercial law from Queen Mary College, University of London.
appointed Chief Compliance Officer in 2006.
Prior to joining Elementis, he was associate general counsel with GE Americom a GE Capital company and before that senior business counsel with GE Plastics a division of General Electric Company.
He began his legal career as a lawyer in private practice with 2 leading New York City law firms, where he specialised in corporate law, securities and mergers and acquisitions.
He is a member of the New York Bar and is admitted as in-house counsel in New Jersey.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2014 27
