Our objectives, strategies and business model Our objectives Our strategies Group Group Deliver year on year sustainable earnings growth.
Offer added value, high quality solutions tailored to our customers UU UU Outperform the FTSE 250 Index for total shareholder return with strong technical support.
UU over each successive annual and 3 year period.
Manage businesses to deliver strong financial performance and UU Maintain a strong balance sheet to provide financial stability cash flow.
UU and support investments in growth.
Maintain well invested facilities, operational excellence, strong UU Manage key corporate and business risks and maintain high HSE performance and comply with laws and regulations.
UU standards in business conduct, ethics and corporate responsibility.
Specialty Products Specialty Products Grow the Specialty Products business profitably.
Grow by focusing on new products, markets, applications and geographies and complementary bolt on acquisitions.
Chromium Chromium Manage the Chromium business to deliver stable Optimise capacity utilisation and operating efficiencies, manage cost earnings and cash flow.
base, serve higher margin markets and maintain margin discipline.
Surfactants Surfactants Transition the Surfactants product portfolio Optimise profitability, operating efficiencies and commercial focus.
to higher margin specialty additives.
Who is Elementis, what does it do...... and why?
Elementis is a global specialty chemicals In addition, Elementis is the owner of the only Ultimately, the strategy of the Company is to company.
Its largest and most profitable high rheology grade hectorite mine in the world, operate its portfolio of manufacturing assets business, Elementis Specialty Products, which provides a key raw material and source and exploit its proprietary technologies and is the core of our growth strategy and of competitive advantage.
know how to supply products and services has the following key characteristics: to customers, thereby creating value for Elementis Chromium supplies chromium shareholders.
Key to achieving the above is Operating in diverse and highly chemicals that make its customers products the allocation and management of human and UU segmented markets.
more durable and Elementis Surfactants supplies capital resources, as well as accessing and Supplying products that are critical a wide range of surface active ingredients.
leveraging the appropriate market channels UU ingredients in its customers formulations and supply chains.
The above describes our and essential to their performance, whilst Common to all 3 businesses are the following: overall business activities in terms of the inputs, representing a small proportion of the processes and outputs that make up our overall cost.
Profitable, strong cash generation and business model.
UU Having a broad, differentiated and patent high level of return on capital.
UU protected product portfolio, coupled with Well invested manufacturing facilities, UU innovation and new product development.
operational excellence and a broad product Long term relationships with customers that offering to a wide range of customers UU are based on mutual trust and collaboration, and markets.
supported by strong technical service Provision of a differentiated service to UU and expertise.
customers, offering tailored solutions High sustainable operating margins and product innovation.
UU and return on operating capital.
Strong leadership, clear business strategies UU and high performance multi-functional business teams, underpinned by robust governance and risk management frameworks, as well as a culture of maintaining high standards of business conduct, ethics and corporate responsibility.
6 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Our objectives Our business model Key inputs Key products Key sales channels Key markets Key inputs Key products Key sales channels Key markets Clear strategies and business Specialty Products Specialty Products Major regions supplied: UU UU UU priorities, strong leadership and Rheological modifiers, Long term customer North and Latin America, robust governance and risk specialty additives, organoclays, relationships with global Europe and Asia.
management frameworks, defoamers, adhesion promoters, MNEs as well as sales to policies and procedure.
waxes and resins, flow and regional and local customers.
Major segments applications Passionate and committed levelling additives, colourants Global sales platform, solid Specialty Products UU UU global workforce and and pigments, dispersing infrastructure with cross-selling Industrial and decorative an embedded culture wetting slip and coalescing opportunities.
Manufacturing coatings, oilfield drilling and of performance and agents, and lanolin and other facilities, R&D centres and personal care.
technical service labs in the Chromium UU Long term customer Chromium Americas, Europe and Asia Metal finishing, metal alloys, UU UU relationships built on trust, Chromic acid, chromic oxide, to support all our key markets.
timber treatment, leather strong focus on technical sodium dichromate and chrome Chromium tanning, pigments, ceramics UU expertise, product innovation sulphate, with customised Sales to the North American and refractory.
and providing a differentiated delivery system.
market while selectively Surfactants UU service to diverse markets.
Surfactants supplying the Latin American, Oilfield production chemicals, UU Excellent commercial, Wide range of surface active European and Asian markets.
construction chemicals, textiles UU procurement and supply chain ingredients and products Surfactants and leather, household, plastics, UU teams supported by strong used as intermediates in Long term customer resins and other niche markets.
the production of chemical relationships with global MNEs Financial and operating compositions.
as well as sales to regional UU discipline, well maintained and local customers.
facilities and strong functional support teams.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2014 7
