Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Prepared Watercryl, our recently acquired Our differentiated, innovative product offering Regardless of the overall global economic coatings additives company in Brazil, to is supported by excellent process technology conditions, Elementis will continue its focus begin exporting throughout Latin America, and tightly held manufacturing know how.
on driving continuous improvement in the areas which included the installation of a The majority of our new products are covered we can control, including sustainable operating comprehensive ERP system.
by intellectual property and, with over 2,500 improvements, market share gains, the Expanded the scope of the New Martinsville products in our portfolio, the business is well introduction of innovative new products and project to broaden its product range positioned to be the industrys one stop expansion into new geographic markets.
We capabilities for US decorative coatings.
are positive about our future, due in large part All 3 phases of construction are now to the hard work, ingenuity and unbounded successfully completed and customer The strategy of our Chromium business is energy of the global Elementis team.
Every approvals are ramping up quickly.
focused on reducing cyclical fluctuations and day, throughout the year, our people deliver Our manufacturing facility in Livingston, consistently delivering predictable and therefore the quality and service that builds customer Scotland, achieved certification for RSPO higher quality earnings and cash flow.
The loyalty and market strength.
Although economic Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil and business operates at consistently high rates of uncertainties in Europe and evolving dynamics CGMP consumer good manufacturing capacity utilisation and serves a diverse number in the oilfield sector remain evident, the current practices, further differentiating and of customers, geographies and applications, year has started on a solid footing and we protecting our line of proprietary personal allowing it to quickly shift products and are confident that the Group will make further care products.
resources towards market segments and progress in the coming year.
We are fully regions with the greatest opportunities.
committed and well positioned to maintain The Specialty Products business provides our record of delivering profitable growth and high value functional additives used in coatings, As the only locally based manufacturer of industry leadership and would like to thank oilfield and personal care applications that chromium chemicals, the business is able to our shareholders and customers for their improve the physical properties and performance provide its North American customers with a continued confidence and support.
of our customers products or production differentiated and highly valued closed loop processes.
The business provides a strong delivery model which offers them significant growth platform with its balanced geographic advantages and benefits.
This model would be exposure across both mature and emerging extremely difficult for a non-domestic supplier economies, strong technology base and strategic to replicate and therefore provides a long term David Dutro market diversification.
Specialty Products has competitive advantage.
The business has a Group Chief Executive a significant technical service and application significant proportion of its chromium chemicals 24 February 2015 support presence in its chosen markets that sales in North America and 65 per cent of its is built on long term relationships of trust, sales were to customers in the region during collaboration and technical expertise.
our customers improve the performance of their products, lower costs or improve regulatory compliance by introducing additives that represent a low percentage of the formula cost but are critical to product performance.
EPS and Group operating margin Net cash 24.8c $64.2m cents % $m 30 70 60 24 50 19% 19% 19% 18% 18 40 30 12 20 6 10 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2011 2012 2013 2014 Key Diluted earnings per share before exceptional items cents Group operating margin before exceptional items % restated following the adoption of revised IAS 19 Employee Bene ts standard Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2014 5 20.8 21.8 23.0 24.8 26.2 44.0 54.1 64.2
