Directors Report The directors have pleasure in submitting the statutory Purchase of own shares by the Company financial statements for the Group for the year ended The Company was authorised by shareholders at the AGM 30 September 2014. held on 6 February 2014 to purchase up to a maximum of 14.99% of its ordinary shares in the market.
The price per The Governance Report on pages 32 to 36, and the Corporate ordinary share that the Company may pay is set at a minimum Social Responsibility Report with regard to information about amount excluding expenses of 2.5 pence per ordinary share the employment of disabled persons, employee involvement, and a maximum amount excluding expenses of the higher share schemes and greenhouse gas emissions are also of: i 5% over the average of the previous five business days incorporated into this Report by reference.
middle market prices: and ii the higher of the price of the last The Company has chosen, in accordance with section 414 independent trade and the highest current independent bid C 11 of the Companies Act 2006 to include the disclosure on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out.
No of likely future developments in the Strategic Report see shares were purchased under this authority during the period pages 02 to 25. under review.
This authority will expire at the 2015 AGM and the directors will be seeking a new authority for the Company Results and dividends to purchase its ordinary shares, which will only be exercised The Groups profit for the year, after taxation, amounted to if market and financial conditions make it advantageous to do 30 million 2013: loss of 4 million.
Further details are set out in the explanatory notes to the Notice convening the AGM on pages 132 to 137.
The directors are not recommending the payment of any dividend on its ordinary shares for the year ended Treasury shares and the Employee Benefit Trust 30 September 2014 2013: nil.
As at 30 September 2014, the Company held 50,000,000 shares in Treasury as set out in note 30 to the accounts on Share capital page 114.
There has been no change to the number of shares As at 30 September 2014, the Companys issued share held in Treasury during the period under review.
capital comprised 555,977,435 ordinary shares of 2.5 pence each as set out in note 30 to the accounts on page 114.
In addition, 4,645,712 shares are held by the Companys Employee Benefit Trust and movements during the year are Authority of the directors to allot shares set out in note 30 to the accounts on page 114.
These shares The Company was authorised by shareholders at the Annual are held to satisfy awards made under the various incentive General Meeting held on 6 February 2014 to allot shares and and employee share schemes, details of which are set out in to grant rights to subscribe for, or convert securities into, note 31 to the accounts on pages 114 to 118. shares up to a maximum nominal amount of 8.4 million.
Issue of shares This authority will expire at the 2015 AGM and the directors Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 relating will be seeking a new authority for the directors to allot to authority to allot shares and pre-emption rights, and any shares, and to grant subscription and conversion rights, to resolution of the Company in a general meeting, all unissued ensure that the directors continue to have the flexibility to shares of the Company shall be at the disposal of the act in the best interests of shareholders, when opportunities directors and they may allot with or without conferring a right arise, by issuing new shares or granting such rights.
There are of renunciation, grant options over or otherwise dispose of no current plans to issue new shares except in connection them to such persons, at such times and on such terms as with employee share schemes and on conversion of the they think proper.
26 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts www.
com for the year ended 30 September 2014 Stock code: ETI 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 Material shareholdings As at 30 September 2014, the Company was aware of the following interests of 3% or more in the Companys ordinary share capital: Percentage of Number of voting rights ordinary of the issued Company shares share capital Glenview Capital Management LLC 60,907,216 12.04% Prudential Group M&G 51,091,757 10.10% Standard Life Investments Ltd 38,152,456 7.54% Morgan Stanley Securities Ltd 25,317,467 5.00% Odey Asset Management 24,372,137 4.82% BlackRock Inc 22,185,710 4.38% Platinum Investment Management Ltd 20,023,487 3.96% Dimensional Fund Advisors 19,929,866 3.94% Subsequent to the year end and up to the date of this report, there have been the following significant changes: i The holding of Prudential Group M&G has decreased to 50,172,599 9.92%.
ii The holding of Standard Life Investments Ltd has increased to 45,813,398 9.05%.
iii The holding of Morgan Stanley Securities Ltd has decreased to 25,300,707 5.00%.
Directors Going concern Biographical details of the directors currently serving on the The directors have considered the Groups financial resources Board are given on page 31.
The interests of the directors including a review of the medium-term financial plan, which in the Companys shares, along with details of directors includes a review of the Groups cash flow forecasts for share options are contained in the Directors Remuneration the period of at least 12 months from the date of approval Report on pages 44 to 66.
There have been no changes in the of these financial statements.
The Board is satisfied that interests of the directors between the Balance Sheet date the Groups forecasts and projections, taking account of and the date of approval of the accounts.
Adam Fowle joined reasonably possible changes in the trading performance of the Board on 6 February 2014.
Ted Tuppen and Susan Murray the Group, show that the Group will be able to operate within retired from the Board on 6 February 2014. the level of its current facilities for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the Group continues to adopt the going concern Audit information basis in preparing its financial statements.
The directors confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined in section 418 Events after the Balance Sheet date of the Companies Act 2006 of which the Groups auditor is Full details of significant events since the Balance Sheet unaware and that all directors have taken all the steps they date can be found in note 35 of the financial statements at ought to have taken as a director to make themselves aware page 121. of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Financial instruments and treasury Groups auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, debt and is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the borrowing facilities are set out in the Strategic Report on provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. pages 02 to 25 and in the financial statements and notes Political donations to the accounts on pages 68 to 121.
In addition, details of The Group has not made any political donations during the the factors likely to affect the Groups future development year and intends to continue its policy of not doing so for the and performance are set out in the Risks and Uncertainties foreseeable future.
Further details on our policy on financial instruments and capital risks and management are set out in notes 24 and 25 to the accounts on pages 100 to 109.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 27 for the year ended 30 September 2014 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 Shar Shareholder Inf eholder information ormation Accounts Directors Report Strategic Report Directors Report Under the Companies Act, members are entitled to appoint Annual General Meeting a proxy, who need not be a member of the Company, to The AGM will be held on 5 February 2015 at 11.00 a. m. at exercise all or any of their rights to attend and to speak and the registered office of the Company at 3 Monkspath Hall vote at a general meeting.
A member may appoint more Road, Solihull, West Midlands B90 4SJ.
The Notice convening than one proxy in relation to a general meeting provided that the AGM, and an explanation of the resolutions to be put to each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a the meeting, are set out on pages 129 to 137.
Copies are different share or shares held by that member.
A member that also available on the website.
The directors consider that all is a corporation may appoint one or more individuals to act on of the proposed resolutions are in the best interests of the its behalf at a general meeting as a corporate representative.
Company and its shareholders as a whole.
It is the directors recommendation that you support the proposed resolutions Restrictions on voting rights attaching to shares and vote in favour of them, as each of the directors intend No member shall, unless the directors otherwise determine, to do.
exercise any voting rights either personally or by proxy at a general meeting if any call or other sum presently payable Additional information by him her to the Company in respect of any share or shares Set out below is a summary of certain provisions of the remains unpaid.
Otherwise, the Company is not aware of Companys current Articles of Association the Articles any arrangements between shareholders that may result in a and applicable provisions of the Companies Act 2006 the restriction on voting rights attaching to shares.
More detailed information can be found in the Articles and the Companies Act.
Deadlines for exercising voting rights attaching to shares Articles of Association Votes are exercisable at a general meeting of the Company The Articles adopted in substitution for and to the exclusion in respect of which the business being voted upon is being of all existing articles by a special resolution passed on heard.
Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, or by 20 January 2011 may only be amended by special resolution corporate representatives in relation to corporate members.
at a general meeting of the shareholders.
A copy of the The Articles provide a deadline for the submission of proxy Articles is available on our website.
forms electronically or by paper of not less than 48 hours Significant agreements: change of control before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or All of the agreements in relation to bank borrowings, the adjourned meeting.
convertible bond and corporate bonds, to which the Company Shares in uncertificated form is party, contain provisions that allow the counterparties to Directors may determine that shares may be held in terminate funding to the Company in certain circumstances uncertificated form and title to such shares may be transferred where there has been a change of control of the Company.
by means of a relevant system or that shares should cease to These are detailed within the financial instruments note to be so held and transferred.
Variation of rights attaching to shares Rights and obligations attaching to shares The Articles provide that rights attached to any class of The rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary shares shares may be varied with the written consent of the holders are set out in the Articles.
of not less than three-quarters in nominal value of the issued Voting rights attaching to shares shares, or with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution On a show of hands, every member who is present in person passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of those or by proxy shall have one vote.
On a poll, every member shares.
At every such separate general meeting, the quorum who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for shall be two persons holding or representing by proxy at least every share of which they are the holder.
one-third in nominal value of the issued shares calculated excluding any shares held in treasury.
The rights conferred Where shares are held by the Trustee of the Employee Benefit upon the holders of any shares shall not, unless otherwise Trust and the voting rights attached to such shares are not expressly provided in the rights attaching to those shares, directly exercisable by the employees, it is the Companys be deemed to be varied by the creation or issue of further practice that such rights are not exercised by the Trustee.
shares ranking pari passu with them.
Shares purchased by employees, along with matching shares, held in a SIP Trust are capable of being voted through a direction to the Trustee by the relevant employee.
28 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts www.
com for the year ended 30 September 2014 Stock code: ETI 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 Transfer of shares Further details of the directors service contracts can be found There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 64. the Company other than: Powers of directors restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act and any directions laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws : given by special resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the Board who may exercise all of the powers restrictions pursuant to the Companys share dealing code of the Company to, for example: borrow money: mortgage or whereby the directors and certain employees require charge any of its undertaking, property and uncalled capital: approval of the Company to deal in the Companys shares: and issue debentures and other securities, whether outright and or as collateral security for any debt, liability or obligation of where a person with an interest of at least 0.25% in the the Company.
Companys certificated shares has been served with a The Company was authorised by shareholders at the AGM disclosure notice and has failed to provide the Company held on 6 February 2014 to allot, issue and make market with information concerning interests in those shares.
purchases of the Companys ordinary shares.
This authority The Company is not aware of any arrangements between will expire at the 2015 AGM and the directors will be seeking shareholders that may result in a restriction on the transfer a new authority for the Company to allot, issue and make of ordinary shares.
market purchases of the Companys ordinary shares.
Further details are set out in the explanatory notes to the Notice Dividends and distributions convening the AGM on pages 132 to 137.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the Company may by ordinary resolution from time to time declare Directors indemnities dividends not exceeding an amount recommended by the The Articles permit the Board to grant the directors directors.
The directors may pay interim dividends whenever indemnities in relation to their duties as directors, including the financial position of the Company, in the opinion of the third party indemnity provisions within the meaning of Board, justifies such payment.
The Board may withhold the Companies Act in respect of any liabilities incurred by payment of all or any part of any dividend or other monies them in connection with any negligence, default, breach of payable in respect of the Companys shares from a person duty or breach of trust in relation to the Company.
No such with an interest of at least 0.25% if such a person has been indemnities have been granted.
served with a disclosure notice and has failed to provide the Compensation for loss of office Company with information concerning interests in those There are no agreements between the Company and its shares required to be provided by the Companies Act.
directors or employees providing for compensation for loss Appointment and replacement of directors of office or employment that occurs as a result of a takeover Unless determined by ordinary resolution of the Company, bid.
Details regarding change of control provisions in respect the number of directors shall not be less than two but is not of share plan awards and other related agreements are subject to a maximum number.
While a director is not required included with the Directors Remuneration Report.
Further to hold any shares in the Company by way of qualification the details of the directors service contracts can be found in the Company has adopted shareholding guidelines for executive Directors Remuneration Report on page 64. directors which require them to build up and retain a holding By order of the Board of shares equal in value to their base salaries.
Executives are expected to build up the required shareholding by the L T ogher fifth anniversary of them joining the Board.
Further details Company Secretary on directors shareholdings are contained in the Directors 17 November 2014 Remuneration Report on page 61.
Registered Company name: Enterprise Inns plc The Board may appoint any person to be a director and Registered Company number: 2562808 such director shall hold office only until the next AGM, when he or she shall then be eligible for reappointment by the shareholders.
The Articles provide that, at each AGM, all those directors who have been in office for three years or more since their election or last re-election shall retire from office.
However, in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all directors of the Company are subject to annual re-election.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 29 for the year ended 30 September 2014 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 Shar Shareholder Inf eholder information ormation Accounts Directors Report Strategic Report
