s i s y l a, n n o a i t a & r t s g i n n i i m n d n a a t l s p g r l n a i t i o t c e l n, l a p o R r n m t e n a c, o p r r e k c u p c e i t r t i t n o i u d n m c a e g i u r l e, r s C p F n e g i n t m m a a a o e n m s p p c n n i c n t e u u d, , g n r Strategic Review Our market Enterprise puts publicans at the The UK pub sector has witnessed a steady contraction over heart of everything we do the last decade resulting in a significant reduction in the number of pubs, down to an overall market of approximately 47,000 pubs.
Pub profitability has been significantly affected by numerous factors including: the smoking ban, the global recession, low alcohol prices in supermarkets and the financial effect of increasing business taxes, utility costs and other overheads.
In addition, consumers are becoming ever more discerning.
Operators must continually respond to changing consumer needs to remain competitive.
However publicans, supported Our by their pub company, who are committed to developing Publican publicans successful businesses using the resources available to them, will still succeed.
The support we can offer includes business building support offered by local regional managers, partnerships with suppliers enabling delivery of our pub offer, training for publicans and investment in our estate to maintain its quality and unlock its potential.
We put our publicans at the heart of everything we do, supporting them to drive their businesses forward.
I The Anglesea Arms, Hammersmith Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 03 for the year ended 30 September 2014 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 o o T, t e r r r t c & G a a G u i o i L l s n e t s i g o t i n a a m l t g n e, d r t a a e s r l e p d e r r l s v s e i h a c e l e & e s s e p s i t r e O p x e y t r e p o r P Shar Shareholder Inf eholder information ormation Accounts Dir Dir ect ect ors ors Repor reportt Strategic Report Strategic Review Our business model Enterprise Inns plc Enterprise is the largest leased and tenanted pub business in the UK with 5,348 trading pubs at year end, representing approximately 25% of the leased and tenanted pubs in the UK.
The diagram below shows our business model.
We own the pub and the tenant or lessee the publican, is responsible for its management.
The publican usually also contracts to purchase some or all of their drinks products from us, often referred to as a tied agreement.
Lease agreement Stability and low risk opportunity Resources and expertise Training and business support Beer supplies SCORFA Mutual interest Property Business in a Enterprise Publican owner owner successful pub Regular xed income Dry rent lower rental Variable income higher sales higher income Wet rent based on sales Originally dened by the EU Commission, Special Commercial or Financial Advantage reects countervailing benets such as management support and other services and cost savings provided by Enterprise.
Our model makes a pub business more accessible than the drink products, and dry fixed rents from the letting of the purchase of a freehold, while providing the same feelings of property, which together form the return and payment for ownership, autonomy and pride for our publicans that come using the property to run their business.
To this end, both we from them building their own successful pub businesses and our publicans have a shared interest in our pubs being that offer exceptional local support to the communities they successful.
If the publican struggles and less beer is sold we, serve.
the landlord, receive less wet-rent and the publican pays a lower effective rent.
When we work in partnership to drive There has been some adverse publicity and criticism of the beer sales, both Enterprise and the publican will benefit from industry over the past few years regarding the tied arrangement higher volumes and potential profit.
on which our business model is based.
This culminated in the Government conducting a review that concluded in June 2014 Enterprise profits from the wholesale margin as we are a with the Small Business, Enterprise and Employment Bill 2014, major purchaser of beer and other wet products.
The terms which recommends that a new Statutory Code, enforced by we enjoy through our size and economies of scale would an independent adjudicator, is needed to ensure that the not be available to individual publicans buying drinks on their industry continues to operate in a way that is not prejudicial own terms.
This allows us to offer to our publicans SCORFA to the publicans.
Enterprise currently operates within its Special Commercial or Financial Advantage benefits, such own documented and British Institute of Innkeeping BII as investment, training, business support and other business Benchmarking and Accreditation Services accredited Code of building and cost saving opportunities.
Practice that is part of a flexible industry-owned framework of We can also boast having the largest product range in the self-regulation, which we believe works effectively and is the industry, which we can make available to our publicans.
best solution for all interested parties.
However, we recognise Enterprise offers products from over 480 brewers, including the intent of the statutory regime and are working with the over 1,300 varieties of cask ale.
Craft beer continues to go appropriate bodies to ensure the final legislation presents a from strength to strength and we support craft brewers workable solution for the industry, although we believe the and our publicans to capitalise on its success, promoting framework under which we currently operate is broadly in line independent brewers through our partnership with SIBA with that which the Government is proposing.
We have always considered that our business model is fair to our publicans, as they pay an element of both wet variable rent based on the commission we receive from sales of 04 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts www.
com for the year ended 30 September 2014 Stock code: ETI 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 M a n a g i n g c h a n g e F i n g a n n p c i t e u, c Our business strategy Enterprise has developed its business strategy to focus on operating a leased and tenanted pub model.
Our clear goals are to return the business to EBITDA growth and create value for our shareholders by focusing on the following three strategic areas: The pub operations strategy is dedicated to creating the right environment for publicans to build successful and sustainable businesses and to deliver growth.
This relies on quality publicans wanting to join Enterprise, having agreements which support their business and above all, a level of consistently brilliant service delivered to publicans that allows them to focus on managing their pub, its customers and its condition.
Effective execution relies upon our team working hard to partner with publicans to help build their business through locally tailored support.
We believe that employees, who are engaged in our business, goals and strategy ultimately deliver a better service and that our ways of working define what we stand for and how we behave with all our stakeholders, be they customers, suppliers, investors or the communities in which we operate.
This includes ensuring that we have high quality, tailored communications and marketing support for our publicans and their business.
Effective investment in and maintenance of our assets is essential to the on-going success of the business.
Therefore we operate a strategy of recycling the proceeds of disposals of the underperforming assets in the Group into a significant level of targeted capital investment.
This includes encouraging and assisting publicans to invest in their properties, either in line with their repairing obligations under their agreements or additional investment on growth focused capital expenditure.
We have developed an effective property team to identify a plan for each of our assets and respond to the operational team and publicans by assessing and investing the appropriate capital in the estate.
Given the general economic climate and the high leverage of the Group, we have focused on ensuring that we operate with an efficient and manageable capital structure.
As part of this it is essential that the Group operates within the financial covenants required by our debt instruments, which requires a clear financing strategy to provide the business with sufficient resources and flexibility to invest in and grow the business.
Part of this strategy includes the consideration of new funding sources as appropriate.
The operational execution of pub operations and publican, driving the business forward with sustainable property management to optimise the performance for income growth.
Through the effective management of Enterprise and the publican is based on: these activities we can optimise our relationship with publicans throughout their time with us.
We can Retail offer planning and attract the best publicans, support them to implementing the right proposition improve their trade and, when necessary, for every pub, for which we strive manage a smooth transition to a new to deliver like-for-like income publican.
Retail offer growth: Establishing the right proposition for each pub Publican driving forward While we strive to deliver this growth various initiatives within strategy through our focus on our our pub operations to help pub operations and our property Property Publican support publicans, making management, we also continue to Enhancing Supporting estate publican them more profitable, and ensure that our capital structure evolves quality profitability hence reducing publican to offer the flexibility and certainty failure: and necessary to provide the foundations for business growth.
Property enhancing the quality of the estate through targeted I The KPIs used by the business to monitor our investment and disposal of the tail performance against our strategic objectives are end of the estate.
shown on the inside front cover and are discussed in Where these three activities are perfectly aligned, we the Chief Executives Review and Financial Review as are able to optimise the return for Enterprise and the appropriate.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 05 for the year ended 30 September 2014 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 o T a r & r G t L t e A g a l S u p p o r t i n g Capital Property Pub operations structure management Shar Shareholder Inf eholder information ormation Accounts Directors Report Strategic Report
