COM DIRECTORS REPORT | BOARD OF DIRECTORS P BA OG AE R H D O EAD F DIN IRG ECTORS Jeff Harris Terry Twigger Colin Day Non-Executive Chairman Senior Independent Chief Executive Appointed to the Board: May 2005 Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board: April 2011 Appointed to the Board: June 2009 Skills and experience Skills and experience Chairman of Essentra since its formation Skills and experience Prior to joining Essentra, Colin was Chief in 2005, Jeff has played a key role in Terry has considerable mergers and Financial Officer at Reckitt Benckiser ensuring continuity upon demerger and acquisitions experience and has also held Group plc for over ten years.
In addition in the subsequent development of the a number of senior finance roles, including to leading the finance function there, Company.
Jeff is a Chartered Accountant, having previously been Finance Director Colin was instrumental in both mergers having spent over 25 years working in at Meggitt PLC.
Prior to his retirement in and acquisitions activity and the public companies, and brings a wealth 2013, Terry was Chief Executive of Meggitt.
Before of experience to Essentra.
joining Reckitt Benckiser, Colin held a Other appointments range of senior finance and operational Other appointments Senior Independent Non-Executive Director positions at a variety of companies.
Non-Executive Director and Senior and Chairman of the Audit Committee Independent Director of Synergy of X Power Limited.
Non-Executive Director of WPP Group plc, Past appointments AMEC Foster Wheeler plc and FM Global.
Past appointments Chief Executive of Meggitt PLC, Director Chief Executive and Chairman of Alliance of Lucas Aerospace.
Past appointments UniChem plc, Non-Executive Chairman Chief Financial Officer of Aegis Group plc, of Bunzl plc, Non-Executive Director of Committee membership Non-Executive Director of EasyJet plc, Associated British Foods plc, Non-Executive Chairman of the Audit Committee, Imperial Tobacco Group plc and Chairman of Cookson Group plc and member of the Remuneration Cadbury plc.
Non-Executive Director of WH Smith PLC.
Committee membership Matthew Gregory Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Group Finance Director Appointed to the Board: September 2012 Skills and experience Matthew joined Essentra in 2003 as Finance Director of the European Components business and became European Finance Director of the Components & Protection Solutions division in 2006.
Before being appointed to his current role in 2012, Matthew was Corporate Development Director where he played a key role in the development of the Companys strategy and in building its mergers and acquisitions capability.
Prior to joining Essentra, Matthew worked for the Rank Group plc in a number of senior finance positions.
Matthew is a Chartered Accountant, having qualified with Ernst & Young.
46 DIRECTORS REPORT | BOARD OF DIRECTORS ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.
COM Peter Hill, CBE Lorraine Trainer Paul Drechsler Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board: July 2013 Appointed to the Board: July 2013 Appointed to the Board: May 2005 Retiring from the Board: April 2015 Skills and experience Skills and experience Peter is currently Chairman of the Lorraine began her executive career Skills and experience speciality chemicals business Alent plc, at Citibank, and has some 20 years Paul is currently the Chairman of the where he also chairs the Nominations experience in Human Resources at Teach First charitable organisation and Committee.
In addition, he is Non-Executive such blue-chip companies as the a Non-Executive Director of Bibby Line Chairman of Volution Group plc, a leading London Stock Exchange and Coutts Group.
Having served on the Board of supplier of ventilation products.
Lorraine currently Essentra since its formation in 2005, Paul brings a wealth of experience to Essentra, combines her Board work with has played a key role in the development gained in particular in increasingly senior consultancy at and around Board of the Company, particularly regarding its operational and strategic executive roles, level in Director development.
Paul brings extensive and has also served on a number of business experience to his role, having Boards in a Non-Executive capacity for Other appointments spent 24 years at ICI plc in a variety of over 20 years.
Non-Executive Director of Colt Group S. A. senior positions and at Wates Group and Jupiter Fund Management plc.
Limited as Chairman and Chief Executive.
Other appointments Chairman of Alent plc and of Volution Past appointments Other appointments Group plc, Non-Executive Director of the Non-Executive Director of Aegis Group plc.
Chairman of Teach First, member of Royal Air Force.
the Trinity College Dublin Business School Committee membership Advisory Board, Board member of CBI, Past appointments Chairman of the Remuneration member of the Board of Business in Chief Executive of Laird PLC, Executive Committee and Member of the Audit the Community and Chairman of the Director of Constain Group PLC, Nonand Nomination Committees.
NonExecutive Director of Cookson Group plc, Executive Director Bibby Line Group.
Meggitt PLC and Oxford Instruments plc, Non-Executive Board member of UK Trade Past appointments and Investment.
Chairman and Chief Executive of Wates Group Limited, Executive Director Committee membership of ICI plc, Chairman of the ICI Group Member of the Audit, Remuneration pension fund.
