COM DIRECTORS REPORT | GROUP MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE P GR AG OU E H P M EAD AN IN AG GEMENT COMMITTEE Colin Day Hugh Ross Joanna Speed Chief Executive Managing Director, Europe Corporate Affairs Director Colins biographical details Hugh Ross joined Essentra in 1999.
Joanna Speed joined Essentra in 2011 can be found on page 46.
Before being appointed to his current as Corporate Affairs Director, having role in January 2014, Hugh was President previously held the position of Investor of the Speciality Tapes business in the Relations Director at Reckitt Benckiser Matthew Gregory US, prior to which he held increasingly Group plc and Scottish & Newcastle plc.
Group Finance Director senior roles in the Filter Products and Prior to this, Joanna was an equity analyst the Packaging & Securing Solutions and worked in investment banking for a Matthews biographical details divisions in North America.
Hugh is a number of international banks.
Joanna is can be found on page 46.
Chartered Accountant, having qualified a Chartered Accountant, having qualified with , and with Arthur Andersen.
served as an Officer in the British Army.
Scott Fawcett Malcolm Waugh Managing Director, Distribution Group Commercial Director Managing Director, Health Scott Fawcett joined Essentra in 2010 & Personal Care Packaging as Managing Director of the European Components business, and was appointed Malcolm Waugh joined Essentra in 2007 to his current role in January 2014.
Prior as Managing Director of the Tear Tape to joining Essentra, Scott was Head of business, and was appointed to the role of eCommerce at Electrocomponents plc, Group Commercial Director in January 2012. where he held a variety of increasingly Prior to joining Essentra, Malcolm was senior sales, marketing and eCommerce Commercial Director at Tetra Pak UK positions during his 17-year career there.
and Ireland, holding a variety of business development and commercial positions during his 18-year career there.
PT Sreekumar Managing Director, Filter Products Managing Director, Asia Brett York President, Americas PT Sreekumar joined Essentra in 1995, being initially responsible for the Companys joint Brett York joined Essentra in 2001 as venture in India.
Before being appointed Vice President of Sales & Marketing for the to the role of Managing Director, Filter US Components business.
Before being Products in 2005, Sreekumar was Regional appointed to his current role in January Director for Asia Pacific, responsible for the 2014, Brett held the position of President business in Asia and the Middle East.
Prior to of Component Distribution Americas from joining Essentra, Sreekumar worked for the 2012 and President of the Speciality Tapes Indian tobacco company Godfrey Philips.
Prior to joining Essentra, Brett held a variety of increasingly senior commercial and operational positions at a number of companies, including Industrial Molding Corp. Waddington and PepsiCo.
44 DIRECTORS REPORT | GROUP MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.
COM Jon Green Gavin Leathem Company Secretary & General Counsel Group Human Resources Director Jon Green joined Essentra in 2005, and Gavin Leathem joined Essentra as Group was appointed Company Secretary & Human Resources Director in 2014.
Prior to General Counsel in July 2005.
Prior to joining Essentra, Gavin was Vice President joining Essentra, Jon worked as an in-house of HR for Europe, Middle East and Africa lawyer for a number of large international at Emerson Network Power Systems, before businesses, including Hays plc and which he was Group HR Director at Chloride Unilever plc.
Group plc during his 13-year career there.
Gavin is a Chartered Fellow of the Institute of Personnel & Development.
Alan Richards Group Operations Director Alan Richards joined Essentra as Group Operations Director in 2012.
Prior to joining Essentra, Alan was Senior Director Manufacturing Excellence at the Mars Group, and has held a number of increasingly senior operational roles in the pharmaceutical, cosmetic and mining industries.
Since 1 January 2013, Alan has been responsible for the Groups Health, Safety & Environment practices.
Stefan Schellinger Corporate Development Director Stefan Schellinger joined Essentra as Corporate Development Director in 2013, before which he was Finance Director Emerging Markets at Gilbarco Veeder Root from 2011, having initially joined the Danaher Corporation as Director, Corporate Development Europe in 2005.
Prior to this, Stefan worked in investment banking at JP Morgan and in accountancy at Arthur Andersen.
