DIRECTORS REPORT | OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.
COM OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION The Directors present their Report Results and dividends Paul Drechsler will not be standing for prepared in accordance with the The profit on ordinary activities after re-election after nearly 10 years serving Companies Act 2006 which requires taxation of the Group for the year on the Board.
the Company to provide a fair review ended 31 December 2014 was 71.8m of the business of the Group during the 2013: 60.3m.
None of the Non-Executive Directors have financial year ended 31 December 2014, service contracts.
and audited financial statements of As at 20 February 2015 the Company the Company and its subsidiary has paid the following dividend in respect In accordance with the Companys Conflict undertakings for the year ended of the year ended 31 December 2014: of Interests policy, Directors are required 31 December 2014. to review their potential conflict of interests Per share Total at least on an annual basis and to notify p m The Companys Registered Office any changes to the Company Secretary Interim dividend 5.7 13.3 is Avebury House, 201-249 Avebury & General Counsel as soon as possible.
paid 30 October 2014 Boulevard, Milton Keynes, MK9 1AU.
The current register was approved by the Board in October 2014 and no material The Directors recommend that a final conflicts of interest were identified during dividend of 12.6p 2013: 10.6p per share be the year.
paid, making a total dividend distribution for the year of 18.3p 2013: 15.4p.
At no time during the year has any Director had any material interest in a contract The final dividend, subject to shareholder with the Group, being a contract of approval at the AGM, will be paid on significance in relation to the Groups 1 May 2015 to shareholders on the register business.
A statement of Directors on 27 March 2015. interests in shares of the Company is on page 82.
Directors As at 31 December 2014, the Board Share capital of Directors comprised: The issued share capital of the Company is shown in note 19 to the financial statements on page 130.
Jeff Harris Non-Executive Chairman In November 2014 the Company conducted Colin Day Chief Executive an equity placing of 23,659,761 new ordinary Terry Twigger SI Non-Executive Director shares of 25p each at a price of 713.5p per share, raising gross proceeds of Matthew Gregory Group Finance Director approximately 168.8m which funded Peter Hill Non-Executive the acquisition of Clondalkin Specialist Director Packaging Division.
Lorraine Trainer Non-Executive Chairman The rights and obligations attaching to Paul Drechsler Non-Executive the Companys ordinary shares, and the Director provisions governing the appointment and replacement of, as well as the powers of, The Company is adopting the requirements the Companys Directors, are set out in of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Companys Articles of Association, September 2012 in relation to Directors copies of which can be obtained from appointments, and in particular the annual Companies House in the UK or by writing re-election of all Directors.
Therefore, in to the Company Secretary.
7.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, all the There are no restrictions on the voting Directors will retire at the AGM save rights attaching to the Companys ordinary for Paul Drechsler and being eligible shares or on the transfer of securities in the will offer themselves up for re-election.
Company, except, in the case of transfers of securities: 87 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.
COM DIRECTORS REPORT | OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION That certain restrictions may from Environmental There are a number of other agreements, time to time be imposed by laws and The disclosures concerning greenhouse involving the Company or its subsidiaries, regulations for example, insider gas emissions required by law are included that take effect, alter or terminate upon trading laws in the Strategic Report on pages 42 to 43. a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid, such as Whereby, pursuant to the Listing Directors indemnities commercial contracts and joint venture Rules of the Financial Conduct During the year, and as at the date of agreements.
None are considered to be Authority, certain employees of this Report, indemnities are in force significant in terms of their potential the Company require approval under which the Company has agreed to impact on the business of the Group as of the Company to deal in the indemnify the Directors and the Company a whole, to any potential bidder for the Companys ordinary shares Secretary & General Counsel, in addition Company or Group.
to other senior executives who are No persons hold securities in the Directors of subsidiaries of the Company, Annual General Meeting Company carrying special rights with to the extent permitted by law and the The AGM of the Company will be held at regard to control of the Company.
The Companys Articles of Association, in the Holiday Inn Hotel, 500 Saxon Gate Company is not aware of any agreements respect of all losses arising out of or in West, Milton Keynes, Buckinghamshire, between holders of securities that may connection with the execution of their MK9 2HQ on Tuesday 23 April 2015 at result in restrictions on the transfer of powers, duties and responsibilities as a 12 noon.
securities or on voting rights.
Director or Officer of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, including the pension In addition to the ordinary business of Unless expressly specified to the contrary scheme trustee companies.
The scope the AGM, resolutions in respect of the in the Articles of Association of the of the indemnities extends to include following matters of special business Company, the Companys Articles of liabilities to third parties.
are included in the Notice of Annual Association may be amended by special General Meeting: resolution of the Companys shareholders.
Significant agreements The Company has committed bank New Long-Term Incentive Plan Substantial shareholders facilities consisting of two five-year Resolution 13 will be proposed as an At the close of business on 19 February multi-currency revolving credit facilities of ordinary resolution to request that 2015, the Company was advised of the 262.0m and 160.0m.
Under the terms of shareholders approve a new long-term following voting rights attaching to the these facilities, the banks can give notice incentive arrangement, the Essentra Companys shares in accordance with the to Essentra to repay outstanding amounts Long-Term Incentive Plan 2015 the LTIP Disclosure and Transparency Rules: and cancel the commitments where there 2015.
The LTIP 2015 has been based on is a change of control of the Company.
and designed to replace the Essentra % of total voting rights Long-Term Incentive Plan the Expired BlackRock Inc 13.78 Under a note purchase agreement dated LTIP that will be closed to further awards Standard Life 6.03 29 April 2010 relating to US$80m senior in May of this year upon the expiry of its Investments notes due 29 April 2017 and US$80m 10-year life.
Holdings Limited senior notes due 29 April 2020, on a Employees change of control the Company must As per the Expired LTIP, Part A of the LTIP As at 31 December 2014 the Company make an offer to prepay all the notes at 2015 will provide flexibility for the grant of employed 6,388 people globally and 1,341 par, without any premium of any kind, market value share option awards, and people in the UK.
Information on the together with accrued and unpaid Part B of the LTIP 2015 flexibility for the Groups policies on employee recruitment, interest thereon.
grant of performance share awards.
engagement and the employment of disabled persons can be found in the All of the Companys share schemes In each case, awards under the LTIP 2015 Corporate Responsibility Statement on contain provisions relating to a change in ordinarily vest three years from grant, pages 40 to 41. control.
Outstanding options and awards subject to the grantees continued service normally vest and become exercisable and the extent to which performance Political contributions on a change of control, subject to the conditions are met over the relevant In line with Group policy the Company satisfaction of any performance three-year measurement period.
made no political contributions 2013: nil.
88 DIRECTORS REPORT | OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.
COM The Companys Executive Directors shall be Allotment of shares for cash AGM or if earlier, 22 June 2016.
In ineligible for participation in Part A of the At the last AGM held in 2014, shareholders accordance with the requirements of the LTIP 2015. approved a special resolution to enable the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Directors to allot shares for cash without Authority, the minimum price exclusive of Full details of the existing and proposed first offering them to existing shareholders expenses which may be paid for a share is remuneration packages in place for the in proportion to their existing shareholdings.
its nominal value and the maximum price Executive Directors can be found in the That approval expires at the end of the exclusive of expenses for shares which may Report of the Remuneration Committee forthcoming AGM and resolution 15 in the be paid is the highest of: i an amount set out on pages 66 to 86.
Notice of AGM seeks to renew it.
equal to 105% of the average market value for a share for the five business days Authority to allot unissued shares The resolution authorises the Directors immediately preceding the date of the At the last AGM held in 2014, the Directors to allot or sell shares for cash without purchase: and ii the higher of the price of were granted authority to allot relevant first offering them to existing shareholders the last independent trade and the highest securities up to a nominal amount of in proportion to their existing shareholdings, current independent bid on the trading 19,643,829, which expires at the end up to an aggregate nominal amount venues where the purchase is carried out.
of 5% of the issued share capital of the Company, including treasury shares, at The Directors have no present intention At this years AGM, shareholders will be 31 December 2014 equivalent to 13,206,458 of exercising the authority to make market asked to grant the Directors authority ordinary shares.
purchases, however the authority provides to allot shares or grant rights to subscribe the flexibility to allow them to do so in the for or convert any security into shares: In respect of this aggregate nominal future.
The Directors will only utilise this i up to an aggregate nominal amount amount, the Directors confirm their authority if satisfied that to do so would of 21,725,697, representing approximately intention to follow the provisions of the be in the best interests of the Company one-third of the Companys issued share Pre-Emption Groups Statement of and its shareholders generally, and could capital, excluding treasury shares, at 20 Principles regarding cumulative usage be expected to result in an increase in February 2015 such an amount to be of authorities within a rolling three-year earnings per share of the Company.
reduced by the nominal amount allotted period where the Principles provide or granted under section ii below in that usage in excess of 7.5% should not During the financial year ending 31 excess of such sum : and ii comprising take place without prior consultation December 2014 1,855,216 ordinary shares equity securities up to an aggregate with shareholders.
were transferred out of Treasury by the nominal amount of 43,451,395, Company to satisfy share options under representing approximately two-thirds This authority will expire at the conclusion the Companys SAYE Sharesave and of the issued share capital, excluding of the following AGM or, if earlier, on 22 executive share incentive plans.
treasury shares, at 20 February 2015 June 2016.
The proposal conforms to the such an amount to be reduced by any guidelines issued by the institutional No dividends have been paid on shares allotments or grants made under section investment protection bodies to ensure while held in Treasury and no voting i above in connection with an offer by that existing shareholders interests are rights attach to the treasury shares.
Alteration of the Companys The proposal conforms to the guidelines Purchase of own shares Articles of Association issued by the institutional investment At the last AGM held in 2014, shareholders Resolution 18 will be proposed as a protection bodies to ensure that existing approved a special resolution to enable the Special Resolution and will be to request shareholders interests are safeguarded.
Company to purchase its own shares.
That that shareholders approve that the The Directors have no present intention approval expires at the end of the Companys Articles of Association be of exercising either of these authorities, forthcoming AGM.
amended to allow the Directors the which will expire at the end of next years flexibility to pay future dividends by AGM or, if earlier, the close of business At this years AGM, the Directors consider it any payment combination.
on 22 June 2016 except in relation to expedient to seek shareholders approval to share options.
enable the Company to purchase, in the market, up to 10% of its issued share capital excluding any treasury shares for cancellation, or to be held in Treasury, such power to apply until the end of next years 89 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.
COM DIRECTORS REPORT | OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION Auditor Going concern statement As far as each Director is aware, there The Auditor, KPMG LLP, is willing to The Directors have a reasonable is no relevant audit information of continue in office.
Separate resolutions expectation that the Company has which the Companys external auditor will be put to the AGM to re-appoint the adequate resources to continue in is unaware Auditor, and to authorise the Board to operational existence for the foreseeable Each Director has taken all steps that agree their remuneration.
future and accordingly have adopted he ought to have taken as a director to the going concern basis in preparing ascertain any relevant audit Recommendation the consolidated financial statements.
information and to ensure that the The Directors believe that the resolutions in Companys external auditor is aware the Notice of Annual General Meeting are in Further information regarding the of that information the best interests of the Company and its financial position of the Group, its cash shareholders as a whole, and unanimously flows, liquidity position, and borrowing recommend that shareholders vote in facilities are described in the Financial The Strategic Report and Directors Report, favour of each resolution.
In addition, including the Report of the Remuneration note 1 to the financial statements on Committee, were approved by the Board Content included in the Strategic Report pages 105 to 111 includes the Groups on 20 February 2015.
The following content is included in the objectives, policies and processes for Strategic Report on pages 2 to 47: an managing its capital, its financial risk By order of the Board indication of the likely future developments management objectives, details of its in the business of the Company: an financial instruments and hedging indication of the activities of the Company activities and exposures to credit, JON GREEN in the field of research and development: market and liquidity risk.
Cash balances Company Secretary and disclosure on the Companys policy as and borrowings are included in note 21 20 February 2015 regards employment of disabled persons on page 131.
This disclosure has been and employee involvement.
prepared in accordance the with Financial Reporting Councils Going Concern and Derivatives Liquidity Risk: Guide for Directors of UK Information related to derivatives is Companies 2009. included in the Accounting Policies on page 99 and in note 15.
Directors statement as to disclosure of information to the external auditor As required by section 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006, the Directors who were members of the Board at the time of approving this Report, having made enquiries of fellow Directors and of the external auditor, confirm that: 90
