COM STRATEGIC REPORT | WHAT WE DO WHAT WE DO Our business model Clear portfolio management Essentra operates at a Company, We have a clear model for managing Talent management a divisional and a regional level.
our portfolio of business activities Essentras employees are a vital resource The Company is responsible for in the pursuit of operational excellence managing the overall portfolio Strategic framework and the provision of quality products of business activities, to create Essentras business and financial objectives and service.
The skills and expertise of sustainable long-term value for were defined in its Vision 2015 strategy, Essentras employees drive the innovation shareholders.
Essentra has established which calls for balanced, profitable organic which enables the Company to provide processes and procedures in place growth complemented by value-creating added value to its customers, enhance to ensure effective and efficient acquisitions.
Each of the businesses is supply chain logistics with its suppliers management across all of responsible for contributing to Essentras and reduce the environmental impact our segments.
overall strategic priorities, to ensure the of its operations.
The Company regularly Companys ongoing success and, hence, reviews its organisational structure to the creation of sustainable long-term ensure that the business has the necessary shareholder value.
personnel to deliver its strategic priorities.
Risk management and governance Legal requirements and compliance Effective management of risk and Essentra is committed to ensuring that opportunity is essential to the protection of all of its activities are conducted in Essentras reputation and the achievement accordance with all applicable legal of sustainable shareholder value.
The Board and regulatory requirements and the of Directors is responsible for determining highest standards of ethical business the risk attitude of the Company and conduct.
The Companys Code of Business for communicating to the organisation Ethics policy aims to guide stakeholders, what constitutes acceptable risk-taking.
including employees, on the elements that The Board, supported by the Audit drive the conduct of Essentra businesses.
Committee, also oversees the management The way in which Essentra does business process for the identification, assessment reflects its commitment to profitable and mitigation of risk across Essentra.
growth, sustainable development and integrity, and the Companys policies continue to promote fair and ethical dealings with customers and competitors as a matter of law and conscience.
4 STRATEGIC REPORT | WHAT WE DO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.
COM Clear portfolio management Shared divisional priorities Delivering value Leverage our scale Invest in new product innovation Build on our leading international We have a well-invested and flexible The continued successful launch and market positions international sourcing, supply chain and commercialisation of new products We have secured leading international production infrastructure.
This allows us and services is a key driver of our future positions in many of our served markets to offer businesses across the Company growth.
Investment in research and in each of our four principal operating the opportunity to use our existing development functions, supported by divisions.
With our investment in infrastructure and management to the identification of additional product international infrastructure, technology, exploit new opportunities efficiently sourcing opportunities to deliver product innovation and people, the strength of and cost-effectively.
Our international innovation and range development, our businesses within their respective distribution network ensures the delivery provides the platform to further enhance markets enables us to deliver balanced, of cost-competitive and high quality our competitive positions.
products in response to customers systems maintained to internationally requirements.
High levels of service and accredited standards assist the fulfilment broad geographic reach are an important of customers demands.
Benefit from our experienced Operate efficiently management team and talent base We have a comprehensive international We have a highly experienced and production and distribution footprint, well-regarded management team and which can be flexed to respond to employee base.
Their detailed insight customers needs, whether they be into customer needs and market product, service, cost or supply chain trends allows us to respond proactively driven.
Supported by sophisticated to changing priorities and to drive IT systems, we are focused on being performance.
Technical expertise is a low-cost producer, to secure revenue reflected in production and supply-chain growth at attractive margins.
Continuous efficiencies and product innovation.
improvement programmes, with tight cost control and productivity gains, Develop long-term serve to reduce conversion costs.
customer relationships We develop and maintain a close relationship with a wide portfolio of blue-chip customers, who are successful leaders in their respective markets.
The high standards of service and supply demanded by such customers help to drive continuous improvement across the Company.
Our manufacturing and distribution expertise adds value in response to customer demands, and our innovative capabilities drive the joint development of new products and services with key strategic partners.
