Strategy and Performance Strategic Report Annual Report and Accounts 2014 07 Strategic Report Euromoney delivered a robust performance in content from EuroWeek, Asiamoney and a The main focus of 2014 the context of continued challenging market number of smaller newsletters, as well as a new has been the completion conditions.
The investment banking sector, offshore renminbi service.
For BCA, the real particularly fixed income, accounts for roughly value of Delphi is still to come: first from BCA of Project Delphi including half the groups revenues.
Regulatory pressures Edge, a fully integrated online research service the launch of the groups on investment banks remain the biggest including a content dashboard featuring live drag on the groups trading and have offset new platform for authoring, reports, personalised views and alerts, theme the improvement in revenues from the asset insights and recommendations for trades and storing and delivering its management sector.
In addition, the strength asset allocation.
Delphi will also help BCA content.
The Delphi content of sterling against the US dollar has had a accelerate its plans to launch a number of new significant negative impact on the groups research services over the next two years.
platform will improve results for most of the second half of the the quality of existing In 2015, Delphis digital authoring tool and financial year.
enhanced search functionality will be rolled subscription products and Total revenues for the year were in line with out across the groups titles.
Further investment reduce the time to market last year at 406.6 million, with an underlying will also be made in an exciting pipeline of new increase, at constant currency and excluding products for launch on the Delphi platform in for new digital information acquisitions and disposals, of 3%.
The slight 2015 and 2016, including new or enhanced services.
decrease in operating margin over the previous services for HedgeFund Intelligence, Metal year reflected tight control of underlying Bulletin and Euromoney, as well as several The first products launched on the platform costs offset by planned investment in digital new financial databases.
Restructurings took included BCA Analytics, a standalone publishing, including the Delphi content place in 2014 with a view to consolidating or interactive charting tool which has already platform which was launched in the second reducing the number of print products, and generated sales of nearly $1 million, and quarter.
A detailed operating and financial several print titles were closed or sold.
With the the GlobalCapital news and data service for review is set out from page 22. help of Delphi, the group expects most of its international capital markets which combines titles to be digital-only by the end of 2016.
Presentation Project Delphi Delphi is the groups new content platform to help drive the groups digital-first strategy.
It will increase the value of the groups content with enhanced personalisation and discoverability.
Journalists and editors use an intuitive authoring interface to create content and Search Semantic giving them greater editorial control over web presentation.
The content relationships are better defined using semantic tagging intelligent relationships within a domain ontology e. g. asset classes which significantly enhances search capabilities.
Content is easily distributed to multiple devices desktop, tablet, phone using responsive design.
Storage Authoring DAT 23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 08 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC www.
com Strategic Report continued The groups investment in new products is not market.
The business was re-launched under have jointly operated since the 1980s.
The limited to those on the Delphi platform.
One of the IJGlobal brand in March 2014.
In July 2014 transaction values Euromoneys participation in the most exciting opportunities is the Investor the group acquired the Investing in African these two businesses at $85 million, comprising Intelligence Network launched by Institutional Mining Indaba Mining Indaba, the largest equity in New Dealogic of $59 million and cash Investor.
This private online network brings mining event in emerging markets, as part of and preference shares of $26 million.
The together some of the largest asset owners and its strategy to build on its strength in the global transaction is subject to regulatory approval managers around the world and allows them commodities sector.
The group will draw on and is expected to complete by the end of to connect, share knowledge and put capital its strong links to institutional investors and December.
While the transaction has significant to work.
This disruptive technology connects governments to enhance the investor content long-term financial upside, in the short term buyers, sellers and intermediaries in the asset and networking opportunities which have been the loss of earnings from the Capital DATA management industry.
Revenues will come at the heart of Mining Indabas success.
and Capital NET arrangements will more from capital introduction fees, data services, than offset the groups share of profits from Since the year end, the group has announced platform fees and, subject to regulatory New Dealogic and lead to earnings dilution of plans to acquire a 15.5% equity stake in a approval being obtained, the ability to charge approximately 2% in 2015. company New Dealogic incorporated by basis points on capital placed.
The Carlyle Group to acquire Dealogic Holdings As part of a regular portfolio review, at the Acquisitions are a key part of the groups plc Dealogic alongside Carlyle and Dealogics beginning of the year the group reviewed the growth strategy.
The group completed four founders.
This investment fits Euromoneys strategy for its training division and concluded small transactions in 2013, all of which have strategy of expanding the scope of its activities that MIS Training Institute, the Boston-based been integrated successfully and are performing in the global financial information and analytics provider of audit and information security well.
In October 2013 the group acquired sector.
Dealogic, with its strong brand and training, offered limited synergies with the Infrastructure Journal, a leading information global adoption levels among investment rest of Euromoneys financial training business source for the international infrastructure banks in the US, EMEA and Asia-Pacific, offers and would require significant investment to markets.
Its deal database and news coverage Euromoney attractive strategic and financial drive future growth.
Accordingly, the business were combined with the deal analysis, awards upside.
Euromoneys investment will be was sold to a private equity buyer on April 1 and events of Euromoneys Project Finance to funded through the sale to New Dealogic of its for an initial consideration of 6.6 million and create the most comprehensive online source of interests in two businesses, Capital DATA and deferred consideration of up to 2.2 million.
news, analysis and data for the infrastructure Capital NET, which Dealogic and Euromoney GlobalCapital One of the first products launched on the Delphi Content platform was GlobalCapital, a consolidated capital markets service incorporating EuroWeek, Asiamoney and a number of smaller newsletters.
GlobalCapital provides both a customisable series of dedicated vertical news and data services for specific markets and, for full subscribers, a universal view of the wholesale financial markets worldwide.
While the web service has been expanded, the regular print output has been rationalised into a single weekly publication, together with supplements as and when required.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 Strategy and Performance Strategic Report Annual Report and Accounts 2014 09 Following the expiry of the lease for one of its to fund further acquisitions.
The roll-out of the London properties, the company has decided to Delphi platform to boost organic growth will be consolidate its offices in refurbished premises a a priority.
short distance away in Bouverie Street, off Fleet For the year to September 30 2014, Euromoneys Street.
The new space has significantly larger subscription revenues and adjusted operating profits included licence fees of 5.7 million from Capital floor plates and will reflect a more modern DATA, while its adjusted profit before tax included an working environment, encourage a digital-first amount of 0.3 million from equity accounting for its culture and give the group more flexibility for 48.4% interest in Capital NET.
It will, however, increase the groups operating costs by 2 million a year.
At the same time the company expects to release up to 10 million of capital from the sale of its freehold and leasehold interests later in 2015.
An indication of the trading outlook for the Christopher Fordham group is given in the Chairmans Statement Managing Director on page 5.
In 2015 the board will continue November 19 2014 with its strategy of maintaining its portfolio, including the possibility of disposing, closing or restructuring any under-performing businesses as well as pursuing relevant acquisitions.
The group will invest in technology and new businesses, particularly electronic information products, as well as in its internal systems.
Euromoney expects to use its financial strength The new web platform is responsive: adapting automatically to the format of the readers device.
New product streams will be quicker to market on this platform.
The first of these, GlobalRMB, a news and data product about the internationalisation of the renminbi, was completed in ten weeks.
com Strategic Report continued Subscription revenues are the fees that BUSINESS MODEL customers pay to receive access to the groups The groups activities are categorised into five operating divisions: Research and data: Financial information, through online access to various publishing: Business publishing: Conferences and seminars: and Training see page 2 for further databases, through regular delivery of soft copy details.
The group has many valuable brands see page 3 allowing the group to extend the value research, publications and newsletters or hard of existing products and to develop in new areas both geographically and with new products.
Subscriptions are also received example, publishing businesses often run branded events and produce data products covering their from customers who belong to Institutional area of specialism.
The group has a sizeable and valuable marketing database allowing new and Investors exclusive specialised membership existing products to be matched with relevant customers.
The group primarily generates revenues from four revenue streams: subscriptions: advertising: sponsorship: and delegates.
Advertising revenues represent the fees that customers pay to place an advertisement in one or more of the groups publications, either in print or online.
Sponsorship revenues represent fees paid by customers to sponsor an event.
A payment of sponsorship can entitle the sponsor to high-profile speaking opportunities at the conference, unique branding before, during and after the event and an unparalleled networking opportunity to invite the sponsors clients and representatives.
Delegate revenues represent fees paid by customers to attend a conference, training course or seminar.
7 million contacts Details of the groups revenues by revenue countries stream and by division are set out in note 3 to 180 the group financial statements.
The groups costs are tightly managed with a constant focus on margin control.
The group benefits from having a flexible cost base, outsourcing the printing of publications, hiring external venues for events and choosing to engage freelancers, contributors, external trainers and speakers to help deliver its products.
Other than its main offices, the group does not incur the fixed costs of offices in most of the markets in which it operates: this allows the group to scale up or reduce overheads as the economic environment in which it operates demands.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 N A H b g C n u R i A s k i E r s S o n e E w e R t t s a e s g N c e G o l N e s I m t N D I n A m e R v u T E n i t n i S e o R i s A t N a I c M u E p d S i E D h N s s A r w o S E e s i C n v N t E o r R p e E p F S N x E O C s Strategy and Performance Strategic Report Annual Report and Accounts 2014 11 Group revenue split MARKETPLACE Revenue by customer location Euromoney has a global customer base with revenue derived from almost 200 countries, with approximately 60% from the US, Canada, UK and Europe and more than a 12% 14% 18% third of its revenue from emerging markets.
3% Its customer base predominantly consists 14% 13% 42% of global financial institutions, investment banks and asset managers: governments, agencies and corporates: and service 16% 52% providers including lawyers, consultants and 16% technology providers.
The groups total addressable market is driven Subscriptions UK by customers capital and trading activities.
Advertising Other The groups EDEN marketing database holds Sponsorship Asia two million active names of which more Delegates US than 600,000 have bought Euromoneys Other Western Europe products in the past three years.
However, more important than the size of the market is its propensity to spend which is driven by the profitability of the groups clients, their Revenue by market sector expectations of market developments and increasingly the regulatory environment.
They spend more willingly where there is 100% 11% market share to be won for example the 26% 13% 38% 80% renminbi bond market than in a market in 16% structural decline.
Although total headcount 29% 26% 79% 60% in financial markets has been on a downward 52% trend for the past five years, the groups 40% strategy is driven by growing revenue per 60% 62% customer.
20% 11% 45% 15% 9% 5% 0 Euromoney is an international group with 2% 1% a strong focus on emerging markets.
Only Subscriptions Advertising Sponsorship Delegates 16% of revenues are derived from the UK Banking 08 Research and data Asset management and approximately 60% of the groups Financial publishing Other people are based outside the UK.
More than Business publishing a third of the revenues are derived from Conferences and seminars emerging markets, including sales of specific Training emerging market products for example EMIS and CEIC to developed market customers.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 12 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC www.
com Strategic Report continued STRATEGIC PRIORITIES The groups strategy is designed to build a growing, robust and tightly focused global online information business with a strong emphasis on emerging markets.
This represents a significant and challenging transformation from its roots as a traditional print publishing and events business.
The groups key strategic priorities are: Priorities Actions Key risks KPIs Increasing the The group has increased the proportion of revenues derived Downturn in Underlying proportion of from subscription products to more than half of its total economy or market subscription revenue revenues derived revenues and expects the proportion to remain between sector growth from subscription 50% and 60% for the foreseeable future.
 share of products based products, particularly online, have the advantage of total revenues premium-prices, high renewal rates and high margins.
Subscription retention rates Using technology The group invests for the long term in businesses and Data integrity, Investment in efficiently to assist the products that meet certain financial and strategic criteria.
availability and cyber technology and new online migration of the The group is investing heavily in its programme to security products groups print products migrate its print products online, develop new electronic Failure of central Online user and develop new information services, and to take advantage of mobile and back-office engagement electronic information cloud technology.
technology Subscription retention services Failure of online rates strategy Investing in products of Approximately two thirds of the groups revenues are Downturn in Underlying revenue the highest quality derived from its information activities including online and economy or market growth print content, databases and research.
The other third is sector Percentage of derived from events including training.
Since 2010, the Failure of online revenues delivered group has been investing heavily in technology and content strategy online delivery platforms, particularly for the mobile user, and in new digital products as part of its transition to an online information business.
Eliminating products The group continues to eliminate products with a low Downturn in Revenue by type with a low margin or margin or too high a dependence on print advertising.
The economy or market Adjusted operating too high a dependence group closed, in 2014, the Asiamoney print edition and sector margin on print advertising.
Euromoneys Colchester-based yearbooks and handbooks Adjusted profit division.
before tax Maintaining tight cost The groups costs are tightly managed with a constant Downturn in Adjusted operating control at all times focus on margin control.
The group benefits from having a economy or market margin flexible cost base, outsourcing the printing of publications, sector Adjusted profit hiring external venues for events, and choosing to engage before tax freelancers, contributors, external trainers and speakers to help deliver its products.
Other than its main offices, the group avoids the fixed costs of offices in most of the markets in which it operates.
This allows the group to scale up resources or reduce overheads as the economic environment in which it operates demand.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 Strategy and Performance Strategic Report Annual Report and Accounts 2014 13 Priorities Actions Key risks KPIs Retaining and fostering The board does not micro-manage each business, Loss of key staff Long-term incentives an entrepreneurial but instead devolves operating decisions to the local see Directors culture management of each business, while taking advantage Remuneration Report of a strong central control environment for monitoring Variable pay as a performance and underlying risk.
This encourages an percentage of total entrepreneurial culture where businesses have the right pay kind of support and managers are motivated and rewarded for growth and initiative.
Using a healthy balance While the market for acquisitions of specialist online Acquisition and Cash consideration sheet and strong cash information businesses remains competitive and valuations disposal risk on acquisitions flows to fund selective challenging, the group continues to use its robust balance Treasury operations Acquisitions: acquisitions sheet and strong cash flows to pursue further transactions.
Infrastructure Journal Equally, where businesses no longer fit, the group divests.
and Mining Indaba Disposals: MIS The group has strong covenants and takes advantage of Training its ability to borrow money cheaply using these funds to Net debt to EBITDA invest in new products and fund acquisitions.
The groups Cash conversion rate subscription revenues are normally received in advance, at the beginning of the subscription service, and a typical subscription contract would be for a 12-month period.
This helps provide the group with strong cash flows and normally leads to cash generated from operations being in excess of adjusted operating profit a cash conversion percentage in excess of 100%.
See page 16 for detailed explanation of the groups principal risks and uncertainties and page 14 for the groups performance against its KPIs.
BCA Dashboard The new BCA Dashboard is a platform for all customised content in one location.
It focuses on showcasing the quality of macro themes, analyses, insights and investment recommendations.
Some of the key features include powerful semantic tagging and search, personalised investment guidance, view evolution and the semantic search graph.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 14 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC www.
com Strategic Report continued KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS The group monitors its performance against its strategy using the following key performance indicators: KPI Description Performance Underlying revenue Total revenue at constant currency excluding acquisitions and disposals.
12% growth 8% 4% 3% 1% 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Underlying Subscription revenues at constant currency excluding acquisitions and 14% subscription revenue disposals.
growth 4% 2% 2% 1% 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Subscription share of Subscription-based products, particularly online, have the advantage of 52% 52% total revenues premium-prices, high renewal rates and high margins.
The group has 51% increased the proportion of revenues derived from subscription products to more than half of its total revenues and expects the proportion to remain 47% 46% between 50% and 60% for the foreseeable future.
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Investment in The groups investment in technology and new digital products as part of its 14.5 12.3 technology and new transition to an online information business.
10.0 products m 9.0 6.0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Cash consideration The total cash outflow on acquisition related activity net of cash acquired in 67.2 on acquisitions m the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
61.2 28.1 16.7 6.5 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 1.28 Net debt to EBITDA The amount of the groups net debt converted at the groups weighted average exchange rate for a rolling 12-month period to adjusted operating 1.01 profit earnings before depreciation and amortisation of licences and software, adjusted for the timing impact of acquisitions and disposals.
The strategic priority is to keep net debt to EBITDA below three times.
0.30 0.27 0.09 2010 2012 2013 2014 2011 23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 Strategy and Performance Strategic Report Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 KPI Description Performance Cash conversion rate The percentage by which cash generated from operations covers adjusted 108% 103% 101% 92% operating profit.
The groups cash conversion rate was less than 100% 88% in 2014 and 2013 due to cash payments during the year in respect of long-term costs, for which the expense was accrued in previous years.
The underlying operating cash conversion rate, after adjusting for these timing differences, was 100% 2013: 103%.
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Adjusted profit Adjusted profit before tax as set out in the appendix to the Chairmans 116.5 116.2 106.8 before tax m Statement.
92.7 86.6 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Adjusted operating Operating profit before acquired intangible amortisation, long-term 30% 30% 30% 30% 29% margin incentive expense, exceptional items and associates as a percentage of revenue.
The decrease in operating margin in 2014 over the previous year is due to the planned investment in digital publishing, including the Delphi content platform which was launched in the second quarter.
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Variable Staff incentives including bonuses, commissions and normal long-term 44% 40% 39% pay as a incentive expense as a percentage of total staff costs as per note 6 to the 32% percentage of group financial statements.
31% total pay 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 The key performance indicators are all within the boards expectations and support its successful strategy.
These indicators are discussed in detail in the Chairmans Statement on pages 4 and 5, and in the operating and financial review from page 22.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 16 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC www.
com Strategic Report continued PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The principal risks and uncertainties the group faces vary across the different businesses and are identified in the groups risk register.
Management of significant risk is regularly on the agenda of the board and other senior management meetings.
The geographical spread and diverse portfolio of businesses within the group help to dilute the impact of some of the groups key risks.
The groups principal risks and uncertainties are summarised below.
The arrows provide a pictorial indication of the change in level of perceived risk compared to last year.
Risk Potential Impact Mitigation Trend Downturn in economy or Uncertainty in global financial markets The group has a diverse product mix and increases the risk of a downturn or potential operates in many geographical locations.
market sector collapse in one or more areas of the business.
This reduces dependency on any one sector The group generates significant If this occurs income is likely to be adversely or region.
Management has the ability to income from certain key affected and for events businesses some cut costs quickly if required or to switch the geographical regions and market abandonment costs may also be incurred.
groups focus to new or unaffected markets, sectors.
e. g. through development of new vertical markets or transferring events to better performing regions.
Travel risk Significant disruptions to or reductions in Where possible, contingency plans are in international travel for any reason could lead place to minimise the disruption from travel The conference, seminar and to events and courses being postponed or restrictions.
Events can be postponed or training businesses account for cancelled and could have a significant impact moved to another location, or increasingly approximately a third of the on the groups performance.
can be attended remotely using online groups revenues and profits.
The success of these events Past incidents such as transport strikes, and courses relies heavily on extreme weather including hurricanes, Cancellation and abandonment insurance is in the confidence in and ability of terrorist attacks, fears over SARS and place for the groups largest events, including delegates and speakers to travel swine flu, and natural disasters such as the Ebola cover for Mining Indaba, the groups internationally.
disruption from volcanic ash in Europe, have newest conference taking place in South all had a negative impact on the groups Africa in February 2015. results, although none materially.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 Strategy and Performance Strategic Report Annual Report and Accounts 2014 17 Risk Potential Impact Mitigation Trend Compliance with laws and A breach of legislation or regulations could Compliance with laws and regulations is taken have a significant impact on the group in seriously throughout the group.
A Code of regulations terms of additional costs, management time Conduct and supporting policies sets out Group businesses are subject and reputational damage.
appropriate standards of business behaviour to legislation and regulation and highlights the key legal and regulatory in the jurisdictions in which In recent years responsibilities for managing issues affecting group businesses.
The key laws data protection have increased significantly.
and local management are responsible and regulations that may have The emergence of new online technology is for compliance with applicable local laws an impact on the group cover further driving legislation and responsibilities and regulations, overseen by the executive areas such as libel, bribery and for managing data privacy.
committee and the board and supported by corruption, competition, data internal audit.
Proposed new regulation by the European protection, privacy including Union to improve market transparency under A new compliance framework for price e-privacy, health and safety and which prices, benchmarks and indices are reporting, benchmark and indices businesses employment law.
provided, contributed to and used will affect a was implemented during the year, formalising number of businesses in the group.
standards of conduct, procedural guidance More recently new financial and staff training.
Two ethics audits were also regulations being introduced Failure to comply with laws and regulations completed.
as a result of the financial crisis in any part of the world could result in of 2008 have implications for significant financial penalties and reputational The group has strict policies and controls the groups price reporting, damage.
in place for the management of data benchmark and indices businesses protection and privacy.
This is supported by see published content risk.
new computer-based training CBT being rolled out worldwide in 2015.
The group has website technology to reinforce online legal and regulatory compliance.
A new compliance handbook is being provided to all managers in all office locations this year, to support governance and further mitigate compliance risk.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 18 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC www.
com Strategic Report continued Risk Potential Impact Mitigation Trend Data integrity, availability and Any challenge to the integrity or availability The group has comprehensive information of information that the group relies upon security standards and policies in place which cyber security could result in operational and regulatory are reviewed on a regular basis.
Access to key The group uses large quantities challenges, costs to the group, reputational systems and data is restricted, monitored, and of data including customer, damage to the businesses and the permanent logged with auditable data trails.
Restrictions employee and commercial loss of revenue.
This risk has increased as are in place to prevent unauthorised data in the ordinary course of the threat of cyber-attack has become more data downloads.
The group is subject to its business.
A successful cyber-attack could regular internal information security audits, publishes data see published cause considerable disruption to business supplemented by expert external resource.
The group continues to invest in appropriate cyber defences including implementation of The integrity, availability and The wider use of social media has also intrusion detection systems to mitigate the security of this data is key to the increased information risk as negative risk of unauthorised access.
comments made about the groups products can now spread more easily.
The groups Information Security Group meets Information risk has increased as regularly to consider and address cyber risks.
Although technological innovations in mobile a result of the growing number working, the introduction of cloud-based Comprehensive back-up plans for IT of  technologies and the growing use of social infrastructure and business data are in place organisations around the world.
media present opportunities for the group, to protect the businesses from unnecessary they also introduce new information security disruption.
risks that need to be managed carefully.
The groups professional indemnity insurance provides cover for cyber risks including cyberattack and data breach incidents.
London, New York, Montreal An incident affecting one or more of the key Business continuity plans are in place for all offices could disrupt the ordinary operations businesses.
These plans are refreshed annually or Hong Kong wide disaster of the businesses at these locations: a and a programme is in place for testing.
If The groups main offices are region-wide disaster affecting all offices could required, employees can work remotely.
located in London, New York, have much worse implications with serious Montreal and Hong Kong.
A The group has robust IT systems with key management and communication challenges significant incident affecting locations including the UK, US, Canada and for the group and a potential adverse effect these cities could lead to Asia benefiting from offsite data back-ups, on results.
remote recovery sites and third-party 24-hour The risk of office space becoming unusable support contracts for key applications.
for a prolonged period and a lack of suitable The groups business continuity planning alternative accommodation in the affected helped its New York office to recover quickly area could also cause significant disruption and effectively from the significant disruption to the business and interfere with delivery of caused by Hurricane Sandy in 2012, and more products and services.
recently maintain operations in its Bangkok Incidents affecting key clients or staff in these office during the Thai political crisis earlier regions could also give rise to the risk of not this year.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 Strategy and Performance Strategic Report Annual Report and Accounts 2014 19 Risk Potential Impact Mitigation Trend Published content risk A successful libel claim could damage the The group runs mandatory annual libel groups reputation.
The rise in use of social courses for all journalists and editors.
Controls The group generates a significant media, and in particular blogging, has are in place, including legal review, to approve amount of its revenue from increased this risk.
Damage to the reputation content that may carry a libel risk.
Editorial publishing information and data of the group arising from libel could lead controls are also in place for social media and online or in its magazines and to a loss of revenue, including income from this activity is monitored carefully.
As a result, there is an advertising.
In addition, there could be costs inherent risk of error which, in The groups policy is to own its content and incurred in defending the claim.
some instances, may give rise manage redistribution rights tightly.
Royalty to claims for libel.
The rapid The failure to manage content redistribution and redistribution agreements are in place to rights and royalty agreements could lead to mitigate risks arising from online publishing.
development of social media has overpayment of royalties, loss of intellectual Tight controls have been implemented for increased this risk.
property and additional liabilities for the verification, cleaning and processing of The transition to online publishing redistribution of content.
data used in its database, research and data services.
means content is being The integrity of the groups published data is distributed far quicker and more critical to the success of the groups database, Processes and methodologies for assessing widely than ever before.
This has research and data services.
The group also metals and other commodity prices and introduced new challenges for publishes extensive pricing information and calculating indices are clearly defined and securing and delivering content indices for the global metals industries and documented.
All employees involved with and effective management of financial markets.
Errors in published data, publishing pricing information or indices content rights and royalties.
price assessments or indices could affect the receive relevant training.
Robust contractual reputation of the group leading to fewer disclaimers are in place for all businesses that The business also publishes subscribers and lower revenues.
publish pricing data, benchmarks and indices.
databases and data services Any challenge to the integrity of polls and Polls and awards are regularly audited and a with a particular focus on highawards could damage the reputation of firewall is in place between the commercial value proprietary data.
There is the product and by association the rest of arm of the business and the editors.
the potential for errors in data the group, resulting in legal costs and a collection and data processing.
Key staff are aware of the significant risks permanent loss of revenue.
The group publishes industry associated with publishing content and strong pricing benchmarks for the internal controls are in place for reporting metals markets and more than to senior management if a potential issue 1,000 equity and bond indices.
These are documented in a publishing risk handbook provided to all journalists.
The The group also runs more than group also has libel insurance and professional 100 reader polls and awards indemnity cover.
Loss of key staff The inability to recruit and retain talented Long-term incentive plans are in place for key people could affect the groups ability to staff to encourage retention.
The directors The group is reliant on key maintain its performance and deliver growth.
remain committed to recruitment and management and staff across all retention of high-quality management and of its businesses.
Many products When key staff leave or retire, there is a risk talent, and provide a programme of career are dependent on specialist, that knowledge or competitive advantage opportunity and progression for employees technical expertise.
including extensive training and international transfer opportunities.
Succession planning is in place for senior management.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 20 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC www.
com Strategic Report continued Risk Potential Impact Mitigation Trend Failure of central back-office A failure of the back-office technology The group continues to invest significantly may affect the performance, data integrity in its central back-office technology.
The technology or availability of the groups products and platform is planned, managed and run by a The business has invested services.
Any extensive failure is likely to affect dedicated, skilled team and its progress and significantly in central backa large number of businesses and customers, performance are closely monitored by the office technology to support the and lead directly to a loss of revenues.
executive committee and the board.
transition of the business from print to online publishing.
Online customers are accessing the groups The group has digital rights management digital content in an increasing number of technology to ensure its content is adequately The back-office provides customer ways, including using websites, apps and secured and changing customer requirements and product management, digital e-books.
The group relies on effective digital for accessing the groups products and rights management, e-commerce rights management technology to provide services are met.
and performance and activity flexible and secure access to its content.
An Operational and financial due diligence is reporting.
The platform supports inability to provide flexible access rights to the undertaken for all key suppliers as part of a groups content could lead to products being a large share of the groups formal risk assessment process.
Contingency less competitive or allow unauthorised access online requirements including key planning is carried out to mitigate risk from to content, reducing subscription revenues as activities for publishing, events supplier failure.
The group has made a substantial investment The groups reliance on key suppliers, The back-office technology in e-commerce technology and hosting particularly IT suppliers, has increased.
An is critical to the successful infrastructure to ensure the back-office operational or financial failure of a key functioning of the online business platform continues to perform effectively.
supplier could affect the groups ability to and hence carries a significant deliver products, services or events with a amount of risk.
direct impact on management time and financial results.
Acquisition and disposal risk There is a risk that an acquisition opportunity Senior management perform detailed could be missed.
The group could also suffer in-house due diligence on all possible As well as launching and building an impairment loss if an acquired business acquisitions and call on expert external new businesses, the group does not generate the expected returns or advisers where necessary.
Acquisition continues to make strategic fails to operate or grow.
Additionally, there agreements are usually structured to retain acquisitions where opportunities is a risk that a newly acquired business is key employees in the acquired company and exist to strengthen the group.
not integrated into the group successfully or there is close monitoring of performance at The management team reviews a that the expected risks of a newly acquired board level of the entity concerned postnumber of potential acquisitions entity are misunderstood.
The group acquired Mining Indaba each year with only a small significant amount of management time could and Infrastructure Journal during the year.
proportion of these going be diverted from other operational matters.
The board regularly reviews the groups through to the due diligence The group is also subject to disposal risk, existing portfolio of businesses to identify stage and possible subsequent possibly failing to achieve optimal value from under-performing businesses or businesses purchase.
The strategy also results disposed businesses, failing to identify the that no longer fit with the groups strategy in the disposal of businesses that time at which businesses should be sold or and puts in place divestment plans no longer fit the groups strategy.
underestimating the impact on the remaining accordingly.
In 2014 the group disposed of group from such a disposal.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 Strategy and Performance Strategic Report Annual Report and Accounts 2014 21 Risk Potential Impact Mitigation Trend Failure of online strategy The groups online strategy addresses a The group is already embracing these number of challenges arising from the groups challenges and overall sees the Internet The emergence of new transition from print media to an online and other technological advances as an technologies such as tablets and business and changing customer behaviour.
other mobile devices and the proliferation of social media are Competition has increased, with free content Significant investment in the groups online changing how customers access becoming more available on the Internet strategy has already been made and will and use the groups products and and new competitors benefiting from lower continue for as long as necessary.
A failure to manage pricing content management technology is being effectively or successfully differentiate the implemented across the group to enable more The group has established a groups products and services could negatively effective publishing to web, print and the strategy to meet the many affect business results.
rapidly increasing number of mobile platforms challenges of migrating the coming onto the market.
Many of the groups The customer environment is changing fast publishing businesses from businesses already produce soft copies of with an increasing number spending more publications to supplement the hard copies as traditional print media to online time using the Internet.
Print circulation is well as provide information and content via and to ensure the non-publishing declining and a failure to convert customers apps.
businesses take advantage of new from print risks a permanent loss of customers technology when advantageous to competitors.
The groups acquisition strategy has increased to do so.
the number of online information providers Further changes in technology including the in the business.
However, while online This strategy has been pursued widespread use of tablets and other mobile revenues are important, the groups product for a number of years.
devices and social media such as LinkedIn and mix reduces dependency on this income.
For Twitter are changing customer behaviour and example, the group generates a third of its will introduce new challenges.
profits from its event businesses and face-toface meetings remain an important part of A failure in the groups online strategy to meet customers marketing activities.
these challenges could result in a permanent loss of revenue.
Treasury operations If the treasury policy does not adequately The tax and treasury committee is responsible mitigate the groups financial risks or is for reviewing and approving group treasury The group treasury function is not correctly executed, it could result in policies which are executed by the group responsible for executing treasury unforeseen derivative losses or higher than treasury.
policy which seeks to manage expected finance costs.
the groups funding, liquidity and Segregation of duties and authorisation treasury derivatives risks.
These The treasury function undertakes high-value limits are in place for all payments made.
The include currency exchange rate transactions hence there is an inherent high treasury function is also subject to regular fluctuations, interest rate risks, risk of payment fraud or error having an internal audit.
counterparty risk and liquidity adverse impact on group results.
These risks are described in more detail in note 18 to the group financial statements.
Unforeseen tax liabilities The directors endeavour to manage the tax External tax experts and in-house tax affairs of the group in an efficient manner: specialists, reporting to the tax and treasury The group operates within many however, due to an ever-more complex committee, work together to review all tax tax jurisdictions and earnings international tax environment there will arrangements within the group and keep are therefore subject to taxation always be a level of uncertainty when abreast of changes in global tax legislation.
at differing rates across these provisioning for tax liabilities.
risk of tax laws being amended by authorities in the different jurisdictions in which the group operates which could have an adverse effect on the financial results.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 22 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC www.
com Strategic Report continued currency finance cost has been of only limited adjusted profit before tax by approximately OPERATING REVIEW benefit as a hedge against the translation of 5 million.
Each one cent movement in the The group generates approximately two thirds overseas profits.
US dollar rate reduces profits on translation by of both its revenues, including approximately a approximately 0.6 million on an annualised third of its UK revenues, and profit before tax in The strength of sterling against the US dollar basis.
The exposure to US dollar revenues started to have a negative impact on the in its UK businesses is hedged using forward translation of overseas profits towards the The revenue tables below show headline contracts to sell US dollars, which delays the end of the first half and had a more significant growth rates as well as those at constant impact of movements in exchange rates for at impact in the second half.
Underlying revenue growth rates least a year.
However, the group does not hedge US dollar rate for the year to September exclude the impact of acquisitions, disposals the foreign exchange risk on the translation of 30 was $1.66 2013: $1.56.
This reduced and currency movements.
While it endeavours to match headline revenue growth rates for the year foreign currency borrowings with investments, by approximately four percentage points and as debt levels have fallen the related foreign Trading review Total revenues were in line with last year at 406.6 million.
At constant currency total revenues increased by 4% and, once acquisitions and disposals are excluded, underlying revenues by 3%.
Underlying Change at change at constant constant 2014 2013 Headline exchange exchange Revenues m m change rates rates Subscriptions 205.0 206.2 1% 5% 2% Advertising 53.6 57.6 7% 3% 4% Sponsorship 56.9 51.0 12% 18% 12% Delegates 71.2 69.4 3% 5% 5% Other 13.4 12.0 12% 15% 14% Sold closed businesses 3.6 9.2 61% 60% 3% Foreign exchange gains losses on forward contracts 2.9 0.7 Total revenue 406.6 404.7 4% 3% Less: revenue from acquisitions disposals 9.1 5.5 Underlying revenue 397.5 399.2 Trading conditions have remained difficult, will not be seen until 2015.
The strength revenues continued to decline in 2014 largely particularly in the investment banking sector, of sterling against the US dollar also had a due to reduced bank spend.
where there has been no real sign of an easing negative impact on revenues in 2014, although The adjusted operating margin fell from 30% of the pressures from increased compliance, more recent currency trends have been positive.
to 29% as a result of the groups continued a tougher regulatory regime, tighter capital The main driver of underlying revenue growth strategic investment in digital publishing adequacy tests and record fines for bank was a 12% increase in event sponsorship and including the new Delphi content platform.
misdemeanours including most recently the a 5% increase in delegate revenues largely Delphi was launched in March and has full global settlements for foreign exchange from new financial market events in the second year running costs of 4 million including manipulation.
The commodities sector has quarter and favourable timing of events.
amortisation of the build costs.
Permanent also suffered from price weakness and lower Underlying subscription revenues have been headcount has increased by 49 to 2,191 people trading volumes.
In contrast, the performance increasing at a steady rate of 2% for the past since September 30 2013 reflecting acquisitions of the groups businesses serving the asset 18 months from a combination of new products and the increased investment in technology management industry has improved over the and a gradual return to growth of the asset and new products.
course of the year, although the natural lag management sector.
Underlying advertising effect of subscriptions means the full benefit 23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 Strategy and Performance Strategic Report Annual Report and Accounts 2014 23 Business division review Research and data: underlying revenues, which are derived predominantly from subscriptions, fell by 1%.
This has been a consistent trend throughout the year following a tough 2013 for both the banking and asset management sectors with the burden of additional compliance costs on information buying budgets.
Sales and renewal rates for the groups research businesses, BCA and NDR, improved in the second half, the benefits from which should be seen in 2015, although revenue growth in 2014 was held back by the lag effect of the difficult 2013.
The cost pressures facing investment banks have also affected the performances of the groups emerging market information and data products, EMIS and CEIC, although again there were signs of a recovery in the second half.
The adjusted operating margin was down 2% at 40% mainly due to investments made by BCA in the Delphi content platform and NDRs repurposing of its content into new, more targeted products.
Underlying Change at change at Operating Operating constant constant margin margin 2014 2013 Headline exchange exchange 2014 2013 Revenues m m change rates rates m m Research and data 126.5 131.3 4% 2% 1% 40% 42% Financial publishing 80.3 75.6 6% 10% 7% 28% 32% Business publishing 67.8 68.9 2% 2% 2% 34% 38% Conferences and seminars 106.1 99.4 7% 12% 9% 29% 29% Training 19.4 21.0 8% 2% 2% 20% 18% Sold closed businesses 3.6 9.2 61% 60% 3% 13% 16% Foreign exchange gains losses on forward contracts 2.9 0.7 Total revenue 406.6 404.7 4% 3% 29% 30% Less: revenue from acquisitions disposals 9.1 5.5 Underlying revenue 397.5 399.2 Financial publishing: underlying revenues Business publishing: the 2% increase Conferences and seminars: underlying event increased by 7% reflecting the groups newly in underlying revenues reflects a good revenues increased by 9% from a combination combined infrastructure finance business, performance from the wholesale telecoms of new financial market events in the US, the IJGlobal, and a strong performance from information business, TelCap, offset by tough favourable timing of events, and the strength LatinFinance, offset by weakness in other commodities and energy markets faced by of Institutional Investors subscription-based financial titles from their dependence on Metal Bulletin and Gulf Publishing.
As with memberships for the asset management banks for advertising.
The reduction in Financial Publishing, the adjusted operating industry.
In contrast, markets for commoditiesthe adjusted operating margin reflects the margin fell after investment in digital publishing related events including metals and coal have continued investment in the transition to a including Metal Bulletins steel information been more challenging.
digital publishing model including the launch service and a new pricing database.
Training: revenues for the training division, of GlobalCapital using the Delphi content which relies heavily on customers in the platform.
The adjusted operating margin improved from 18% to 20% following a restructuring undertaken last year and the sale of the lower margin MIS business.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 24 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC www.
com Strategic Report continued Acquisitions and disposals Acquisitions remain an important part of the groups growth strategy.
In particular the board believes that acquisitions are valuable for taking the group into new sectors, for bringing new technologies into the group and for increasing the groups revenues and profits by buying into rapidly growing niche businesses.
The group continues to look for strategic acquisitions which will fit well with its existing businesses.
Equally, where businesses no longer fit, the group divests.
During 2014, the group purchased the trade and assets of two businesses, Infrastructure Journal IJ and Mining Indaba and disposed of 100% of its equity share capital in MIS Training.
Details of all acquisitions and disposals are set out in note 14 to the group financial statements.
Business acquired Description Strategic priority Total consideration Date acquired Leading provider The acquisition is consistent with 12,767,000 October 15 2013 of online data, the groups strategy of investing intelligence and in online subscription and events events for the global businesses which will benefit infrastructure sector.
The worlds largest The acquisition is consistent 45,405,000 July 15 2014 mining investment with the groups strategy to forum and Africas consolidate and strengthen its largest mining event.
position in the global metals and mining sector.
On April 1 2014 the group sold 100% of its equity share capital in MIS Training for an initial cash consideration of US$11 million 6.6 million, offset by a working capital adjustment of US$1.1 million 0.7 million paid in April 2014.
At date of disposal a discounted deferred consideration receivable of US$3.7 million 2.2 million was recognised.
In September 2014 deferred consideration of US$0.1 million 0.07 million was paid and the remaining discounted deferred consideration is expected to be received in cash between January 2015 and September 2019.
The disposal of MIS Training gave rise to a profit on disposal of 6.8 million, after deducting disposal costs incurred, which was recognised as an exceptional item note 5 in the Income Statement.
IJGlobal In October 2013 the group acquired Infrastructure Journal, and merged it with an existing title, Project Finance, to launch IJGlobal in April 2014.
The product combined the two titles presence in New York, Hong Kong and London, their databases and events portfolios, alongside a rebranding and redesign.
Despite combining competing titles with disparate customer bases, the product has 95% of the mandated lead arrangers and financial advisors subscribing to its service, has grown its flagship World Infrastructure Summit, and improved its website and database functionality.
The IJGlobal site now receives over 48,000 visitors each month.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 Strategy and Performance Strategic Report Annual Report and Accounts 2014 25 customer insight team is now providing Systems and information Marketing and digital technology development dedicated analytical support to business groups The group continues to invest in developing The group continues to invest in digital such as Metals, Mining and Minerals and Asset its digital platforms and services as well as the development especially customer engagement Management.
These analysts provide more inpeople thatsupportand deliver them.
depth analysis of customer usage behaviour, renewal cycles, web usage, demographics, The original scope of Project Delphi was The groups digital success is reflected in its helping to identify opportunities for crosscompleted with the new GlobalCapital site engagement metrics.
There are now more selling and new customer opportunities.
going live in the second quarter and the main than 100 businesses active on social media.
Headcount BCA Research product in beta by the third The groups social media connections have The number of people employed is monitored quarter.
Plans for a second phase involving increased 183% year on year, and the group monthly to ensure there are sufficient resources Institutional Investor and other businesses are has more than 600,000 members across to meet the forthcoming demands of each well underway with individual components major social platforms, such as LinkedIn and business and to make sure that the businesses of theplatform being rolled out to additional Twitter.
The group has also developed a more continue to deliver sustainable profits.
titles across the group replacing legacysearch integrated approach to content marketing During 2014 the directors have focused on and authoring tools.
Over 70 other agile-based in both publishing and events businesses.
maintaining headcount at a similar level to that projects were also completed with a focus This combines multi-media and agenda-led in 2013, hiring new heads only where it was on continuous deployment and automated content with speaker, sponsor and attendee considered essential or for investment purposes.
Notable achievements include the interaction throughout the year.
The success Headcount at September 2014 was 2,191, an re-launches of EuromoneySeminars.
com and of this integrated approach was demonstrated increase of 49 since September 2013, including NDR.
com, the integration of Infrastructure at the AMMs Steel Success Strategies XXIX 43 acquired heads offset by 41 leavers from the Journal, the development of a delegate conference, which led to an increase of disposal of MIS Training.
messenger tool for events businesses andan 1,700% in overall site visits, 200% increase internal, auditable pricing tool for the in social visits and 30% new prospects.
This Capital Appreciation Plan CAP Metals group.
Most websites have also been increased level of activity is contributing to The CAP, the groups long-term incentive redesigned to be mobile-responsive.
event sales, subscription trials and sponsorship plan, remains an important part of the groups opportunities.
It is a highly geared, On the corporate infrastructure side, a project performance-based share option scheme which to migrate all employees to Microsoft Office365 A number of significant product initiatives were both directly rewards executives for the growth and upgrade the legacy XP desktop environment undertaken.
Highlights include the launches in profits of the businesses they manage, was successfully completed.
The on-premises of GlobalCapital, a new publishing platform and links to the delivery of shareholder value data centres have now been retired in both that consolidated a number of products by satisfying rewards in a mix of shares in the UK and US with more than 90% of the including EuroWeek and Asiamoney, onto a the company and cash.
It aims to deliver infrastructure virtualised and operating within single digital property: new product for the exceptional profit growth over the performance a fault tolerant managed service.
There has offshore RMB renminbi market: IJGlobal the period and for this profit to be maintained over continued to be significant investment in both merger of Project Finance and Infrastructure the remaining payout period.
Further details are the testing and infrastructure surrounding Journal with new branding, integration of set out in the company share schemes section Disaster Recovery and Information Security.
news and data, and a new website design with in the Directors Remuneration Report.
New acquisitions improved functionality and usability.
Finally a and offices have been integrated to make use of new platform was developed for Euromoney FINANCIAL REVIEW corporate applications across the group including Seminars that is reusable and scalable, reducing The adjusted profit before tax of 116.2 million the latest version of Microsoft Dynamics CRM.
the time to market for new events businesses.
compares to a statutory profit before tax of The group also focused on improving the 101.5 million.
The statutory profit before tax There has been a particular focus this year customer experience across a number of is usually lower than the adjusted profit before on recruiting, developing and retaining top businesses such as II.
com and Sovereign Wealth tax because of the impact of acquired intangible technical talent.
Both an internal and external Center.
amortisation and non-cash movements in Hackathon were held during the year with the acquisition liabilities.
A detailed reconciliation aim of fostering ideas as well as promoting The group continues to invest in EDEN, the of the groups adjusted and statutory results Euromoney as a high-quality place to work in groups marketing database, which has in is set out in the appendix to the Chairmans technology.
excess of two million active names.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 26 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC www.
com Strategic Report continued A net exceptional credit of 2.6 million 2013: Interest payable on the groups committed profits and applicable tax rates.
The group 2.2 million credit has been recognised.
This borrowing facility fell by 1.2 million to continues to benefit from reductions in the UK includes a 6.8 million profit from the sale of 1.3 million, reflecting lower funding costs.
corporate tax rate, offset by higher US taxes.
MIS Training offset by exceptional acquisition, Headline net finance costs of 2.1 million The adjusted effective tax rate is expected to restructuring and property costs of 4.2 million.
2013: 10.4 million include a non-cash charge fall to 20% in 2015, in line with the reduction of 0.6 million 2013: 7.6 million for increases in the UK corporate tax rate.
The long-term incentive expense of 2.4 million in deferred acquisition liabilities.
2013: 2.1 million reflects the cost of CAP 2014 awards which were granted in June 2014.
The adjusted effective tax rate was 22%, the The charge in 2013 reflected the final cost of same as 2013.
The tax rate in each period CAP 2010. depends mainly on the geographic mix of Balance sheet The main movements in the balance sheet were as follows: 2014 2013 Change m m m Goodwill and other intangible assets 545.4 505.6 39.8 Property, plant and equipment 16.9 16.8 0.1 Acquisition commitments and deferred consideration 21.9 31.1 9.2 Liability for cash-settled options 0.6 7.4 6.8 Deferred income 122.3 117.3 5.0 Other non-current assets and liabilities 3.1 1.3 1.8 Other current assets and liabilities 3.6 6.9 10.5 Net pension deficit 4.8 2.9 1.9 Deferred tax 19.1 11.8 7.3 Net assets before net debt 394.1 343.7 50.4 Net debt 37.6 9.9 27.7 Net assets 356.5 333.8 22.7 In 2014 the net assets increased by 22.7 million to 356.5 million.
The increase in net assets is broadly as a result of the 75.3 million group profit offset by dividends of 28.8 million and 21.5 million for the purchase of 1.7 million of the companys own shares for the CAP 2014 share scheme.
EMIS EMIS launched its first industry-specific business information service, EMIS Energy, in September 2014.
EMIS Energy has been designed as a new vertical to capture financial, industry and company reports on the emerging markets from the flagship EMIS platform.
The information within EMIS Energy relates only to the energy sector, the aim being to build a larger client base among corporate clients within the energy industry who have specific information needs.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 Strategy and Performance Strategic Report Annual Report and Accounts 2014 27 These movements are explained below: Insider Publishing and CIE were released.
Dividends Net current tax liabilities decreased by 5.6 The companys policy is to distribute a third Goodwill and other intangible assets million due to timing of tax payments and of its after-tax earnings by way of dividends.
includes 30.8 million of goodwill and decrease of UK corporation tax: Pursuant to this policy, the board recommends a 28.6million of acquired intangible assets Net pension deficit losses from changes final dividend of 16.00p a share 2013: 15.75p following the acquisitions of Infrastructure in demographic and financial assumptions giving a total dividend for the year of 23.00p a Journal and Mining Indaba and the of 4.0 million were offset by return on plan share 2013: 22.75p.
As previously explained, addition of 3.2 million of intangible assets assets of 1.4 million and contributions by the earlier than expected achievement of the in development, offset by amortisation the employer of 0.6 million: CAP 2010 profit target triggered an accelerated costs of 18.7 million and the disposal of Deferred tax the group has reversed out CAP expense of 6.6 million in 2011 which 2.5 million of goodwill for MIS Training: the deferred tax assets on the CAP 2010 was not charged against earnings for dividend Property, plant and equipment regular share plan as a result of option exercises purposes that year, but spread over the period capital expenditure across the group of taking place in the year and the utilisation to which it originally related i. e. mostly 2012 3.1 million offset by depreciation of 2.9 of US federal tax losses against US taxable and 2013.
This has enabled a small increase million: income.
in the final dividend despite the decrease in Acquisition commitments and deferred adjusted diluted earnings a share.
Net debt and cash flow consideration the decrease is due to Net debt at September 30 was 37.6 million payments of 2.8 million for CIE and Treasury compared with 28.6 million at March 31 and TTI Vanguard: release of the deferred The treasury department does not act as a profit 9.9 million at last year end.
The increase largely consideration paid in advance into escrow centre, nor does it undertake any speculative reflects 55.7 million of net acquisition spend of 4.5 million for Insider Publishing trading activity, and it operates within policies and 21.5 million to purchase the companys and CIE: and reduction of deferred and procedures approved by the board.
own shares to satisfy future CAP 2014 rewards.
consideration from the disposal of MIS Interest rate swaps are used to manage the A further 2.6 million was invested in Project Training of 2.2 million: groups exposure to fluctuations in interest Delphi, bringing the total project cost to date Liability for cash-settled options rates on its floating rate borrowings.
The to 10.0 million, of which 9.3 million has been reflecting the cash payment of 7.0 maturity profile of these derivatives is matched capitalised and is being amortised over a fourmillion following the vesting of the second with the expected future debt profile of the year period see Statement of Cash Flows on tranche of the cash element of CAP 2010 group.
The groups policy is to fix the interest page 75. in February 2014: rates on approximately 80% of its term debt Deferred income due to balances The operating cash conversion rate was 92% looking forward over five years.
The maturity brought into the balance sheet following 2013: 88%.
The rate was less than 100% dates are spread in order to avoid interest this years acquisitions and an underlying in 2014 and 2013 as the vesting of options rate basis risk and also to mitigate short-term increase of 4% in deferred subscription under CAP 2010 triggered cash outflows of changes in interest rates.
The predictability of revenue, mainly from BCA and II approximately 9 million in both years for which interest costs is deemed to be more important Memberships: the expense was accrued in previous years.
The than the possible opportunity cost foregone of Other non-current assets and liabilities underlying operating cash conversion rate, achieving lower interest rates and this hedging includes movements on the marked to adjusting for this timing difference, was 100% strategy has the effect of spreading the groups market valuation of long-term derivatives 2013: 103%.
exposure to fluctuations arising from changes contracts and increase in provisions for in interest rates and hence protects the groups dilapidations for new London headquarters: The groups debt is provided through a dedicated interest charge against sudden increases in rates Other current assets and liabilities multi-currency borrowing facility from Daily but also prevents the group from benefiting includes an increase of 4.2 million in trade Mail and General Trust plc, the groups parent.
immediately from falls in rates.
Given the debtors in line with the improvement in In November 2013 the group replaced its groups low level of debt, there were no interest revenue in the fourth quarter and balances US$300 million 185 million facility, which rate hedges in place as at September 30 2014. brought into the balance sheet following was due to expire in December 2013, with a the acquisitions offset partly by disposal new US$160 million 99 million facility which of MIS Training.
Prepayments decreased by expires in April 2016.
4.1 million as the deferred consideration paid in advance into escrow in 2013 for 23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 28 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC www.
com Strategic Report continued The group generates approximately tworelated foreign currency finance costs provide a The net deferred tax liability held is 19.1 million thirds of its revenues in US dollars, including partial hedge against the translation of overseas 2013: 11.8 million and relates primarily to approximately 30% of the revenues in its UKprofits.
As a result of this hedging strategy, capitalised intangible assets, net of deferred based businesses, and approximately 60% of any profit or loss from the strengthening or tax assets held in respect of tax deductible its operating profits are US dollar-denominated.
weakening of the US dollar will largely be goodwill, short-term temporary differences The group is therefore exposed to foreign delayed until the following financial year and and US state tax losses.
The movement in exchange risk on the US dollar revenues in its beyond.
the liability is explained in the balance sheet UK businesses, and on the translation of the movements above.
Details of the financial instruments used results of its US dollar-denominated businesses.
are set out in note 18 to the group financial In order to hedge its exposure to US dollar statements.
revenues in its UK businesses, a series of forward Tax contracts are put in place to sell forward surplus The adjusted effective tax rate based on adjusted US dollars.
The group hedges 80% of forecast profit before tax and excluding deferred tax US dollar revenues for the coming 12 months movements on intangible assets, prior year items and up to 50% for a further six months.
The groups reported effective tax rate increased to The group does not hedge the foreign exchange 25% compared to 23% in 2013.
A reconciliation risk on the translation of overseas profits, to the underlying effective rate is set out in note although it does endeavour to match foreign 8 to the group financial statements.
currency borrowings with investments and the Investor Intelligence Network The Investor Intelligence Network IIN is a private online platform in which asset allocators around the world can share information, research, and access workflow tools that allow them to allocate capital.
Over 1,600 institutions use the network, spanning 98 countries and controlling a total of $24.4 trillion in assets.
IIN is linked to a separate online community for sales executives working for asset managers The Manager Intelligence Network in which managers can view exclusive mandate searches posted by allocators.
The Family Office Network functions as a separate, secure network exclusively for Family Offices.
Together the networks provide investors with a worldwide perspective on investment and operational issues, leveraging the views and experiences of their peers around the world, as well as direct access to the best investment managers.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 Strategy and Performance Strategic Report Annual Report and Accounts 2014 29 For instance, the groups two biggest print completed by ICF International.
This exercise CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY contracts are outsourced to companies which has been undertaken every year since 2007 The group is diverse and operates through a have environment management systems using the widely recognised GHG protocol large number of businesses in many locations.
compliant with the ISO 14001 standard.
The methodology developed by the World Resource Each business provides important channels of paper used for the groups publications is Institute and the World Business Council for communication to different sections of society produced from pulp obtained from sustainable Sustainable Development.
Last year, the groups throughout the world.
The success of the forests, manufactured under strict, monitored carbon footprint was restated in order to groups businesses owes much to understanding and accountable environmental standards.
account for material changes to the conversion and engaging with the communities they serve factors provided by Defra for company The group is not a heavy user of energy: however, both locally and globally.
it does manage its energy requirements sensibly The paragraphs below provide more detailed using low-energy office equipment where The directors are committed to reducing explanations on key areas of corporate possible and using a common sense approach the groups absolute carbon emissions and responsibility.
The company, as part of the wider DMGT group, committed Environment Each office within the group is encouraged to reducing its absolute carbon emissions by The group does not operate directly in to reduce waste, re-use paper and only print 10% from the baseline year of 2007 by the industries where there is the potential for documents and emails where necessary.
The targeted 10% reduction serious industrial pollution.
It does not print main offices across the group also recycle was achieved two years early.
In 2012 the products in-house or have any investments waste where possible.
This year the UK, US and company, as part of the wider DMGT group, set in printing works.
It takes its environmental Canadian offices recycled 218,000kg of paper a challenging new target to reduce its carbon responsibility seriously and complies with all and card, which is equivalent to more than footprint relative to revenue by 10% from the relevant environmental laws and regulations 2,400 trees.
2012 base by the end of 2015. in each country in which it operates.
Wherever Greenhouse Gas GHG reporting economically feasible, account is taken of The company, as part of the wider Daily Mail and environmental issues when placing contracts General Trust plc group DMGT, participates in with suppliers of goods and services and these a DMGT group-wide carbon footprint analysis suppliers are regularly reviewed and monitored.
GREENHOUSE EMISSION STATEMENT The following emissions have been calculated according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition methodology.
Data was gathered to fulfil the requirements under the CRC Energy Efficiency scheme, and emission factors from the UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2014.
The carbon footprint is expressed in tonnes of Carbon Dioxide equivalent and includes all the Kyoto Protocol gases that are of relevance to the business.
The companys footprint covers emissions from its global operations and the following emission sources: Scope 1 and 2 as defined by the GHG Protocol, business travel and outsourced delivery activities.
ASSESSMENT PARAMETERS Baseline year 2012 Consolidation approach Operational control Boundary summary All entities and facilities either owned or under operational control Consistency with the financial statements The only variation is that leased properties, under operational control, are included in scope 1 and 2 data, all scope 3 emissions are off-balance sheet emissions Assessment methodology Greenhouse Gas Protocol and Defra environmental reporting guidelines Intensity ratio Emissions per million of revenue 23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 30 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC www.
com Strategic Report continued GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSION SOURCE 2014 2013 tCO e tCO e m tCO e tCO e m 2 2 2 2 Scope 1: Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 500 1.2 600 1.5 Scope 2: Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use 3,300 8.1 3,100 7.7 Total scope 1 and 2 3,800 9.3 3,700 9.2 Scope 3: Business travel and outsourced activities 8,300 20.4 7,700 19.0 Total emissions 12,100 29.7 11,400 28.2 Statutory carbon reporting disclosures required by Companies Act 2006.
Employees The group is an equal opportunity employer.
The whistle-blowing policy is updated regularly One of the groups strategic priorities is to It seeks to employ a workforce which reflects and is reviewed by the audit committee.
retain and foster an entrepreneurial culture.
the diverse community at large, because Human rights and health and safety Employees are encouraged to think creatively, the contribution of the individual is valued, requirements be entrepreneurial and innovative, and to irrespective of sex, age, marital status, disability, The group is committed to the health and deliver organic growth.
As a decentralised sexual preference or orientation, race, colour, safety and the human rights of its employees business, people are empowered not only to religion, ethnic or national origin.
It does not and communities in which it operates.
Health deliver the best for their business, but to give discriminate in recruitment, promotion or other and safety issues are monitored to ensure back to the communities in which they live and employee matters.
The group endeavours compliance with all local health and safety work to the greater benefit of the group as a to provide a working environment free from regulations.
External health and safety advisers whole.
unlawful discrimination, victimisation or are used where appropriate.
benefit from a regular assessment of the Diversity working environment by experienced assessors Quality and integrity of employees The board believes that diversity is important for and regular training of all existing and new UK The competence of people is ensured through board effectiveness.
However, diversity is much employees in health and safety matters.
high recruitment standards and a commitment more than an issue of gender, and includes a to management and business skills training.
diversity of skills, experience, nationality and Disabled employees The group has the advantage of running background.
Diversity will continue to be a It is the groups policy to give full and fair external training businesses and uses this inkey consideration when contemplating the consideration to applications for employment house resource to train cost effectively its composition and refreshing of the board as from people who are disabled: to continue, employees on a regular basis.
Employees are well as senior and wider management.
The wherever possible, the employment of, and also encouraged actively to seek external board recognises that while the overall balance to arrange appropriate training for, employees training as necessary.
of gender is good within the group, with 47% who become disabled: and to provide of employees being female 2013: 49%, there opportunities for the career development, High-quality and honest personnel are an is still more work to be done to fulfil overall training and promotion of disabled employees.
essential part of the control environment.
The high ethical standards expected are Social investment 100 communicated by management and through The group continues to expand its charitable Male Female the employee handbook which is provided activities and raised over 0.5 million for local 80 to all employees.
The employee handbook and international charitable causes during includes specific policies on matters such as the year.
These contributions came from its 60 the use of the groups information technology own charitable budget, individual employee resources, data protection policy, the UK Bribery fundraising efforts and also from clients who 40 Act, and disciplinary and grievance procedures.
generously made donations in support of The group operates an intranet which is used the companys charitable projects.
The group 20 to communicate with employees and provide also continues to encourage employees to guidance and assistance on day-to-day matters be involved actively in supporting charities by 0 facing employees.
The group has a specific Board Executive Permanent fundraising themselves which it then matches.
14 committee employees whistle-blowing policy that is supported by an 17 2,191 externally managed whistle-blowing hotline.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 Strategy and Performance Strategic Report Annual Report and Accounts 2014 31 The group works and partners with recognised The group also tries to adopt a company-wide The charities: charitable organisations that have expertise charity and support that for a year or more.
The should be of a size where the donation will within certain sectors, thus ensuring that last such charity was Action Against Cancer make an impact: the implementation and management of a for which Euromoney managed to raise over may be focused on any part of the world charitable project is carried out efficiently and 1 million in 2013.
The group is going through the groups most recent efforts have been that donated funds reach the communities at a selection process to find a new charity focused on Africa and before that India : which the charitable cause is aimed.
At the to support for the next 12 to 18 months.
have some proximity to what Euromoney same time, the charity committee is careful Employees have been requested to nominate does education, training, literacy: and to address the sustainability aspects of each charities which satisfy the following guidelines: must be registered.
charitable project to ensure a long lasting beneficial impact.
Projects that the group has supported in the last year include: Action Against Cancer AAC The company, its employees and many of its clients last year donated over 1 million to AAC, which has now spent 365,000 of the funds raised on research during 2014.
The next six months will be a significant period for its research and AAC expects to spend an additional 350,000 during this time.
AAC had found that a particular part of the LMTK3 protein is responsible for most of its catalytic or cancer promoting activity.
AAC has now begun the development of a specific assay to discover hit-drug compounds to inhibit LMTK3 activity.
AAC is now optimising various protocol conditions before proceeding with a major drug compound screening experiment.
The hope is that this will identify a small number of drug compounds that inhibit LMTK3.
AAC will then look to chemically modify these compounds to create the most accurate treatment possible to inhibit the LMTK3 whilst avoiding serious side effects.
This first drug screening of LMTK3 is planned for February so 2015 will be an exciting year for this project.
AAC has said that the scale of the drug screening and the depth with which it is researching the role of LMTK3 would not have been possible without Euromoneys support.
Water and Sanitation, Kechene, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia Since 2011, Euromoney has enabled 19,000 people in Kechenes District 5, to have access to clean water and hygiene education.
This work is having a positive impact on reducing cases of diarrhoea in particular.
With a new grant of 100,000 from Euromoney and an additional 10,000 from DMGT, AMREF Health Africa can now implement the next phase of this work, creating new water facilities to address a continued need in this district of Kechene and extending this work for the first time into a neighbouring district.
When complete, 33,600 people will have benefited from the work in this phase.
This new phase has been underway for six months, and AMREF is pleased with the progress so far.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 32 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC www.
com Strategic Report continued Water, outside Mombasa, Kenya Euromoney has been supporters and partners of The Haller Foundation since 2010.
In this time it has funded 23 small-scale projects supporting communities living outside Mombasa, Kenya in the building of community rain-fed dams, community wells and bio-loos, as well as the provision of farmer training modules at Hallers innovative Demonstration Farm at Mtopanga.
Many of these communities are on their way to achieving self-sustainability.
The Haller Foundation has now developed a proprietary smartphone App which combines proven sustainable agricultural training programmes with cutting edge technological design, while considering the diverse needs of different types of smallholder farmer.
It is simple, graphic, visually rich and highly practical and has a choice of language English and Swahili as well as an audio option for the illiterate giving every farmer access to knowledge.
In addition, it incorporates an e-commerce functionality that empowers users to buy and sell goods they produce and develop a nano-economy.
The pilot App was launched in October 2014 and in 2015 Euromoney plans to work with Haller to raise funds to rollout the App to 20,000 farmers and farming communities across Kenya.
Trachoma Project, South Omo, Ethiopia Euromoney is funding a joint programme between Africas largest health charity, AMREF Health Africa and the sight-saving charity, ORBIS.
They will pool their considerable knowledge and expertise in these areas to eradicate trachoma in the South Omo area of Ethiopia.
This painful and debilitating disease affects two in every five children in Ethiopia and leads to blindness if left untreated.
To do this they will be delivering a World Health Organisation strategy called SAFE, an innovative public health approach for treating and preventing trachoma.
ORBIS will train 38 specialists to carry out 1,700 simple operations helping those with advanced symptoms, and will train health workers to take part in mass distribution of a drug called Zithromax which will enable prevention and treatment of early-stage disease.
AMREF Health Africa will install water facilities to back up the surgery and antibiotics as well as help prevent other diseases from spreading.
Overall 149,214 community members will benefit from water, sanitation and hygiene improvement.
Little Rock School, Kibera, Nairobi, Kenya This project involved funding the cost of land and the construction of new school premises for Little Rock School and was completed in February 2013.
The original Little Rock premises consisted of five separate rented buildings spread across the slum area of Kibera in Nairobi.
The new school has 16 classrooms, a computer and physiotherapy rooms, and kitchens.
The school caters for over 350 full-time pupils one-third of whom are disabled and over 200 afterschool pupils, and targets orphaned and special needs children.
The coordination of Little Rocks funding is carried out by AbleChildAfrica, a UK headquartered charity which specialises in advocating for and supporting disabled children and young people in East Africa.
In November 2013, it was immensely satisfying to see the first 80 children graduate from the new Little Rock school and enter primary education in Nairobi, and a further 100 children are expected to graduate at the end of 2014.
The schools operations are on a sounder footing but it still needs over 150,000 a year to operate 70% of the costs involve teacher salaries.
There is no government funding and little income from the childrens parents as all the pupils live in very poor conditions.
Euromoney continues to help with part of the funding and the groups employees have played an active role in helping to fund some of the operating costs of Little Rock.
High Water Women Backpack Program This project helps thousands of children start the school year ready to learn by providing fully supplied backpacks for children in need.
Institutional Investor raised US$165,000 at its annual awards dinner and helped reach the charitys goal of providing 12,500 children with fully supplied backpacks.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 Strategy and Performance Strategic Report Annual Report and Accounts 2014 33 The Strategic Report has been prepared for FTSE 4 Good Forward-looking statements the group as a whole and therefore focuses FTSE Group confirms that Euromoney Certain statements made in this document primarily on those matters which are significant Institutional Investor PLC has been are forward-looking.
Such statements are to Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC and independently assessed according to the based on current expectations and are subject its subsidiary undertakings when viewed as a FTSE4Good criteria, and has satisfied the to a number of risks and uncertainties that whole.
It has been prepared solely to provide requirements to become a constituent of the could cause actual events or results to differ additional information to shareholders to FTSE4Good Index Series.
FTSE4Good is an equity materially from any expected future events or assess the companys strategy and the potential index series designed to facilitate investment results referred to in these forward-looking for that strategy to succeed, and the Strategic in companies that meet globally recognised statements.
Unless otherwise required by Report should not be relied upon by any other corporate responsibility standards.
Companies applicable law, regulation or accounting party for any other purpose.
in the FTSE4Good Index Series have met standards, the directors do not undertake any stringent environmental, social and governance obligation to update or revise any forwardOn behalf of the board criteria, and are positioned to capitalise on the looking statements, whether as a result of new benefits of responsible business practice.
information, future development or otherwise.
Nothing in this document shall be regarded as a profit forecast.
Christopher Fordham Managing director November 19 2014 CEIC CEIC China Discovery, the first of a new group of webbased CEIC products, was launched in September 2014.
China Discovery focuses on pre-built insights and analytics and allows CEIC to expand its business beyond its core client base with products targeted specifically at corporations.
