Governance Directors Report Annual Report and Accounts 2014 35 Directors Report The Directors Report comprises pages 35 to Following best practice under the September Share capital 45 of this report together with the sections of 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code and Details of the companys share capital are given the Annual Report incorporated by reference.
in accordance with the companys Articles of in note 22 to the group financial statements.
Some of the matters required by legislation Association, all directors submit themselves for The companys ultimate controlling party is have been included in the Strategic Report re-election annually.
Accordingly, all directors given in note 30.
The companys share capital pages 7 to 33 as the board considers them will retire at the forthcoming AGM and, being is divided into ordinary shares of 0.25 pence to be of strategic importance.
Specifically these eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
Each share entitles its holder to one vote are: In addition, in accordance with the September at shareholders meetings and the right to future business developments: 2012 UK Combined Code on Corporate receive one share of the companys dividends.
principal risks: and Governance, before the re-election of a nonAuthority to purchase and allot corporate and social responsibility including executive director, the chairman is required to own shares diversity.
confirm to shareholders that, following formal At the 2014 AGM, the company was performance evaluation, the non-executive authorised by shareholders to purchase up to Group results and dividends directors performance continues to be 10% of its own shares and to allot shares up to The group profit for the year attributable effective and demonstrates commitment to the an aggregate nominal amount of 94,850.
The to equity holders of the parent amounted role.
Accordingly, the non-executive directors resolutions to renew this authority for a further to 75.3 million 2013: 72.6 million.
The will retire at the forthcoming AGM and, period will be put to shareholders at the 2015 companys policy is to distribute a third of its being eligible following a formal performance AGM.
after-tax earnings by way of dividends each evaluation by the chairman, offer themselves year.
Pursuant to this policy, the directors for re-election.
Significant shareholdings recommend a final dividend of 16.00 pence per As at November 19 2014, the company had ordinary share 2013: 15.75 pence, payable Details of the interests of the directors in the been notified of the following significant on Thursday February 12 2015 to shareholders ordinary shares of the company and of options interests: on the register on Friday November 28 2014. held by the directors to subscribe for ordinary This, together with the interim dividend of 7.00 shares in the company are set out in the Nature % of pence per ordinary share 2013: 7.00 pence Directors Remuneration Report on pages 59 Name of of Number voting which was declared on May 15 2014 and paid to 61. holder holding of shares rights on June 19 2014, brings the total dividend for DMG Employee Share Trust the year to 23.00 pence per ordinary share Charles The executive directors of the company together 2013: 22.75 pence.
Limited Direct 85,838,458 66.99 with other employees of the group are potential Board of directors beneficiaries of the Euromoney Employee Share Relationship deed The companys Articles of Association give Trust and as such, are deemed to be interested The company and Daily Mail and General power to the board to appoint directors from in any ordinary shares held by the trust.
The Trust plc, the parent company of DMG Charles time to time.
In addition to the statutory trust was established in February 2014 with Limited entered into a relationship deed on July rights of shareholders to remove a director the intention of purchasing ordinary shares in 16 2014 in accordance with the Listing Rules by ordinary resolution, the board may also the company, with a nominal value of 0.0025, and have acted in accordance with its terms remove a director where 75% of the board give to satisfy share awards under CAP 2014 since execution.
written notice to such director.
The Articles of approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
Directors indemnities Association themselves may be amended by a At September 30 2014, the trusts shareholding The company has directors and officers liability special resolution of the shareholders.
totalled 1,747,631 shares, acquired for a and corporate reimbursement insurance for consideration of 21.5 million see Statement The directors who served during the year are the benefit of its directors and those of other of Changes in Equity and representing 1.4% of listed on page 54.
The directors interests are associated companies.
This insurance has been the companys called up ordinary share capital.
In February 2014, DC Cohen in place throughout the year and remains in No share awards have vested during the year as resigned as an executive director with effect force at the date of this report.
the performance criteria of the CAP 2014 have from September 30 2014. not yet been met.
Refer to pages 57 and 58 of the Directors Remuneration Report for further information.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 36 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC www.
com Directors Report continued each of the directors has taken all the there are no restrictions on voting rights: Political donations steps that he she ought to have taken as the directors are not aware of any No political donations were made during the a director to make himself herself aware of agreements between holders of securities year 2013: nil.
any relevant audit information as defined that may result in restrictions on the transfer Post balance sheet events and to establish that the companys auditor of securities or on voting rights: Events arising after September 30 2014 is aware of the information.
the company has a number of agreements are set out in note 29 to the group financial that take effect, alter or terminate upon statements.
This confirmation is given and should be a change of control of the company, interpreted in accordance with the provisions such as commercial contracts, bank loan Going concern of s418 of the Companies Act 2006. agreements, property lease arrangements, The results of the groups business activities, directors service agreements and employee together with the factors likely to affect its In 2014 the company conducted a tender for share plans.
None of these agreements is future development, performance and financial the group statutory audit.
More information deemed to be significant in terms of their position are set out in the Strategic Report on on the tender process can be found on potential impact on the business of the pages 7 to 33. page 44.
Following the tender process the group as a whole: and board took the decision to recommend The financial position of the group, its cash details of the directors entitlement to  LLP as the companys flows and liquidity position are set out in the compensation for loss of office following a new statutory auditor.
A resolution to appoint Strategic Report on pages 26 to 28.
The groups takeover or contract termination are given  LLP and to authorise debt is provided through a dedicated US$160 in the Directors Remuneration Report.
the audit committee to determine their million multi-currency borrowing facility from remuneration will be proposed at the 2015 Directors responsibilities Daily Mail and General Trust plc DMGT which AGM.
The directors are responsible for preparing the expires at the end of April 2016 see note 19 to annual report and the financial statements in the group financial statements.
Annual general meeting accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The companys next AGM will be held on The groups forecasts and projections, after January 29 2015.
Company law requires the directors to prepare taking account of reasonably possible changes financial statements for each financial year.
Additional disclosures in trading performance, show that the group Under that law the directors are required Pursuant to s992 of the Companies Act 2006, should be able to operate within the level and to prepare the group financial statements which implements the EU Takeovers Directive, covenants of its current borrowing facility.
in accordance with International Financial the company is required to disclose certain Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted After making enquiries, the directors have a additional information which is not covered by the European Union and Article 4 of the reasonable expectation that the group has elsewhere in this annual report.
Such disclosures IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare adequate resources to continue in operational are as follows: the parent company financial statements in existence for the foreseeable future.
there are no restrictions on the transfer accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accordingly, the directors continue to adopt the of securities shares or loan notes in the Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom going concern basis in preparing this annual company, including: i limitations on the Accounting Standards and applicable law.
holding of securities: and ii requirements Under company law the directors must not to obtain the approval of the company, or of Auditor approve the accounts unless they are satisfied other holders or securities in the company, In the case of each of the persons who is a that they give a true and fair view of the state for a transfer of securities: director of the company at November 19 2014: of affairs of the company and of the profit or there are no people who hold securities so far as each of the directors is aware, loss of the company for that period.
carrying special rights with regard to control there is no relevant audit information as of the company: defined in the Companies Act 2006 of the companys employee share schemes do which the companys auditor is unaware: not give rights with regard to control of the and company that are not exercisable directly by employees: 23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 Governance Directors Report Annual Report and Accounts 2014 37 In preparing the parent company financial make an assessment of the companys the Strategic Report and the Directors statements, the directors are required to: ability to continue as a going concern.
Report include a fair review of the select suitable accounting policies and development and performance of the The directors are responsible for keeping apply them consistently: business and the position of the company adequate accounting records that are make judgements and accounting and the undertakings included in the sufficient to show and explain the companys estimates that are reasonable and prudent: consolidation taken as a whole, together transactions and disclose with reasonable state whether applicable UK Accounting with a description of the principal risks and accuracy at any time the financial position Standards have been followed, subject uncertainties that they face.
of the company and enable them to ensure to any material departures disclosed and this annual report and accounts, taken as a that the financial statements comply with the explained in the financial statements: and whole, is fair, balanced and understandable Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible prepare the financial statements on the and provides the information necessary for safeguarding the assets of the company going concern basis unless it is inappropriate for shareholders to assess the companys and hence for taking reasonable steps for the to presume that the company will continue performance, business model and strategy.
prevention and detection of fraud and other in business.
On behalf of the board In preparing the group financial statements, The directors are responsible for the International Accounting Standard 1 requires maintenance and integrity of the corporate and that directors: financial information included on the companys properly select and apply accounting website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom policies: Christopher Fordham governing the preparation and dissemination of present information, including accounting Director financial statements may differ from legislation policies, in a manner that provides relevant, November 19 2014 in other jurisdictions.
reliable, comparable and understandable information: Each of the directors confirms that to the best provide additional disclosures when of their knowledge: compliance with the specific requirements the financial statements, prepared in Colin Jones in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users accordance with the relevant financial Director to understand the impact of particular reporting framework, give a true and November 19 2014 transactions, other events and conditions fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial on the entitys financial position and position and profit or loss of the company financial performance: and and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and 23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8
