02 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC www.
com Our Divisions RESEARCH FINANCIAL BUSINESS AND DATA PUBLISHING PUBLISHING REVENUE REVENUE REVENUE 126.5m 80.3m 67.8m The group provides a Financial publishing The business publishing number of subscriptionincludes an division produces print based research and data extensive portfolio and online information services for financial of titles covering the for the metals, minerals markets.
international capital and mining, legal, Montreal-based BCA Research is one of markets as well as a telecoms and energy the worlds leading independent providers number of specialist sectors.
Its leading brands include: Metal Bulletin, 2011, the group expanded its independent American Metal Market, Industrial research activities with the acquisition of Products include magazines, newsletters, Minerals: International Financial Law US-based Ned Davis Research, a leading journals, surveys and research, directories Review, International Tax Review, provider of independent financial research and books.
Managing Intellectual Property: Capacity: to institutional and retail investors.
EMIS Petroleum Economist, World Oil and provides the worlds most comprehensive A selection of the companys leading Hydrocarbon Processing.
service for news and data on global financial brands includes: Euromoney, emerging markets and CEIC, one of the Institutional Investor, GlobalCapital, Latin leading providers of time-series macroFinance, Insurance Insider, IJGlobal, Air economic data for emerging markets.
Finance, FOW and the hedge fund title EuroHedge.
Divisional split 5% 32% 26% Research and data Financial publishing Business publishing 17% 20% Conference and seminars Training 23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 Overview Our Divisions Annual Report and Accounts 2014 03 CONFERENCES TRAINING AND SEMINARS REVENUE REVENUE 106.1m 19.4m The group runs a The training division large number of runs a comprehensive sponsored conferences range of banking, and seminars for the finance, energy and international financial legal courses, both and commodities public and in-house, markets, mostly under the Euromoney under the Euromoney, and DC Gardner brands.
Ned Davis Institutional Investor, Courses are run all over the world for both Research Group financial institutions and corporates.
Metal Bulletin, Coaltrans and IMN brands.
Many of these conferences are the leading annual events in their sector and provide sponsors with a high-quality programme and speakers, and outstanding networking opportunities.
Such events include: Euromoneys Covered Bond Congress: the Saudi Arabia Conference: the EuroHedge Summit: the Global Airfinance Conference: and Global ABS and ABS East for the asset-backed securities market.
In the commodities sector, events include Metal Bulletins Middle East Iron and Steel conference and the worlds leading annual coal conferences, Coaltrans World Coal Conference and Coaltrans Asia: and TelCap runs International Telecoms Week, the worldwide meeting place for telecom carriers and service providers and Capacity Middle East.
