Board of Directors Alexander Abramov Alexander Frolov Olga Pokrovskaya Eugene Shvidler Eugene Tenenbaum Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director born 1959 born 1964 born 1969 born 1964 born 1964 Appointment Founded EvrazMetall, a Joined EvrazMetall in 1994 Has been a member of the Member of the Board of Member of the Board of predecessor of the Group, in and served as EvrazMetalls Board of Directors of Evraz Directors of Evraz Group S. A.
Directors of Evraz Group S. A.
CEO of EVRAZ Group S. Chief Financial Officer from Group S. A. since August since August 2006.
Appointed A. until 1 January 2006, 2002 to 2004 and as Senior 2006.
Appointed to the Board to the Board of EVRAZ plc on to the Board of EVRAZ plc on Chairman of EVRAZ Group Executive Vice President of of EVRAZ plc on 14 October 14 October 2011.
Appointed Chairman of EVRAZ April 2006.
Chairman of the plc on 14 October 2011.
Board of Directors of Evraz Group S. A. from May 2006 until December 2008 and appointed CEO with effect from January 2007.
Appointed CEO of EVRAZ plc on 14 October 2011.
Committee membership Member of the Member of the Health, Safety Member of the Audit Member of the None.
Committee and of the Health, Nominations Committee.
Skills and experience Mr. Abramov served as a Alexander Frolov has held Ms. Pokrovskaya is a financial Eugene Shvidler currently Mr. Tenenbaum is currently non-executive director from various positions at adviser at Millhouse LLC and serves as Chairman of Managing Director of MHC May 2006 until his reEvrazMetall and other a member of the Board of Millhouse LLC and Highland Services Ltd. and serves on appointment as Chairman companies, predecessors Directors of Highland Gold Gold Mining Ltd.
He is also on the Board of Chelsea FC Plc of the Board on 1 December of Evraz Group S. A. since Mining Ltd.
Since 1997, the board of directors of AFC and Highland Gold Mining Ltd. 2008.
A director of OJSC joining in 1994 and has been Ms. Pokrovskaya has held Energy plc.
Mr. Shvidler served He served as Head of Raspadskaya, a member a member of the Board of several key finance positions as President of Sibneft from Corporate Finance for Sibneft of the Bureau of the Board Directors of Evraz Group S. A. with Sibneft, including head 1998 to 2005. in Moscow from 1998 to of Directors, a member of since 2005.
Prior to joining of corporate finance.
Mr. Tenenbaum joined the Board of Directors of the EVRAZ, Mr. Frolov worked as 1991 to 1997, she worked Salomon Brothers in 1994 as Russian Union of Industrialists a research fellow at the I. V. as a senior audit manager Director for Corporate Finance and Entrepreneurs an Kurchatov Institute of Atomic at the accounting firm where he worked until 1998. independent non-governmental Energy.
Prior to that, he spent five organization, a director of years in Corporate Finance OJSC Bank International with KPMG in Toronto, Moscow and London, including three Financial Club, a member of the Board of Skolkovo Institute years 1990-1993 as National Director at KPMG International for Science and Technology and a member of the Board in Moscow.
Mr. Tenenbaum was an accountant in the of Moscow University of Physics and Technology.
Business Advisory Group at Price Waterhouse in Toronto from 1987 until 1989.
70 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Business Review Governance Financial Statements Duncan Baxter Karl Gruber Terry Robinson Sir Michael Peat Alexander Izosimov Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Senior Independent Independent Non-executive Director born 1952 Director born 1952 Director born 1944 Non-Executive Director Director born 1964 born 1949 Member of the Board of Member of the Board of Member of the Board of Appointed to the Board of Appointed to the Board of Directors of Evraz Group S. A.
Directors of Evraz Group S. A. EVRAZ plc on 14 October EVRAZ plc on 28 February since May 2011.
2012. the Board of EVRAZ plc on the Board of EVRAZ plc on the Board of EVRAZ plc on 14 October 2011.
Chairman of the Remuneration Chairman of the Health, Safety Chairman of the Audit Chairman of the Nominations Member of the Remuneration Committee and a member of and Environment Committee Committee and a member of Committee and a member of Committee and the the Audit Committee.
and a member of the the Nominations Committee the Audit Committee.
and of the Health, Safety and Environment Committee.
He also chairs the Groups Risk Committee, which is an Executive Committee.
Duncan Baxter has had Mr. Gruber has over 35 years Mr. Robinson is a qualified Sir Michael Peat is a qualified Alexander Izosimov has chartered accountant with extensive managerial and many years experience of experience in the international chartered accountant and international banking.
has 40 years international over 40 years experience.
From 2003 He served as Principal Private to 2011, he was President began his career in banking He has held various business experience.
He spent with Barclays International management positions, 20 years at Lonrho PLC, the Secretary to HRH The Prince and CEO of VimpelCom, of Wales from 2002 until a leading emerging market Bank in Zimbabwe before including eight years as a international mining and joining RAL Merchant Bank in member of the Managing trading group, the last 10 years 2011.
Prior to this, he spent telecommunications operator.
of which he served as a main nine years as the Royal From 1996 to 2003 he held 1978.
In 1985, he became a Board of VOEST-Alpine director of Commercial Bank Industrieanlagenbau VAI, board director.
Since 1998, Households Director of various managerial positions he has been variously occupied Finance and Property at Mars Inc. and was Regional Jersey Ltd, which was first as Executive Vice subsequently acquired by President of VAI and then with international business Services, Keeper of the Privy President for CIS, Central recovery engagements and Purse and Treasurer to the Europe and Nordics, and a Swiss Bank Corporation SBC.
as Vice Chairman of the In 1988, he became managing Managing Board of Siemens investment projects including Queen, and Receiver General member of the executive natural resources in the UK, of the Duchy of Lancaster.
Prior to Mars Inc, director of SBC Jersey Branch.
He also served as Since leaving SBC in 1998 Chairman on the Boards Russia, the CIS and Brazil.
Sir Michael Peat was at KPMG MrIzosimov was a consultant He is independent director and from 1972, and became a with McKinsey & Co. after its merger with UBS AG, of Metals Technologies MT he has undertaken a number Germany and MT Italy.
Further Deputy Chairman of Katanga partner in 1985.
He left KPMG Stockholm, London Mining Limited and is also an in 1993 to devote himself to 1991-1996 and was involved of consultancy projects for he has executed various international banks and consultancy projects for steel independent and senior his public roles.
Sir Michael in numerous projects in non-executive director of Peat is an Independent transportation, mining, investment management industry and served as companies.
He is a CEO and Chairman of the Highland Gold Mining Ltd. Non-executive on the Board manufacturing and oil He is a Fellow of the Institute of Deloitte LLP, a director of businesses.
Mr Izosimov Non-Executive Director of Management Board of Highland Gold Mining Ltd and LISEC Group.
of Chartered Accountants of CQS Management Limited, currently serves on the England and Wales.
Terry a Non-executive Director of boards of MTG AB, Dynasty also holds other non-executive directorships.
Mr. Baxter is Robinson was elected to the Tamar Energy Limited, Foundation, LM Ericsson AB Board of OJSC Raspadskaya, Chairman of GEMS MENASA and Transcom SA.
He a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and a subsidiary of EVRAZ, at the Holdings Limited, a previously served as director Companys AGM in May 2013.
Non-executive Director of and Chairman of the GSMA Administrators, the Securities Institute, the Chartered Appointed Chairman of Arbuthnot Latham Limited global association of mobile Raspadskaya on 27 May 2013. and Chairman of the Advisory operators board of directors, Institute of Bankers, the Institute of Management The Board is satisfied that this Board of BellAziz Holdings and was also a director of nomination has no impact on Limited..
He is an MA, MBA Baltika Breweries, and the Institute of Directors.
and Fellow of the Institute of confectionery company Chartered Accountants in Sladko, and IT company England and Wales.
EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 71 Management of EVRAZ plc Alexander Frolov CEO Pavel Tatyanin Senior Vice President, CFO Leonid Kachur Senior Vice President, Business Support and Interregional Relations Marat Atnashev Vice President, Major Projects, Head of the Iron Ore Division Giacomo Baizini Vice President, Corporate Finance and Treasury Scott Baus Vice President, EVRAZ Business System Grigory Botvinovskiy Vice President, Raw Materials Sales Natalia Ionova Vice President, Human Resources Aleksey Ivanov Vice President, Head of the Steel Division Alexander Kuznetsov Vice President, Strategic Development and Operational Planning Artem Natrusov Vice President, Information Technologies Sergey Savchuk Vice President, Compliance with Business Procedures and Asset Protection Vsevolod Sementsov Vice President, Corporate Communications Ilya Shirokobrod Vice President, Sales, the Steel Division Michael Shuble Vice President, Health, Safety and Environment Sergey Stepanov Vice President, Head of the Coal Division Yury Stepin Vice President, Administration and Maintenance Timur Yanbukhtin Vice President, Business Development, International Business 72 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
