Strategic Report Business Review Governance Financial Statements Directors Report The Directors present their report to Dividends Events since the reporting date shareholders for the financial year ending As a result of the dividend policy revision on The major events after 31 December 2014 are 31 December 2014, which they are required 8 April 2014 allowing payment of regular disclosed in Note 33 to the Consolidated to produce by law.
dividends only when the net leverage net Financial Statements on page 192. debt EBITDA target of below 3.0x is Introduction achieved, no regular dividends were paid in Tender Offer to purchase For the purposes of the disclosures required 2014.
Ordinary Shares under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules On 31 March 2015, the Board resolved to and the Listing Rules of the UKLA, cross announce a return of capital to be effected by On the back of the disposal of EVRAZ references are made where appropriate to a tender offer to shareholders at $3.10 per Vitkovice Steel in April 2014, the Board other sections of the Annual Report.
share in the amount of up to $375 million.
declared a special dividend in the amount of US$90.4million, or US$0.06 per share, The Company was incorporated under the which was paid out in July 2014.
Directors and their interests name EVRAZ plc as a public company limited Biographical details of the directors who by shares on 23 September 2011.
EVRAZ plc Overseas branches served on the Board during the year are set out listed on the London Stock Exchange in in the Corporate Governance section on pages EVRAZ does not have any branches.
The November 2011 and is a member of the 70-71.
Company does, however, have a controlling FTSE 250 index.
interest in Evraz Group S. A. which owns steel Detailed information on share ownership by production, mining and trading companies, Sustainable development directors can be found in the Remuneration as well as in EVRAZ Greenfield Development The Corporate Social Responsibility section Report on page 96.
Information about the direct and indirect of this report focuses on the health and subsidiaries of EVRAZ is provided at the safety, environmental and employment Members of EVRAZ plc Board do not receive following link: performance of the Companys operations, share-based compensation.
com about structure and outlines the Companys core values and commitment to the principles of Powers of directors Future developments sustainable development and development Subject to the Companys Articles of Information on the Group and its subsidiaries of community relations programmes.
Details Association, UK legislation and to any future developments is provided in the Chief of the Companys policies and performance directions given by special resolution, the Executive Officers Review, Strategic Report, are provided in the Corporate Social business of the Company is managed by Financial Review and Review of Operations Responsibility Section on pages 30-37. the Board, which may exercise all the powers sections of this report.
The Articles of Association Going concern contain specific provisions concerning the Financial instruments The financial position and performance of the Company power to borrow money and also The financial risk management and internal Group and its cash flows are set out in the provide the power to make purchases of any control processes and policies and details Financial Review section of the report on of its own shares.
The directors have the of hedging policy and exposure to the risks pages22-29.
authority to allot shares or grant rights to associated with financial instruments can subscribe for or to convert any security be found in Note 28 to the Consolidated The Directors have considered the Groups into shares in the Company.
Further details Financial Statements, the Corporate Governance debt maturity and cash flow projections and of the proposed authorities are set out in the section of this report on pages73-89 and in an analysis of projected debt covenants Notice of AGM.
compliance for the period to the end of June 2016.
The Board is satisfied that the Groups Director appointment Political donations forecasts and projections, taking into account and re-election No political donations were made in 2014. reasonably possible changes in trading The Board has the power at any time to elect performance, show that the Group will any person to be a director, but the number continue in operation for the foreseeable Greenhouse gas emissions of directors must not exceed the maximum future and has neither the intention nor the In 2014, following the requirements of the number fixed by the Articles of Association of need to liquidate or materially curtail the Companies Act 2006 Strategic and Directors the Company.
Any person so appointed by the scale of its operations.
Report Regulations 2013 EVRAZ undertook directors will retire at the next Annual General to assess full greenhouse gases GHGs Meeting and then be eligible for election.
For this reason the Group continues to adopt emissions from facilities under its control.
In accordance with the UK Corporate the going concern basis in preparing its Details can be found in the Corporate Social Governance Code, the directors are subject financial statements.
More details are Responsibility section on pages 30-37. to annual re-election by shareholders.
provided in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements on page 123.
Research and development All directors will stand for re-election at the EVRAZ is constantly engaged in process 2015 AGM to be held on 18 June 2015 with and product innovation.
EVRAZ Research the exception of Terry Robinson who has and Development centres located at the decided not to stand for re-election.
Companys production sites improve and develop high quality steel products to better meet customers needs and to ensure that the Company remain competitive in the global and local markets.
For examples of Companys efforts in R&D in different operations please refer to pages 46, 47 and 60.
EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 99 Directors Report continued Directors liabilities directors indemnities As at the date of this report, the Company has granted qualifying third party indemnities to each of its directors against any liability that attaches to them in defending proceedings brought against them, to the extent permitted by the Companies Acts.
In addition, directors and officers of the Company and its subsidiaries have been and continue to be covered by Directors & Officers liability insurance.
Substantial shareholdings The Companys issued share capital as of 31 December 2014 is 1,506,527,294 ordinary shares.
As of 31 December 2014 and 31 March 2015, the following significant holdings of voting rights in the share capital of the Company were disclosed to the Company under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5.
Number of % of Issued Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares Lanebrook Ltd. 968,385,484 64.28 Lanebrook Ltd. Affiliates 42,195,614 2.80 Kadre Enterprises Ltd. 83,751,827 5.56 Verocchio Enterprises Ltd. 82,887,014 5.50 Lanebrook Ltd. the Major Shareholder is a limited liability company incorporated under the laws of Cyprus on 16 March 2006.
It was established for the purpose of holding a majority interest in the Group.
Lanebrook Ltd. is controlled by Mr. Abramovich, Mr. Abramov, Mr. Frolov, and Mr. Shvidler.
Includes shares held by Gennady Kozovoy, Kadres shareholder, both indirectly through Kadre and directly.
Verocchio Ltd. is owned by Alexander Vagin.
In January 2014, Lanebrook Ltd. exercised the 33,944,928 warrants it had acquired in 2013 for details please refer to Annual Report 2013, page 106 to subscribe for new ordinary shares in EVRAZ plc.
33,944,928 new ordinary shares of US$1 each fully paid, ranking pari passu with the existing issued ordinary shares, were issued by the Company in favour of Lanebrook Ltd. and application was made to the London Stock Exchange and the UK Listing Authority of the FCA for their listing.
The new shares were admitted to the Official List and to trading on the London Stock Exchange on 28 January 2014.
The following ultimate beneficial owners had interests in EVRAZ plc share capital in each case, except for Mr. Kozovoy, held indirectly as of 31 December 2014 and 31 March 2015.
Number of % of issued Ultimate beneficial owner ordinary shares share capital ROMAN ABRAMOVICH 471,675,808 31.31 ALEXANDER ABRAMOV 328,170,157 21.78 ALEXANDER FROLOV 163,870,710 10.88 GENNADY KOZOVOY 83,751,827 5.56 ALEXANDER VAGIN 82,887,014 5.50 EUGENE SHVIDLER 46,864,423 3.11 100 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Business Review Governance Financial Statements Disclosure table pursuant to Listing Rule LR 9.8.
4C R, the information required to be disclosed by LR 9.8.
4 R can be found in the following parts of this Annual Report: Section Subject Matter Location 1 Interest capitalised Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2 Publication of unaudited financial information Not applicable 4 Details of specified long-term incentive scheme Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Remuneration Report 5 Waiver of emoluments by a director None 6 Waiver of future emoluments by a director None 7 Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash None 8 Item 7 in relation to major subsidiary undertakings None 9 Parent participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary None 10 a Contract of significance in which director is interested None 10 b Contract of significance with controlling shareholder Directors Report 11 Provision of services by a controlling shareholder None 12 Shareholder waivers of dividends None 13 Shareholder waivers of future dividends None 14 Agreement with controlling shareholder Directors Report would have the effect of preventing the Lanebrook Director : g the Major Significant contractual arrangements Company from complying with its obligations Shareholder shall not, and shall procure, The Major Shareholder and the Company have under the Companies Act, the Disclosure and insofar as it is legally able to do so, that each entered into a relationship agreement which Transparency Rules: c neither the Major member of the Major Shareholder Group shall regulates the on-going relationship between Shareholder nor any of its Associates will not, exercise any of its voting or other rights them, ensures that the Company is capable propose or procure the proposal of a and powers to procure any amendment to the of carrying on its business independently of shareholder resolution which is intended or Articles which would be inconsistent with, the Major Shareholder and ensures that any appears to be intended to circumvent the undermine or breach any of the provisions of transactions and relationships between the proper application of the listing rules: d the Relationship Agreement, and will abstain Company and the Major Shareholder are at transactions, relationships and agreements from voting on, and will procure that the arms length and on normal commercial between the Company and or its subsidiaries Lanebrook Directors abstain from voting on, terms.
This agreement was last amended on the one hand and the Major Shareholder any resolution to approve a transaction with a and restated in Q4 2014 in order to comply or a member of the Major Shareholder Group related party as defined in the Listing Rules with certain changes to the Listing Rules.
on the other shall be entered into and involving the Major Shareholder or any conducted on an arms length and normal member of the Major Shareholder Group: h if This agreement terminates if the Major commercial terms: e the Major Shareholder any matter which, in the opinion of an Shareholder ceases to own or control directly shall not, and shall procure, insofar as it is independent Director, gives rise to a potential or indirectly at least 30% of the Ordinary legally able to do so, that each member of the conflict of interest between the Company Shares in the Company or if the Major Major Shareholder Group shall not, take any and or its subsidiaries on the one hand and Shareholder ceases to have a larger interest action which precludes or inhibits the the Lanebrook Directors, the Major in the Company than the interest of any other Company and or its subsidiaries from carrying Shareholder or any member of the Major shareholder of the Company.
on its business independently of the Major Shareholder Group on the other, such matter shareholder or any member of the Major must be approved at a duly convened meeting Under the relationship agreement, the Major Shareholder Group: f the quorum for any of a committee comprising Non-Executive Shareholder and the Company agree that: a Board meeting of the Company shall be two, Directors of the Company whom the Board the Major Shareholder has the right to appoint of which at least one must be a Director other considers to be independent in accordance the maximum number of Non-Executive than a Shareholder Director and or a Director with paragraph B.
1.1 or the UK Corporate Directors that may be appointed whilst who is or has, in the 12 months prior to the Governance Code the Independent ensuring that the composition of the Board relevant date any business or other Committee or in writing by a majority of the remains compliant with the UK Corporate relationship with the Major Shareholder or any Independent Committee: and i for so long as Governance Code for so long as it holds an member of the Major Shareholder Group the Major Shareholder holds an interest in interest in 30% or more of the Company with which could materially interfere with the 50% or more in the Company, the Major each appointee being a Shareholder exercise of his or her independent judgement Shareholder undertakes that it will not and Director: b the Major Shareholder and its in matters concerning the Company will use its reasonable endeavours to procure Associates shall not take any action that EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 101 Directors Report continued that no other member of the Controlling Annual General Meeting AGM Articles of Association Shareholder Group becomes involved in any An annual general meeting shall be held in The Companys Articles of Association have competing business subject to certain each period of six months beginning with been adopted with effect from June 2012 and exceptions in Russia, the Ukraine or the CIS the day following the Companys annual contain among others provisions on the rights without giving the Company the opportunity to accounting reference date, at such place and obligations attaching to the Companys participate in the relevant competing or places, date and time as may be decided shares, including the redeemable non-voting business.
preference shares and the subscriber shares.
The Articles of Association may only be The Board is satisfied that the Company is The 2015 AGM will be held on 18 June 2015 amended by special resolution at a general capable of carrying on its business in London.
At the AGM, shareholders will meeting of the shareholders.
independently of the major shareholder and have the opportunity to put questions to makes its decisions in a manner consistent the Board, including the chairmen of the Share Rights with its duties to the Company and Board committees.
Without prejudice to any rights attached stakeholders of EVRAZ plc.
Furthermore, the to any existing shares, the Company may Independent Non-Executive Directors of the Full details of the AGM, including explanatory issue shares with rights or restrictions as Company have conducted an annual review to notes, are contained in the Notice of AGM determined by either the Company by ordinary consider the continued good standing of the which will be distributed at least 20 working resolution or, if the Company passes a Relationship Agreement and are satisfied that days before the meeting.
The Notice sets out resolution, the Directors.
The Company may the terms of the Relationship Agreement are the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM also issue shares which are, or are liable to being fully observed by both parties.
and an explanation of each resolution.
All be, redeemed at the option of the Company documents relating to the AGM are available or the holder and the directors may determine 9.50% notes due 2018, issued by Evraz on the Companys website at www.
the terms, conditions and manner of Group S. A. contain change of control redemption of any such shares.
If a change of control occurs Electronic Communications under the terms of these notes, note holders A copy of the 2014 Annual Report, the Notice Voting Rights will have the option to require Evraz Group of the AGM and other corporate publications, There are no other restrictions on voting S. A. to redeem notes together with interest reports and announcements are available on rights or transfers of shares in the Articles accrued, if any.
At 31 December 2014, the the Companys website at www.
other than those described in these principal amount of these notes amounted Shareholders may elect to receive notification paragraphs.
Details of deadlines for to US$509million.
by email of the availability of the Annual exercising voting rights and proxy appointment Report on the Companys website instead will be set out in the 2015 notice of AGM.
The change of control provisions contained in of receiving paper copies.
the US$500million syndicated loan agreement At a general meeting, subject to any special dated 12 August 2014 specify that, If change Purchase of Own Shares rights or restrictions attached to any class of of control occurs, each lender has a right to Details of transactions with treasury shares shares on a poll, every member present in cancel its commitments and request are provided in Note 20 of the Consolidated person or by proxy has one vote for every prepayment of its portion of the loan.
However, Financial Statements on page 167. share held by him.
a change of control does not constitute an event of default under the agreement.
A proxy is not be entitled to vote where the Share Capital member appointing the proxy would not have The US$350million High-Yield Bonds issued In January 2014, in connection with an been entitled to vote on the resolution had he by EVRAZ Inc. NA Canada on 7 November exercise by Lanebrook Limited Lanebrook, been present in person.
Unless the directors 2014 contain change of control provisions.
If EVRAZs major shareholder, of 33,944,928 decide otherwise, no member shall be change of control occurs under the terms of warrants to subscribe for new ordinary shares entitled to vote either personally or by proxy these notes, the Issuer should make an offer in EVRAZ plc, the Company issued or to exercise any other right in relation to to purchase all outstanding notes together 33,944,928 new ordinary shares of US$1 general meetings if any sum due from him with accrued interest, if any.
each fully paid, ranking pari passu with the to the Company in respect of that share existing issued ordinary shares.
issued shares were admitted to the Official List and to trading on the London Stock The trustee of the Companys Employee Exchange on 28 January 2014.
Share Trust is entitled, under the terms of the trust deed, to vote as it sees fit in respect of Since 28 January 2014, the Companys the shares held on trust.
issued share capital has consisted of 1,506,527,294 ordinary shares, and the total number of voting rights in the Company is 1,506,527,294.
The Companys issued ordinary share capital ranks pari passu in all respects and carries the right to receive all dividends and distributions declared, made or paid on or in respect of the ordinary shares.
There are currently no redeemable non-voting preference shares or subscriber shares of the Company in issue.
102 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Business Review Governance Financial Statements Transfer of Shares The Companys Articles provide that transfers of certificated shares must be effected in writing, and duly signed by or on behalf of the transferor and, except in the case of fully paid shares, by or on behalf of the transferee.
The transferor shall remain the holder of the shares concerned until the name of the transferee is entered in the Register of Members in respect of those shares.
As of the date hereof, the Company does not have certificated shares.
Transfers of uncertificated shares may be effected by means of CREST unless the CREST Regulations provide otherwise.
The directors may refuse to register an allotment or transfer of shares in favour of more than four persons jointly.
Auditors Ernst & Young is the Companys auditor and will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Our Directors Report as set out on pages99- 103 inclusive has been prepared in accordance with, applicable UK company law and was approved by the Board on 31 March 2015.
By order of the Board Alexander Frolov Chief Executive Officer EVRAZ plc 31 March 2015 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 103
