Strategic objective EVRAZ implements its strategy through an In 2014, key initiatives undertaken included EVRAZs ultimate objective is to be annual strategic cycle and budget campaign.
a reduction in G&A staff and redundancies a leading participant in the worlds During the strategic cycle we identify threats at inefficient facilities.
We also continued steel & mining industry, improving its and opportunities for all of our business and to work on several educational programmes operations continuously, improving develop high level plans to address those for our employees to secure a talent pool profitability and creating added value.
Thereafter, we for the future.
We strive to supply the best quality develop asset level initiatives in order to products for pioneering infrastructure reach approved targets, the implementation As a result of a staff optimisation programme, projects, with zero defects whilst of which is tracked with tailored KPIs.
EVRAZ reduced its total workforce by 10% to comprehensively meeting our clients 94,823 people from 105,128 in 2013 and improved labour productivity in all key needs.
We aim to provide safe Health, Safety and Environment products segments see KPIs on page 16 working conditions, appropriately Health and safety is a primary focus.
We in 2014. evaluating and training our workforce prioritise the safety and reliability of our businesses to protect the welfare of our and rewarding our people for delivering In 2015 EVRAZ aims to continue current employees and the environment.
initiatives to reduce G&A costs and increase labour productivity.
Our strategic goal is to have zero fatal We create value for our stakeholders by accidents at our plants.
We believe capitalizing upon the competitive advantages Customer Focus that we can achieve this goal through of our assets: extensive employee training and initiatives We work continuously to improve the quality to create a culture of personal involvement of our products and aim to provide excellent Across all geographies and products and responsibility.
service to ensure the loyalty of our clients.
we aim to be one of the lowest cost We search for opportunities in new producers, in each of our business In 2014, we were focused on the geographies, products and markets.
implementation of energy isolation initiatives Leadership positions in most of the and improvement of safety training practices.
In 2014, we shipped the first 100-metre markets where we operate.
In conjunction with other initiatives this head-hardened rails to Russian Railways and A diversified portfolio of sophisticated helped us to reduce our LTIFR by 18% the Moscow metro.
EVRAZ started production steel products, which combined with in 2014.
However, regrettably in 2014 the of a number of new products, e. g. of high superior customer service, represents a Company recorded 19 12 employee and value added micro-alloyed pipe grade slabs: unique value proposition to our customers.
7 contractor fatalities vs. 24, 18 and 6, new types of premium rebar products etc.
EVRAZs operational strategy can be broadly We achieved our target of entering new divided into 5 areas: Health, Safety and In 2015, all initiatives with a focus on safety markets in 2014 following the completion of Environment, Human Capital, Customer training and LOTO Lockout, Tryout energy certification processes for rails and wheels in Focus, EVRAZ Business System and Growth isolation programme implementation will Europe.
Moreover, in 2014 EVRAZ increased of the Business.
Each of the areas has its be continued.
sales of railway wheels to the USA and own KPIs and targets.
These metrics enable Europe and signed two contracts to supply the management to reinforce EVRAZs Compliance with environmental standards is rails to Brazil.
competitive advantages and reach our one of the major long-term targets of EVRAZs strategic objective.
EVRAZ is actively assessing its In 2014, EVRAZ was recognised as the best environmental impacts and potential liabilities Russian steel distribution company in terms Steel and commodities markets where to improve management of those exposures.
We introduced a new EVRAZ operates are often highly volatile.
EVRAZ recognises the importance of abating Customer Relationship Management CRM This creates significant operational and climate change and supports the global effort system in our Steel segment.
In 2015, we are financial challenges for companies such as to reduce greenhouse gas emissions into the planning to improve the customer satisfaction EVRAZ.
We address these challenges through atmosphere.
Total 2014 GHG emissions index further by implementing a claim a relentless focus on operational efficiency decreased by 7% compared with the previous processing procedure.
to ensure low cost supplies of raw materials year.
and protect our downstream margins.
At the We do not have a specific corporate level KPI same time, we remain opportunistic in our for Customer Focus.
We track implementation Human Capital investments, thus preserving flexibility in our of the specific initiatives on a divisional level ability to respond to market challenges.
Skilled, productive employees are vital to with KPIs tailored to each particular objective the successful delivery of our operational i. e. number of certifications, number of objectives, particularly in challenging market customer claims, percentage of deliveries conditions.
Although we continue to try to made on time and in full.
reduce wage costs, EVRAZ is focused on developing employees through the provision of different educational programmes and internal career opportunities.
14 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Business Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ Business system EBS Growth of the business Our EBS is based on LEAN principles.
Due to Under current market conditions we see the uncertain economic environment which our goal as preserving resources and has prevailed for the last two years, cost strategic positions in order to secure future reduction initiatives have been an important opportunities.
Therefore, our current priority area of focus for EVRAZ.
We have rolled out a is to continue to gradually reduce CAPEX.
number of different efficiency programmes to EVRAZ adheres to the approach of making improve operational efficiency, reduce general selective investments with a projected IRR and administrative expenses, enhance energy above 40%.
efficiency and improve inventory management and equipment maintenance systems.
In 2014, we completed several important projects at different EVRAZ operations.
These initiatives have enabled us to Commissioning of a PCI unit at EVRAZ ZSMK significantly reduce costs.
In 2014 we allowed us to reduce costs due to lower coke achieved estimated cost savings of and gas consumption.
Well see the full effect US$420million excluding the result of of this project over the next two years.
We forex rates, with cost per tonne falling have also launched the EVRAZ Caspian Steel for all our key products.
mill a rolling rebar mill in Kazakhstan which will be fed by EVRAZ ZSMK billets.
EVRAZ During 2014 we continued to deploy the Caspian Steel will reach full capacity EVRAZ Business System throughout the utilisation in 2015 thus securing our leading company by means of a rigorous training position in the local construction steel programme that supports the continuous market.
Production at our new development of our people.
The system Yerunakovskaya VIII mine at Yuzhkuzbassugol covers all levels of the company and its exceeded its expected capacity of 3million aim is to change the entire culture of the tonnes of coking coal per annum in 2014. organization from top management to the Yuzhkuzbassugols total volumes were workers on the shop floor.
The only way to maintained at 2013 levels despite the truly learn is by doing, so we use a mixture of planned shutdown of the Abashevskaya mine.
theoretical training and practical application.
EVRAZ continues to work on two large We have successfully introduced model investment projects in raw materials: production lines in all of our Divisions, they construction of the Mezhegey coking coal act as laboratories where our employees can mine and the development of the Sheregesh test all of the LEAN tools and LEAN iron ore mine.
Despite falling commodity techniques they are taught.
The model prices, we believe that these strategic production lines also create an environment projects will help us to create value in the where employees can safely make mistakes, long run.
The Mezhegey mine is a world class because a person that has not tried and hard coking coal deposit which is in demand failed has simply not learned.
Moreover, given the recent rouble areas are also used as examples for our devaluation, Mezhegey coal will be cost employees to see best practice, so they can competitive in the international market.
go back to their areas with a better The Sheregesh iron ore mine development understanding of how the system works.
will allow us to decrease costs at Evrazruda, the iron ore supplier closest to the EVRAZ EVRAZ Business System 2014 highlights: ZSMK steel mill.
4,500 employees were certified for We also have a portfolio of promising projects EBS Level 2 we are currently assessing.
For instance, 205 employees started EBS Level 3 we are looking for opportunities to strengthen training programme our large diameter pipe business in Canada, 1,621 RIEs Rapid Improvement Event where we expect large pipelines will be built completed throughout the Company in the future.
We are working on a project to LEAN-based maintenance systems have modernise EVRAZ ZSMK to secure its low been successfully deployed for 30% of cost position in the global semi-finished EVRAZs critical equipment product market.
We are investigating project financing options for the greenfield Timir iron ore development, which should secure a supply of low cost iron ore for EVRAZ ZSMK in the longer term.
EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15
