36 Strategic report Latin America Latin America Total revenue from continuing activities in Latin America was US$925m, up 7% at constant exchange rates, with organic revenue growth also of 7%.
The Colombia document outsourcing business was divested in November 2013.
19% contribution to Group revenue The Latin America region delivered good growth this year.
Brazil continued to grow despite a challenging macro-economic backdrop, and our performance in Colombia and Peru was very good, as we continued to expand in these markets.
By introducing new products and services, weve helped more clients across more customer segments, working with them to improve their operational effectiveness and their understanding of their customers needs.
Kerry Williams President, Latin America Strategic report Latin America 37 from across Experian.
Growth was Credit Services Revenue by business line in part attributable to the roll-out of At constant exchange rates, total our credit risk management suite, and organic revenue growth in Credit including PowerCurve originations and Services was 7%.
Credit Services in PowerCurve on-demand software.
We Brazil performed well, with growth Credit Services 91% have also further enhanced our analytics across both consumer and business Decision Analytics 6% offering and have been building-out information, partially offset by a decline Marketing Services 3% our identity management and fraud in digital certificates authentication.
prevention services, both in Brazil and Within business information, we are across the wider Latin America region.
benefiting from the introduction of new Marketing Services product features, which create a richer % Highest % of revenue offering for small and medium enterprise 91 from Credit Services Total and organic revenue at constant customers, while in consumer information exchange rates declined 10%.
Marketing we delivered good growth in higher valueServices was affected by the weak added services and across a wide range Total revenue growth trading environment in Brazil, particularly of industry verticals, which compensated for retailers who cut back on customer for lower growth in credit bureau volumes.
prospecting activity during the year.
14 7% Growth in our other Latin American Notwithstanding these challenges, we are bureau markets was very strong.
We 13 21% investing in our product range, in order have extended our market position in 12 31% to provide more sophisticated targeted Colombia with a series of new client wins marketing services and to enhance our 11 19% and further expansion of the small and digital offerings.
EBIT and EBIT margin Decision Analytics For Latin America, EBIT grew 12% at % We delivered strong growth across the 7 2014 constant exchange rates to US$344m.
region, with total and organic revenue The EBIT margin increased by 150 basis growth of 37% at constant exchange points to 37.2%, reflecting operating rates.
We have invested significantly leverage due to revenue growth and cost Organic revenue growth in Decision Analytics, as we have savings, net of reinvestment for growth.
2013 restated for the movement of some businesses to discontinuing activities.
EBIT margin is for continuing activities only.
