06 Strategic report Our business model Our business model Our products and services help our clients and consumers to interact with each other, gain valuable insights and make informed decisions.
Underpinning our business model is a set of powerful Data Analytics Software Platforms Data Analytics, software and platforms We hold and securely manage Our innovative analytics and software process, define and incredibly powerful, highinterpret data, integrating multiple data sets, automating our quality data.
Our data assets clients day-to-day decisions and producing insights they can are very extensive and include use.
Our platforms enable our clients to manage and tailor many unique data sources, these complex activities, according to their specific needs.
which can be exclusive to us.
Developing our analytics and software in-house enables us to We continually invest in new build products that extract the best insight from our data and data to further enhance the our clients data.
depth, breadth and quality of our data sets.
Within a strict data security and Our Our unmatched global reach enables us to attract, support and service local and global clients.
It enables our people to share best practice and innovation across our regions competitive and business lines.
Our scale allows us to invest more in new products, building them advantages Strategic report Our business model 07 competitive advantages, which enable us to create value for our shareholders.
Our strategy builds on and reinforces these advantages, so we can continue to create value for the long term.
Client and customer Experts interactions Experts Client and customer interactions Our technical and industry experts work This helps to facilitate better client and customer collaboratively with our clients.
They combine interactions, as organisations treat individuals fairly data and analytical expertise with sector and responsibly and as individuals get to present experience, to support and empower our clients themselves in the best light by accessing and to solve strategic problems and turn insights understanding their personal information.
regulatory compliance framework centrally to be deployed locally, reducing cost and allowing multinationals to standardise their operations with our products.
We optimise our earnings through careful oversight of our operations, including focused allocation of resources and reinvestment in the business, thereby generating and preserving value for our shareholders.
