96 Governance Directors report Directors report The directors present their report and In accordance with the UK Corporate note K to the parent company financial the audited financial statements for the Governance Code, all directors with statements.
The rights and obligations P64 year ended 31 March 2014.
The Corporate the exception of Sir John Peace, Sir attaching to the ordinary and deferred governance report forms part of this Alan Rudge and Chris Callero, who will shares are also set out in note K and P04 Directors report.
The Strategic report retire from the Board with effect from the Companys articles of association, a contains certain information equivalent the conclusion of the annual general copy of which can be obtained from the to that required in this Directors report.
meeting AGM on 16 July 2014, being Experian website, www.
eligible, will offer themselves for election Research and development ADR programme re-election at the AGM.
An external Research and development plays a key evaluation of Board and Board committee The Company has a Level 1 American performance, together with an evaluation role in supporting Experians activities.
Depositary Receipt ADR programme Details of such activities are given in of the performance of individual directors, in the US for which the Bank of New York P04 was carried out during the year ended the Strategic report.
The ADRs are 31 March 2014 and the Board is satisfied traded on the highest tier of the US overResults and dividends that all directors contribute effectively and the-counter market, OTCQX, where each The Group income statement shows demonstrate commitment to their roles.
ADR represents one Experian plc ordinary Further details regarding the evaluation a profit for the financial year ended share.
Further details are given in the P67 31 March 2014 of US$754m 2013: process are contained in the Corporate Shareholder information section.
The directors Restrictions on transfers of have announced the payment of a second Insurance and third-party shares and or voting rights interim dividend in lieu of a final dividend indemnification of 26.00 US cents per ordinary share 2013: The Company is not aware of any 24.00 US cents to be paid on 25 July 2014 During the year and up to the date agreements between shareholders that to shareholders on the register of members of approval of this annual report, the may result in restrictions on the transfer on 27 June 2014.
An interim dividend of Company maintained liability insurance of securities and or voting rights and, 11.50 US cents per ordinary share was paid and third-party indemnification provisions apart from those matters described on 31 January 2014, giving a total dividend for its directors and officers.
below, there are no restrictions on the for the year of 37.50 US cents per ordinary transfer of ordinary shares in the capital Acquisitions and disposals share 2013: 34.75 US cents.
of the Company and or voting rights: Information in respect of acquisitions Directors Certain restrictions on transfers of and disposals made during the year is shares may from time to time be The directors names, biographical contained in the Strategic report and in imposed by, for example, insider details and key skills and experience are note 40 and note 42 respectively to the dealing regulations.
In accordance P62 shown in the biographies section.
with the UK Financial Conduct regarding Board changes are contained Authoritys Listing Rules, directors Post balance sheet events P64 in the Corporate governance report.
are required to seek the Companys Details of events occurring after Particulars of directors remuneration, approval to deal in its shares.
the end of the reporting period are service contracts and interests in the Certain employees are also contained in note 47 to the Group Companys ordinary shares are shown in required to seek approval to financial statements.
P78 the Report on directors remuneration.
deal in the Companys shares.
There have been no changes in the Share capital Some of Experians share-based directors interests in such ordinary employee incentive plans include Details of the Companys authorised shares between the end of the financial restrictions on transfer of shares and issued share capital and changes to year and 6 May 2014. while the shares are subject to the Companys share capital during the the plan.
year ended 31 March 2014 are set out in Substantial shareholdings Substantial shareholders are required to notify their interests in accordance with the Companys articles of association, which obliges shareholders to comply with the notification obligations to the Company contained in the UK Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
As at 6 May 2014, the Company had been notified of the interests below in its issued ordinary share capital or voting rights.
Percentage of issued Number of ordinary share capital voting Date of notification Shareholder Direct indirect interest shares voting rights rights 30 January 2014 Harris Associates L. P. Indirect 50,233,366 5.02% Governance Directors report 97 P78 As described in the Report on such shares shall not confer on the Significant agreements directors remuneration, nonholder s thereof the right to receive change of control executive directors receive a notice of, attend or vote at general There are a number of agreements proportion of fees in shares until meetings of the Company.
to which the Group is party that take their shareholding reaches one Details of deadlines in respect effect, alter or terminate, or have the times their annual fee.
These shares of voting for the 2014 AGM are potential to do so, upon a change of may not normally be transferred contained in the notice of meeting control of the Company following a during their period of office.
that has been circulated to takeover bid.
Details of the agreements Where, under a share-based shareholders and which can also be of this nature are: employee incentive plan operated viewed at the Companys website.
The Groups banking facilities contain by Experian, participants are the Own shares provisions which, in the event of a beneficial owners of the shares but change of control of the Company, not the registered owner, the voting The existing authority for the Company to could result in a renegotiation or rights are normally exercised by the purchase its own shares, which expires withdrawal of such facilities.
registered owner at the direction of at the end of this years AGM, was given the participants.
at the AGM held on 17 July 2013 and The US$600m 2.375% Senior permitted the Company to purchase, in Notes due 2017, the 400m 4.75% Shares held in treasury carry no the market, 100,961,463 of its own shares.
Euronotes due 2018, the 500m voting rights for as long as they 4.75% Euronotes due 2020 and the are held as treasury shares.
During the year ended 31 March 2014, 400m 3.50% Euronotes due 2021, the Company purchased 10,991,165 of The deferred shares in the issued by the Group, provide that its own shares at a cost of US$203m.
Company carry no voting rights.
holders may require repayment of No shares have been purchased by the the notes in the event that a rating No member shall, unless the Company since 31 March 2014.
As at agency downgrades or re-rates directors otherwise determine, be the date of approval of this annual downwards the notes to below entitled in respect of any share held report, the Company had an unexpired investment grade following a by him or her to vote either personally authority to purchase up to 89,970,298 change of control of the Company.
or by proxy at a shareholders of its own shares.
meeting or to exercise any other right All of Experians share-based All shares purchased have been retained conferred by membership in relation employee incentive plans contain as treasury shares.
to shareholders meetings if any call provisions relating to a change of or other sum presently payable by As at the date of approval of this annual control.
Outstanding awards and him or her to the Company in respect report, the Company holds 38,536,619 options would normally vest and of that share remains unpaid.
2013: 20,000,000 of its own shares as become exercisable on a change of treasury shares.
On 24 February 2014, control, subject to the satisfaction No member shall, unless the 7,545,454 ordinary shares in the Company of any performance conditions at directors otherwise determine, be were transferred from RBC cees Trustee that time.
entitled to vote either personally Limited, the trustee of the Experian plc or by proxy at a shareholders The Group is party to a limited Employee Share Trust, to the Company, meeting or to exercise any other number of operational arrangements in satisfaction of a loan repayment to the right conferred by membership in which can be terminated or Company.
The transferred shares are held relation to shareholders meetings if altered upon a change of control by the Company in treasury.
he or she fails within the prescribed of the Company, but these are period to provide the Company with Details of the new authority being not considered to be individually information concerning interests in requested at the 2014 AGM are contained significant to the business of the those shares required to be provided in the circular to shareholders, which Group as a whole or, in certain cases, after being duly served with a notice accompanies this annual report and is it is considered that their disclosure pursuant to the articles of association available on the Companys website at would be seriously prejudicial to of the Company.
In accordance with the articles of Details of the shares in the Company The provisions in directors service association of the Company and save purchased by and held under the contracts relating to a change for certain limited circumstances, if Experian plc Employee Share Trust and of control of the Company are P78 the number of shares in the Company the Experian UK Approved All-Employee described in the Report on beneficially owned by residents of Share Plan are set out in note L to the directors remuneration.
the US exceeds a defined permitted parent companys financial statements.
maximum and the directors give notice to the holder s of such shares, 98 Governance Directors report Directors report continued Appointment and removal Employment of people Going concern of directors with disabilities Details of the adoption by the Group and Both the Company by ordinary resolution People with disabilities have equal the Company of the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements are and the directors may elect any person to opportunities when applying for vacancies.
P42 be a director, but the number of directors In addition to complying with legislative set out in the Financial review within the Strategic report and are incorporated into shall not exceed the maximum number requirements, procedures are in place fixed by the articles of association of the to ensure that disabled employees are this report by reference.
Any person appointed by the fairly treated and that their training and Relevant audit information directors shall only hold office until the career development needs are carefully As at 6 May 2014, so far as each director next AGM and shall then be eligible for managed.
The policies are considered to election.
The office of a director shall operate effectively.
The Group supports is aware, there is no relevant audit information, being information needed by be vacated on the occurrence of any employees who become disabled during of the events listed in article 92 of the the course of their employment, by offering the auditors in connection with preparing their report, of which the auditors are articles of association of the Company.
re-training or re-deployment, to provide an The Company may, in accordance with opportunity for them to remain with the unaware and each director has taken all steps that he she ought to have taken as its articles of association, remove any Group whenever possible.
director from office and elect another a director in order to make himself herself Employee involvement aware of any relevant audit information and person in place of a director so removed.
Experian is committed to employee to establish that the auditors are aware of Articles of association that information.
The Companys articles of association The Group is intent on motivating and Annual general meeting may be amended by the passing of a keeping staff informed on matters that special resolution.
concern them in the context of their The Companys 2014 AGM will be held at employment and involving them through The Merrion Hotel, Upper Merrion Street, Financial risk management, local consultative procedures.
Where Dublin 2, Ireland at 9.30am on Wednesday objectives and policies there are recognition agreements with 16 July 2014.
Shareholders who are unable trade unions, the consultation process to attend in person may submit questions Descriptions of the use of financial is established through national and local beforehand via email to agmquestions@ instruments and Experians treasury and trade union representatives and through experianplc.
com or on the prepaid card risk management objectives and policies P42 joint consultation committees.
sent to shareholders with the notice of are set out in the Financial review within meeting.
The questions will be addressed the Strategic report and also in note 8 to Employees are kept well informed on at the meeting, via the Companys website the Group financial statements.
matters of interest and the financial and at www.
com or individually economic factors affecting the Groups Political donations as appropriate.
The notice of meeting has performance through management been circulated to shareholders and can Experian did not make any EU political channels, conferences, meetings, also be viewed on the Companys website.
donations during the year ended publications and intranet sites.
More 31 March 2014. detail on employee engagement, together Independent auditors with information on diversity, succession The auditors,  planning and talent development, can be LLP, have indicated their willingness to P14 found in the Our people section of the continue in office and a resolution that Strategic report.
they be re-appointed as the Companys Experian supports employee share auditors will be proposed at the AGM.
ownership by providing Sharesave and other employee share plan arrangements, which are intended to align the interests of employees with those of shareholders.
Governance Directors report 99 in the European Union: Statement of directors responsibilities all accounting standards which they consider applicable have been The directors are responsible for: followed in preparing the parent preparing the annual report, company financial statements: and the Group and parent company it is appropriate that the Group and financial statements and the Report parent company financial statements on directors remuneration in have been prepared on a going accordance with applicable law concern basis.
and regulations: The directors confirm also that, to the preparing financial statements which best of their knowledge, the financial give a true and fair view of the state of statements are prepared in accordance affairs at the balance sheet date, and with the applicable set of accounting the profit or loss for the period then standards, give a true and fair view of ended of a the Group in accordance the assets, liabilities, financial position with IFRSs as adopted for use in and profit of the Company and the Group the European Union, and b the taken as a whole: and the Strategic report Company in accordance with contains a fair review of the development UK Accounting Standards : and performance of the business and keeping proper accounting records the position of the Company and the which disclose, with reasonable Group taken as a whole, together with accuracy, at any time the financial a description of the principal risks and position of the Group and the uncertainties that they face.
Company and enable them to In addition, each of the directors ensure that the Group financial considers that the annual report and statements comply with applicable financial statements, taken as a whole, law and Article 4 of the International is fair, balanced and understandable Accounting Standards Regulation: and provides the information necessary taking such steps as are reasonably for shareholders to assess the open to them to safeguard the assets Companys performance, business of the Company and the Group, and model and strategy.
to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities: and By order of the Board the maintenance and integrity of the statutory and audited Charles Brown information on the Companys Company Secretary website Jersey legislation and 6 May 2014 UK regulation governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from Corporate headquarters: requirements in other jurisdictions.
Newenham House In addition, the directors consider that, Northern Cross in preparing the financial statements: Malahide Road Dublin 17 suitable accounting policies Ireland have been selected and applied consistently: Registered office: 22 Grenville Street judgments and estimates made have St Helier been reasonable and prudent: Jersey the Group financial statements JE4 8PX comply with IFRSs as adopted for use
