34 Strategic report North America North America Total revenue from continuing activities in North America was US$2,404m, up 6%, with organic revenue growth of 4%.
The difference relates to the acquisitions of Passport November 2013, 41st Parameter October 2013 and Decisioning Solutions April 2013.
50% contribution to Group revenue Our region delivered a good performance this year.
Decision Analytics had a stand-out growth year, driven by our PowerCurve and identity verification products.
We delivered good growth in Credit Services with further progress in our strategic vertical markets, including the US public sector and automotive.
We significantly increased our scale in the healthcare payments market with the acquisition of Passport, where the integration is going well.
Victor Nichols Chief Executive Officer, North America Strategic report North America 35 encouraging as we secured more client Credit Services Revenue by business line conversions for our new cross-channel Total revenue growth was 10% and marketing platform, and as we have built organic revenue growth was 5%.
The a strong pipeline of future prospects.
core credit bureau, excluding mortgage, Overall, this led to higher cross-channel Credit Services 40% performed well as clients engaged in marketing volumes and first-time Decision Analytics 7% more credit prospecting and origination contributions from new business wins.
Mortgage detracted from growth We also saw good demand for digital Consumer Services 35% however, due to a sharp contraction services for targeted marketing and in in refinancing activity during the our data quality operations.
Across the verticals, our legacy further declines in our more traditional healthcare services operations performed % data and database activities.
Highest % of revenue well, as we secured new business 40 from Credit Services Consumer Services bookings and extended our presence within the existing base of hospital clients Total and organic revenue growth was and physician practices.
We delivered growth across the performed strongly, reflecting volume Experian.
com brand, affinity and data growth in automotive checks and good breach, which offset a decline in revenue 14 6% appetite among our dealer and lender across the free brands.
This supports clients for vehicle sales information.
13 8% our strategy to focus the majority of our 12 10% Decision Analytics investment on building the Experian brand, developing the affinity channel 11 9% Total revenue growth was 23% and and expanding in data breach services.
Growth Over the year, we secured key client wins in Decision Analytics was robust, pickingin the affinity channel, for which we have up as the year progressed.
Our credit commenced the implementation process.
% risk management software platform, 6 2014 PowerCurve, has been well received by EBIT and EBIT margin clients and we secured a number of new For continuing activities, North wins during the year.
In addition, identity America EBIT was US$757m, up 5%.
Organic revenue growth verification volumes were exceptionally EBIT margin was 31.5% 2013: 31.8%.
strong, driven by growth across major There was good margin progress in federal public sector agencies, as US 14 Credit Services, Decision Analytics and 4% citizens enrolled for affordable healthcare Marketing Services, reflecting revenue 13 7% and social security benefits.
growth and cost efficiency actions.
12 6% Margins in Consumer Services declined Marketing Services 11 7% as we increased marketing expenditure in Total revenue growth was 4% and support of the Experian brand.
There was 10 0% organic revenue growth was 3%.
also some dilution attributable Progress in Marketing Services was to acquisitions.
