08 Strategic report Our business lines Business lines: Credit Services We hold and manage data about people and businesses, to help organisations manage the risks associated with extending credit and with preventing fraud.
47% contribution to Group revenue Revenue by region Lenders and other subscribing members provide us with credit application and repayment history data on consumers and businesses, to which we add other information, such as public records.
We aggregate, cleanse and sort this data, to form North America 43% a credit report to depict a comprehensive view of how borrowers have managed their Latin America 37% current and past credit obligations.
UK and Ireland 12% Credit reports help lenders make faster and better-informed credit decisions, set EMEA Asia Pacific 8% the credit terms for new accounts and manage existing customer and supplier relationships more positively and effectively.
The reports vary by country, but typically include data on identity, transactions, past and present credit obligations, court judgments, bankruptcy, suspected fraudulent applications, collections and previous addresses.
For businesses, the report also covers company registration and ownership.
Clients The laws governing data hosting and access vary by country.
To check the credit history Our clients are principally organisations of a person or business and to store data with us, a company must have a legitimate that extend or offer credit.
Our reason for doing so and must usually notify the applicant of its intention.
diverse client base includes financial We do not make lending decisions or offer any comment or advice on particular institutions, retailers, insurance applications.
Instead, we provide factual information to lenders, to help them decide companies, telecommunications whether or not to lend.
They often use our data alongside other information, such as companies, US healthcare providers, that included in an application form.
We maintain a comprehensive security programme to protect data through its entire Competitive environment lifecycle, from collection, transformation and use, to storage and then destruction.
We face competition in every market in which we operate.
Our largest competitors are Equifax, TransUnion and Dun & Bradstreet.
We hold the number one or number two position in most of the markets in which we operate.
Financial characteristics We sell credit reports on a transactional basis, priced per report delivered.
Pricing typically varies according to the volume of reports we deliver and revenue recurs as our clients habitually buy from us.
We provide consumer credit We provide business credit information in 19 countries.
Strategic report Section Title 09 Strategic report Our business lines 09 Business lines: Decision Analytics Our analytics help to release the value of data, by providing insights to help clients solve problems and make valuable business decisions.
12% contribution to Group revenue Revenue by region Our integrated approach involves taking our own data, and data from our clients and third parties, and applying analytical models and software to transform raw data into meaningful information and insights.
We take a consultative approach and work North America 31% collaboratively with our clients, to help them identify issues and focus on solutions that Latin America 9% add value to their business and increase their return on investment.
UK and Ireland 38% Our platforms help our clients to carry out complex activities such as compiling, EMEA Asia Pacific 22% standardising and retrieving data, managing the decision-making process and managing workflows.
We develop scores, models and software, and create both bespoke and industry solutions, as we find elements of a problem are common across clients.
Country coverage Our solutions help our clients to improve their business operations and customer interactions.
They enable clients to: Our analytics work in any country allowing us to service clients all over balance speed and competitiveness with the need for careful risk assessment, the world.
We work most effectively when considering an application for credit: in the countries where we operate automate huge volumes of day-to-day decisions, helping clients to make the right credit bureaux.
decision for each customer, in a timely, consistent and cost-efficient manner: Clients establish an accurate picture of a customers ability and propensity to pay and, We serve hundreds of thousands of therefore, help our clients understand the best way to help their customers meet clients globally.
They vary in size from their obligations: small to multinational, and come from verify that people are who they say they are and validate that the information they a wide range of industries.
provide is correct, to help establish a persons identity and prevent fraud: and Competitive environment detect, monitor and assess the risk of fraud at every stage of the We are a market-leading provider in customer relationship.
Core global competitors include Fair Isaac and SAS.
Competition in individual markets comes from niche specialists and regional providers.
Financial characteristics We sell credit scores and fraud checks on a transactional, volume-tiered basis.
We employ over 400 analysts and Revenue from software and systems statisticians globally to create bespoke consists partly of implementation fees and industry solutions for our clients.
and partly of contractually recurring licence fees.
10 Strategic report Our business lines Business lines: Marketing Services We provide data, data quality, analytics and cross-channel campaign management, to help our clients better interact with people and increase their customer revenue and loyalty.
19% contribution to Group revenue Revenue by region We help clients to develop effective marketing campaigns, to identify their best customers, understand their motivations and behaviours, and find new, similar customers they can market to.
We do this by helping marketers to profile, group and North America 49% interact with people across different channels, with an approach that centres on a Latin America 4% persons preferences.
UK and Ireland 26% We use our strength in data management to create customer profiles.
These include EMEA Asia Pacific 21% data from many sources, including market surveys, internet service providers and magazine subscriptions, as well as a clients proprietary data.
These profiles help marketers to understand people better, by establishing their circumstances, preferences and behaviours in the offline and digital worlds.
High-quality, accurate data is very important to our clients, as it underpins their ability Clients to connect with customers.
We provide our clients with linkage and identity resolution, Our clients include financial services, data verification and data management, to help make sure their data is accurate and retail, telecommunications, media, up-to-date.
automotive and public sector Once our clients understand their customers, they can engage with them.
clients to execute their marketing campaigns, develop their messaging, interact with Competitive environment customers across the customers preferred channels, and measure the success of their campaigns.
Marketing channels include direct mail, email, addressable television, Although rapidly evolving, the competitive social media, internet display and mobile devices.
Traditional providers such as Acxiom and By taking this focused, data-led, customer-centred approach, our clients benefit Epsilon are reinventing their business from increased return on investment and greater customer engagement.
models and new competitors such as Adobe, IBM, Salesforce.
com, Oracle and Teradata are emerging.
Financial characteristics We derive revenue in a variety of ways, including transactional volumetiered charges, data licences and subscription fees.
We provide Marketing Services in 30 countries, with a presence in some of the worlds largest economies, including Australia, Brazil, China, France, Germany, Japan, the UK and the US.
Strategic report Our business lines 11 Business lines: Consumer Services We provide millions of people with secure, online access to their credit history and score, empowering them to manage and improve their financial status, and helping them to protect themselves against 22% contribution to Group revenue fraud and identity theft.
Revenue by region A persons credit report contains their complete credit repayment history and is the basis for their credit score.
This score measures the likelihood that they will repay what they owe and is used by lenders to assess risk, before they lend.
The credit report data comes North America 78% from our Credit Services business line, so a person can see what lenders see about UK and Ireland 22% them.
Using our interactive tools, they can then routinely monitor their credit and identify ways to improve their credit score.
People may also use their credit status for a one-off event, such as negotiating the best deal for a large credit-dependent purchase, like a car.
Our identity protection services provide people with identity theft detection, protection and fraud resolution.
We monitor the information in a persons credit report and let them know about changes that might be identity fraud.
In the event of fraud, we give people access to a dedicated fraud resolution service, together with insurance against Competitive environment financial loss.
We also help parents to monitor their childrens online activity, with our SafetyWeb.
Our DataPatrol product provides real-time web and social We are the clear market leader in both network monitoring, to help prevent identity fraud before it happens.
In the US, competition is provided by Equifax, TransUnion, Fair Country coverage Clients Isaac, Credit Karma and other smaller specialists, but we are more than four We currently offer credit reports About half of our customers are times the size of any of these competitors.
and scores in the US through direct subscribers, with the other In the UK, competition is provided by Experian.
com half subscribing to us through CallCredit and Equifax.
com, and through affinity partners.
We organisations with large membership Financial characteristics also offer identity protection services or customer bases, such as retail We provide consumer credit reports, in the US and the UK, through banks, financial institutions, insurance scores and identity protection to ProtectMyID.
companies and member associations, consumers for a regular monthly co. uk respectively.
This year in the US who repackage our products and market subscription fee.
Depending on the we are giving greater prominence to them under their own brands.
Institutions size and nature of the contract, affinity the Experian brand, underscoring the are increasingly offering these services in contracts may be on a revenue or profit trust consumers have in it.
We are also response to customer demand.
Typically, affinity contracts launching Consumer Services in other are multi-year agreements.
This year we sent over 133 million alerts to customers highlighting changes to their credit reports.
