12 Strategic report Our strategy Our strategy Over the past seven years as a publicly listed company, we have grown into a successful, global organisation that helps consumers and clients make better decisions.
Our vision Our focus NEW CUSTOMER SEGMENTS MAKE THE MOST OF OUR KEY STRENGTHS, We see many BY FOCUSING opportunities for using ON DATA AND our strengths in data and ANALYTICS analytics to grow profitably and responsibly.
EXPANDING The best of these Each year we GEOGRAPHICALLY opportunities lie in expanding look beyond into new customer segments, the past years DRIVE developing new products accomplishments PROFITABLE and extending our operations and develop strategic GROWTH, BY geographically.
We carefully plans that focus PRIORITISING prioritise our strategic OUR BEST on creating investments in these areas to OPPORTUNITIES premium growth achieve maximum returns, into the future.
and we complement organic We aim to: PRODUCT investment with acquisitions.
INNOVATION Our strategy is delivered by our people and we aim MAKE THE to continuously improve BEST USE OF how we operate and work OUR CAPITAL, BY BALANCING STRATEGIC together.
INVESTMENTS WITH CAPITAL RETURNS TO SHAREHOLDERS OPERATIONAL EFFECTIVENESS 4 Key risks Regulatory Exposure to increasing Dependence on recruitment and Product, service or compliance competition retention of highly skilled personnel technology obsolescence All of which is underpinned by our corporate responsibilities Create products and services Help consumers to make Work in partnership with our that generate value to society informed and responsible communities to support social and and the business decisions economic development 1.
We typically aim for our investments to generate a post-tax double-digit rate of return within a threeto five-year period.
See Key performance indicators section.
Strategic report Our strategy 13 P28 Please see the Chief Executives statement for how we have executed our strategy this year.
Our vision is for our people, data and technology to become a necessary part of every major consumer economy.
Our measures Our priorities for 2015 and beyond Continue to invest in industry experts, skills and propositions across new customer 69% of our revenue is now generated segments, to open new markets and increase the number of products we sell into from customer segments outside existing segments.
Focus on big opportunities in healthcare payments, automotive, public sector and telecommunications.
For example, in US healthcare payments we are completing the integration of Passport Health Communications into Experian Healthcare and focusing on opportunities to cross-sell or up-sell our full product suite.
And in telecommunications a rapidly changing industry means our clients need help to better manage their customer lifecycles and reduce costs, fraud and customer churn.
30% of our revenue now comes Continue to deploy our existing products and platforms into high-growth markets.
from Latin America and EMEA Evaluate opportunities in new countries with favourable characteristics, such as a Asia Pacific.
growing middle class and a transparent legal system.
Extend our research teams into new countries, to partner with more clients and deliver products with the best insights.
Continue to support our long-term credit bureau builds in Australia and India.
Add unique data assets, to further improve the depth and quality of our databases.
We aim for more than 10% of our Continue to draw on our research teams scientific expertise, to solve clients revenue to come from products strategic problems by developing innovative products.
developed in the past five years.
Further invest in our products, to transform them into global products we can deploy quickly, at lower cost, and adapt locally, allowing clients to choose the products best suited to solving their problems.
Develop a specialised fraud prevention and identity management product, to help both clients and consumers with this growing problem.
Further improve employee engagement by focusing on development plans, Our latest global people survey showed training and local engagement programmes.
Continue to strengthen and empower our sales teams, so they can consistently deliver high-quality client service and realise cross-sell opportunities.
Complete the global roll-out of the single customer relationship management project, to align our sales processes across the regions.
Continue to assess the best allocation of our resources within countries and across regions, to keep improving our day-to-day operations.
Interruptions in business Loss or inappropriate Exposure to legislation or regulatory Data ownership processes or systems use of data reforms addressing consumer privacy and access Operate efficiently and Protect and manage data Harness the talent and skills minimise our impact on in a robust and safe way of our employees the environment P14 3.
For further information see Our people section.
These are discussed in depth in the Protecting our business section.
