52 Strategic report Our corporate responsibilities Page Title Our corporate responsibilities Our role in society is much more than simply managing the social, economic and environmental impact of our own operations.
While this is a fundamental part of our corporate responsibilities, it is through our products, services and people that we have the greatest means of going beyond a business as usual position to help communities realise their social and economic potential.
Now in its second year, our Heart of Experian Social Responsibility programme is enabling us to build on our existing successful CR programmes and harness our unique capabilities to tackle the root causes of poverty and support small businesses in our communities.
Strategic report Our corporate responsibilities 53 Case study P rove ID, India Today, only 40% of Indias population have bank accounts and Supported by our funding programme for social innovation, many people are unable to access the most basic financial we are working with the Indian government to accelerate services or government assistance because they have no this process, linking this new unique record to our Prove ID official identity.
This leads to poor access to credit, very verification product across India.
Prove ID indicates when and high costs of credit delivery and the risks associated with where individuals are registered, allows identities to be quickly informal lending.
To start addressing this inequality, the Indian verified online and removes the need for paper records and government is developing a Unique Identification Database local investigator visits.
This more efficient process will speed UID for all its citizens.
It will provide a form of official up access to finance for the financially and socially excluded, identity, enabling individuals to gain access to state benefits ensuring that any Indian citizen who applies for a bank account and financial services.
or loan will leave a positive trace on the UID, helping to build their credit history.
India, with 1.27 billion people, is the second most populous country in the world.
54 Strategic report Our corporate responsibilities Our corporate responsibilities continued have the potential to make an even greater by our data and analytical capabilities Enabling the social and tangible, sustainable difference to the and partnerships within communities economic empowerment of social and economic development of the we can make the greatest contribution communities communities we serve.
In doing so, we also support Our products and services help business growth as we drive product Delivering difference through organisations of all sizes to be more innovation, geographic expansion and transformation efficient, enabling them to make better work in new customer segments.
It is business decisions, to understand their these capabilities that differentiate us To stretch ourselves and help us deliver customers and to manage risk.
They also and it is this alignment that will generate that goal of more, we launched our help millions of people to manage their mutual benefits for Experian and the Heart of Experian Social Responsibility finances better and protect themselves communities around us.
For these three programme in March 2013.
differentiating responsibilities, we have was to build on our existing CR set stretching targets and objectives and responsibilities and, as part of our As a result, organisations and created an overall goal for the number of individuals become empowered and successful global culture programme, additional people around the world who to better engage our people.
It focused more confident, including some of those we can positively impact by 2018. most vulnerable in society.
This supports our activities on three key areas: to foster financial inclusion, promote economic growth, which contributes to At the same time, our other the development of local communities financial education, and support responsibilities continue to be important.
And as businesses grow They are fundamental to our continuing and economies thrive, then so does success and their management remains Over the last year we have gone a the size of our potential market and an implicit requirement for a global step further and begun a process to our consumer base.
We must continue differentiate our responsibilities into those to operate efficiently and with respect for that capitalise on Experians distinctive At the heart of our strategy, we believe the environment: manage data safely and capabilities to create and deliver social that social and economic empowerment robustly and offer a safe and stimulating benefit, and those that underpin the is best achieved working in partnership workplace for our people that encourages effective and efficient running of our with local and national governments, nontalent and innovation.
governmental organisations NGOs, our business partners and clients.
It is by creating unique products and services: by helping consumers to make Against this backdrop, we have realised informed and responsible decisions: and that through our products and services, by leveraging our market insights fuelled and working with the right partners, we The goal of Help communities realise their social and economic potential, by: our Heart of Fostering financial inclusion Experian Social Promoting financial education Responsibility Supporting small business entrepreneurs programme is to Differentiators which we can only achieve if we harness the Creating products and Supporting consumers Working in partnership with our unique skills and services that generate value to make informed and communities to support social capabilities of to society and the business responsible decisions and economic development Experian, by Fundamentals which in turn relies on us We operate efficiently and We protect and manage data We harness the talent and ensuring that minimise our impact on the in a robust and safe way skills of our employees environment 55 Strategic report Our corporate responsibilities 55 Case study Limpe Nome debt recovery portal, Brazil Debt repayment is a major issue in Brazil.
Every year approximately 120 million debt notification letters are sent to consumers.
Even so, research shows that 58% of Brazils consumers claim not to know about their unpaid debts.
This means many receive an adverse credit rating, preventing them from accessing financial services in the future.
Serasa Experian has committed to reversing this trend.
This year, weve invested in a new service for consumers, supported by our funding programme for social innovation.
Experians debt recovery portal Limpe Nome is an online one-stop shop, free to consumers, enabling them to easily access their debt records and set up more achievable repayment terms.
The portal puts millions of consumers back in control, allowing them to deal directly with lenders in a private and secure environment.
Approximately 70% of users successfully negotiate debt settlements.
Our goal is for five million consumers to be registered on the portal by March 2015.
Research shows that 58% of Brazils consumers claim not to know about their unpaid debts.
56 Strategic report Our corporate responsibilities Our corporate responsibilities continued Our differentiators Community investment Products and services that generate 2014 2013 social and commercial value US$'000s US$'000s Each year Experian helps millions Funds from Experian plc 2,299 1,217 of organisations manage credit risk, Financial donations and investments prevent fraud, target their marketing from Experian subsidiaries 2,347 2,676 and make their decision-making more Employee time volunteered 1,056 656 accurate and efficient.
By building Gifts in kind 604 323 social benefit more deliberately into our Management costs 605 416 mainstream business and utilising our Total from Experian 6,911 5,288 unique insights, we have the potential As % of Benchmark PBT 0.56% 0.44% to make a significant difference.
We have over a thousand existing Employee fundraising 1,270 785 products and services and have identified Total value of all giving 8,181 6,073 that many have an inherent social, as well as a commercial benefit.
With As % of Benchmark PBT 0.66% 0.51% an emphasis on how they can foster financial inclusion, promote financial education, and support small business entrepreneurs, an initial assessment undertaken during the last year Increase in total community established that the social reach of just investment from Experian of 31%.
30 of these products is around ten million people a year.
For example, in Kenya, Ghana, Ivory Coast and the Philippines we are enabling We will continue to evaluate our products Our goal is that these new data and better, cheaper access to finance through and examine how they can be replicated analytics products will create social branchless banking in emerging markets.
in new regions, particularly in emerging benefit for an additional five million In the UK, our product, created with markets, benefiting those most vulnerable individuals, both consumers and Big Issue Invest, has the potential to in society.
entrepreneurs, by 2018 around the world.
help one million social housing tenants improve their credit reports and access Our aim over the last year was to scale Helping consumers to make informed mainstream lending.
and responsible decisions up our investment in social innovation products with a social purpose as their Experian operates 19 consumer starting point to help us positively bureaux across the world, reaching impact an even greater number of millions of consumers.
In achieving this aim, during by law to provide a certain level of 2013, we invested nearly US$700,000 to service to consumers.
We aim to develop new concepts and products.
exceed imposed standards and have Our employees provided a number a network of consumer champions of ideas with a wide range of social across the globe to help us do this.
benefits and innovative business models.
We are continually investing in new ways Experians programme of Of the seven we funded following a to improve our service and the information investment in social innovation comprehensive assessment phase, the we provide to consumers.
This includes is beginning to create true shared benefits for individuals ranged from in new markets where credit agencies value.
This, combined with their a free online debt resolution service have not previously existed.
Following the ambition to assess the social in Brazil to improved provision for opening of Experians Consumer Credit impact of mainstream products, children with special educational needs Bureau in Australia, we launched our really identifies them as one of the in North America.
The case studies Fraud Bureau in November 2013, originators in inclusive business.
above describe the new services being which enables data sharing with They have set out a pioneering developed in India and Brazil.
credit providers before fraud occurs.
approach and engaged their senior leadership in its development a company to watch!
Strategic report Our corporate responsibilities 57 In the first three months alone, fraud The Heart of Experian Social In Chile, we are working with a local prediction rates increased by 14%.
It Responsibility programme has continued NGO, Fundacin Banigualdad, who are is estimated that Australians lose over to inspire our global ambition and creating three training centres to help AUD$1 billion a year due to personal stimulate high levels of employee small businesses in the most deprived fraud.
By helping organisations share engagement, but this is supported areas of the country.
Local experts, along data about suspected fraud cases, this by regional projects with a local with volunteers from Experian, will offer service has the potential to make a flavour, embracing volunteering and advice and guidance to help entrepreneurs substantial difference.
Around the world neighbourhood charities relevant to our develop robust business plans, based upon we help millions of people manage their employees and local needs.
Our aim in which they can apply for micro-loans to credit profile and protect themselves the last year was to increase both our start or grow their business.
In the UK, our against identity theft, as well as provide financial investment and employees work work with the Princes Trust has supported thousands of free credit reports to time in supporting sustainable community the creation of 57 new businesses in the people in need of help through debt programmes.
Experian invested US$6.9m East Midlands and London.
in community activity, and over 24,000 Our fundamentals hours were volunteered in working time Our business model depends on people the most since becoming an independent To enable us to be a successful having a healthy and informed attitude to public company in 2006. business and deliver on our aim to help credit, enabling them to be responsible communities realise their social and borrowers.
We produce huge amounts of Through our long-standing partnership economic potential, we must ensure the free educational material and our experts with PFEG Personal Finance Education fundamentals of our business are right.
make regular appearances in the media Group we have begun a programme to to raise financial awareness.
Working transform 21 primary schools in some Our most significant environmental with the UKs national broadcaster, the of the UKs most disadvantaged areas, impact relates to the way we run our BBC, we created heat maps of the UK as pinpointed using Experians Mosaic offices, particularly our use of energy, our showing where people are likely to be database, into Centres of Excellence travel and the waste we generate.
Our struggling with debts, based on analysis in financial education.
As part of this, long-standing environmental programme, of our databases.
This offered powerful trained Experian volunteers have been with employee champions located around insight and highlighted the importance of matched to schools to offer support the world, helps us to effectively monitor, financial education, particularly among to teachers in the classroom.
This is manage and minimise these impacts.
those who may be vulnerable.
just one of the 12 financial education During the latest year we have focused programmes around the world we have Working in partnership on energy use, which is driven to a large supported this year.
with communities extent by the power required to run our In the US, we donated 80,000 free annual Investing in our local communities helps data centres.
These centres are critical to us build strong relationships and gives us memberships to freecreditscore.
com our business and need to be available for Experians credit profile checking service a better understanding of their needs.
It is our clients 24 hours a day, seven days a also a culturally important part of Experian in support of the National Foundation week.
As we reduce energy use, then we for Credit Counseling NFCC Sharpen as our colleagues value the chance to also reduce operating costs and indirect support their local communities.
Through Your Financial Focus programme.
We have a number of 2 These memberships have started to be these projects we develop teamwork, projects underway, including an ecoincrease levels of employee engagement, redeemed and are offered to consumers cooling project at one of our major data who seek financial advice from a NFCCand support individuals personal and centres in the UK which has reduced professional development.
This is the electricity consumption by 11% since the largest donation of its kind ever awarded start of the project, achieved by lessening by Experian.
the amount of air conditioning needed for cooling servers.
Over 24,000 hours volunteered in working time the most since becoming an independent public company in 2006.
58 58 Strategic report Our corporate responsibilities Case study Manage Your Future Now, Turkey Our Heart of Experian Social The project is run over two phases: the Responsibility programme aims to foster first targets university students and financial inclusion, promote financial young people, the second targets small education and support small business businesses and entrepreneurs.
The Manage Your Future employees facilitate train the trainer Now project in Turkey works to achieve workshops for participants across each all three, promoting financial awareness phase, and these trainers then cascade and education to 18 to 30 year olds and the learning to their peers, via their own small businesses.
To date, the project has To date, the project has reached reached over 4,000 young people from over 4,000 young people from 23 cities across Turkey and over 200 SMEs.
Strategic report Our corporate responsibilities 59 Our corporate responsibilities continued Globally, our CO e emissions normalised The success of our CR programme relies right business decisions for our clients, 2 by revenue US$1,000 have reduced by heavily on the engagement, passion shareholders and the global consumers 1.3%, helping us work towards our 5% and commitment of our people.
The Group also has reduction target over three years.
are the driving force behind our product HR policies, a global Health and Safety innovation, the key people in developing policy, global Anti-Bribery and Corruption The current and future success of our trusting relationships with consumers: policies and Supply Chain guidelines business is predicated on the ability and they have the knowledge and which cover our key human rights risks.
to effectively use and protect vast understanding of the communities of We believe our risks in this area are amounts of data.
This becomes even which they are a part.
low, but should these change, we will more imperative as the amount of data undertake a review of our framework.
generated and used by organisations and As part of building a culture of consumers grows.
engagement and innovation, we Committed to mutual growth asked our people for their ideas on This year has been one of considerable Data protection is the responsibility how Experian could make a greater transformation for Experians CR of every employee, supported and contribution to society.
We will continue to build on directed by dedicated teams across enthusiastic employees took part, our work, taking advantage of our global Experian.
In 2013, we designed new, from which six social responsibility scale and the unique skills and insights more user-friendly training packages Ambassadors were chosen.
Their role we can offer, while making for all employees, entitled Security was to act as a regional champion sure our business operates responsibly Fundamentals, rolling this out via for the Heart of Experian Social and efficiently.
employee training programmes and Responsibility programme, giving them compliance monitoring.
We maintain We are committed to a sustainable model an opportunity to turn their ideas into a comprehensive information security of growth where social and commercial positive action.
They were also invited programme which contains safeguards benefits are not exclusive, one that to represent Experian at the One appropriate to the sensitivity of the recognises the contribution we can make Young World conference held in South information we keep and we require all to help communities realise their social Africa in October 2013.
As a testament employees to complete an annual review and economic potential, as well as to this successful initiative, the 2013 of data security practices.
As a custodian creating future business opportunities.
Ambassadors will act as mentors for a of data we must comply with relevant new cohort recruited in 2014.
Strategic report laws, but we also have a responsibility to The strategic report was approved by stimulate debate and help evolve industry More information on our people, and a duly authorised Committee of the guidelines and new legislation.
As we do, on how we are becoming a sought-after Board of directors on 6 May 2014 and we seek to increase transparency, protect employer in all our regions, can be found signed on its behalf by: data privacy and contribute to a culture of in the Our people section.
compliance with the highest standards of Human rights integrity.
For example, in Europe, Experian The Group welcomes the increasing is represented at the International focus on business and human rights.
We Association of Privacy Professionals aim to reflect the principles of human IAPP, a global organisation specialising Charles Brown rights in our values and in the ethical and in information privacy.
Through the IAPP, Company Secretary responsible way we run our business, as Experian has been able to share views described in our Global Code of Conduct 6 May 2014 on plans to reform EU data protection and policies on our website.
Our Global legislation to ensure that the potential Code of Conduct sets expectations for impacts to the credit industry are heard employee conduct and helps us make the and understood.
Methodology Global greenhouse gas GHG emissions data for the year ended 31 March 2014 We have reported on all the emission sources in line with the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Thousand tonnes of CO e 2 Reports Regulations 2013.
These sources fall within our Group Emissions from: 2014 2013 financial statements.
There are no material exclusions from this data.
The data has been prepared in accordance with the Scope 1 Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 5.20 5.86 UK Governments Environmental Reporting Guidance 2013 Scope 2 Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased version.
As a result of the change to the Department for 47.96 46.45 Environment, Food and Rural Affairs GHG conversion factors for own use for company reporting published in 2013, the 2013 greenhouse gas emission totals have been restated.
Kilograms of CO e per US$1,000 2 Detailed information on Experians environmental performance Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO e emissions 2 and the methodology for the measurement of greenhouse gas 10.98 11.06 normalised by revenue US$1,000 emissions is available at www.
