04 Strategic report The role we play The role we play We help people, businesses and organisations connect in a trusted way, enabling them and the economies in which they operate to flourish.
fairer easier efficient responsible Data on current This enables decisions Readily available Decisions are more and previous credit to be made based on information makes it efficient, taking commitments helps factual evidence, so easier for people and minutes instead of days give an insight into organisations are able businesses to prove and cutting the cost whether people and to treat people and their financial track of extending credit, businesses can businesses in a fairer record to organisations.
by reducing manual handle their debt manner and enabling People can access and checks, administration commitments, more people to be understand their own and bad debts.
helping to facilitate able to access credit.
them to present themselves in the best light.
Strategic report The role we play 05 An information gap As more data is created We help to bridge that gap, exists between people, and captured, people are creating an environment businesses and becoming increasingly in which information, held organisations.
This aware of the importance securely and managed gap grows as people of their own personal properly, when coupled increasingly interact data, and businesses with analytics, helps with the world, creating and organisations need provide better insights and more and more data help to extract value outcomes benefiting people, about themselves and from all the data they businesses, organisations how they behave.
protect appropriate reassurance beneficial Identity information Organisations can High-quality data Understanding citizens helps to verify an tailor communications gives people the different needs helps individuals identity, so and offers to make reassurance they can the public sector to people and businesses them more relevant use the information to develop policy and can transact by phone and appropriate to the help them make the allocate resources or internet and it helps individual, reach people best decisions.
appropriately, which is to protect against through the channels beneficial for society fraud and identity theft.
they prefer, and give as a whole.
them greater choice and a better customer experience.
