Vision and Strategic Goals Our vision is to enhance Fenners position as a world leader in reinforced polymer technology through being the leading global provider of local engineered solutions for performance-critical applications.
Our strategic goals, which have been level which help to define our business ECS set out on page 18 and AEP set out on formulated to assist the Group in working philosophy, tools and techniques.
page 22. towards its vision, are to increase market share The table below sets out the progress which we and target new value-added product areas to have made towards the objectives against what create a strong, growing and resilient company we said we would do in last years Annual Report.
The Groups strategic goals have also assisted In support of achieving these goals, we have previously identified 11 objectives at Group us in formulating the divisional strategies for Objectives What we said we would do What we have done in 2014 We expect to maintain capital Capital expenditure was in excess of depreciation which Invest in human capital expenditure in excess of depreciation.
we expect to continue into the future.
Extend intellectual property inventory We will continue to invest in the We have increased investment in the Groups technology Groups human capital and knowledge and people.
As part of this, we launched The Fenner Maintain and improve base.
Gateway Development Programme to train the Groups business infrastructure potential future leaders and further such initiatives are under development.
Sustain a secure balance sheet We will continue to finance the Group We took advantage of favourable conditions in financial using retained earnings and long-term markets to extend and increase our bank facilities.
ECS is targeting emerging economies ECS has invested further in its service businesses in Maximise organic and in South America and Africa.
Chile and South Africa during the year and has continued acquired growth to develop its overall presence in west and north Africa.
Increase focus on faster growing emerging AEP has developed its presence in Asia and Europe, for AEP will pursue opportunities outside markets example, through further investment in CDIs facilities its traditional US markets.
Identify fast growing applications AEP sees the oil & gas and medical AEP achieved encouraging growth in these areas in industries as areas for further 2014 and continues to see prospects for further growth growth.
ECS will continue to increase its service ECSs value-added service capabilities have been adapted Performance-critical offerings to customers in existing and to changed market conditions in the USA and Australia and new markets.
have assisted it to develop its business in other regions.
Aftermarket focus Balanced portfolio We will use AEPs expertise to identify Examples include new sealing products, most notably for and develop new products.
Exposure to long-term oil & gas applications, new polymers for use in medical growth markets textiles and NinjaFlex, an innovative 3D printing filament.
Where appropriate, we will use We have the resources in place to identify and make acquisitions to increase our exposure acquisitions which meet our criteria and we will continue to long-term growth markets.
to search for suitable targets.
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2014 10 Resilient Growing Strong
