Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Results The Board Mark Abrahams 59 Non-executive Chairman Appointment to the Board External appointments Mark became Group Finance Director in October 1990, He is also non-executive Chairman of Inditherm plc Chief Executive Officer in May 1994 and non-executive and Vice Chairman of The Leeds Teaching Hospitals Chairman in March 2011.
Committee membership Previous experience Nomination Committee Chairman.
Mark was formerly non-executive Chairman of the Darby Group plc.
He is also a member of the Economics Advisory Committee of the CBI.
Nicholas Hobson 55 Chief Executive Officer Appointment to the Board Previous experience Nick became Chief Executive Officer in March 2011 Nick was the Divisional Director of the Advanced after being with the Group for over 20 years.
Engineered Products division for nine years prior to being appointed Chief Executive Officer.
Committee Membership Executive Committee Chairman, Nomination Committee.
Richard Perry 64 Group Finance Director Appointment to the Board External appointments Richard became Group Finance Director in He is also a non-executive director of Scapa Group plc.
Previous experience Committee membership Richard was formerly a Senior Audit Partner with Price Executive Committee.
Vanda Murray OBE 53 Senior Independent Director Appointment to the Board External appointments Vanda joined the Board in January 2012.
She is also a non-executive director of Chemring Group plc, Exova Group plc and Manchester Airports Committee Membership Holdings Ltd.
Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee, Previous experience Nomination Committee.
Vanda was formerly Chief Executive Officer of Blick plc.
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2014 37 The Board continued John Sheldrick 65 Non-executive director Appointment to the Board External appointments John joined the Board in September 2010.
He is also a non-executive director of Low & Bonar PLC.
Committee Membership Audit Committee Chairman, Remuneration Previous experience Committee, Nomination Committee.
John was formerly an executive director of Johnson Matthey plc and a non-executive director of GKN.
Alan Wood 67 Non-executive director Appointment to the Board Previous experience Alan joined the Board in April 2010.
Alan was formerly non-executive Chairman of Siemens Holdings plc.
Committee Membership Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee Chairman, Nomination Committee.
Debra Bradbury 49 Group Company Secretary Debra joined the Company in April 2001 as Assistant Company Secretary and was appointed Group Company Secretary in July 2002.
