Divisional Review continued Advanced Engineered Products AEP uses advanced polymeric materials and its technical expertise to provide high value-added solutions to its customers most challenging engineering problems.
Key business strengths Performance-critical AEP products Strong positions in Manufacturing Financial record of products with represent only a growing niche expertise supported increasing revenue, significant design small proportion of markets.
by external profit and margins.
the total cost of certifications.
Divisional strategy We will continue to We will achieve We see technology We see particular We will maintain a grow AEP as a group growth through and people as being opportunities for portfolio approach to of related businesses investing in AEPs key enablers of growth in the oil & AEP and will exit developing existing businesses growth and we will gas and medical those parts which no polymer-based and, where suitable continue to invest in industries.
longer offer sufficient products for opportunities arise, them.
growth or margin performance-critical through acquisition.
Find out more about AEP and its operations at www.
com Fenner PLC Annual Report 2014 22 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Results business presence in its local markets, often being served by a number of AEP Business and organisation while gaining access to Fenners technical businesses.
Within Advanced Sealing AEP comprises three product groups: expertise, international presence and Technologies, CDI, EGC and AIP each derive Advanced Sealing Technologies: Precision financial resources to achieve further growth.
the great majority of their revenue from Polymers: and Solesis Medical Technologies.
It is a characteristic of AEP that management customers in the oil & gas industry, whilst AEP remains a US-centric business, although is granted considerable delegated other businesses within AEP, such as as it develops, both organically and through responsibilities and the opportunity to display Mandals, are more broadly based, earning acquisition, revenues from customers in entrepreneurialism.
only a proportion of their revenue from Europe and Asia Pacific are likely to increase.
AEP has grown both through acquisition and AEP uses its expertise in advanced polymeric organically.
Acquired businesses retain their materials and in application design across a brands and corporate identities where these are seen as important in maintaining the variety of markets, with particular industries Advanced Sealing Technologies Seals and other components Custom seals for upstream for mid downstream oil & gas oil & gas and petrochemicals Precision machined polymer Seals for fluid power components Precision Polymers Hoses for hydraulic fracturing, Belts for power transmission agriculture and industry Belts for printers, ATMs and Hoses for large specialist other precision applications diesel engines Solesis Medical Technologies Biomedical textile components Single-use medical devices and biomaterials Fenner PLC Annual Report 2014 23 Divisional Review continued comprise the installation of new capacity to case of AEP businesses, is generally The AEP portfolio model allow an existing product to be marketed in characterised by revenue growing at rates in AEP is a group of related businesses new regions, or investment in the business excess of GDP, strong margins and high specialising in polymer technology.
Each AEP capabilities to allow a related product to be returns on capital and cash generation.
business originally became part of the Group developed for new applications.
Each AEP business is subject to on-going As the period of rapid growth plateaus, a review, with the potential for further strategic A key part of AEPs acquisition criteria, which review process determines whether there are investment to lead to another rapid growth are set out more fully below, is that, as part of opportunities to refocus reinvent the business phase.
Businesses which are considered to Fenner, the business should be capable of in order to bring about a further phase of have insufficient growth and margin potential being scaled up.
Upon acquisition, a strategy rapid growth.
Otherwise, businesses are considered for disposal.
for the business to enter into a phase of rapid transition into steady growth which, in the growth is implemented: such a strategy might Aquisition by Fenner Rapid Focus and Steady Review Growth Growth Invest Focus and invest Rapid growth Steady growth Focus competitive strategy bears core activities, maturing define refine competitive strategy fruit business tight focus on market niche s rapid revenue growth strong margins and returns volume leverage grows strong cash generation Invest margin and operating profit in capacity, capabilities and products continued review of portfolio return on capital improves organic and or bolt-on acquisitions typically self-funded Acquisition criteria How the business may appear before acquisition: Value potential as part of Fenner: polymer business with AEP value proposition return on sales of over 20% presence in targeted growth market opportunity to scale up meaningful intellectual property return on investment of over 20% often unfocused or underinvested management of acquisition risk e. g. through contingent consideration Fenner PLC Annual Report 2014 24 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Results EGC and Mandals, which each predominantly growth going back over 30 years and is Life cycle of AEP businesses serve the oil & gas industry, are expected to achieving amongst the highest returns on The chart below illustrates how individual enter the Rapid Growth phase shortly, invested capital in AEP, and Hallite, where AEP businesses are distributed between the reflecting recently undertaken investment there are opportunities to refocus and reinvest different phases of growth.
Within Solesis Medical in certain parts of its business.
Technologies, Secant Medical has shown CDI, which serves the oil & gas industry and Overall, some 48 per cent of revenue in 2014 significant growth in recent years and which is AEPs largest single business, is in was derived from AEP businesses either in investment currently being implemented in its the Rapid Growth phase, having been through the Rapid Growth phase or about to enter this facilities and product pipeline should see this a process of extending and re-equipping its phase, with the remainder being derived from growth accelerate.
factories, investing in its technical resources businesses in the Steady Growth phase.
and sales channels and having made bolt-on Businesses in the Steady Growth phase acquisitions.
include Fenner Drives, which has a record of Focus and Invest Rapid Growth Steady Growth Advanced Sealing Technologies Precision Polymers Solesis Medical Technologies Share of AEP revenue 27% 21% 52% Based on year ended 31 August 2014. economic and other variables which could Revenue analysis Revenue analysis influence AEPs trading.
Markets served do By markets served The oil & gas and medical markets have not correspond with individual businesses been identified as markets in which AEP % within AEP, with, for example, the oil & gas is capable of generating faster revenue 100 Faster Growing Markets industry being served by businesses within growth.
Revenue generated by AEP from Oil & Gas 30% Advanced Sealing Technologies and within its customers in the oil & gas industry 80 Medical 12% Precision Polymers.
together with revenue generated by Solesis Medical Technologies accounted General Industrial 20% The Americas, principally the USA, 60 for 42 per cent of AEPs total revenue.
Construction 12% accounted for 58 per cent of AEPs revenue Other core markets served are generally Transportation 10% by destination in 2014.
AEP is continuing to 40 characterised as steady growth, with develop its businesses in other regions.
Automation 5% General Industrial including sales to EMEA and Asia Pacific accounted for 26 Fluid Power 5% 20 end-customers through independent per cent and 16 per cent respectively of Agriculture 4% distributors.
Mining 2% 0 Overall, the distribution of AEPs revenue across different industrial segments provides an indication of the macroFenner PLC Annual Report 2014 25
