Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Results Other Statutory Information Debra Bradbury Group Company Secretary The directors submit their management Insurance.
These policies were in force during Directors and their interests report and the audited Group financial the financial year ended 31 August 2014 and The names of the directors in office during the statements for the financial year ended remain in place at 11 November 2014. year and up to the date of signing the financial 31 August 2014. statements and their brief biographies and Employment policy other details, including other significant The Group operates worldwide and its Results and dividends commitments, are as shown on pages 37 to 38. employment policies are designed to meet 2013 local conditions and requirements, but are Details of the directors beneficial interests in 1 2014 Restated established on the basis of the best practices the ordinary shares of the Company, in share m m in each country and support the principles of options over the ordinary share capital of the the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
Group profit for the year 24.7 48.0 Company and in the Performance Share Plan Wherever the Group operates, we ensure we are given in the Board Remuneration Report recruit and retain a competent and diverse on pages 55 to 64.
For Fenner, equal opportunities Save as disclosed in the Board Remuneration Interim 4.0p per share means employing the best people for the Report: business from the widest pool of candidates.
2013: 3.75p payable 7.8 7.3 No director has any interest beneficial or The Groups employment policy is to secure Final 8.0p per share non-beneficial in any share or loan good relations between management and all 2013: 7.5p proposed 15.5 14.5 capital of the Company or any of its employees, to promote a better understanding subsidiaries: of all the issues, both internal and external, that influence the Groups business Total dividend 23.3 21.8 No change in the interests of directors performance and to improve performance and has occurred between the end of the productivity.
We align employee remuneration 1 2013 restated following the adoption of IAS 19 financial year and 11 November 2014: and with performance objectives through Revised Employee Benefits.
appropriate incentive plans aligned with Group There were no contracts of significance Political donations strategy.
The cost and practicalities of a subsisting during or at the end of the It is the Groups policy that no donations are Group-wide employee share scheme are kept financial year in which a director of the made to political parties.
under review: currently the complexity of Company was materially interested.
multiple jurisdictions render such schemes Substantial shareholdings In accordance with the recommendation in the impracticable.
UK Corporate Governance Code, all directors As of 31 August 2014, the following interests Formal and informal meetings are used to in shares have been notified to the Company: will be offering themselves up for re-election consult employees and to keep them informed on an annual basis.
The performance of each % of issued about the performance of the Group.
The of the directors continues to be effective and Interested party share capital practices of consultation and involvement vary they continue to demonstrate commitment to from country to country according to local the role and the Company.
Standard Life Investment customs, legal considerations and the size of Holdings Limited 13.19 Directors indemnities and the operation.
The regular issue of the GroupAberdeen Asset Managers Limited 10.64 wide magazine Fenner Focus assists insurance cover Threadneedle Asset Management internal communication, including extensive A qualifying third party indemnity QTPI, as Holdings Limited 5.81 coverage of the Groups half year and full year permitted by the Companys Articles of Norges Bank Investment Management 3.54 results: as do briefing meetings, information Association and the Companies Act 2006, has bulletins and meetings with employee been granted by the Company to each of the As at 11 November 2014, the Company had representatives.
Under the provisions of the QTPI, been advised of the following changes to the the Company undertakes to indemnify each The Group continues to recognise its social and interests notified above: director against claims from third parties in statutory duties to disabled persons and does % of issued respect of certain liabilities excluding Interested party share capital all that is practicable to meet this criminal and regulatory penalties arising out responsibility.
Full and fair consideration is of, or in connection with, the execution of their Standard Life Investment given to the recruitment, training, career Holdings Limited 14.04 powers, duties and responsibilities as development and promotion of disabled Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited 9.98 directors of the Company or any of its persons.
If an employee becomes disabled Threadneedle Asset Management subsidiaries.
The Group also holds while employed by the Group, wherever Holdings Limited 4.98 appropriate Directors and Officers Liability possible, he or she will continue to be Fenner PLC Annual Report 2014 51 Other Statutory Information continued employed in the same job.
If this action is not who is present in person or by proxy shall have such other evidence as the Board may practicable or possible then every effort will be one vote and, on a poll, every member present reasonably require to show the right of the made to find suitable alternative employment.
in person or by proxy shall have one vote for transferor to make the transfer and, if the each share.
In the case of joint holders of a instrument of transfer is executed by some In these circumstances, retraining would be made available using Group resources as well share, the vote of the senior holder who other person on his or her behalf, the as by contact with local disabilities tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, authority of that person to do so : is in respect employment advisors.
shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of only one class of shares: and is in favour of of the other joint holders.
not more than four transferees.
A detailed review of the Groups employment policy is set out in Corporate For this purpose, seniority shall be determined If the Board refuses to register a transfer of a Responsibility on pages 32 to 33 by the order in which the names of the holders share, it shall send the transferee notice of its stand in the register.
refusal together with reasons for the refusal within two months after the date on which the Environmental policy Restrictions on voting instrument of transfer was lodged with the The Group recognises and accepts that Unless the Board determine otherwise, no Company.
concern for the environment is an integral member shall be entitled to vote at a General and fundamental part of the Groups Meeting, either in person or by proxy, in Appointment and replacement of corporate business strategy.
respect of any share held unless all moneys directors are fully paid up on that share.
In addition, no Unless varied by ordinary resolution, the A detailed review of the Groups member shall be entitled to vote if he has been environmental policy is set out in Corporate number of directors other than alternate Responsibility on pages 34 to 35 served with a notice after failure to provide the directors shall be not less than two nor more Company with information concerning than 15 in number.
interests in those shares required to be The Group Environmental Policy can be At each AGM, all directors shall retire from provided under the Companies Act.
com office and be eligible for re-election, in line Deadline for exercising voting rights with best corporate practice.
Voting rights may be exercised in person, by Financial risk management The Board may appoint a director either to fill a proxy or by a Corporate Representative.
The Details of the Groups financial risk casual vacancy or as an additional director deadline for submission of proxy forms is not management policies are given in the provided that the appointment does not cause less than 48 hours before the time appointed Strategic Report on page 27 and note 21 to the the number of directors to exceed the maximum for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting.
Group financial statements on pages 92 to 95. prescribed by the Articles.
A director so Variation of rights appointed shall hold office only until the next Statutory information Subject to the provisions of legislation, the following AGM.
If not re-elected at such AGM, Set out below is a summary of certain Articles specify that rights attaching to any the director shall vacate office at its conclusion.
provisions of the Companys current Articles class of shares may be varied or abrogated, of Association the Articles and the Powers of directors either with the consent in writing of the holders Companies Act 2006 Companies Act.
If Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act of three-quarters in nominal value of the further information is required, the relevant and Articles and to any directions given by issued shares of the class being varied or with provisions of the Articles and the Companies special resolution, the business of the Company the sanction of a special resolution passed at a Act should be consulted.
shall be managed by the Board which may separate General Meeting of the holders of the exercise all the powers of the Company.
Share capital The Board may exercise all the powers of the Details of the Companys issued share capital Transfer of shares Company to borrow money, to mortgage or as at 31 August 2014, together with details of All transfers of certificated shares may be in charge all or any part of its undertaking, shares issued during the year, are set out in any usual form or in any other form which the property, assets present or future and note 8 to the Company financial statements on Board may approve.
The instrument of transfer uncalled capital and to issue debentures and page 115 to 116.
Each ordinary share of the shall be signed by or on behalf of the other securities whether outright or as Company carries one vote.
The Company has a transferor and, unless the share is fully paid, by collateral security for any debt, liability or single class of share capital which is divided or on behalf of the transferee.
An instrument of obligation of the Company or of any third party.
into ordinary shares of 25p each.
transfer need not be under seal.
Transfers of shares which are in uncertificated form are Subject to the provisions of the Companies Dividends and distributions effected by means of the CREST system.
Act and Articles, at a General Meeting, the Subject to the provisions of the Companies Board may request authority to allot shares Act, the Company may, by ordinary resolution, The Board may refuse to register the transfer of and the power to disapply the statutory prefrom time to time declare dividends not a share which is not fully paid, provided that the emption rights and the authority to buy the exceeding the amount recommended by the refusal does not prevent dealings in shares in Company's own ordinary shares in the Board.
The Board may pay interim dividends, the Company from taking place on an open and market.
Currently the Board requests such including fixed rate dividends, whenever the proper basis.
In the case of uncertificated shares, consent at each AGM.
At the 2014 AGM, the financial position of the Company, in the the Board may exercise its discretion to refuse directors were authorised to exercise the opinion of the Board, justifies such payment.
to register a transfer of a share to the extent powers of the Company to purchase a Dividends will be paid pro-rata to the amounts permitted by the regulations and the facilities maximum of 19,398,234 of its ordinary shares.
In specie and scrip and requirements of the relevant system.
No shares were purchased under this dividends can be authorised at a General The Board may also refuse to register the authority in 2014.
This authority will last until Meeting at the Boards recommendation.
transfer of a certificated share unless the the end of the 2015 AGM or 28 February 2015, Voting rights instrument of transfer is lodged, duly stamped if earlier.
The details of requested authorities Subject to any rights or restrictions attaching if stampable at the office or at another place and powers in connection with the AGM to be to any shares by or in accordance with the appointed by the Board, accompanied by the held on 14 January 2015 are set out in the certificate for the share to which it relates and Articles, at a General Meeting, every member Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2014 52 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Results Significant agreements: change of control All of the Companys current share plans contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and options would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
Amendment to Articles of Association Any amendments to the Articles may be made in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act by way of special resolution.
Branches Fenner, through various subsidiaries, has branches in a number of different countries in which the business operates.
Strategic Report Pursuant to Section 414C of the Companies Act 2006, the Strategic Report contains details in relation to the likely future developments of the business of the Group and the disclosure of greenhouse gas emissions for which the Company is responsible.
Independent auditors Resolutions to re-appoint  LLP as independent auditors to the Company and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the 2015 AGM.
As far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
Each director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Annual General Meeting As special business at the forthcoming AGM, resolutions will be proposed to approve a new Performance Share Plan, renew the directors authority to allot shares, to disapply the statutory pre-emption rights to a limited extent and to make market purchases of ordinary shares in the Company subject to defined limits.
Resolutions will also be proposed to hold General Meetings on 14 days notice.
The proposed resolutions and further details regarding these proposals are set out in the Chairmans explanatory letter accompanying the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors Debra Bradbury Group Company Secretary 11 November 2014 Fenner PLC Annual Report 2014 53
