Divisional Review Engineered Conveyor Solutions ECS offers a unique, comprehensive suite of products and services which support the conveying needs of the mining, power generation and bulk handling markets.
Key business strengths Leading global Predominantly a Mission-critical for Well invested and ECS offers the lowest supplier of a full consumables and customers efficiency strategically located total cost of range of heavyweight service business, but a relatively small manufacturing and ownership for the conveyor belting driven by the volume part of their total service facilities.
Divisional strategy We believe that our We see Australia as We will continue to We see particular We see the mediumability to offer a long-term winner grow our presence growth opportunities term future for US customers a in the mining in emerging mining in hard rock mining, coal production as comprehensive suite industry and we and industrial where we currently being generally of conveying products intend to maintain regions, such as have a relatively low stable, although its and services places and develop our South America, the market share.
relative importance us in a uniquely market leadership Middle East and to ECS as a whole is advantageous there.
Find out more about ECS and its operations at www.
com Fenner PLC Annual Report 2014 18 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Results of ownership.
Flexible solutions can also be ECS business model and value Revenue analysis adopted to respond to a customers market creation By revenue type constraints.
ECS is a recognised leader in the global ECS is predominantly a consumables and conveying market, under the Fenner, ECS is organised as a single global business, services business, driven by the volume of Fenner Dunlop and Dunlop brand names.
which reflects both a trend amongst its material, mostly extracted by mines and largest mining customers to procure belting moved through facilities such as ports, with a ECS has developed a comprehensive range of products and services on a global basis and smaller proportion relating to other bulk heavyweight belt products, including ply, solid its strategy to accelerate growth in noncommodities such as building materials.
woven and steel cord, which it manufactures traditional regions.
Within this structure, ECS in its plants around the world.
ECS provides New capacity installed by customers, for has three regional business groupings conveying services including monitoring, example in relation to the development of new Americas, Asia Pacific and EMEA which maintenance, design and installation and mines, accounted for only 15% of ECS revenue enable it to respond flexibly to the local needs supply related components such as pulleys, in 2014. of individual customers.
ECS has strong global coverage, with Replacement Belt ECS offers commercial arrangements to its particular strengths in Australia and the USA.
customers that vary from a purely Its organisational structure should assist it in transactional relationship to a full strategic developing positions in newer mining markets partnership.
Each type of product or service 64% to offset potential future declines in revenue within the ECS portfolio provides benefits but from customers in more traditional areas the full value is only realised by the integrated such as Europe.
Service offer which is optimised to reduce the customers conveyor downtime and total cost 21% ECS New Customer Capacity Products Services Heavyweight Maintenance 15% conveyor belt and monitoring Ply Design and installation Solid woven Facility Steel cord management Conveyor system Engineering related components and diagnostics Examples of ECS products and services Solid woven Steel cord Service Made on state-of-the-art equipment with high Our safety culture, advanced technical Fenaplast solid woven conveyor belting is fire specification pre-tensioned steel cords procedures, quality assurance,  to the most stringent safety encased in premium rubber compounds, it is art expertise, complete set of competencies, standards.
With a one piece carcass and used on the longest, fastest high capacity continual innovation and overall integral covers, it is ideal for coal and underground application.
conveyor systems in the world.
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2014 19 Divisional Review continued populations in China and elsewhere in the tonnages of material will have to be extracted Overview of end markets developing world.
This in turn will lead to and moved for each tonne of metal produced.
Demand for ECS products and services is growth in demand for iron ore, metallurgical predominantly driven by tonnage of material coal and copper.
Global coal, iron ore and copper production extracted and consequently consumption of index 1994 100 the related commodity.
Through the Fenner expects that changing patterns in the commodity cycle, changes in sentiment in the 300 demand for, and supply of, commodities will mining industry can also be an important increasingly favour low-cost producers of high influence on demand for belt products and 250 quality coal and ore. A significant proportion services.
The three principal commodities of this low-cost production is located in 200 that impact ECS are steel through its major Australia, where Fenner is the market leader feedstocks iron ore and metallurgical coal, 150 in the supply of belts and related services, and thermal coal and copper.
newer mining regions where Fenner is 100 As illustrated in the graph, global production increasing its presence.
The principal production of copper in particular are also Copper Production Copper Forecast global drivers of this are higher demand for expected to increase due to progressive Iron Ore Production access to electricity which is expected to lead Iron Ore Forecast Coal Production Coal Forecast reductions in the quality of ore and increases to increased consumption of thermal coal and the continuing urbanisation of the in overburden.
This will mean that larger Source:  Revenue analysis Revenue analysis By markets served By destination % 100 80 60 Thermal Coal 40% 40 Other Extractive Industries 28% Asia Pacific Americas EMEA Bulk Materials 20 Handling 21% 41% 39% 20% Metallurgical Coal 11% 0 From 2013 to 2020, US coal production is ECS in the Americas South America expected to show slight growth.
However, ECS has a growing presence in Chile, where North America based on EIA forecasts as shown on the some of the worlds largest deposits of high ECSs business in the USA serves mainly the graph below, the Illinois Basin and the quality copper ore are located.
The remote coal industry, together with various industrial Northern Appalachians will gain share at the locations of many mines and the abrasive segments.
expense of higher cost producers located in nature of copper ore increase demand for the Central Appalachians.
ECSs customers in the coal industry are specialist belt product and services.
principally engaged in long-wall mining and Over the longer term, US consumption of ECS also supplies belting product to other located in the Illinois Basin and the Northern thermal coal is expected to gradually decline, countries in South America, primarily for the Appalachians NAPP.
ECS supplies only driven by environmental legislation, although extraction of coal, iron ore and industrial limited amounts of product into the Powder the speed and extent of the decline is likely to applications.
River Basin PRB, where mining is remain uncertain for some time.
predominantly open-cast with output handled primarily by truck and shovel, and the Central ECS has an established presence in Canada, Appalachians CAPP.
supplying various hard rock and potash mines.
The great majority of thermal coal mined in Estimated and forecast coal production the USA is consumed domestically for the by US regions generation of electricity.
During 2014, coals measured in BTU of coal produced share of electricity generation has shown a Billion BTU small recovery, partly due to higher natural 16,000,000 gas prices having incentivised some 14,000,000 generators to switch fuels, although sentiment 12,000,000 Principal regions amongst US coal miners generally remained served by Fenner fragile, with increased emphasis on short- 10,000,000 NAPP term profitability and cash conservation.
8,000,000 Illinois Basin 6,000,000 Producers of metallurgical coal, much of Other regions which is exported, have been adversely 4,000,000 PRB impacted by lower prices as growth in global 2,000,000 2013 2020 CAPP supply has exceeded increases in demand.
0 Source: EIA Fenner Year Fenner PLC Annual Report 2014 20 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Results Australian coal exports: ECS in Asia Pacific Asia indices of volumes and prices ECS has a well established and developing Australia 200 presence in China and India, where the coal ECSs business in Australia predominantly market has been characterised by excess serves the coal industry in the east of the supply and falling coal prices which has led country and the iron ore industry in the west.
ECS has been Australia contains some of the highest quality successful in maintaining and extending its mineral resources in the world and is home to 100 position as a supplier of high-performance some of the lowest cost producers.
The great belt for certain critical applications to majority of material extracted is exported, leading mining companies in China which 50 mainly to customers in Asia.
Mine ownership operate some of the most sophisticated is concentrated amongst a relatively small mines in the world.
0 ECS has a limited presence in India, where it 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 During 2014, Australian producers continued supplies the coal mining industry.
This Australian Coking Coal Exports the trend of increasing the quantities of coal industry is continuing to grow, although at a Contract Coking Coal Price $USD RHS and iron ore exported, as shown in the slower rate than previously expected, whilst adjacent graphs.
Australian Thermal Coal Exports facing on-going economic and political Newcastle 6,000Kc Thermal Coal Prices $USD RHS uncertainties.
The market for conveyor belting As also illustrated in the graphs below, these Source: Bloomberg increases in exports have taken place against in India reflects general over-supply of lower Source: McCloskey a backdrop of falling commodity prices and grades of belt and intense price competition.
Australian iron ore exports: have led to miners significantly reducing indices of volumes and prices capital expenditure and reviewing their supply chains, both of which have adversely impacted 200 demand for conveyor belt products and services.
Fenner believes that the mining industry in 150 Australia has a strong long-term future and has therefore invested significantly in the 100 country over recent years.
This includes the construction of a new facility in Western Australia, fully commissioned in 2013, to 50 serve the iron ore mining industry.
This makes ECS the only belting company with a 0 manufacturing facility in the region.
Alongside 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 its belt manufacturing capabilities, ECS has built up a significant service business which Iron Ore Exports Tonnes accounts for a higher proportion of total ECS Iron Ore Price $USD revenue than in any other significant market.
Source: Bloomberg Manufacturing and sales and service ECS in EMEA branches in EMEA ECSs operations in EMEA are centred around manufacturing facilities in the Netherlands, the Republic of South Africa RSA and the UK.
The facility in the Netherlands, which has recently been significantly expanded, is well placed for the ports through which it is able to serve many of the newer markets for ECS products such as north and west Africa and the Middle East.
ECS has recently established service operations in some of these markets, including Ghana and Dubai, although the markets are not yet sufficiently large to justify having their own manufacturing facility.
In RSA, ECS is an important supplier of belting product and services to the coal mining industry, which produces thermal coal for use domestically and for export.
ECS is increasing its presence in hard rock mining and value-added services.
In the UK, the domestic coal mining industry Manufacturing units has all but disappeared.
ECS has an ECS Manufacturing Units Sales and service branches KEY established presence in Russia and Ukraine, Sales & Service Branches which is largely serviced by the UK factory, although the immediate outlook for both these markets is weak due to political and economic factors.
