Corporate Responsibility Operating our companies in a safe and socially considerate manner is crucial to the long-term sustainability of our business.
Nicholas Hobson Chief Executive Officer statutory requirements and is encouraged to required to undertake a risk-based Why corporate responsibility is operate in accordance with identified best assessment of their local H&S management important to Fenner practice within the Group.
systems and develop appropriate Fenner believes that corporate responsibility improvement plans.
In line with the culture of is a key driver in helping to deliver long-term Health and safety delegated accountability in the Group, the sustainable business success.
Additionally, Why it matters to Fenner accountability for managing H&S and we recognise that we have social and Health and safety H&S is a core value: it is developing local H&S management systems environmental responsibilities to the clearly stated in our safety management resides with local management: this ensures communities in which we operate.
By system that anyone working for Fenner the systems are appropriate to the local addressing our corporate responsibilities should expect to return home in the same fit culture, organisation and regulatory appropriately, we can add to the overall and healthy state in which they came to work.
environment, while additionally seeking to success of the business, enhancing our meet best practice standards.
To ensure that Our Group policies also require that everyone reputation, profitability and shareholder return.
who works for Fenner, regardless of location, local H&S management systems are robust is responsible for the safety of both themselves and fit for purpose, The Framework How we manage corporate encompasses the principle of continuous and their colleagues.
We recognise that this is responsibility an individual and collective responsibility and improvement.
This obliges local management Fenner strives to understand and manage to drive improvements at a pace that is continuously work to discharge the obligation significant risks to the environment and sustainable and appropriate to the size and to ensure that the workplace is safe for communities in which we operate, as well as ourselves, our colleagues, our customers and culture of the operating unit.
considering the positive impact we can make all those with whom we work.
We have a well established programme which through our activities.
Our approach to Fenner looks for and promotes H&S as a key oversees the long-term delivery of The corporate social responsibility focuses on five Framework into our operating units culture.
component in the culture of each of its key areas: Key elements comprise: operations.
The Health, Safety and Health and safety: Environmental Management System An annual review process that generates Framework The Framework provides Our people: individual operating unit improvement structure and guidance regarding each of our plans: Environment: activities, to deliver continuous improvement Community: and within the unique culture and autonomy of our An external assurance programme which operations.
The Framework provides measures Group performance against Business behaviours.
individuals, operating units and new industry-wide benchmarks and best The risks associated with these five areas are acquisitions with a clear understanding of practice standards: managed as part of the Groups risk what is required of them, while allowing local At the divisional level, a network of senior management framework and are continuously management the freedom to develop their H&S professionals with multi-site monitored and assessed, with appropriate systems to satisfy local legislation, practice overview whose remit is to provide controls put in place as necessary to reduce and social mores.
technical guidance and challenge to any potential impact.
Not only is a good H&S record a clear sign of operating units: and The Board sets the strategy and has overall a sustainable business, but also, for many Improved communication and sharing responsibility for the development and customers, it is a prerequisite for our across the broader H&S community monitoring of the Groups policies relating to employees working on their property.
The task of ensuring commercial benefits include reduced that these policies are communicated and operational costs associated with accidents The continuous improvement approach to applied at a divisional and operating unit level and lower insurance premiums.
H&S management and the core processes is delegated through the Chief Executive integral to this are illustrated in the Safety What policies and practices are in Officer to senior managing directors and on to Management System diagram.
each operating units senior management.
All Group, we have had an extremely positive policies and associated management systems The Framework, together with Group policies, response to the structure and clarity provided are reviewed at least annually and at any time forms the foundation of the Group HSE by The Framework.
when significant changes in the business, Management System.
The Framework legislation or industry standards demand.
contains clear guidance on process and the The Group Health and Safety Policy can Each operating unit is responsible for Expectations that the Group places on all our be viewed at www.
com ensuring that, as a minimum, it meets local operating units.
All operating units are Fenner PLC Annual Report 2014 30
