Fidessa group plc 06 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report continued around the globe, is becoming Sell-side trading Fidessa has increasingly important.
For firms Across its sell-side business Fidessa seen continued specialising in execution, Fidessa is has seen continued improvement in improvement in extending its advanced analytics and its markets.
Whilst overall trading optimised trading capabilities, for conditions for Fidessas customers its markets.
example allowing firms to better have remained somewhat mixed, with manage orders with differing low volumes in some markets and liquidity as well as providing more higher volumes in others, the overall efficient execution functionality themes of cost and regulation are embedded within their workflow.
starting to drive opportunities across For all firms, Fidessa has continued both the equities and derivatives to enhance its compliance markets.
This is increasingly putting monitoring and risk management smaller undifferentiated firms under functionality, helping to ensure pressure, and favouring those able to they can remain compliant as offer either scale or specialisations.
new regulations come into force.
As a result, Fidessa is focusing on In winning new deals across all those larger scale or differentiated regions this has also included further opportunities where its global expansion in Latin America where delivery capability and wide base of Fidessa has increased its data centre functionally rich product is becoming coverage to support the growth.
These are also areas in which there are very few In Asia Fidessa has seen particularly vendors who can meet a customers strong growth, driven by a dynamic detailed requirements whilst also market and strong interest from having the infrastructure necessary to the super-regional brokers.
meet the latest compliance demands These brokers, who are aiming to being made by the regulators.
provide a comprehensive service across a region rather than specific The themes described above have markets, require much of the been apparent across Fidessas workflow functionality normally equities business where it has associated with global firms and continued to gain market share, so provide another opportunity winning both new deals and for Fidessas unique offerings.
extending its relationship with In addition to the complexity of existing customers.
Whilst Europe operating across a diverse range of has seen continued pressure as a markets, these firms also face steep result of the slower economic challenges from some of the local recovery, both Europe and the regulators who set a high bar for the Americas have seen strong interest in security and integrity of their the areas of global order handling, infrastructure and risk management.
order analytics and order execution.
This makes Fidessas service-based For firms working on a global basis, platform, with its integrated risk Fidessas ability to provide global layer, an increasingly attractive order switching functionality, which solution in the region.
These factors enables firms to maintain full visibility have led to the signing of further of orders whilst they are routed
