Fidessa group plc 02 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report continued expect the gradual improvement in Overview We expect that we will market conditions seen during 2014 During 2014 we have continued see a gradual increase to continue.
This may result in further to make progress across the business in our growth from the reductions in the headwind we face as against a backdrop of slowly level achieved in 2014. well as increased opportunity across improving market conditions and this all our business lines.
As a result, we has resulted in a welcome return to expect that we will see a gradual underlying growth.
As expected, the increase in our growth rate from the improving market conditions meant level achieved in 2014 and this is we saw a reduction in the headwind supported by the current sales we have been suffering in recent pipeline.
As new opportunities open years from consolidations, up, it is likely that some additional restructurings and closures in our investment will be required and this customer base.
This allowed some of will need to be carefully managed the growth we are generating through throughout the year.
sales of our derivatives platforms, our service-based platforms and our Looking further ahead, we believe regional expansion to flow through that stability and opportunity will into overall growth rather than being increasingly return to the markets masked by the decline in equities.
and as our multi-asset initiative Whilst the business saw a return to gains further momentum, we will underlying growth the exceptional see growth levels returning closer strength of sterling during the year, to those we have seen in the past.
as highlighted in the interim results, We remain excited by the potential more than offset this growth and for our service-based offerings affected the reported numbers.
across all asset classes and segments This effect is, however, believed to of our market and believe that we be transient and is not expected to will continue to play an important continue into 2015. role as customers focus on efficiency, transparency, compliance and As we move into 2015, whilst performance.
