Fidessa group plc 08 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report continued compliance area and also look to become clearer.
In particular, Fidessa The market expand into adjacent areas of is now seeing some definite rules opportunity remains regulatory exposure.
starting to form as part of MiFID II.
substantial and this During the consultation and review will provide a strong With its significant coverage of the process, MiFID was split into a post-trade affirmation process on Directive MiFID and a Regulation base for growth.
both the buy-side and sell-side, MiFIR with application of new rules Fidessa is uniquely placed to drive from January 2017.
MiFID II is likely forward the industry adoption of to have widespread implications the new open standards which for Fidessas customers including have been pioneered by key asset new rules and requirements around managers such as American Century algorithmic trading and algo Investments and Capital Group.
Emphasis is also being In the same way that FIX has applied to risk checks at a number transformed the order routing of different levels within the flow.
process, Fidessa believes a postWhilst individual rules are likely to trade revolution is underway as these be specific and complex, there is standards allow firms to directly a common theme within them affirm fund level trades with their that means that firms will need brokers across multiple asset classes, increasingly tighter integration of rather than relying on central all their electronic flow for risk and matching solutions.
This will create further which are a natural extension of the pressure to ensure that workflow order and execution process into the across all the regulated asset allocation, confirmation and classes is well managed for all affirmation process, will give a types of business, and is an area greater level of surety that the trade, in which Fidessa is very economic and settlement details well positioned.
have been captured correctly and Market sizing exchanged with the broker.
During 2014, Fidessa conducted The imminent launch of Fidessas a further exercise to look at the Affirmation Management Service potential market size for its products.
provides the first comprehensive The exercise was comparable to solution for the buy-side, with the exercises carried out by Fidessa in business workflow and extensive 2005, 2007 and 2009.
It should be broker distribution required all noted that this exercise involves integrated into a simple and cost estimation of the number of potential effective service.
customers in the market, estimation Regulation of customer spend and assumptions After long periods of consultation regarding the applicability of Fidessa following the financial crisis, the products to certain markets and the regulatory environment is starting to results are therefore necessarily
