Fidessa group plc 07 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 significant deals in the region and a execution service.
This service, compliance functionality, expanded good pipeline of prospects, helping which provides a globally consistent reporting and new tools operating Fidessa to expand its presence in this execution platform with regional across all stages of workflow, from rapidly changing market.
specificity, supports the entire intelligent modelling to smart, workflow required for the electronic compliant order routing.
The first Within derivatives Fidessa has made desk.
It also allows firms to integrate fully managed, service-based very strong progress during 2014 and use their own intellectual implementation also went live during with revenue nearly doubled.
In property within its robust and the year, and this is now being addition to the further US investment compliant infrastructure, radically expanded across other asset classes.
bank reported at the half year, reducing the cost of operating Providing service-based solutions Fidessa has now signed another two this type of electronic service.
such as this leverages Fidessas large firms for its global derivatives This investment will continue with global technology infrastructure and platform.
Deployment of these further expansion planned in 2015. builds on its capabilities, developed platforms will be continuing during within the sell-side, for hosting and 2015 and is expected to support Buy-side trading managing complex workflow systems further very strong revenue growth Although market conditions are for clients.
These deals also act gradually improving, sentiment to reinforce the positioning of within the buy-side remains relatively Compliance remains a key focus Fidessas offering as the leading muted with firms facing an for buy-side firms as regulatory derivatives platform in the market, unprecedented set of challenges.
pressure increases, and is an area helping to strengthen the pipeline These include increased complexity in which Fidessa has continued to still further.
During 2015 Fidessa will across a broad range of asset classes, focus.
The latest version of Fidessas be continuing with its derivatives global coverage, elusive liquidity in award-winning Sentinel compliance investment programme, in particular fragmented markets, ongoing system introduces Active Compliance focusing on the middle office, risk pressures arising from global which looks to extend the and order analytics as well as regulatory reform and continued compliance function out to nonextending its infrastructure to client demands for transparency, compliance users, ultimately support new market requirements.
all alongside shrinking margins and facilitating superior investment pressure to reduce operational costs.
In response to the need for Fidessa has continued to grow its Historically, many firms have used firms to respond rapidly to new and connectivity service across all the multiple solutions to support changing regulations, Fidessa has regions in which its customers different parts of their business, but launched its Analytic Builder which operate.
Fidessas global network the pressures in the market now empowers business users to directly now serves around 900 brokers, over mean that there is a growing trend introduce new data and calculations, 4,000 buy-sides and more than 200 for firms to rationalise and move and an Auditing Workbench which trading venues worldwide.
The value towards a single platform across provides internal and external of activity going across Fidessas their business, potentially creating auditing tools.
In 2014 the first global network has continued to opportunities for Fidessa.
customers for the new service-based grow and now stands at over $1.5 version of Sentinel went live with a trillion per month.
During the year During 2014 Fidessa launched the number of new client wins for the Fidessa has continued to invest in its latest version of its Investment service also achieved.
Looking low latency and co-location solutions Management System with new forward into 2015, Fidessa will as it builds out its market leading features including enhanced continue to develop within the
