Fidessa group plc 05 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Fidessa maintains ownership of its obligations.
These are all areas Market review product and service architecture and Introduction in which Fidessa can assist its is committed to internal development Whilst the impact of the financial customers through its scale, its to obtain tight integration crisis in 2008 continues to cast some service-based offerings and its throughout its solutions.
As a result shadows across financial markets, functionally rich product suite.
of this approach, there have been Fidessa has seen a slow and steady only a very small number of improvement in market conditions.
Providing tailored This is reflected in a further reduction to extend the range of asset classes products and services to a broad in the headwind from consolidations it supports, expand its regional range of customers on both the and closures to 3%, which continues coverage and build out its global buy-side and sell-side means Fidessa the process seen in the first half.
infrastructure have positioned has a unique understanding of the As a result of these improved market it well as markets recover.
conditions, Fidessas customers are These programmes will continue into starting to cautiously position 2015 alongside new programmes in Fidessa charges for its solutions themselves for expansion and the areas of compliance and trading primarily on a rental and subscription growth.
In particular, customers are optimisation and measurement.
basis which is reflected in the high looking at the regions that they cover Fidessa will also continue its level of recurring revenue reported and at extending the services they programme to extend the services it each period.
This gives increased can offer to their customers.
can offer between the buy-side and stability to the business and allows Underlying this more optimistic sell-side, particularly in areas where Fidessa to commit to the long-term outlook there is still a strong focus there is the opportunity to improve development of its products on cost, with most firms believing the workflow and efficiency in the and services.
that there has been a fundamental buy-side sell-side relationship.
structural change in the market Fidessa has been consistently which will put pressure on their Fidessa has continued to see profitable which has provided strong margins for the foreseeable future.
expansion of its connectivity network cash generation.
This, combined with The long discussed compliance rules as it brings on new derivatives the limited number of acquisitions, are also starting to appear on customers and expands its has resulted in a healthy cash the horizon, and it is becoming relationships with larger and mid-tier balance.
The annual dividend has a clear that firms will increasingly have firms.
As a result the total value of pay-out ratio of approximately 45% to ensure that they have their business going through Fidessas which provides a reasonable return workflow well managed in order to connectivity network has continued to shareholders whilst also providing meet their regulatory obligations.
to increase to over $1.5 trillion per funds for potential acquisitions and These pressures are forcing firms month.
However, the continued replenishing the cash balance.
to look for operating efficiencies, pressure on headcount within the However, in the absence of whether this is through scaling their finance industry has seen the total acquisitions, Fidessa has a track operations, focusing on niche number of users drop slightly to just record of returning the additional opportunities or reducing their under 24,000. cash to shareholders in the form of costs through more efficient use of special dividends.
technology as well as looking at new solutions that can ensure they will be able to meet their regulatory
