Fidessa group plc 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors and corporate governance report This section of the Annual Report outlines how the Board maintains high standards of corporate governance as well as providing a summary of how each of the Boards committees function.
The Board believes in good governance and recognises the importance of complying with the various aspects of the UK governance framework.
The Board has seen a number of changes this year reflecting its continued commitment to ensuring it has the right balance of skills and experience and is sufficiently diverse.
The appointments of John Worby and Ken Archer as nonexecutive directors further reinforced the Board.
Following Andy Malpass decision to retire, as announced in February last year, the Board is actively seeking a replacement finance director and upon appointment of his replacement there will be a well-managed handover process.
Finally, the Board continues to welcome interaction with shareholders and I and the other non-executive directors are available for dialogue as an alternative to meetings with the Chief Executive and Finance Director.
John Hamer Chairman The directors present their report and the audited financial statements for Fidessa group plc company number 03234176 for the year ended 31st December 2014.
These will be laid before the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 29th April 2015.
The Strategic Report is incorporated by reference into this Directors Report.
All sections of the Annual Report and Accounts contain certain forward looking statements which by their nature involve risk and uncertainty.
The forward looking statements are based on the knowledge and information available at the date of preparation and on what are believed to be reasonable judgements.
A wide range of factors may cause the actual results or events to differ materially from those contained within, or implied by, these forward looking statements.
The forward looking statements should not be construed as a profit forecast.
Directors The Board currently comprises a Chairman, four independent non-executive directors and two executive directors.
During 2014 Philip Hardaker and Mark Foster stood down as non-executive directors and John Worby and Ken Archer were both appointed as non-executive directors see the Nominations Committees Report.
The Board considers its overall size and composition to be appropriate, having regard to the experience and skills which the Board members bring together and the fact that the Board considers the non-executive directors to be independent of management.
The serving directors are: John Hamer age 55, Chairman John Hamer joined Fidessa in 1983.
in Computer Science from Leeds University and was Chief Executive of the Group between 1992 and 2001 when the Group had multiple divisions, each division having its own Chief Executive.
John became Chairman in 2001 when the Group focused on the Fidessa business by divesting the help desk and call centre software businesses.
The Board considers the Chairman role to be similar to that performed prior to 2001 when there were multiple businesses and there to be no conflict with Chris Aspinwall, the Chief Executive, who was already the Chief Executive of the Fidessa business prior to 2001.
He currently has no other material business commitments.
Fidessa group plc 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors and corporate governance report continued Chris Aspinwall age 51, Chief Executive Chris Aspinwall joined Fidessa in 1986 as a software engineer and was appointed to the Board in 1992.
He became Chief Executive of the Fidessa business in 1992 and has grown it to its current world leading position.
In 2001 he became Group Chief Executive.
in Computer Science from York University.
Andy Malpass age 53, Finance Director Andy Malpass joined Fidessa in 1995 as Finance Director and has over 30 years experience in the software industry, with both private and public companies.
in Accounting and Finance from Lancaster University and is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
Ron Mackintosh age 66, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Ron Mackintosh was appointed to the Board in 2004.
Ron has held a number of senior executive positions in European technology companies.
Between 1992 and 2000 he was Chief Executive of Computer Sciences Corporations CSC European business which had revenue of $2.5 billion.
He is Chairman of CSR plc, a multifunction connectivity, audio and location platforms company that is a UK listed FTSE 250 company as well as being listed on NASDAQ.
He is also the former chairman of each of SmartStream Technologies Limited, Northgate Information Solutions plc and Differentis Limited and a former director of Gemplus SA.
He is currently Chairman of AlertMe.
Elizabeth Lake age 72, Independent Non-Executive Director Elizabeth Lake was appointed to the Board as a non-executive director in October 2008.
Until June 2009, Elizabeth was a director and president of Securities Processing Solutions International, a subsidiary of Broadridge Financial Solutions, Inc Broadridge, a global provider of technology based outsourcing solutions to the financial services industry.
She was a partner in the consultancy practice of KPMG and has also held senior executive positions at CSC Index within the financial services sector and at Ziff Davis Technical Information Company, where she was responsible for software products and services for the financial services industry.
Elizabeth is also an advisor to the Tokushukai Medical Group, a privately held Japan based organisation which has 68 hospitals, together with a number of primary care facilities, retirement homes and dialysis centres.
John Worby age 64, Independent Non-Executive Director John Worby was appointed to the Board as a non-executive director in May 2014.
John is a chartered accountant who is an experienced executive and non-executive director.
In 2013 he retired as Group Finance Director of Genus plc, having previously been Group Finance Director and Deputy Chairman at Uniq plc formerly Unigate PLC.
John is the Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee at Connect Group PLC formerly Smiths News PLC, where he has been a non-executive director since 2006 and was also Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee at Cranswick plc until July 2014.
John is a member of the Financial Reporting Review Panel.
Ken Archer age 63, Independent Non-Executive Director Ken Archer joined the Board as a non-executive director in November 2014.
He is Chairman of Gresham Computing plc, where he has been a non-executive director since 2010.
Ken was Chief Executive Officer of SmartStream Technologies until 2009 and prior to that, the President, European Business Development of Computer Sciences Corporation where he managed the sales team responsible for large scale outsourcing projects across Europe.
Ken has also worked at J. P. Morgan, where he served as VP, Information Services and subsequently at Mercantile Information Services and The Savings Corporation.
Fidessa group plc 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 In accordance with provision B.
7.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code Code, all the directors offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
As announced in February 2014, Andy Malpass, Finance Director, has informed the Board of his intention to retire in 2015.
Andy has been with Fidessa for 20 years, having joined in 1995.
The process of identifying a suitable replacement is underway and Andy has committed to continue to work with Fidessa for as long as is necessary for a well-managed handover to take place.
In 2013 both Philip Hardaker and Ron Mackintosh reached nine years of service as non-executive directors of the Company.
Philip retired and was succeeded by John Worby.
Following consultation in October 2013 with the largest 13 shareholders holding over 60% of Fidessas shares at that time the Board reappointed Ron and he was re-elected by shareholders at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
During 2014, the Board undertook a rigorous review of Rons independence and contribution to the Board and continues to conclude that he remains independent in character and judgement.
The Board found no information or circumstances to lead it to conclude otherwise than that he be re-elected as an Independent Non-Executive Director at the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
The Board considers his valuable contribution to, and in-depth understanding of, Fidessas business together with his fair and transparent participation in Board discussions as beneficial to the Board and Fidessa as a whole.
After a formal review, the Board confirmed that John Worby, Elizabeth Lake and Ken Archer are independent in character and judgement.
When reaching its decision on independence, the Board considered the independence criteria set out in paragraph B.
The Chairman confirms that the performance of each of the directors continues to be effective and that they continue to demonstrate commitment to their roles, bringing their considerable commercial experience to Fidessa: accordingly their re-election is recommended.
The Senior Independent Director, Ron Mackintosh, confirms that the performance of the Chairman continues to be effective and his re-election is accordingly recommended.
Directors interests in shares and share incentives in Fidessa group plc are detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report.
At the date of this Directors and Corporate Governance Report, indemnities are in force under which Fidessa has agreed to indemnify the directors and the Company Secretary to the extent permitted by law and by Fidessa group plcs Articles of Association in respect of losses arising in their capacity as officer of any member of the Fidessa group.
In addition, Fidessa has purchased and maintained throughout the year, directors and officers liability insurance in respect of itself and its directors and officers.
Fidessa group plc 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors and corporate governance report continued The Board At 31st December 2014 the Board comprised the Chairman, two executive directors and four non-executive directors whose Board and Committee responsibilities are set out in the table below: Board Audit Remuneration Nominations John Hamer Chairman Chairman Chairman Chris Aspinwall Chief Executive Member Andy Malpass Finance Director Member Ron Mackintosh Senior Independent Member Member Chairman Member Non-Executive Director John Worby Independent Member Chairman Member Member Non-Executive Director Elizabeth Lake Independent Member Member Member Member Non-Executive Director Ken Archer Independent Member Member Member Non-Executive Director The Board meets formally on a regular basis to monitor operating issues, risk and trading performance, to review forecasts, strategy and policy, to consider key projects and major investments and to oversee appropriate shareholder reporting.
During 2014 the Board met on 10 scheduled occasions for this purpose.
In addition, if required, impromptu Board meetings occur to consider specific issues as and when necessary.
Meetings were held by the Chairman with the non-executive directors, without the executive directors present, to discuss the performance of the executives.
The Chairman and non-executive directors also held meetings throughout the year with various senior managers to improve insight into the business operations and marketplace.
The attendance of individual directors at Board meetings and Committee meetings is presented in the table below: Board meetings Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee attended meetings attended meetings attended meetings attended John Hamer 10 10 3 3 Chris Aspinwall 10 10 Andy Malpass 10 10 Ron Mackintosh 9 10 5 5 3 3 3 3 John Worby 7 7 4 4 2 2 3 3 Philip Hardaker 6 6 2 2 3 3 1 1 Elizabeth Lake 8 10 4 4 2 2 3 3 Ken Archer 1 1 1 1 0 0 Mark Foster 4 4 1 1 1 1 Absences were due to prior commitments or illness.
The Board is responsible for corporate governance and delegates operational control to the executive directors.
At each Board meeting it considers strategic issues, finance, business development, governance and risks facing the business.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the decision of the Board that covers key areas of Fidessas affairs.
The schedule includes approval of the Annual Report and any other financial statements, the adoption of budgets or business plans, decisions on acquisitions and disposals, material financial commitments and the release of inside information.
Certain matters require Board approval and other matters may be approved by senior management, but notification to the Board is required.
The schedule of matters reserved for the Board is reviewed annually.
