Business model Our services help to create strong, vibrant and sustainable local economies and our opportunity is to be the provider of choice for our customers and the communities we serve.
Effective transport systems are essential to The other half of our revenues are backed by challenge.
Group is also responsible for raising allow ever more people to live closer together, contracts or franchise agreements with the and allocating capital in order to drive keeping them moving, providing vital links and national government, regional and local sustainable returns.
authorities in the UK, and state and municipal authorities, local school boards, universities Key divisional responsibilities With an increasing global population and and private companies in North America.
relentless and rapid urbanisation, there can be Overall, our revenues are balanced between Local market and customer knowledge, no doubt that congestion will be a permanent the UK 57% and North America 43%, and relationships with stakeholders: feature of the future.
The challenges this presents together with some minor activities in other Being market leaders in their respective fields mean the need for effective transport solutions is European countries.
This diversity of revenues ensures that our divisions are well placed to becoming all the more critical and complex.
typically makes the overall Group relatively anticipate opportunities and challenges in resilient through the business cycle.
Governments are increasingly turning to private sector operators to deliver innovative and How we run our business Contract bidding and management: efficient local transport solutions in order to A critical driver of success in all of our divisions is Formulating successful bids with an keep communities flourishing.
We are ideally the focus on the needs of our customers and appropriate level of risk, and managing the placed to provide those solutions by leveraging local communities.
We therefore run the business delivery of the resulting contracts for as long our immense breadth and scale and our in a decentralised way, with our five divisional as 15 years, are key capabilities of our collective expertise and knowledge across a heads having significant responsibility and scope contract businesses.
range of transport modes and systems for entrepreneurial thinking at the divisional level, throughout the UK and North America.
That is Marketing and ticketing: Driving passenger underpinned by rigorous strategic, operational why our vision is to provide solutions for an volumes through engaging with potential and financial parameters set at Group level.
increasingly congested world, keeping people customers and offering compelling travel moving and communities prospering.
The fundamental skills and capabilities needed options such as multi-operator and season to run a transport business are the same across tickets, real-time pricing to maximise yield, How we generate revenue all the divisions, which is why the corporate centre customer loyalty schemes and greater use FirstGroups unique portfolio of businesses supports and challenges the divisions to share of mobile technologies is increasingly addresses this opportunity by providing best practice and expertise with each other, and important to our businesses.
sustainable, integrated transport services that coordinates Group-wide operational initiatives and are safe, reliable and meet the needs of the Hiring, supporting and managing actions where appropriate.
In this way our divisions customers and the communities we serve.
employees: Our largest operating cost benefit from the breadth and scale of the Group and core asset is our 117,000 people our as a whole when delivering the most appropriate, Our five divisions are exposed to different businesses rely on having the best people efficient solutions to the transport challenges of geographies, customers, revenue models, to ensure we deliver high-quality services.
their local customers and communities.
demand drivers and competitors within the overall transport industry.
We review the key Vehicle investment and maintenance: At Group level, we have a lean corporate centre divisional drivers in detail in the divisional We have substantial capital invested in nearly with a number of key functions as set out on business reviews on pages 12-31, but in 60,000 vehicles across First Student, UKBus, page 60.
In addition to fostering a high broad terms, half of ourrevenues are derived Greyhound and First Transits shuttle segment, performance culture which delivers on our directly from our passengers, spread across and manage or maintain a further 48,000 vision and values page 6, Group also sets the business, commuting, social and recreational vehicles.
strategic direction, establishes key targets and travel purposes, and across a diverse standards, monitors performance and provides Operational and financial efficiency: demographic mix.
Thedivisions manage employee productivity, asset fuel efficiency, parts procurement, A pproximate Group revenue A pproximate Group revenue overheads, and insurance and other risks to by type by geography improve financial performance whilst delivering on their operational responsibilities.
Safety: By its nature, the transport industry involves the risk of injury to employees, passengers and third parties.
It is central to our culture to keep safety front of mind, ensure lessons are learned and constantly reinforce standards and best practice.
Passenger revenue 51% UK 57% Contract or franchise revenue 49% USA 36% Canada 7% FirstGroup 8 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Business model Our services help to create strong, vibrant and sustainable local economies and our opportunity is to be the provider of choice for our customers and the communities we serve.
Continuous improvement culture: In the areas of service standards punctuality, The business model reliability, cleanliness, etc.
and sustainability, How our strategic objectives drive value our divisions have ever more stretching improvement targets.
1 Focused and disciplined bidding in our contract businesses Risk management: Our divisions face a broad spectrum of risks, some of which are 2 Driving growth through attractive commercial propositions in our passenger revenue businesses unique to their particular business.
As part of the Groups overarching risk management 3 Continuous improvement in operating and financial performance framework, they own and manage the 4 Prudent investment in our key assets fleets, systems and people principal risks they face to enable agile and tailored responses.
Maintain responsible partnerships with our customers andcommunities 5 Key Group responsibilities Capital allocation: Review and monitor Our customers and communities divisional fleet and technology procurement programmes and other significant transactions to ensure the best use of our available capital.
1 2 Capital structure and financing: Secure appropriate financing for the Groups needs under a range of future scenarios.
Sustainable value creation: Challenge and monitor the divisions to balance near term cash generation and long term reinvestment in the future of the business.
Budgeting, planning and cash management: Agree budgets, medium term plans, and ensure appropriate liquidity 5 is available to the divisions.
Control systems: Manage lines of authority and delegated responsibilities, and appropriate systems and procedures, in order to plan, execute, control and monitor the Groups progress.
4 Risk management: Facilitate risk identification and management throughout the Group and 3 review the adequacy of mitigating controls.
Safety, ethics and sustainability: Set policy standards and embed best practice behaviours to ensure a continuous improvement culture.
Safe and reliable transport for 2.5bn people every year Employee development and benefits: Ensure the Group and our divisions hire, retain, manage and develop the best people for Shareholder value and returns the job.
Operational best practice: Lead and coordinate sharing of divisional skills, experiences and capabilities including safety and IT solutions throughout the Group, and develop new expertise.
FirstGroup 9 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
