John McFarlane OBE MA MBA 2.
Chris Surch B Com ACC ACA Chairman Chief Executive Group Finance Director Appointed to the Board: December 2013 and Appointed to the Board: May 2009 and Appointed to the Board: September 2012 appointed as Chairman in January 2014 appointed Chief Executive in November 2010 Skills and experience: He was, from May 2009 Skills and experience: He was formerly Chief Skills and experience: He was, until the to August 2012, Group Finance Director of Shanks Executive Officer of Australia and New Zealand end of April 2009, Managing Director, London Group plc, also for a period of time serving as their Banking Group Limited for ten years and Executive Underground.
He joined Transport for London acting Chief Executive.
Following an early career Director at Standard Chartered plc for five years.
in 2003 prior to which he was President and with , where he qualified He started his business career in the motor Chief Executive of Consolidated Rail Corporation.
as a chartered accountant, he joined TI Group plc industry with Ford of Europe before entering Other appointments: He is a Non-Executive in 1995.
He held a number of senior roles there and banking, spending 18 years at Citicorp, as Director of CSX Corporation, a rail freight following the merger of TI Group plc with Smiths Managing Director of Citicorp Investment Bank transportation company in North America.
Group plc he went on to hold further senior finance Limited and later head of Citicorp and Citibank in Committee membership: Member of the Board roles, latterly serving as Finance Director of their the UK and Ireland.
He was formerly a NonSafety Committee and the Executive Committee.
Executive Director of National Westminster Bank Committee membership: Member of the plc, The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc where Executive Committee.
he played a supportive role in the transformation of the Group following the rescue by the UK government, the London Stock Exchange and Capital Radio plc.
He was also Non-Executive Director for the Securities Association, the Auditing Practices Board and the Business Council of Australia.
Other appointments: He is Chairman of Aviva plc and a Non-Executive Director of Westfield Holdings Limited a retail mall developer and Old Oak Holdings Limited a financial holding company.
Committee membership: Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
John Sievwright DHC MA CA 7.
Brian Wallace MA ACA Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board: May 2002 Appointed to the Board: August 2012 Skills and experience: He was, until 2008, a Skills and experience: He has held executive board Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer positions within a number of FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 of International for Merrill Lynch & Co. A chartered organisations, most recently as Group Finance Director accountant, he has held various senior of Ladbrokes plc.
Prior to rejoining Ladbrokes he was management positions in banking in London, Group Finance Director and Deputy Chief Executive of New York, Ireland and Japan.
He was formerly Hilton Group.
A chartered accountant, he began his a member of the North American board of the career at Price Waterhouse and went on to perform Michael Smurfit Business School, Dublin.
senior finance roles at Geest, APV and Schlumberger.
Other appointments: He is the Senior He previously served as a Non-Executive Director at Independent Non-Executive Director of ICAP plc.
Scottish & Newcastle plc, Hays plc, Merlin Committee membership: Member of the Entertainment and Miller Group.
Remuneration Committee, the Audit Committee Other appointments: He is Chairman of Travelodge and the Nomination Committee.
Hotels Limited and a Non-Executive Director of SoftCat Limited.
Committee membership: Chairman of the Audit Committee and member of the Nomination Committee.
FirstGroup 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Boar d of Directors 4.
Professor David Begg DSc BA 5.
Dr Colin Hood DSc MSc BSc FIET FRSA Advisors Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Corporate brokers Appointed to the Board: August 2005 Appointed to the Board: May 2009 J P Morgan Cazenove Skills and experience: He was, until 2010, Skills and experience: He was, until April 2014, 29th Floor Chairman of Tube Lines Limited.
He was formerly Chairman of Southern Water Services Limited and, Chairman of the Business Infrastructure until 2011, Chief Operating Officer and Deputy 25 Bank Street Commission, Chairman of the Commission for Chief Executive of SSE plc.
Canary Wharf Integrated Transport and a Non-Executive Director Other appointments: He is Chairman of Offshore London of the Strategic Rail Authority.
He is a visiting Renewable Energy Catapult and a Non-Executive E14 5JP professor at Plymouth University.
Director of HS1 Limited and Caruna.
He is on the Goldman Sachs Other appointments: He is Chief Executive of board of Glasgow 2014 Commonwealth Games.
Peterborough Court Transport Times, a Non-Executive Director of Committee membership: Chairman of the Board Heathrow Airport Holdings Limited and a Director Safety Committee.
Member of the Remuneration 133 Fleet Street of Portobello Partnership.
Committee, the Audit Committee and the London Committee membership: Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Member of the Audit Auditors Committee and Nomination Committee.
Deloitte LLP 2 New Street Square London EC4A 3BZ Solicitors Burges Salmon LLP 1 Glass Wharf Bristol BS2 0ZX Burness Paull LLP Union Plaza 1 Union Wynd Aberdeen AB10 1SL 8.
Mick Barker Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Employee Director Slaughter and May One Bunhill Row Appointed to the Board: August 2012 Appointed to the Board: January 2012 London Skills and experience: He served in a number Skills and experience: He has been a EC1Y 8YY of senior roles and was a member of the railwayman for 38 years and is currently employed management committee during his career at as a train driver for First Capital Connect Limited, Financial PR advisors United Parcel Service, Inc. the worlds largest one of the Groups train operating companies.
Brunswick Group LLP package distribution company and a global leader 16 Lincolns Inn Fields in supply chain solutions.
Most recently he was London Senior Vice President and Director of US WC2A 3ED operations and global security with responsibility for all US operations and 360,000 employees.
Other appointments: He is a Non-Executive Director of YRC Worldwide, Inc. a Fortune 500 company and one of the largest transportation service providers in the world, and also serves on the Board of two not-for-profit organisations in the US.
Committee membership: Member of the Remuneration Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Board Safety Committee.
FirstGroup 51 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
