OUR STRATEGY Throughout this report, we will set out the progresswehave made against our strategy.
Thekey elements of our strategy and progress areoutlined below.
Focus on high unit growth end-markets Rationale Similarly, the global automotive market is expected Unit volumes are the underlying driver of NSV growth toexperience continued unit growth.
Demand for our products is directly linked to byagrowing trend in the automotive industry for demand for our customers end-products.
We specifically increased electronic content in cars, and increased focus our sales, marketing and product development useoffunctional coatings for decorative, wearand efforts on those high-demand end-products which in corrosion-resistant applications, which is benefiting both turndrive high unit count applications and demand for ofour strategic businesses.
The electronics market is forecast to experience growth interms of value, and unit volumes over the mediumto long-term.
Our leading positions across a very broad range of the electronics value chain, including the personal computer, smartphone, tablet, automotive electronics, microelectronics, semiconductor and general electronics end-markets, means that we have significant exposure to this underlying growth trend.
Leverage our differentiated value-add customer strategy Rationale Equally important is the service element we provide Alent has strong collaborative relationships with many through our technical process support and customer Original Equipment Manufacturers OEMs who specify training academies.
The knowledge and expertise of which specialty materials, chemistries and technologies ourtechnical service organisation is highly valued by are used in their products.
We leverage these relationships OEMs and subcontractors, and this further strengthens to increase OEM qualification of our products.
Ourlongstanding relationships provide a formidable barrier toentry for competition.
Alongside this important differentiator, we continue to focus on the value-add sales competencies across all ourpeople so as to realise the full margin potential of theproducts and technologies we offer our customers.
22 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.
COM STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION 3.
Further invest in R&D to higher-margin products expand our market, technology and innovation leadership Rationale We continue to migrate away from lower-margin Rationale commoditised products to focus on higher-margin, Continued investment in R&D ensures that Alent remains higher-value, innovative products.
The constant evolution ahead of emerging trends, delivering solutions to through product innovation means that we expect further strengthen our leadership position in terms of innovation gradual mix improvement across our portfolio.
and product development in our market niches.
We continue to strengthen our market leading positions.
With a global presence, close proximity to customers and leading technologies, we are constantly identifying new opportunities in high unit growth complementary 4.
operational efficiencies Rationale We continue to develop operational excellence programmes to increase productivity and reduce costs 6.
Leverage our financial and have been incorporating Six Sigma practices into ouroperations since 2001.
We have continued to right-size strength to support organic and streamline the business structure to optimise further growth and acquisitions our manufacturing footprint, customer service and administrative processes.
Rationale Alent is an asset light, strong free cash flow generative business.
We continue to invest in the business to support organic growth and will pursue appropriately sized acquisitions focusing on technology or bolt-on market share-led consolidations.
We maintain a progressive dividend policy.
COM ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 23
