STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION OUR MARKETS END-MARKETS FOR OUR PRODUCTS Electronics Automotive Industrial Personal Computers Automotive Electroplating 10-15% of Group NSV 10-15% of Group NSV Mobile & Infrastructure Water Treatment 10-15% of Group NSV 5-10% of Group NSV Microelectronics & Semiconductors Other Electroplating 10-15% of Group NSV 10-15% of Group NSV Automotive Electronics 10-15% of Group NSV Other Electronics 10-15% of Group NSV OUR FOCUS OUR PRODUCTS We focus on high unit, long-term growth markets.
Semiconductor fabrication materials, such as copper damascene electroplating chemistry which provides the We have a broad exposure to the automotive and wires within a semiconductor integrated circuit chip.
electronics industries, and our products are used in essentially everything with an on off switch.
Semiconductor packaging materials, including solderspheres for ball grid arrays and chip-scale In our non-electronics performance coatings business, packages, die-attach adhesives and copper pillar although primarily focused on the automotive market, electroplating chemistry.
there are many other markets that require decorative coatings and also wearand corrosion-resistant coatings.
Interconnect materials, principally electroplating chemistries for fabrication of printed circuit boards.
OUR OFFERING Assembly materials, comprising solder in a variety of forms, including bar, wire, paste and preforms.
A global supplier of specialty chemicals and engineeredmaterials.
Corrosion-protection and wear-resistant coatings usedprimarily in automotive applications, including Enabling applications serving fast-growing segments in  processes that optimise quality, the electronics, automotive and industrial end-markets.
increase functionality and extend product life.
Technically advanced products which enable customers Decorative finishes engineered for durability and style, to produce next-generation devices.
including a distinctive range of green finishes used in Just in time delivery from a global manufacturing base.
building hardware and automotive applications.
COM ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 09 CASE STUDY OUR COMPETITIVE.
The Opportunity The Solution To align with other world regions, To verify the performance of our newly remain competitive and meet customer developed zinc-nickel system, Enthone expectations, Asian automotive OEMs R&D, product development and have been extending corrosion applications engineering teams installed warranties to vehicles manufactured a brake caliper sample plating line in within the region.
ourstate of the art manufacturing plant, laboratories and customer research Extended warranty periods centre in Shanghai.
haveresultedin the rapid transition fromconventional zinc plating to Zinc-nickel and post-treatment advancedzinc alloy plating systems processeswere optimised to meet the thatare production-proven to provide high performance corrosion target, superior corrosion performance for asset bysome of the worlds leading automotive applications.
The steady growth in Chinese consumer Following extensive testing, we vehicle demand has coincided with the wereableto demonstrate to the ever-increasing zinc alloy process subcontractor how the Enthone requirements of Chinese OEMs and their zinc-nickel systems, backed by Tier 1 plating applicators.
Failure to meet localtechnical service teams, could the terms of the extended warranties reliably exceed OEM corrosion directly impact profitability and brand .
The technology was installed at our A major Chinese subcontractor partners new, high volume plating responsible for plating millions of brake facility just north of Shanghai.
calipers each year required high The Benefit performance zinc alloy plating chemistry Production parts approval process that met current and future technology quickly followed with leading OEMs roadmaps and design specifications of granting applicator accreditation their OEM customers.
Enthone identified the opportunity and The current production run rate at the partnered with the subcontractor to subcontractor exceeds 5 million brake demonstrate the ability to deliver calipers each year.
cost-effective, high efficiency brake caliper plating that would consistently meet OEM performance requirements.
10 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.
COM STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Brake calipers each year Investment in our state of the art manufacturing plant, laboratories and customer 5million research centre in Shanghai 20m WWW.
COM ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 11
