GLOBAL MARKETPLACE Alent is a global market leader operating in an industry with highbarriers to entry, comprising two focused specialty chemicalsand engineered materials business units with #1and #2 global market share positions.
Growth markets Electronics Electronics 2013-2018 CAAGR: 3.7% 2018 2013 The principal end-market for Alent is global electronics which accounts for Smartphones Smartphones 3.4% 3.4% CAAGR CAAGR approximately 70% of Group NSV.
$341b 17.0% Offering Alent has a very broad exposure to the electronics industry $288b 17.2% and our products end up in electronic systems across a very wide range of applications, and are used in essentially everything with an on-off switch.
We operate within the electronics materials segment of Tablets 7.4% CAAGR the electronics value chain, where we supply specialty chemicals and engineered materials to our customers.
$111b 5.5% We supply electronic component manufacturers and OEMs, who, in turn, supply the electronic equipment $78b 4.6% manufacturers and suppliers.
Trends In the electronics market, the trend towards increased interconnect density and portability in consumer Servers Storage Comms.
Consumer demand is for faster, smaller and lighter products, which is leading to increasing $305b 15.2% miniaturisation and complexity, and the use of multi-layer circuit boards.
Alent is at the forefront of this trend and a leading player in the development and supply of specialty $249b 14.8% materials that enable the design and manufacture of todays leading-edge electronic devices.
Growth Automotive Electronics 5.5% CAAGR According to Prismark Partners, the electronics market is expected to grow 3.7% CAAGR from 2013-2018.
It is the $231b 11.5% volume of electronic devices which is a key growth driver for our business.
The electronics industry has historically been a price down industry, with reduced prices for $177b 10.6% each generation of product.
This means that forecasts of market growth by value tend to understate the market growth by volume, and volume is the key driver of demandfor our products.
Rest of Electronics Industry 2.9% CAAGR $1,019b 50.8% $885b 52.7% Source: Prismark Partners, November 2014 14 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.
COM STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Business unit performance Our view of our performance vs our key markets in 2014 Alents Alents Alent vs Alents Alents Alent vs Alents Alents Alent vs exposure Growth Market exposure Growth Market exposure Growth Market to end-market 2014 2014 to end-market 2014 2014 to end-market 2014 2014 Surface Chemistries Assembly Materials Surface Chemistries 50% automotive 100% electronics 50% electronics industrial focused 4.7% focused 4.4% focused 4.7% Performance Surface Mount Electronics Chemistries 7% Coatings 3% Assembly 13% Printed Circuit Plating on Plastics 4% Paste 10% Board Chemistry 6% Wire 7% Copper Damascene 8% Microelectronics Plating Chemistry 9% Growth markets Automotive Automotive Industrial Automotive production growth in units m 125 The automotive and industrial endmarkets account for the remaining 105.3 30% of Group NSV.
100 91.7 Offering 87.3 Alents products are used to manufacture the various 75 electronic systems in an automobile.
In addition, our electroplating chemistries are used to provide corrosion and wear protection to vital systems.
Our decorative electroplating chemistries are used in external and 50 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 internalapplications.
Source: Prismark Partners, November 2014 Whilst our non-electronics performance coatings business is primarily focused on the automotive end-market, there are many micro markets that require decorative, wearAutomotive electronics content forecasts and corrosion-resistant coatings.
250 Trends 231 The electronics content within a vehicle is growing 200 atarate that significantly exceeds the underlying 189 automotiveunit growth rate.
Electronics content as 177 apercentage of the total vehicle cost is expected to 150 risesignificantly as market penetration of hybrid and electric vehicles increase.
100 The need for improved corrosion-resistant and wear- 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 resistant coatings, driven by the need to provide longer Source: Prismark Partners, November 2014 warranty protection to customers, is driving demand for our products.
The improved quality of automobiles and the requirement to reduce weight is also driving higher demand for increasingly sophisticated decorative finishes, Alents market-leading which both enhance customer perception of the vehicle and enables lower weight materials e. g. plastics to be position used in their production.
Growth According to Prismark Partners, vehicle volumes are Our strong global presence gives us close proximity to our expected to grow approximately 4% CAAGR from 2013- customers and high-growth end-markets.
On top of this, there is a strong trend for increased deliver high-quality customer sales and post-sales service, electronic content in vehicles and increasing demand for just in time global low-cost manufacturing, efficient functional and decorative coatings, which benefits both supply chains and fast cycle R&D.
Our local presence of our business units.
This dynamic will enable us to benefit and knowledge helps us to constantly evolve and extend from a twofold increase, both in the number of units as our collaboration and relationships with our customers.
wellas the increased product content.
COM ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 15 2013-2018 CAAGR: 3.8% 2013-2018 CAAGR: 5.5% US$bn rebased to 100 BUSINESS UNITREVIEW Assembly Materials Assembly Materials is the global leader in the Wave Solder Assembly development, manufacturing and sales of innovative In our more mature Wave Solder Assembly product line, NSV specialty and engineered materials, used to assemble declined 1.0% on a constant currency basis.
The ongoing mix printed circuit boards and advanced semiconductor shift from Wave Solder to Surface Mount Assembly continued, packaging.
This business unit accounts for c50% of leading to a year-on-year volume decline of just under 7% in GroupNSV, and consists of four product lines: Wave bar solder although our wave solder flux product volume SolderAssembly, Surface Mount Assembly, increased 3.5% offsetting most of the bar volume decline.
Surface Mount Assembly Assembly Materials NSV for the full year increased 4.4% on In our higher performance and higher margin Surface Mount aconstant currency basis, outperforming the underlying Assembly product line, NSV increased 13.2% on a constant end-markets.
NSV improved in the second half of 2014 currency basis due to a strong performance across all compared to H1 2014 by 8.2% and was up 4.5% compared to product lines, with the exception of Stencils, where we have H2 2013.
This was supported by a modest pickup in electronics exited our American Stencil businesses during the course of markets through the year, with industry analysts, Henderson the year.
Solder paste in particular was very strong with Ventures, forecasting 3.3% growth in the world production of volume up 10% and further progress in margins.
We continue electronic equipment for full year 2014 versus a decline of to leverage our OEM sales and marketing strategy in this area 2.6% in 2013. and have product specifications at many global Tier 1 and Tier 2 smartphone, tablet, personal computer and automotive Global automotive production is expected to grow above electronics systems OEMs.
Sales of tape-and-reel packaged historic rates with electronics content within vehicles also preforms, which are manufactured shapes of solder used in growing.
During the year we saw signs of improvement across smartphones and automotive electronics, also delivered our markets in Europe, Asia and the Americas although Brazil strong growth in volume and margin with many new design in particular, saw negative growth due to difficult economic wins with targeted European automotive suppliers.
Europe became more unpredictable during the further contribution from wire with volume up 7%, driven by second half of 2014 as both economic conditions and exports increased demand in Asia.
Microelectronics Products Adjusted operating profit increased 5.3% on a constant Microelectronics Products includes a range of products that currency basis whilst NSV margin increased by 0.2pts.
are sold into the semiconductor packaging and LED endWehave increased NSV and margin contribution from our markets, including electronic polymers, solder spheres, and Surface Mount Assembly product line through market share die-attach materials.
NSV increased 4.6% on a constant gain, disciplined pricing and our ongoing focus on cost currency basis.
We are seeing strong interest in our die-attach control.
This was partially offset by the performance of our technology, however customer acceptance lead times are reclaim business which was further impacted by tighter long.
The growth prospects in this product line over the supplies of scrap feed stocks coupled with lower metal prices, medium term remain very strong.
The average price per ounce of silver has declined approximately 20% year-on-year.
Other The Other product line includes our water treatment Cost control, pricing discipline, improved mix and chemicals business, recycling and reclaim operations, and manufacturing efficiencies combined to ensure that margin our consumer products.
NSV decreased 6.0% on a constant contribution increased across most product lines during currency basis.
NSV in our water treatment business increased the year.
1.0% on a constant currency basis on the back of new We continue to optimise our manufacturing footprint product launches and continued efforts to globalise sales, throughout the world.
In Europe we have moved some of our having seen double digit growth in both North America and manufacturing from the Netherlands to an enlarged facility Asia, while economic conditions in Europe subdued revenues inHungary.
This is now largely complete with the plant in in some areas.
Our reclaim business NSV and contribution Hungary now being commissioned.
Meanwhile, our margin were further impacted by lower volumes of scrap replacement manufacturing plant in Chennai, India is material, higher raw feed stock costs coupled with lower complete and will be commissioned in Q1 2015.
In addition, metal prices, particularly silver.
during the year we also relocated manufacturing capacity from Sao Paulo to Manaus, Brazil.
We are confident that these changes will deliver improved customer service, consistent high quality products and lower cost of manufacturing.
16 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.
COM STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Surface Chemistries Surface Chemistries is one of the worlds leading specialty Electronics Chemistries chemicals manufacturers serving the electronics and the In our Electronics Chemistries product line, NSV increased automotive industrial markets, with NSV split predominantly 7.1%on a constant currency basis.
Within this product line, between these two end-markets.
This business unit ourprinted circuit board chemistry volumes were up 6% as we accounts for c50% of Group NSV, and consists of three continued to gain market share in through-hole metallisation product lines: Performance Coatings, Electronics and final finishes.
In copper damascene, NSV increased by 7.8%.
This strong Surface Chemistries NSV for the full year increased 4.7% on a growth was driven by the continued ramp up in production of constant currency basis due to solid growth from both our the 28nm and 20nm advanced nodes.
We continue to make Performance Coatings and Electronics Chemistries product progress at the 14nm and 10nm nodes with ongoing product lines, leading to an outperformance versus underlying evaluations at a number of key customers.
Our market share markets, as a result of market share capture, product position at the outer edge nodes remains unchanged.
development, customer service and consistent quality In addition, in late 2014 we announced that we settled our products.
NSV improved in the second half of 2014 compared litigation with Moses Lake Industries, Inc. MLI regarding to H1 2014 by 3.2% and was up 6.3% compared to H2 2013.
Enthones patented copper damascene applications.
The strong demand in Americas and Asia markets continued Thisresolves all pending legal disputes between the whilst Europe had started to show signs of recovery during the companies.
Under the terms of the settlement, MLI entered first half of the year before slowing a little and becoming more into a license agreement with Enthone for monetary unpredictable during the second half of the year.
Under the license agreement, Enthone has granted MLI a non-exclusive worldwide license to key patents Adjusted operating profit increased 10.4% on a constant relating to advanced copper damascene processes.
currency basis with NSV margin increasing 1.1pts to 21.4%.
Wehave increased NSV and margin contribution from both Other our Performance Coatings and Electronics Chemistries The smaller product line, Other includes equipment sales, product lines through market share gain, customer service, where we sell electroplating equipment to our customers disciplined pricing and continued focus on cost control.
typically alongside a multi-year contract for Alent to provide the associated electroplating chemicals and small amounts We have continued to invest in the future growth of the of non-proprietary resale products sourced from third parties business.
Our position in the Asia market was enhanced and resold to customers.
We continue to reduce NSV from this during the year with the commissioning of our state of the art product line due to minimal margin contribution.
plant, laboratories and customer research centre in Shanghai which is now providing us with the foundation to grow our presence and position in China.
Our replacement plant in Chennai, India is currently beingcommissioned, whilst we have closed our Tianjin manufacturing facility in China and transferred activity to Shanghai.
In addition, we have continued to upgrade our existing facilities, particularly in West Haven, USA, and our research and development facilities worldwide, to ensure wehave state of the art facilities to meet the ever increasing needs and requirements of our customers.
Performance Coatings Automotive and industrial markets saw a modest pick-up indemand during the year, with IHS Automotive reporting 2014worldwide unit growth of 3% in light vehicle production.
We made solid progress in our Performance Coatings productline with NSV up 3.3% on a constant currency basis.
Our functional and decorative coatings business delivered astrong performance on a global basis, particularly in Asia.
COM ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 17 CASE STUDIES COLLABORATIVE.
The Opportunity The Solution A well established UK metal finishing company to the oil An Enthone proprietary, high efficiency hard chrome and gas industry applies heavy hard chrome coatings process replaced the in-house process, reducing that provide wear protection on pump rotors.
The rotors platingtime to 16 hours.
are used in equipment that must withstand constant In addition, a newly developed fume suppressant was exposure to harsh climatic conditions.
introduced to minimise emission from the plating tanks.
The customers in-house hard chrome plating chemistry An hexavalent chrome airborne emission study required c24 hours of plating time.
This slow plating rate conducted by an independent, third party laboratory, would no longer meet OEM and industry demands, validated the effectiveness of the Enthone hard therefore limiting profitability and growth.
chromeprocess chemistry in combination with the Furthermore, the existing process equipment was not in customers equipment.
compliance with environmental regulations that come Enthones technical applications expertise and on-site into effect in 2017 and will highly restrict the use of technical services support addressed all customer hexavalent chrome.
The customer was faced with the concerns throughout the testing, validation and high cost of equipment replacement should it wish to installation process.
continue its hard chrome plating operation.
The Benefit A relatively new customer, the company had recently 35% capacity gain: The significant gain in capacity is installed Enthone electroless nickel as part of its plating allowing the customer to meet industry demand and line and was pleased with performance and technical grow its customer base.
No equipment replacement required: The emission studycertified that the customer may continue to operate theirequipment beyond 2017 when using theEnthonechemistry.
Market leadership: In the first year of introduction, the fume suppressant earned an immediate 10% market share.
Capacity gain Plating time reduced to 35% 16 hours 18 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.
COM STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION INVESTMENT IN.
The Opportunity The Opportunity A world-leading power semiconductor manufacturer A large Korean producer of home entertainment wanted a solution to package their new high products wanted to switch from a dual to a single performance semiconductor chips to achieve new alloysurface mount technology process.
standards in electrical efficiency and reliability.
Using the low temperature alloy allowed by the single surface mount technology process would yield the The Solution greatest benefit to the overall process but the Alpha developed a unique and versatile silver sinter challenges were securing improved mechanical paste that provides superior reliability and thermal strength and minimised solder drip from solder paste electrical performance when compared to other printed in the through holes.
Alpha delivered a sintered silver high volume The Solution manufacturing solution to the customer.
Alpha developed a solder paste with its newly patented low temperature alloy for enhanced The customer was given a world class material and a mechanical strength.
In addition a paste flux chemistry world class process to make their new power module was formulated to eliminate solder drip phenomena designs a cost-effective reality.
The Benefit The Benefit The customers products went into field testing and Production with the new solder paste achieved the delivered 35% more electrical efficiency when desired attributes with no changes to equipment, compared to current state-of-the-art power modules.
components or printed circuit board design.
These trials validated the customers technology in the Cost savings through elimination of a dual process market and will allow them to take their new power andthe option to implement cheaper low temperature modules into a wide variety of applications.
assembly parts enabled lower total cost of ownership.
Alpha has created a high barrier to entry with its patented alloy and the opportunity to gain market share with this product at other customers.
Electrical efficiency High barrier to entry 35% Market Share WWW.
COM ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 19
