DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors submit their Annual Report together with Accountability and audit theaudited accounts of the Group and of the Company, A responsibility statement of the Directors and a statement Alent plc, registered in England and Wales No.
8197966, by the Auditor about its reporting responsibilities can be forthe year ended 31 December 2014. found on pages 83 and 84 to 85 respectively.
The Directors fulfil the responsibilities set out in their statement within the The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company to context of an overall control environment of central providea Directors Report for Alent plc for the year strategic direction and decentralised operating ended31December 2014.
The information that fulfils this responsibility.
As at the date of this report, so far as each requirement and which is incorporated by reference into, Director of the Company is aware, there is no relevant and forms part of this report, is included in the following audit information of which the Companys Auditor is sections of the Annual Report: the Corporate Governance unaware and each Director hereby confirms that they Report: the information on financial risk management have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a objectives and policies contained in note 25 of the Group Director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant financial statements, and the details on Greenhouse Gas audit information and to establish that the Companys emissions set out on page 30.
Auditor is aware of that information.
This Directors Report and Strategic Report together Appointment of Auditor represents the management report for the purpose of KPMG LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in compliance with DTR 4.1.
8R of the UK Listing Authority officeas Auditor and a resolution for the reappointment of Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
KPMG LLP and to authorise the Directors to determine its Activities remuneration are to be proposed at the AGM.
Alent plc is a holding company.
A list of its principal Appointment and Replacement of Directors subsidiary companies is set out on page 126.
The Directors shall not be fewer than five nor more than TheCompany does not have any overseas branches 15in number.
The Company may, by ordinary resolution, within the meaning of the Companies Act 2006. from time to time vary the minimum number and or Going Concern maximum number of Directors.
The Board may appoint The Directors have prepared cash flow forecasts and any person to be a Director so long as the total number assessed the future funding requirements of the Group ofDirectors does not exceed the limit prescribed in the and the Company and compared it to the level of Articles.
Any such Director shall only hold office until the long-term debt and committed bank facilities for a period next AGM and shall then be eligible for election.
in excess of 12 months from the date that the financial A Director my be removed by the Company as provided statements were approved.
These forecasts reflect an for by applicable law, in certain circumstances set out in assessment of current and future end-market conditions the Companys Articles of Association for example and their impact on the Groups future trading bankruptcy or resignation, or by a special resolution of performance.
The assessment included a sensitivity the Company.
analysis on the key factors which could affect future cash flow and funding requirements.
Having undertaken this Biographical information for all the current Directors of the work the Directors consider that the Group has adequate Company is given on pages 42 to 43.
All the Directors will resources to fund its operations for the foreseeable future retire at the AGM and offer themselves for election.
and so determine that it is appropriate to prepare the Furtherinformation on the contractual arrangements accounts on a going concern basis.
ofthe Executive Directors is given on page 75.
The Nonexecutive Directors do not have service agreements.
Research and Development The Groups investment in research and development Mr Steve Corbett resigned as Chief Executive on R&D during the year under review amounted to 3September 2014.
15.2million representing 3.7% of Group net sales value Mr Andrew Heath was appointed as Chief Executive and 2013: 3.8%.
Further details of the Groups R&D activities Director of Alent plc on 21 February 2015. can be found on page 38 of the Strategic Report.
Ms Helen Barrett-Hague was appointed as Company Dividends Secretary on 2 January 2015, following the resignation of An interim dividend of 3.0 pence per ordinary share and Mr Simon OHara.
aspecial dividend of 15.0 pence per ordinary share was paid on 17 October 2014.
Directors Indemnity The Directors have been granted Qualifying Third Party The Board is recommending a final dividend in respect of Indemnity Provisions by the Company.
2014 of 6.0 pence per ordinary share which, ifapproved, will be paid on 19 June 2015 to shareholders on the register at 16 May 2015.
80 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.
COM STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION 2015 Annual General Meeting Employee Share Plans The AGM of the Company will be held at 10.00 am on Alent operates a share based incentive plan.
The Group Thursday 7 May at the offices of UBS, 1 Finsbury Avenue, can satisfy entitlements either by the acquisition of existing London EC2M 2PP.
shares or by the issue of new shares.
Existing shares are held in an employee share ownership trust ESOT.
The The notice of the 2015 AGM is contained in the circular trustee of the ESOT purchases shares in the open market toshareholders accompanying this Annual Report, when required, to enable the Group to meet liabilities for together with an explanation of resolutions to be considered the issue of shares to satisfy awards that vest.
The trustee at the meeting.
does not register votes in respect of these shares and has Greenhouse Gas Emissions waived the right to receive any dividends.
In 2014 the Information on our reporting of greenhouse gas emissions, trustee of the ESOT purchased 110,000 ordinary shares of and the methodology used to record these, is set out on 10p each in Alent plc with a market value of 382,279.75 at page 30 of the Corporate Responsibility section of the an average price, including transactions costs of 3.475 Strategic Report.
per share to satisfy the actual and potential vesting of awards under the Groups share-based payments plan.
Donations Details of outstanding awards and costs associated with In accordance with Company policy, no political or the share plans are set out in note 27 to the Group charitable donations were made in 2014.
Essential Contracts and Change of Control No adjustments were made to outstanding share based Disclosure incentives as a result of the share consolidation.
A small number of senior management employees within the Group are entitled to receive payments of up to 12 Pensions months salary in the event that employment is terminated In each country in which the Group operates, the pension in certain circumstances within 12 months of a change of arrangements in place are considered to be consistent control of Alent.
The Remuneration Committee has with good employment practice in that particular area.
approved these arrangements as being in line with Alents Independent advisers are used to ensure that the plans wider Remuneration Policy.
No Director of Alent is entitled are operated in accordance with local legislation and to any such payment.
Group policy prohibits direct investment of pension fund assets in the Companys The terms of the Groups committed bank facility contain shares.
Outside the US, the majority of pension plans in the provisions entitling the counterparties to exercise Group are of a defined contribution nature.
Current active termination or other rights in the event of a change of employees in the UK are offered membership of a defined control on takeover of the Company.
A number of other contribution plan, which is operated on a contract basis, arrangements to which the Company and its subsidiaries with oversight by a governance committee.
In compliance are party, such as other debt arrangements and share with new legislation, the Company introduced autoincentive plans, may alter or terminate on a change of enrolment for all eligible UK employees.
control in the event of a takeover.
In the context of the Group as a whole, these other arrangements are not All US retirement plan assets are held in trust for the considered to be significant.
exclusive benefit of plan participants and their beneficiaries.
An independent financial institution acts as Share Capital and Capital Structure the Trustee.
The trust assets are protected by law and by As at the date of this report, the Company had an issued Federal Government Regulation and are subject to share capital of 266,353,736 ordinary shares of 10 5 11p annual audit by an independent accountant, the Internal each, being the total number of Alent plc shares with Revenue Service and the Department of Labor.
All issued shares are fully paid.
There are no details of pension arrangements are given in note 26. other classes of share capital.
Further information relating to the Companys issued share capital can be found in Restrictions on Transfer of Shares and Voting note 21 to the Company financial statements.
The Companys Articles of Association Articles do not contain any specific restrictions on the size of a holding or The Company operates a number of share-based on the transfer of shares.
The Directors are not aware of incentive plans further details about these are given in any agreements between holders of the Companys the Directors Remuneration Report.
For these plans the shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of Company can satisfy entitlements either by the acquisition securities or voting rights.
No person has any special rights of existing shares or by the issue of new shares.
with regard to the control of the Companys share capital No ordinary shares have been issued in relation to the and all issued shares are fully paid.
This is a summary only exercise of options granted under the Companys share and the relevant provisions of the Articles should be option schemes.
consulted if further information is required.
During the year, 11,955 ordinary shares of 10 pence each, Amendments to the Articles of Association equivalent to 50% of Mr David Egans restricted share The Company may make amendments to the Articles award were issued for cash to satisfy his award.
byway of special resolution in accordance with the Companies Act.
Resolutions giving the Directors the authority to allot shares and make allotments of shares to persons other than existing shareholders in certain circumstances will be proposed at the AGM.
COM ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 81 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Interests in the Companys Shares Other disclosures presentation of information The Company has been notified in accordance with DTR 5 required by LR 9.8.
4R of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of interests in the Certain information that is required to be included in the voting rights of the Companys issued share capital Directors Report can be found elsewhere in this document exceeding the 3% notification threshold: as referred to below, each of which is, to the extent not in this report, incorporated by reference.
Fund Current Number of % at Directors in office during the year Manager rank Country shares 31 12 14 A full list of the individuals who were directors of the Company during the financial year ended 31 December Cevian 2014 can be found on page 46.
Capital 1 Jersey 58,432,694 21.94 Franklin Exposure to price, credit, liquidity Templeton 2 USA 29,559,215 11.10 and cash flow risks Artisan Disclosures relating to exposure to price, credit, liquidity Partners 3 USA 27,353,198 10.27 and cash flow risks are set out in note 25 to the Group Janus Capital financial statements.
Management 4 USA 17,775,011 6.67 Financial risk management objectives GO Investment and policies Partners 5 England 10,641,347 4.00 Disclosures relating to financial risk management objectives and policies, including our policy for hedging, Dimensional Fund Advisers 6 USA 9,297,161 3.49 are set out in note 25 to the Group financial statements.
Future developments within the Group The Strategic report starting on page 2 contains details Norges Bank Investment oflikely future developments within the Group.
Management 7 Norway 8,276,162 3.11 Greenhouse gas emissions Disclosures concerning greenhouse gas emissions can BlackRock 8 USA 8,238,483 3.09 befound on page 30.
The interests of Directors and their connected persons Past Balance Sheet Events inthe ordinary shares of the Company as disclosed in Information concerning past balance sheet events accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing canbefound in note 30 to the Group consolidated Authority are as set in the Directors Remuneration Report financial statements.
and details of the Directors long-term incentive awards Profit are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Details of the Groups profit for the year ended 31 December 2014 can be found on page 86.
No material changes in the interests disclosed to the Company have been notified between 31 December 2014 Information provided to the Company pursuant to the and 2 March 2015.
Disclosure and Transparency Rules is published on the Regulatory News section of the Companys website.
The Strategic Report, the Directors Report and the Remuneration Report have been approved by the Board.
The Directors Report is signed on the Boards behalf by: HELEN BARRETT-HAGUE Company Secretary 2 March 2015 82 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.
