OUR BOARD A strong and diverse Board: The primary focus of the Board is on strategic and policy issues.
Biographies are set out below: PETER HILL CBE ANDREW HEATH DAVID EGAN DR EMMA FITZGERALD 1 3 4 2 Chairman and Chief Executive Group Finance Director Non-Executive Director Chairman of the Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Nominations Committee Andrew was previously at David was previously the Emma is Director, Gas Rolls-Royce plc where he was ChiefFinancial Officer at ESAB, Distribution for National Grid plc.
Skills and experience amember of the Executive which was the largest division Prior to joining National Grid, she Peter served as Chief Leadership Team and President ofCharter International plc pursued a 20 year career with Executive of Laird plc from of Rolls-Royce Energy.
Andrew which was itself acquired by Royal Dutch Shell where she held 2002 until he stepped down is a Non-executive Director of Colfax Corporation in 2012.
Prior a variety of technical, strategic from the Board in November Imagination Technologies plc to joining ESAB in 2008, David and general management 2011.
He previously held senior where he is Chairman of the was Group Financial Controller positions based in Asia and management positions with remuneration committee and of Hanson plc basedin London, Europe including Vice President BTR plc subsequently Invensys a member of the audit and and prior tothat Chief Financial Global Retail Network, and as plc and was an executive nomination committees.
He Officer, Hanson Asia Pacific Managing Director of Shell Director of Costain Group plc.
was previously a Non-executive based in Singapore.
He has China Hong Kong Lubricants He was previously a NonDirector of Oxford BioSignals extensive international based in Beijing.
Emma was executive Director of Cookson and LG Fuel Systems.
experience of businesses in previously a Non-executive Group plc, Meggitt plc and Europe, including the Russian Director of Cookson Group plc Oxford Instruments plc, and Nationality Federation, Asia, Australasia, and has also served on was a non-executive board Andrew Heath is a and the Americas.
David is subsidiary boards in both member of UK Trade and Britishcitizen.
Peter is a NonAppointment date Chairman of the audit aDPhil in Solid State Physics and executive Director of Essentra 21 February 2015 committee and a member Surface Chemistry, is a Trustee plc, aNon-executive Director oftheremuneration and ofThe Windsor Leadership Trust, ofthe Royal Air Force and nomination committees of and sits on the leadership Non-executive Chairman TribalGroup plc.
David is a development advisory panel ofVolution Group plc.
qualified Certified Practicing forthe Prime Ministers Office of Nationality Accountant CPA, Australia.
Peter Hill is a British citizen.
Nationality Nationality Appointment date David Egan holds dual British Emma FitzGerald is a 31 October 2012 and Australian citizenship.
Appointment date Appointment date 1 January 2013 31 October 2012 1 2 3 4 42 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.
COM STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION LARS FRBERG NOL HARWERTH JAN OOSTERVELD MARK WILLIAMSON 5 6 7 8 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director, and Chairman of the Senior Independent Director Skills and experience Skills and experience Remuneration Committee and Chairman of the Audit Lars is a managing partner of Jan spent 32 years with Royal Committee Cevian Capital, which holds Philips Electronics, where he Skills and experience justunder 22% of Alents issued wasa member of the group Nol spent 15 years with Citicorp, Skills and experience share capital.
Lars co-founded management committee with latterly as Chief Operating Officer Mark was formerly Cevian Capital in 2002.
In 1997, responsibility for corporate of Citibank International, having ChiefFinancial Officer of he joined AB Custos, the Swedish strategy, the Chief Executive previously been with Dun and International Power plc.
investment company, ultimately ofPhilips Asia Pacific and the Bradstreet and Kennecott Copper Hejoined International Power becoming Chief Investment Chairman of LG Philips LCD.
She is currently in2000 as Group Financial Officer.
Prior to ABCustos, Heisa Non-executive aNon-executive Director Controller and was appointed hehad been an investment Directorand Chairman of the andmember of the audit tothe Board as Chief Financial manager of Nordic Capital.
remuneration committee of committee of the London Metal Officer in 2003, stepping down Larsis a Non-executive Director Candover Investments plc and Exchange, and a Non-executive in2012.
Previously, he was Group of Danske Bank.
Healso sits aNon-executive Corporate Director of Standard Life plc and Financial Controller and Group onthe nominations committee Director of Barco N. V. He served the British Horseracing Authority.
Chief Accountant at Simon of ABVolvo, the Swedish as Chairman ofthe supervisory Nol will step down from the Group plc, the engineering truckand construction board of Crucell N. V. until position of Chairman and andbulk chemicals group.
December 2011 and was Non-executive Director of HeisChairman of Imperial previously a Non-executive Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Tobacco Group plc, having Nationality Director of Cookson Group plc.
Corporation Europe at the end previously served as Chairman Lars Frberg is a Swedish citizen.
Jan isalso a professor at IESE of Q1 2015.
Previously, shewas of the auditcommittee, and Appointment date Business School in Barcelona.
aNon-executive Director and isaNon-executive Director, 31 October 2012 Chairman of the remuneration Senior Independent Director Jan Oosterveld has announced committee of Logica plc, SID andChairman of the audit his intention to retire at the 2015 Non-executive Director of committee ofNational Grid plc.
Impellam Group plc, Corus Markqualified as a Chartered Nationality Group plc, TFL Group, Avocet Accountant in South Africa.
Mining plc, RSA Insurance Group Nationality Appointment date plc and Dominion Diamond Mark Williamson is 31 October 2012 Corporation Inc. aBritishcitizen.
Nationality Appointment date Nol Harwerth holds dual British 31 October 2012 and US citizenship.
COM ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 43
