OUR GOALS, CULTURE AND STRATEGY We will be the industrys preferred supplier of specialty chemicals and engineered materials, delivering leading technology represented by our innovative products, processes and people.
Our Goals and Culture Our strategy Our vision 1.
Focus on high unit growth end-markets Our vision is to be the industrys preferred supplier For Alent, its all about growth and delivering ofspecialty chemicals and engineered materials.
We continue to target high unit volumeapplications such as tablets, flat screen We will achieve this vision by equipping our people , which in turn drives with the training and resources to provide a significant demandfor our products.
Leverage our differentiated value-add By promoting a culture that emphasises our values, customer strategy weensure a brighter and better future for our people We have continued to resource and deliver on our OEM and our Company.
marketing and selling strategy and have secured OEM specifications in both the consumer electronics and automotive markets.
Continue to develop higher-margin products The shift from lower-margin commodity products We will exceed our customers expectations by providing suchasbar solder to the higher-margin solder paste specialty chemicals and engineered materials, products continues.
delivering leading technology, supported by superior applications expertise to our target markets.
Improve mix and operational efficiencies We continue to streamline and right-size the business for the long-term.
With our Shanghai facility fully commissioned, the shift of some of our manufacturing Our values processes from the Netherlands to Hungary nearing Customerand market-oriented innovation.
completion, and our Chennai site in the commissioning stage, our global footprint is largely complete.
Further invest in R&D to expand our market, Enthusiasm and passion.
technology and innovation leadership Resultsand people-oriented.
R&D is critical to the continued success of Alent to meet Flexibility, responsiveness and agility.
the demand for smaller, lighter and faster electronics and to take advantage of the opportunities presented by tightening environmental regulations as well as new and high-growth markets.
Our R&D spend continues at a level of just under 4% of NSV.
The majority of our R&D spend is Our objectives customer-driven product improvements with a new We will be a customerand market-driven Companythat product launched every week.
our customers rely on and prefer todo business with.
Leverage our financial strength to support We will be an innovative Company that develops organic growth and acquisitions high-value, innovative products in a timely manner.
We have continued to invest in the business to We will create an organisation that has deep support organic growth and will pursue appropriately technicalcompetence.
We will continue to invest in our people by providing training and resources that drive high performance, For more information on our strategy creating a significant competitive advantage.
See PAGES 22-23 12 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.
