Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Strategy Performance The Mexican peso US dollar spot exchange rate at 31 December 2014 Contractors was $14.72 per US dollar, compared to the exchange rate at the beginning Agreements are signed individually with each contractor and have of the year of $13.08 per US dollar.
The 12.6% devaluation had an adverse specific terms and conditions that cover operating materials, equipment effect on monetary assets and liabilities transacted in Mexican pesos, and labour, amongst others.
Contractor costs are an important which were originally recorded at the exchange rate prevailing at the date component of the Companys total costs, denominated in Mexican pesos.
of the transaction and, if they remained unsettled, were revalued at the In 2014, increases granted to contractors, whose agreement was due for yearend rate.
As a result, a foreign exchange loss of US$24.4 million was review during the period, resulted in a weighted average increase of 3.4% recognised in the income statement.
in dollar terms equivalent to 1.9%-12.2% in Mexican pesos.
The strengthening of the US dollar against the Mexican peso also caused Maintenance an increase in the difference between accounting values of assets and liabilities in US dollars under IFRS and tax values in Mexican pesos under Unit prices of spare parts to provide maintenance decreased 0.3% in Mexican tax legislation.
As a result, additional deferred taxes were US dollars.
recognised in the income statement, thus affecting the effective tax rate.
Others The Group entered into certain derivative contracts in the year to Other cost components include freight, of which the unit cost increased hedge foreign exchange exposure, as outlined in the cost of sales by an estimated 4.8%: the insurance premium per unit which decreased description below.
3.0%: the remaining components had an average inflation of 2.6% over 2013.
Cost inflation To calculate cost inflation for the year, we estimate the unit price increase Treatment and refining charges for each component of adjusted production costs and calculate the 1 Treatment and refining charges, which are deducted from adjusted weighted average.
The resulting cost inflation estimate for 2014 was 1.6%, revenue for the purposes of revenues as disclosed in the income which included the favourable effect of the 4.1% average devaluation of statement, are reviewed annually in accordance with international the Mexican peso against the US dollar.
We conduct the same exercise benchmarks.
Treatment charges per tonne of lead and zinc concentrates for each individual mine operation, whose basket components may carry increased 8.2% and 10.4% respectively.
More importantly, silver refining different weightings.
charges decreased 26.6% year-on-year, which resulted in a 10.6% aggregate decrease in treatment and refining charges recorded in Labour theincome statement.
Unionised employees received a 5.5% increase in wages in Mexican pesos and administrative employees at the mines received a 4.5% The effects of the above external factors, combined with the Groups increase: when converted to US dollars the inflation factor was 1.4%.
internal variables, are further described below through the main line itemsof the income statement.
Energy The Group uses mainly two sources of energy, electricity and diesel.
Revenues Electricity Adjusted revenues decreased by 12.3% to US$1,545.0 million in 2014 as a result of the lower gold and silver prices and the decrease in The Groups weighted average cost of electricity remained unchanged sales volumes of gold, mainly from Soledad-Dipolos and Cinega at US$11.0 cents per kW in 2014.
Electricity rates are set by the Comisin seetable above.
Federal fide Electricidad CFE, the national utility, based on their average generating cost, which correlates mainly to fuel oil and coal prices.
In 2014, we entered into derivative contracts to hedge lead and zinc through respective collar structures, resulting in a US$0.1 million gain Diesel recorded in the income statement.
In addition, we initiated a one-off gold The weighted average cost of diesel in US dollars increased 6.3% to hedging programme to protect the value of the investment made in the US$83.5 cents per litre in 2014.
Diesel prices are controlled by Petrleos Penmont acquisition, as detailed on page 97.
Mexicanos PEMEX, the national oil company, and are not expected to decrease in the near term despite the decline in international oil prices.
The total metal price effect lower prices of gold, silver and lead mitigated by an increase in zinc price, resulted in an adverse impact on revenues Operating materials of US$238.0 million.
This was partially mitigated by the US$21.1 million favourable impact of the total volume effect: which resulted from the In 2014, unit prices of the majority of key operating materials decreased higher volumes of silver sold at Saucito and higher volumes of zinc sold due to the lower demand for these inputs, resulting in a net weighted from the underground mines: partially offset by the lower sales volumes average decrease of 1.8%.
This reflects the combined effect of price of gold due to the stoppage at Soledad-Dipolos.
inflation and the weighting of each component in the total cost of operating materials see table above.
In 2014, silver and gold contributed in nearly equal parts to adjusted revenues.
In terms of adjusted revenues by mine, Fresnillo remained the main contributor to adjusted revenues, albeit with a lower contribution.
Saucito and Noche Buena increased their contributions as a result of their respective expansions that increased sales volumes.
In contrast, the lower gold and silver ore grades at Cinega combined with the lower precious metal prices resulted in a decrease in its contribution to adjusted revenues.
At Herradura, the lower gold price was the main driver reducing its contribution to consolidated adjusted revenues see table above.
1 Treatment and refining charges include the cost of treatment and refining as well as the margin charged by the customer.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 99
