Market Overview Fresnillo plc is a major silver and gold mining Our strategy arises from the company, and the majority of our people and operations are located in Mexico.
As such, we are context of the silver and gold exposed to the market dynamics common to the mining industry and the global precious metals industry, as well as to those specific to companies operating in Mexico.
Competitive environment For Fresnillo plc, silver and gold contribute in nearly equal parts to adjusted revenues, unique amongst major precious metal mining companies.
Silver Peer group comparison 2014 2013 2012 2011 In silver, our peer group are other primary silver miners, although it should be noted that much of global silver Primary silver producers Production in moz production is derived as a by-product of gold, lead, zinc Fresnillo plc 45 43 41 42 and copper mines.
Fresnillo plc has long been amongst the Coeur Mining 17 17 18 19 top three global producers of silver, both by-product and Hochschild Mining 16 14 14 15 primary, and we aim to maintain our leadership position Hecla 11 9 6 9 amongst global producers.
Silver Standard Resources 9 8 9 7 Silver Corp Metals 5 5 5 6 Global silver producers, by-productandprimary Production in moz Fresnillo plc 45 43 41 42 KGHM Polska Miedz 40 37 41 41 Goldcorp Inc. 37 30 30 28 BHP Billiton 34 37 39 39 Pan American Silver Corp. 26 26 25 22 Gold Medium-size gold producers Attributable production in koz In gold we benchmark our performance against mediumAgnico Eagle 1,429 1,100 1,044 985 sized global gold miners with similar levels of annual Randgold 1,147 910 795 696 production.
The acquisition of the44% stake in Penmont Petropavlovsk 945 805 589 443 and associated companies has not shifted our peer Polymetal 625 741 710 630 group positioning.
1 Fresnillo plc 596 611 687 663 OceanaGold 307 326 233 252 Coeur Mining 249 262 226 221 Hochschild Mining 101 116 112 127 Kazakhmys plc 74 103 129 151 1 All figures include 100% of production from the Penmont mines Herradura, Soledad-Dipolos and Noche Buena.
| 18 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 www.
com Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Strategy Performance In 2014, increased geopolitical tensions and growth concerns in the first The precious metals market half of the year supported a rise in the gold price, but a stronger dollar and Our performance and that of our peers is driven by the price of precious weaker oil prices put downward pressure on gold in the second half, with metals and ultimately the supply and demand dynamics that drive continued ETF outflows, limited central bank purchases and fide-stocking those prices.
Our production goals are based on what we believe we by China.
However, prices inched up again at year end, as India rescinded can profitably extract and sell: because costs in most of our mines its controls on gold imports, and despite Switzerland voting against a remain below current and projected market prices for gold and silver, proposal to boost its gold reserves.
wecontinue to operate in line with our stated 2018 production targets.
Mine output accounts for the majority of the global gold supply, with the However, we do monitor metal price movements and market dynamics, remainder coming from recycling.
In a weak price environment, recycling using primarily third party analyses and forecasts, in order to support flows are depressed and many miners cannot produce profitably: such our financial projections and cash management strategies.
As such, supply constraints may once again drive positive investor sentiment.
the decline in metal prices since late 2012 has coloured our budget Our mining experience and long view of the cyclical nature of the precious considerations in areas such as exploration and the timing of certain metals industry gives us confidence that the core drivers for demand will capital expenditures.
With value creation as our key priority, we must prevail, notwithstanding the material impact of metal price declines on remain open to the possibility of adjusting long-term production targets our financial performance in 2014. inaccordance with evolving market conditions.
Average annual gold prices 1969-2014 Supply and demand in silver and gold US$ in nominal prices Demand for silver is primarily driven by fabrication industrial applications, photography, jewellery and other applications and 1,266.19 ounce investment, either directly through coins and bullion, or via Exchange Traded Funds ETFs.
A recovering global economy should sustain 1,800 fabrication demand, while investment demand has traditionally proven 1,600 1,400 less volatile than in gold.
1,200 In 2014, however, industrial fundamentals failed to provide price support 1,000 800 for silver, and the metal strongly underperformed gold, leading to the 600 largest gold-silver ratio in recent years.
While a correction in the ratio 400 could provide upward momentum, a stronger US dollar and resulting 200 weakness in gold price could in turn affect silver further.
0 1969 1978 1987 1996 2005 2014 Average annual silver prices 1969-2014 US$ in nominal prices 19.08 ounce Benchmarking performance in the industry To assess our competitiveness within our peer groups, we look primarily 40 at the following two factors, neither of which are influenced by the aforementioned market dynamics: 30 Our average cash cost per metal: We track all-in sustaining costs AISC 20 as a means to monitor current production costs and preparations for future production: however, we continue to use the traditional cash 10 cost metric as we believe it is more representative of the production costs incurred during the period, eliminating distortions caused by 0 1969 1978 1987 1996 1986 2014 non-recurring sustaining costs.
We define cash cost as the total cash cost cost of sales plus treatment and refining charges, less depreciation, Mine output provides the majority of silver supply, while recycling and less revenues from by-products, divided by ounces of silver or gold scrap account for most of the remainder, with government sales a minor sold.
Our strategic objective is to remain in the lowest quartile of the and unpredictable source.
Global mine production of silver in 2014 was cost curves.
approximately 868 million ounces, compared to 836 million ounces in 2013.
For gold, demand has traditionally been driven by its status as a safe haven investment.
Consumers and investors acquire the metal to protect their savings and purchasing power in an environment of high inflation and low interest rates, and as a means to diversify away from the USdollar.
In some markets, gold has strong cultural allure, with China andIndia leading the demand for gold jewellery.
com Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Strategy Performance The quality and quantity of our mineral assets: Cash costs may provide the country.
These are outlined below and discussed in greater detail in a picture of a companys current ability to extract its resources at a Managing our risks pages 42-53. reasonable cost, but long-term competitiveness is dependent on the actual size of the resource base.
A strong indicator of future production New duties on the mining industry is the ability to convert measured, indicated and inferred resources into As part of the fiscal reforms passed by the Mexican Government in proven and probable reserves.
2013, new duties on the mining industry took effect in 2014: 7.5% of a We continuously invest in exploration across price cycles to expand figure similar to EBITDA and 0.5% of gold and silver sales.
We see some and strengthen our asset base, using strict cost criteria to ensure contradiction between the Governments aims of promoting investment that extraction will be economically viable even in low metal price and job creation and the new financial burden placed on the precious environments.
As a result, our total resources and reserves have grown metals industry in particular, given declining metal prices and investments at a fairly steady pace and we have a range of organic growth projects in exploration.
that extend across the prospecting, drilling and resource definition stages, ensuring that we can benefit from the next cyclical upswing.
Land access and ownership Our 2014 resource estimate, which uses higher cut-off grades in line with Mining concessions confer no rights to the surface land above the lower metal prices, indicates continued growth in total reserves, higher mineral resources in the subsoil.
Concession holders must negotiate gold resources, and a decline in silver resources see Reserves and private agreements with landowners, including communally held land resources pages 249-253. as recorded in the National Agrarian Registry.
Inconsistent registration and enforcement of inherited ownership rights for communal land Industry trends has led some opportunistic parties to disavow previously signed agreements some dating back several decades in order to seek The global mining industry faces a number of underlying trends greater compensation.
A number of high profile conflicts with landowners that impact competitiveness and viability.
The key trends below are occurred in 2014 albeit with no new cases affecting Fresnillo plc during those thatalso affect Fresnillo, and are discussed in greater detail in the year regarding issues such as renegotiation of land agreements, Managingour risks pages 42-53. increased rent for land and water supply and occupancy agreements, Pressures on productivity, performance, and operational effectiveness some of which resulted in temporary suspension of mining activities.
resulting from commodity price and currency volatility and uncertainty, rising costs and maturing mines with declining ore grades.
Pressure to amend environmental liability laws Managing and optimising capital in an environment of changing rates 3 In 2014 a spillage of 40,000 m of acid solution in a Sonora river by ofreturn on capital projects and shareholder demands for returns.
acopper mining company drove numerous organisations and social groups to demand the closure of those mining operations, as academic Rising social pressures such as local demands and activism regarding groups portrayed the accident as a destruction of the ecosystem.
ownership, profit sharing, sustainability and environmental concerns, The resulting rise in public perception against mining was concurrent combined with greater governmental interest in deriving additional with a review of the Mining Law, and amendments were proposed to revenue from the sector.
environmental liability laws with a view tosignificantly raise sanctions on environmental accidents, from fines tothe permanent suspension Country environment ofmining concessions.
Mexico is the largest producer of silver in the world and a top global producer of gold, copper and zinc, amongst other minerals.
The country Changing labour landscape has a long mining tradition, and still vast reserves of unexploited minerals.
In 2014 a Mexican court exonerated a powerful exiled labour leader, According to the Ministry of Economy, 70% of the Mexican territory is Napolen Gmez Urrutia, head of the SNTMM Mining and Metalworkers suitable for the development of mining projects.
Mining contributes Union, of all charges related to a 2006 embezzlement indictment.
approximately 4% of the countrys GDP, accounting for over 300,000 jobs Gmez Urrutia has maintained control of SNTMMs members from and remains the fourth largest source of revenue after oil exports and the Canada, and his potential return to Mexico may complicate labour automotive and electronic industries.
relationships with mining companies and inflame intra-union dynamics.
The 2014 Behre Dolbear Group ranking of the most attractive countries for For example, 14,000 SNTMM members recently left the union to create investment in the mining industry places Mexico fifth, behind Canada, the anew syndicate, the ANM National Mining Partnership.
Fresnillo plc has US, Australia and Chile.
This is based on their assessment of the countrys long enjoyed respectful relations with the SNMMNGS Napolen Gmez political system, economic and tax policy, social issues affecting mining, Sada National Mining and Metallurgic Union.
speed of obtaining permits, corruption andcurrency stability.
The Presidents National Development Programme for 2013-2018 Security positions the continued promotion of the mining industry as a goal of the Crime and violence, much of it fuelled by drug cartels, affect many federal government.
In 2014 the Ministry of Economy issued the Mining parts of the country.
Federal police and armed forces have increased Development Programme, which sets forth certain guidelines to promote their enforcement activities, as have private citizen groups.
Despite the investment and financing in the mining sector, additional support to escalation of enforcement, the security situation in Mexico remains small and mid-size companies for mineral exploration and exploitation an issue.
activities, and efforts to modernise the institutional legal framework for administrative procedures in the granting of mining concessions.
Labour and skills shortage Notwithstanding the importance of the mining industry to the country While overall university enrolment has increased recently and the and its promotion by the federal government, developments in the recent Government has passed new education reforms, there is a deficit years have affected the attractiveness and competitiveness of mining in ofgeosciences professionals in Mexico.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 21
