Our Business Model We seek to create sustained value for stakeholders across precious metal cycles, focusing on high potential silver and gold projects that can be developed into low cost, world-class mines.
Fresnillo value chain Gold and silver mining is the heart of our business: we explore prospects, develop new projects and operate mines.
1 Operate Maximise the potential 1 of existing operations Operate Assets 2 Develop 2 Deliver growth through Develop developmentprojects Projects 3 Explore 3 Extend the Explore growth pipeline Prospects 4 Sustainability 4 4 Advance and enhance the Su Sussttai ain na ab biilliitty y sustainability of our business Sustainable development practices shape our L Liic cen enc ce e to to o op pe er ra ate te operations and underpin our social licence to operate.
Strategic Enablers Strategic Financial strength Experienced management Technology Relationships and control and skilled personnel Strategic resources and relationships support the continuity of our business and execution of our strategy.
Risk Management Framework Risk Management Framework A comprehensive risk management framework assesses and mitigates the risks to our business.
| 22 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 www.
com Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Strategy Performance Precious metal value chain Fresnillo plc Development and Exploration for Mineral extraction Smelting construction of Brokers Buyers mineral resources and beneficiation andrefining newmines Fresnillo value chain Value creation Infrastructure Job creation Payment for goods Treatment and Dividends Tax revenue andservices refiningcharges Education healthcare Wages and benefits Capital gains GDP contribution Support for local Arts athletics Profit sharing economy Conservation Professional development Quality of life Strategic Relationships Shareholders Employees Communities Suppliers Customers Government and Partners Access Timely intake Capital Concessions Productivity Quality and payment Commitment Trust Fair prices Permits Flexibility Respect Technical support Access to capital markets Stakeholder support | www.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 23 Our Business Model continued Business model components 1 Operate 2 Develop The extraction and beneficiation The development and construction of ore from our operating mines of new operating mines and facilities Strategic focus Strategic focus Maximise the potential of existing operations Deliver growth through development projects Key assets Key assets Asset Type Commodity Year Commissioned in 2014: Saucito II Secondary underground mine Estimated 8.4 moz silver per year Fresnillo district at Saucito Fresnillo Underground Silver primary 1554 Saucito Underground Silver primary 2011 In process: San Julin Cinega district Underground mine in the Estimated 10.3 moz silver Cinega Underground Gold 1992 prospective San Julin District and 44,000 oz gold per year: start-up4Q 2015 San Ramn Cinega satellite Underground Gold 2012 Herradura district Merrill Crowe plant Herradura Open pit Gold 1997 Second beneficiation plant at Support higher ore volumes: 1 Soledad-Dipolos Open pit Gold 2010 Herradura to improve efficiency start-up 4Q 2015 Noche Buena Open pit Gold 2012 Pyrites treatment plant Our operating mines are located within prime gold and silver mining Facility at Fresnillo to process Annual production expected at districts in Mexico where we seek to consolidate our position and historical and on-going tailings 4 moz silver and 18,000 oz gold: derive synergies from shared infrastructure.
We primarily rely on our from Fresnillo and Saucito mines construction begins 2H 2015, own expert personnel for key functions such as engineering, mine toincrease metal recovery rates plantstart-up 2017 planning, explosives handling and safety oversight, while skilled mining labour is generally contracted for excavation, stripping, hauling and processing work.
All projects meet stringent viability criteria, including environmental The workforce is largely drawn from the communities around our mines.
impact, sustaining capital expenditures and rates of return.
For greenfield In most of our mines, all-in sustaining costs AISC on a life of mine basis projects in new mining districts such as San Julin, we also consider are significantly lower than current and projected market prices for gold eventual expansion and synergy potential with our other prospects and silver, positioning our cost performance competitively amongst inthe district.
Development work is generally conducted by specialised contract 1 The Group suspended operations at Soledad-Dipolos in 2H 2013 following the EjidoElBajo engineering and construction teams, whose services we contract proceedings.
See page 70 for more information.
fromPeoles see Suppliers page 26 and Shared Services Agreement page 139.
Read more on our Risk pages 42-53 Key risks: 1.
Impact of global macroeconomic developments 2.
Potential actions by the government 4.
Environmental incidents | 24 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 www.
com Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Strategy Performance 3 Explore 4 Sustainable Development The search for ore deposits that Policies and practices that ensure the expand our resource base responsibleoperation of our business and valuecreation for stakeholders, without compromising future generations Strategic focus Strategic focus Extend the growth pipeline Advance and enhance the sustainability ofour business Key assets Key pillars Asset Type Health Safety Fresnillo district Juanicipio Silver Environment Community Relations Cinega district Las Casas Silver and gold Our licence to operate relies on the effectiveness of our HSECR Herradura district health, safety, environment, community relations policies, procedures, Centauro Deep Gold programmes, equipment, training, monitoring, execution and controls: our value creation criteria, and thus executive compensation, encompass Chihuahua greenfield sustainability metrics.
Orisyvo Gold With Board-level oversight, we rely on our own executives and staff to Other early stage projects and prospects, Mexico and Peru develop, train, implement and monitor HSECR policies and programmes, and work closely with employees, contractors, unions, communities, Our pipeline of organic growth projects extends across the prospecting, governmental agencies, industry organisations, NGOs and other third geological studies, drilling and resource definition stages.
Prospects must parties to ensure that our performance adheres to the standards, needs have a minimum potential of 100 million ounces of silver or 2 million and aspirations of our stakeholders.
ounces of gold equivalent and meet strict criteria on ore grades, metallurgical recoveries and environmental impact.
We acquire concessions that advance our district consolidation strategy: the Group currently holds one of the largest land positions in Mexico.
We also pursue early stage partnerships and make selective acquisitions in Mexico and potentially elsewhere in Latin America.
Our own team of geologists work from five regional exploration offices to identify new areas of mineralisation and analyse core samples, while relying on skilled contractors to conduct drilling campaigns.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 25 Our Business Model continued Strategic Enablers: The key inputs required to sustain our value creation model, and Risk Management Framework with the proximity of their operations.
The terms of the supply Strategic resources agreements with Met-Mex are set on an arms length basis based on Financial strength and control international benchmarks.
The Group has sold to other refiners and Strict control of cash, assets, costs and expenses to retain our smelters in the past and may do so in the future if conditions warrant.
competitive position as a low cost producer, ensure operational Shareholders and note holders continuityand deliver shareholder returns.
The major shareholder in Fresnillo plc is Peoles, which holds 75% of Experienced management and skilled personnel the issued share capital of the Company.
Peoles has been the principal Selection, recruitment, training, development, compensation investor in Group assets for over 50 years and is committed to our longandretention of personnel with the requisite knowledge, skills term growth and development.
Peoles is also a significant supplier to andexperienceto execute our strategy.
and customer of the Company, as described herein.
25% of Fresnillo plc shares trade on the London and Mexican Technology Stock Exchanges, and bondholders own US$800 million of Senior Data, tools and systems that support exploration, increase productivity, Secured Notes due 2023.
The Group maintains a regular dialogue reinforce sustainability, enhance accountability, and support decisionwith its independent investors and note holders as described in the making and financial planning processes.
Strategic relationships Partners The Group owns a 56% interest in Minera Juanicipio S. A. fide C. V. with MAG Contract and unionised labour Silver Corporation holding 44%: the agreement was entered into for the Contract and union workers, who comprise approximately 84% of development of the Juanicipio concession.
We also partner with a number ourtotal workforce, are fully integrated into our employee management of junior exploration companies to conduct early stage prospecting.
We rely on their skills and labour for In 2014, we acquired the 44% interest in Minera Penmont S. fide R. L. fide C. V. key exploration, development and mining functions to meet our strategic held by Newmont USA.
We are committed to providing a safe, equitable and fair work environment.
Membership organisations We belong to a number of industry and trade groups that help advance We strive to maintain mutually respectful relations with local labour our strategic objectives, including: CAMIMEX, the Mexican Mining unions through continuous dialogue and collaboration, including yearly Chamber, which promotes sector agreements, advocates industry contract negotiations with the unionised workforce.
To date, Fresnillo positions, and sets benchmarks for the mining sector: CESPEDES plc has not experienced a work stoppage or industrial action as a Sustainable Development Studies Commission for the Mexican Private consequence of labour disputes with the Group, or with Group companies Sector, part of the Mexican Business Coordinating Council, or CCE, which with whom labour unions have collective agreements.
coordinates the private sector stance on key issues such as the transition Communities towards a green economy and greenhouse gas mitigation efforts in the Healthy community relations require a deep respect for and knowledge country: and the Mining Cluster for the State of Zacatecas, through which of the customs, cultures, needs and expectations of each community mining industry participants in Zacatecas state promote the development where we operate.
Engagement efforts begin at the earliest phases of of economic, social and environmental best practices across the exploration and continue throughout the lifecycle of a project, including supply chain.
We invest directly and through partnerships in a Authorities and regulators range of initiatives that aim to enhance the quality of life and long-term In Mexico and Peru, we must secure mining concessions from the federal wellbeing of our communities, with a focus on environment, education, governments in order to explore for and exploit mineral deposits.
We are health and social integration, entrepreneurship, and social infrastructure.
subject to the laws and regulations governing all companies, and those We are taking a fresh look at our approach to community relations in 2015 for natural resources and mining companies in particular, including to ensure our policies are designed to enhance stakeholder engagement environmental, construction, explosives and labour laws, among others.
and community development: we are also exploring the possibility of a As a publicly traded company on the London and Mexico stock public health programme.
exchanges, the Company is subject to issuer requirements from these Suppliers exchanges as well as financial and regulatory oversight from securities We negotiate long-term purchase agreements with key suppliers to regulators in the UK and Mexico.
secure better pricing and ensure timely availability of key equipment, materials and services.
Risk Management Framework The Group contracts Servicios Administrativos Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. The identification, evaluation and mitigation of the principal risks that SAPSA, a subsidiary of the Companys controlling shareholder, Industrias could affect the Companys ability to execute its strategy and deliver Peoles, S. A.
B. fide C. V. Peoles, to supply administrative services.
The relationship is regulated by a Services Agreement NSA, orNew Risk identification, assessment and mitigation are performed at all levels Services Agreement, ensuring that all services are delivered at arms of the organisation, including the Board.
Risk management processes length and on normal commercial terms as per the Relationship and internal controls operate across our mine sites, exploration and Agreement with Peoles.
development projects, and corporate offices, as well as across functional Customers areas including finance, HSECR, human resources, procurement, IT, legal, security and insurance management.
Almost all of the primary products originating from our mines in 2014 were sold to the Met-Mex Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. refining and smelting facility in Torren, Coahuila Mexico under a series of supply agreements that enable us to benefit from relatively low transport costs associated | 26 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 www.
