Financial Review The above factors resulted in a 32.1% decrease in gross profit to The Consolidated Financial Statements of Fresnillo US$521.1 million in 2014. plc are prepared inaccordance with International Exploration expenses recorded in the income statement decreased Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
ThisFinancial 18.8% to US$168.8 million, whilst capitalised exploration expenses totalled Review is intended to convey the main factors US$15.7 million, resulting in US$184.5 million of total risk capital invested affecting performance and to provide a detailed in exploration.
This figure was lower than the US$233.3 million invested in analysis of the financial results inorder to enhance the prior year and below the original guidance of US$225 million, reflecting understanding of the Groups financial statements.
our conservative approach and flexibility to adjust our expenditure under challenging price environments.
Allcomparisons refer to 2014 figures compared to 2013, unless otherwise noted.
The financial In 2014, a number of additional factors affected the income statement, information and year-on-year variations are among them other expenses of US$25.5 million registered in the year mainly due to the write-off of certain assets at Soledad-Dipolos for the presented in US dollars, except where indicated.
carrying value of property, plant and equipment that could not be utilised The full Financial Statements and their accompanying or reassigned, or remains at the site and is no longer considered to have notes can be found on pages 163-219. a future economic benefit to the Group following a re-assessment of the Companys plans for the operations.
The revaluation of the Silverstream Contract had a positive impact of US$77.0 million in the 2014 financial results.
This was largely driven by increased ore grade at Sabinas, a lower discount rate, unwinding of the discount, and higher than expected production in the year, which more than offset the effect of the lower silver price.
Commentary on financial performance The decline in precious metal prices continued to be the main driver A regrouping of the number of components increased stripping affecting the Groups financial performance in 2014.
Profit levels were costs by approximately US$10 million, which otherwise would have further impacted by higher depreciation and additional costs related to: been capitalised.
i the ramp-up of production post the temporary explosives suspension A US$10.0 million write down was recorded as a result of the sharp drop at Herradura: ii the start-up of operations at the dynamic leaching plant in gold prices and the simultaneous increase in inventory carrying costs and at Saucito II: iii higher stripping ratios at the open pit mines: and at Noche Buena due to the temporary increase in the stripping ratio.
iv additional costs related to increases in throughput at NocheBuena, Additionally, the decline in the gold price resulted in a US$7.6million write Saucito and Cinega.
Gross profit decreased by 32.1%, EBITDA by 22.3% down at Soledad-Dipolos.
and profit from continuing operations before net finance costs and income tax by 49.7%.
In addition, other exceptional items such as a The significant devaluation of the Mexican peso against the US dollar at foreign exchange loss and increased deferred taxes, both related to the the end of 2014 had an adverse effect on the value of peso-denominated devaluation of the Mexican peso against the US dollar, had a negative net assets when converted to US dollars, resulting in a foreign exchange effect on the Groups profit levels.
Adjusted revenues decreased 12.3% to US$1,545.0 million as a result of The devaluation of the Mexican peso US dollar exchange rate also lower silver and gold prices and the stoppage of operations at Soledadincreased the difference between the carrying amount of assets and Dipolos.
These factors were partially mitigated by increased volumes liabilities denominated in US dollars and their value for tax purposes of silver sold, mainly from Saucito and, to a lesser extent, higher sales denominated in Mexican pesos in accordance to the Mexican tax volumes of zinc at a higher price.
law, thus increasing deferred income tax and the special mining right.
This affected the effective tax rate, which increased to 47.1% in 2014.
Adjusted production costs increased due to: i the additional costs In addition, mining rights of US$15.7 million were recorded in the associated with the ramp-up at Herradura: ii the start-up of operations income statement.
at the dynamic leaching plant and Saucito II: iii the higher stripping ratios at the open pit mines and the effect of regrouping the number In addition, net finance costs totalled US$47.2 million, mainly comprising of components: and iv the increase in volume of ore processed at the interest paid in relation to the US$800 million debt facility raised in NocheBuena and Cinega.
These adverse effects were partially mitigated November 2013. by costs not incurred at Soledad-Dipolos due to the stoppage, the 4.1% All the above factors resulted in a 55.1% decrease in profit for the year and devaluation of the average Mexican peso US dollar exchange rate and a 54.9% decline in profit attributable to equity shareholders of the Group, lower adjusted production costs at Fresnillo due to reduced volumes to US$108.4 million.
The Group ended the year with cash, cash equivalents and short-term In addition to the higher adjusted production costs, cost of sales was investments of US$449.3 million compared to US$1,251.7 million at negatively impacted by higher depreciation recorded at Herradura the beginning of the year.
The decrease was largely explained by the due to the start-up of the dynamic leaching plant: an increase in the acquisition of Newmonts 44% interest in Penmont and associated depreciation of capitalised mining works, machinery and equipment at companies for US$450.5 million, the purchase of property, plant and Saucito, Fresnillo and Herradura: and increased depletion factors at most equipment of US$425.6 million, and dividends and net interest paid of of our mines.
These factors were partially mitigated by an increase in US$124.6 million.
Capex for 2015 is estimated to increase to approximately change in work in process due to the inventories built up on the leaching US$700 million as a result of the on-going construction at San Julin, pads at Herradura as part of the natural ramp-up process and temporary development works at Saucito II, the potential expansion of Cinega, processing capacity constraints: the lower unproductive costs registered construction of the pyrites plant in the Fresnillo District, and the second in 2014 as a result of operations being halted for only two and a half Merrill Crowe plant at Herradura.
months at Herradura compared to five and a half months in 2013: and lower profit sharing.
| 96 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 www.
