Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Strategy Performance San Ramn satellite mine Cinega District Core drilling covered 29,000 metres in 2014.
Exploration was focused ondetermining the full extent of the Porvenir-Bandera and Republicana ore shoots, both along strike and at depth.
Additional smaller resources with good gold and silver grades were delineated at the newly discovered SanGregorio, Ramal Republicana, Campo 2, and Campo 3 veins.
Ownership: Minera La Cinega, S. A. fide C. V. 100% Fresnillo plc As aresult, the total gold equivalent ounces showed an 8% increase.
Location: Durango Cebollitas Cluster Surface and underground exploration drilling delivered a 22% increase in gold equivalent ounces, mostly from the main Taspana Oriente and Tajos veins.
A decline to reach Taspana Oriente started late in 2014, advancing An intensive programme of drilling and mine workings continued at the 121 metres: it is expected to reach the vein in mid-2015.
In the southern San Ramn satellite operation and in the Cebollitas cluster, delivering part of the district, the Hidalgo adit was advanced to 1,023 metres to good results and supporting the expansion of the Cinega beneficiation explore an outcropping vein swarm carrying good gold and silver grades plant.
Mapping and sampling in the Cinega Sur area outlined additional at the surface.
targets that will be drill tested in 2015.
Cinega Sur Las Casas-Rosario Seven kilometres south of the main mine operations, geological Preparation of these areas began in 2014, with significant advances at mapping and sampling has identified the Durazno-Pachuca and Metate Rosario and good progress at Las Casas, which is expected to continue vein systems.
Anomalous gold and silver has been found along 1 in 2015.
Mineralisation from these veins was accessed through crosscuts kilometre strike, and adrill programme has been designed.
Social and from the main Cinega mine workings so that this sector is now fully environmental permits are inprogress: drilling is expected to start in the integrated with the main operation.
While the development work has second half of 2015. confirmed grade and thickness of the veins, the use of higher cut-off grades resulted in a decrease of 19% in total gold equivalent content atthese structures.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 75
