Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Strategy Performance What we said we would do in 2014 Pursue efforts to obtain OHSAS 18001 certifications in all units Health Launch the process to obtain Healthy Company and Smoke-free Company certifications Mexican Ministry of Health in all units Standardise occupational health processes across our units Complete the implementation of the Health Information System to support our processes Implement and monitor indicators to track progress and coverage of health training Launch campaign to motivate healthier lifestyles to reduce obesity andrelated morbidity The health and wellbeing of our employees is a key component of our social licence to operate.
We strive to limit new cases of occupational What we did in 2014 diseases and to promote healthier lifestyles.
Fresnillo, Penmont and Cinega obtained OHSAS 18001 certification Smoke-free certification obtained by Fresnillo, Penmont and the Torren and Chihuahua offices.
Penmont and the Chihuahua office obtained Strategy Healthy Company certification Our approach aims to pre-emptively identify and manage the health Occupational health processes documented and standardised risks to which our workforce is exposed.
Preventive care and the across units promotion of healthier lifestyles can limit certain chronic diseases and enhance overall wellness and fitness for work.
While our focus is set on All units implemented a Health Information System prevention, emergency preparedness is a core competence of all our Units revised health risks against training requirements matrices health teams.
We work closely with local authorities and support health Penmont and Fresnillo implemented programmes for adoption of initiatives in the communities where we operate.
healthier lifestyles What we plan to do in 2015 Occupational health Enforce occupational health practices of contractors in line with ourown policies Integrate contractors health business processes with our Health Information System Seek Healthy Company and Smoke-free Company certifications Emergency inallremaining units Community preparedness Extend healthier lifestyles programmes to all units Health and Identify and address psychological health risks with potential impact wellbeing onsafety performance Investment in health New cases of occupational diseases US$ Preventive 12.68m 2 Healthier health 9.64 10.34 12.68 1 0 2 lifestyles and wellness Certifications Fresnillo Saucito Cinega Penmont OHSAS 18001 Certified In process Certified Certified Sets out criteria for international best practice in occupational health 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 and safety management.
Healthy In process Initiate In process Certified An illness caused or aggravated by work activities or workplace conditions.
Company in 2015 Certification by Mexican health authorities for the implementation of best practice in occupational health and preventive care, including the promotion of healthier lifestyles.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 81 Social and Sustainability Report continued 1 2 3 4 Sustainability: Advance and enhance 4 thesustainability of our business Occupational health Preventive health and wellness The occupational health programme works proactively to eliminate Our preventive health programme seeks to prevent chronic diseases such work-related illnesses through robust risk analysis, guidelines, as diabetes and high blood pressure.
Health check-ups allow for early procedures, protective equipment, awareness campaigns and identification and monitoring, while the Alert-On programme can detect customised training.
We are committed to enforcing the occupational chronic diseases with potential impact on safety performance.
A set of health practices of our contractors in line with our own standards.
preventive indicators was designed and implemented in our units, and weintend to enhance our Health Information System accordingly.
Our main occupational health risks relate to: inhalable hazards mainly emissions and dust, noise, fatigue, ergonomic stress, vibrations, light, We continue to seek Healthy Company and Smoke-free Company heat stress and contact with chemicals.
certifications for all our units, which evaluate how companies promote healthier lifestyles and their ability to manage preventive and Employee health is monitored with regular check-ups, with vulnerable occupational health.
workers relocated to reduce their exposure.
The Alert-On programme helps prevent alcohol and drug-related accidents, and also verifies Psychological health risks have a bearing on safety performance: our other signs to determine fitness for work in critical activities such as Behavioural Change workshops facilitated by psychologists address high elevation work or mine shaft elevators.
At exploration units, which stress and personal issues that could compromise awareness in the often operate in remote locations, we train on the risks of dehydration, workplace and lead to accidents.
We are committed to identifying and venomous snakes and spiders.
We prioritise first aid training and addressing these risks across our units.
Healthier lifestyles In 2014, the Governor of the State of Durango and Octavio Alvdrez, CEO, inaugurated a new clinic at Cinega, which provides healthcare service Mexico ranks first worldwide in overweight obese children and second both to our workforce and the surrounding community.
Our units updated in adults.
Poor dietary habits, sedentary lifestyles and lack of access their workforce training requirements to match corresponding health to nutritious food are among the major determinants of excess weight risks, and we standardised business processes related to occupational and obesity.
health routine check-ups, doctor visits, accidents etc.
In line with the strategy of the countrys National Health Authorities, we Contractors will be asked to use our information system to better monitor help raise our employees awareness of the importance of preventive their performance and compliance with our health policies.
care, emphasising current health, moderate portion sizes and regular We regret to report two new cases of occupational diseases as exercise.
In addition, a group of employees at our Fresnillo and Penmont determined by the National Health Authority, of a single employee units joined pilot programmes focused on changing habits to achieve whowas diagnosed with a 30% disability due to pneumoconiosis weight loss.
We aim to extend weight loss programmes to all our units.
restrictive lung disease and a 35% disability due to hearing loss.
Communities Emergency preparedness We operate in some regions where appropriate access to healthcare Competent response teams are fundamental to effective emergency isa stakeholder concern.
Our community support includes vaccination preparedness.
Our teams develop and practise emergency response campaigns, breast and cervical cancer screening, educational talks on strategies involving core Company functions.
We benchmark our dietary habits, personal hygiene and contraception.
We also reach out to skills against the industry by participating in national and international local schools to raise awareness of childhood obesity and support local competitions and training.
authorities in efforts to complete youth vaccination programmes.
Protective equipment worn by DLP workers as part of occupational health programme | 82 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 www.
