Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Strategy Performance Lucerito Candamea Ownership: 55% Minera Mexicana La Cinega, S. A. fide C. V. : 45% Ownership: Minera Fresnillo, S. A. fide C. V. 100% Fresnillo plc Minera Saucito, S. A fide C. V. Location: Chihuahua Location: Durango Indicated and inferred resources: 1.0 moz gold, 39.1 moz silver Indicated and inferred resources: 2.0 moz gold, 140.2 moz silver This prospect is amenable to low strip ratio open pit mining and Candamea is a low strip ratio open pittable ore deposit, containing gold flotation processing technologies in a location with excellent physical and silver mineralisation in a high-sulphidation epithermal environment.
Additional metallurgical test work was conducted in 2014, We commenced operations at Candamea in 2010, committing to spend focusing on the recovery of refractory gold.
Although mineralisation at least US$1 million per year on exploration.
Given the consistently good remains open both along strike and at depth, additional drilling has results achieved each year, the option to acquire 100% of this project been postponed until more information on gold metallurgy and financial was exercised in 2014.
Exploration work conducted in 2014 includes scoping becomes available.
A preliminary economic assessment is being 8,819 metres of core drilling, which successfully identified extensions prepared and results are expected in the first half of 2015. of the mineralisation in the east and southeast: an updated resource estimation is scheduled for second half of 2015.
Guachichil Ownership: Minera Saucito, S. A. fide C. V. 100% Fresnillo plc Location: Zacatecas Indicated and inferred resources: 0.73 moz gold, 11.3 moz silver The drilling campaign continued and certain geophysical targets were tested.
However, resources decreased due to lower gold price assumptions.
We have reached an agreement with the Ejido to continuedrilling this project.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 77
