Our Exploration Programme continued 1 2 3 3 Explore: Extend the Growth Pipeline 4 Other prospects in Mexico Tajitos Sonora Exploraciones 15,614 metres of reverse circulation drilling increased resources to 79thousand ounces of gold indicated and 173 thousand ounces ofgold inferred.
Minera Parrea Ownership: 100% Fresnillo plc Coneto Durango, an association with Orex Minerals 11,745 metres of drilling were completed to evaluate the extent of the Santo Nio, La Bufa, Loma Verde and Promontorio and Impulsora veins: we plan to complete the drilling programme to earn a 55% stake in 2015.
Cebadillas-La Yesca Nayarit Our Cebadillas claim block includes two main mineralised wide structures up to 20 metres with good potential.
During 2014, geological mapping El Cairo Durango and sampling defined two new potential drill targets.
At La Yesca, an 4,450 metres of core drilling were carried out in 2014, which allowed historic underexplored silver-gold mining district with good potential, we for better definition of the extension of the gold mineralisation from the drill tested the Zapopan vein and the oreshoot discovered still remains El Castillo mine into Fresnillo ground: additional shallow silver and gold open at depth and along strike.
mineralisation was discovered to the northeast, along with low grade gold and copper at depth in the sulphide zone, which will be followed up in 2015.
San Nicols Guerrero Located in an emerging district discovered by Fresnillo in recent years, this prospect lies to the west of the central Guerrero gold belt: Guazapares Chihuahua our claim block comprises 106,063 hectares.
Mineralisation remains Epithermal gold and silver mineralisation is found at Guazapares in a open along strike, and there are other targets pending drill testing.
Precious-metal bearing quartz veins locally Drilling programmes have been on standby due to the current security accompanied by zinc, lead and copper values are hosted in a volcanic conditions in this part of Mexico.
sequence, intruded by rhyolite dykes.
19,267 metres of core drilling tested in 2014 several gold-silver veins: the Don Ese and Dana veins identified near Coeurs Palmarejo mine show interesting exploration potential to Rodeo Durango befollowed up in 2015.
23,886 metres of diamond drilling allowed an initial resource estimation delivering 730 thousand ounces of gold in inferred resources.
Preliminary bottle-roll metallurgical testing shows promising gold recoveries: column test work is underway.
| 78 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 www.
