Transform our culture through our people and values Our financial performance is underpinned by recruiting, developing and deploying the best people against our most important opportunities by applying our group values in everything we do and by delivering outstanding Strengthening customer service.
capability The group values are: Safety first We prioritise safety management to protect the health and well-being of our colleagues Our strategic review in 2013 identified and those around us.
the need to strengthen our resource Customer focus and capability in a number of key areas We have close, open relationships with our customers which generate trust and we work in of the business leadership, senior partnership for the benefit of our organisations.
line management, sales and business Integrity development.
We have also strengthened We can always be trusted to do the right thing.
our teams in IT, procurement, finance Best people and risk management.
We employ the best people, develop their competence, provide opportunity and inspire them to live our values.
2014 highlights Performance We seek to improve performance year on year to create long-term sustainability.
114 Safety first new senior appointments to new value Teamwork and collaboration the global leadership team We collaborate for the benefit of our customers and G4S.
Expertise New We develop and demonstrate our expertise whistleblowing through our innovative approach to creating policy created and delivering the right solutions.
Our plans to improve customer service are outlined 2015 priorities in more detail on pages 20 and 23.
How our values Increase health and safety focus on road safety are integrated into the groups strategic priorities is Extend health and safety leadership training to covered throughout the Strategic Report and in this a wider population section we discuss: Implement an online system to better capture and i.
Safety first protecting colleagues and those around us record health and safety incident data Enhanced whistleblowing hotline and case management ii.
Integrity being trusted to do the right thing system to be implemented globally iii.
Best people employing the best people and Global engagement survey to be undertaken and fed providing opportunity back within the organisation Design and implement a new single regional leadership programme for middle managers 14 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Nuclear power United States At one of the newest and largest nuclear power facilities in the United States, the G4S Regulated Security Solutions team has worked safely for nearly 11 years since a recorded lost-time accident, and worked nearly 2 million safe man-hours by implementing a comprehensive behaviour-based safety programme.
Ethical employment partnership global Since 2008, G4S has had an ethical employment partnership with UNI, the global union federation.
G4S was the first UK company to enter such a partnership, which drives improvements in employment standards across the global security industry, while helping to ensure that employee and union rights are respected throughout the company.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 G4S plc 15 Secure solutions India With a workforce of 130,000 people across 25 states, G4S India launched a strong health and safety initiative aimed at spreading the concept of zero harm for its employees and customers.
Throughout the year, it introduced a series of campaigns aimed at making the workplace environment safer.
Driving Force global In 2014, 19 colleagues lost their lives in road traffic accidents.
The Driving Force initiative aims to significantly reduce these incidents.
Based on an initial pilot in seven countries, Driving Force is now being rolled out to every G4S company globally.
Two of the pilot countries experienced significant reductions in the number of fatal road traffic accidents in the twelve-month study period.
As well as informative literature packs distributed within the business, Driving Force rules include training, vehicle checklists, and basic driver evaluation and investigation tools to help understand the root cause of incidents.
16 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Strategy in action continued Strengthening capability Best people building capability Achievements Since April 2013 we have strengthened our global Our performance management approach addresses leadership team materially, with 114 appointments to both non-financial and financial performance in an our top 220 executive roles.
Of the 114 appointments, integrated way and is outlined in more detail in the 50 were internal promotions and role changes and 64 key performance indicators section of the Strategic were external hires.
These changes have been focused on Report on pages 32 and 33. senior line management, sales and business development.
We have also strengthened our teams in IT, procurement, Safety first finance and risk management.
The nature of our work and the environments in which we operate can expose some of our employees The senior leadership programme is being re-launched in to a high risk of harm.
Mitigating and managing these risks 2015 to better reflect the strategic priorities of the group.
so that our people return home safely every day is our A new cohort of senior managers with potential to move paramount concern.
Tragically, colleagues from across the to more complex roles will be identified to participate.
group are injured and sometimes killed during the course The programme, which started in 2005, will support of their work.
Any death or injury is unacceptable and in and challenge participants to contribute to sustainable 2014 we have invested in additional health and safety business performance and continue their own personal resources with the aim of preventing such incidents leadership development.
Every element of the across the group and to learn from those which do occur programme will explicitly promote the G4S values so that we can address the root causes.
and draw on good practice from existing G4S senior leaders around the world.
The continued effort to improve the safety of our staff is led from the top of the organisation with personal Gender diversity % leadership from each member of the Group Executive Committee supported by human resources experts and 108 safety professionals across the group.
Processes and practices across the group are challenged Board 9 2 frequently by our health and safety professionals, and critical country reviews, carried out by experts who are Senior 251 32 independent of the business under review, highlight management learning points following every serious incident.
Total 539,000 84,000 To ensure that our managers take ownership and employees responsibility for improving health and safety, we recently 0 20 40 60 80 100% re-designed incentive plans to ensure that avoiding harm to employees, and to those with whom we come into Male Female contact during the course of our business remains the focus for managers across the organisation.
Improved Please see page 58 for the boards policy on diversity health and safety performance will continue to be a key area of focus in 2015.
Work-related fatalities by category 60 49 41 40 21 19 17 20 14 11 8 0 Attack Non-attack Road Total 2013 2014 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 G4S plc 17 Strategy in action continued Strengthening capability Employee engagement As outlined in more detail on page 31, part of the remit of the Regional Risk and Audit Committees which were Our employee engagement programme is based on the internally developed PRIDE model: established in 2014, is to ensure compliance with our robust anti-corruption policies and embed the Integrity P rotect their basic needs value across the regions.
Compliance statements are now signed by the businesses and regions on a quarterly basis.
R espect them as individuals In 2014, we completed a review of our global I nvolve them in the business whistleblowing policy and practices against the principles D evelop their skills and potential of the UK Whistleblowing Commissions Code of Practice, E ngage them fully making a number of changes as a result of that review.
We have selected a new global hotline provider and More information on all of these areas can be found will be implementing a new global whistleblowing in our CSR reporting framework, including our CSR system in 2015.
We are also implementing a new case report and www.
We are currently planning management tool which will enable us to capture our next global employee engagement survey in 2015. information on whistleblowing cases across the group and The survey is based on the PRIDE model and the to analyse trends and issues raised on a more systematic principle that where employees feel Protected, Respected, basis.
We have re-established our ethics steering group Involved, Developed and Engaged, they are more likely which was first created to ensure our compliance with to perform at their best, provide customers with the requirements of the UK Bribery Act to ensure the exceptional service and be great advocates for the appropriate focus on whistleblowing and ethical behaviour organisation.
The last global study was undertaken in across the group and make sure that we are constantly 2013 and received over 380,000 responses a 62% challenging ourselves to meet the highest standards.
Feedback from the 2013 survey and the From time to time, concerns about the conduct of our forthcoming 2015 survey is shared with the relevant colleagues or our business partners are brought to our business leaders, so that we can address areas which attention.
We take all such concerns seriously and work employees have highlighted as in need of improvement.
with internal audit and external investigators to ensure Examples where feedback has resulted in change include: all issues raised are addressed appropriately.
Information on enhanced health and safety leadership and training current issues can be found on page 21 in our CSR report.
increased internal communications leadership programme launched in the Americas Human rights increased training resources being offered in Our human rights framework supports the continued Latin America and Europe development of an ethical and sustainable business model that encourages the improvement of standards, Performance management job creation, community support and broader beneficial During 2014 we re-defined our performance measures impacts on societies throughout the world.
and incentives for our employees and our approach continues to address both non-financial and financial The framework is being embedded across the group, performance in an integrated way.
Performance indicators along with newly-developed processes for assessing the include measuring customer needs, and achieving groups human rights risks in many areas such as bidding sustainable profit and cash flow, and provide clear for contracts, entering new markets and analysing our and strong alignment between management priorities existing countries of operation.
These practices are driven and shareholder value.
by an annual assessment of human rights risks and a series of assessments and reviews in markets where risks exist.
Integrity Ethical conduct is not just a solution to the challenges Where risks or concerns are identified, action is taken to make sure that we put in place processes to mitigate of legal compliance, but a means of doing business which provides customers, employees, partners and or reduce any risk.
In some cases, this means that a business or operation can be scrutinised intensely by communities with the confidence that they are working with an ethical organisation.
Acting with integrity across either G4S or independent experts.
For example, in the spring of 2014, the board commissioned an independent the world is a key element of our business strategy and a positive differentiator.
review into the groups operations in Israel.
The findings from the review were presented to the chairman of our Business ethics and anti-bribery and corruption CSR Committee and to a number of the Group Every year we review our business ethics policy to ensure Executive Committee members, and were published on it reflects the current business and political environment the groups website in the interests of transparency.
and addresses any risks which may exist.
Implementation More detail on human rights risk assessment can be of the standards described in the policy is the found in the Risk Management section and the groups responsibility of local managers.
These are subject separate CSR report.
to review through our internal and external audit programmes and from investigations triggered by whistleblowers or colleagues raising concerns with their managers.
18 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Ebola response Africa Responding to the outbreak of Ebola in the region, G4S Sierra Leone, in conjunction with our G4S Africa head office, developed an Ebola awareness programme for employees, incorporating posters, handouts and training.
Symptom testing, hand washing facilities and the provision of personal protective equipment were implemented at G4S offices as part of the programme of increased preventative measures, and a comprehensive contingency plan was developed.
These measures greatly assisted in the prevention of infection and subsequently have been shared with other affected countries such as Mali, Nigeria and Guinea.
Compliance and Investigations North America The United States second largest school district, serving one million students and 90,000 employees, worked with the G4S Compliance and Investigations team to reduce workers compensation fraud and abuse losses.
The organisation-wide programme saved the customer more than $10 million in fraudulent claims and resulted in 24 arrests and convictions.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 G4S plc 19 Strategy in action continued 2.
Invest in organic growth, customer service and operational excellence Achievements Investing in organic growth opportunities Group-wide initiatives to take advantage of the Customer focused organic growth opportunity including: sales capability assessment and recruitment mandatory implementation of standard sales operations systems sales performance in all businesses customer engagement and retention global account management pricing policy and management Following the strategic review In the past 18 months, we have appointed new sales undertaken in 2013, we concluded that leaders in all of our six regions and at group level.
the group had been under-investing in Across the group as a whole, we have appointed 391 organic growth opportunities and since additional new employees into sales and business development roles, including industry sector specialists then we have established a number of in a number of our regions.
We have also been programmes designed to strengthen implementing a standard tool for measuring customer satisfaction.
Through regular customer organic sales and business development.
surveys and feedback, we will be better able to identify and quickly address service issues and deepen and strengthen customer relationships.
Customer relationship management 2014 highlights We are also investing in a more rigorous approach to customer relationship and global account management.
5.5bn 1.1bn We are placing greater emphasis on managing and retaining the existing customer base and have continued to invest annual value of sales pipeline annual contract value of as at end December 2014 new business won in new service development and innovation for existing customers.
We have also begun to export commercially proven services across countries and regions.
% c. 90 c. 20m Our investment in organic growth implemented through contract retention rate annualised additional these programmes provides long-term support for our for existing contracts investment in sales and sales pipeline.
During 2014, we won new work with business development an annual contract value of over 1.1 billion and a total contract value of 2.1 billion.
See the Business review on Group-wide initiatives to improve organic growth pages 34 to 41 for a description of the type of new and customer retention rates contracts won per region.
We continue to build and to Investing in a more rigorous approach to customer replenish our pipeline which, after taking into account strong relationship management conversion in 2014, had an annual contract value of 5.5 Investment in technology development and sales billion at the end of December 2014.
Roll out of standardised sales operations system commenced 2015 priorities Implement our standardised customer satisfaction survey tools across the group Complete roll out of standard sales operations Continue to improve pipeline management Increase multi-service offerings to existing and new customers 20 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Annual contract value Large, diversified sales pipeline of sales pipeline at end of December 2014 During 2014 we won new work with an annual contract value of over 1.1 billion and a total contract value of 2.1 billion.
We continue to build and replenish our pipeline which, after bn taking into account strong conversion 3.9 in 2014, had an annual contract value Leads and prospects unrisked of 5.5 billion at the end of 2014. bn 1.1 Bidding bn 0.5 Negotiation Global agriculture Latin America G4S provides secure solutions to one of the worlds leading global agriculture companies that has operations in more than 90 countries.
In Latin America, G4S services more than 30 customer locations in Brazil, Argentina, Colombia, Chile and Mexico, incorporating risk mitigation, integrated security solutions and world-class technology.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 G4S plc 21 Bank of America global With operations in more than 40 countries, serving 48 million consumers at 4,800 retail banking offices and 15,800 ATMs, the needs of a global customer like Bank of America are complex and dynamic.
G4S partners with them to provide total security including software, systems and over 5,000 security officers posted at more than 1,300 buildings and banking centres across the world.
Lake Turkana Africa In April 2014, G4S was named security partner for the 500 million Lake Turkana sustainable energy project in Kenya.
Lake Turkana is a large-scale infrastructure project in Kenya, transforming the lives of many Kenyans and providing a sustainable low-cost source of energy.
Part of a public and private sector joint initiative, G4S will work alongside other international businesses under a three-year rolling contract for up to 15 years.
The G4S solution includes securing generators and bore-holes, over-seeing the taking of water from those bore-holes and controlling access on and off the site.
It also involves the staffing of an operations room with a communications system which all the major contractors will be using.
22 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Strategy in action continued Customer focused We have also started to strengthen our sales The global security systems market is a large, growing operations so that we can manage our pipeline market source: Freedonia World Security Services more pro-actively and improve the alignment of Report, November 2014. sales incentives with sales performance and customer We believe specific technologies with significant market satisfaction.
Sales incentives have been redesigned potential include: for 2015 to better align them to drive growth, customer retention and customer satisfaction.
advanced access control systems video and image analytics software.
Through Investment in technology specialists constant automated digital screening and filtering, In 2014, the group initiated a strategic review of video analytics can identify and notify operators capabilities in technology addressing IT and back office of potential issues, allowing security officers to make technology, operational technology and customer-facing quick, informed decisions technology.
The opportunity for using technology to integration software for connecting and drive back office efficiencies for areas such as payroll controlling multiple devices to create an and accounts payable through shared service centres end-to-end security solution is outlined on page 24 and operational technology such data analytics software for pooling and rapidly as telematics is outlined on page 27.
In terms of customer synthesising large volumes of data and facing technology, the group derived 8% of revenue from automated cash management systems.
security systems revenue in 2014 but this is largely The group has proven in-house product development concentrated in the North America and Europe regions.
capabilities in a number of these areas: Security systems revenue % TM United States OneFacility technology solution spanning security, safety and facilities management, TM Secure Trax automation of typical security Africa 7% communication including incident reporting via UK & Ireland a handheld device and Risk360 security incident 8% Asia Middle East information capture, investigation and analysis tool, 7% TM UK Symmetry access control and building North America management system, electronic monitoring equipment: 20% Latin America South Africa Deposita end to end cash management 12% solution for retail customers and TM Europe CASH360 end to end cash management for retail solutions see page 26 and localised product centres e. g. Hotelo access control technology.
Europe 46% Regional markets vary widely in terms of competition, products sold and customer segments, and our approach is adapted to meet each customers unique requirements.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 G4S plc 23 Strategy in action continued 3.
Make our organisation more productive Achievements Organisational effectiveness As well as taking action to strengthen our organisation Leverage our with new appointments, we have also been reviewing our organisational design to ensure that management structures are both effective and efficient.
In a number of global scale and regions we have embarked on a fide-layering programme which aims to shorten lines of communication, reduce costs and increase the amount of time devoted to technology customers and the marketplace.
We have also created two global functions that should deliver significant synergies in the areas of IT and procurement.
One of our key goals is to improve During 2014 we also established a project to globalise operational and overhead efficiency a number of our key functions such as HR, and organisational effectiveness.
We communications, finance and legal.
We believe that global also aim to better leverage the scale of functions will improve the consistency, effectiveness and efficiency of our functional services.
the organisation through group-wide Shared service centres procurement and IT programmes for An example of our approach to improve back office the first time.
efficiency through shared service centres is in the UK, where we have completed the first wave of consolidating finance functions spread across nine different accounting locations and six different accounting platforms into one combined UK-based shared service centre on a single 2014 highlights IT platform.
Global procurement and IT functions established In North America, Canada will be consolidated into the US Annual addressable procurement spend identified shared service centre during 2015, and beyond that we see Strategic review of IT resources and capability opportunities to bring one smaller US business into scope completed that is not currently in the US shared service centre.
Began implementation of accelerated best practice ABP across the group including: In the AME region we have made tangible progress since 4,500 vehicles fitted with telematics devices by last year in evaluating how we can transition to regional the end of 2014 hubs by, for example, co-locating simpler transaction Implemented route scheduling programme processing activities before consolidating onto a single Started our multi-year labour scheduling IT platform.
programme covering 39 countries and 376,000 employees Phase 1 of UK shared service centre completed 2015 priorities Migrate G4S Canada into North America shared service centre Improve development and deployment of IT systems and tools across the group Continue implementation of direct labour efficiency programme Supplier negotiation and rationalisation 24 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Direct labour management global Labour costs are around 75% of the total cost base Labour efficiency measurement for the group.
Our in-house employee scheduling system provides reporting, key performance indicators KPIs and management information Total hours billed and paid around direct labour management, so that businesses output from billing and payroll systems can better manage their labour costs.
This solution is already in the process of being implemented in 13 countries and a significant number of other countries will have access to it in 2015.
Reconciled to: A detailed management information pack of KPIs has Contracted hours and actual hours delivered also been produced by the secure solutions Service output from operating systems Excellence Centre SEC to enable businesses to better measure labour efficiency by tracking unbilled overtime, non-billable hours and reconciliation of Variance analysed and ongoing labour hours in a much clearer and more consistent improvements made way is proving to be very valuable.
It reconciles the output from payroll systems what has actually been paid and compares it to the expected output from the operating systems i. e. what the scheduling system expects to pay and bill to customers.
It highlights any variance for further review and analysis, enabling us to make improvements going forward.
Cash Solutions SEC partnership Serbia, Europe G4S Cash Solutions, Serbia has to manage a very broad range of note denominations and so the size and volume of notes they transport and insert in ATMs is different compared with most other cash solutions businesses.
As with all cash solutions SEC reviews, the team looked for efficiencies that could be achieved by applying proven methods to improve efficiency and customer service, while reducing costs and increasing profit.
These include combining routes, increasing productivity, reducing premium hours, reviewing branch boundaries, realigning customer sites and re-planning to reduce or eliminate route cross-overs, and absorbing new contracts into existing routes.
In Belgrade, a dedicated team from G4S Serbia worked with the SEC and improved productivity by removing routes and vehicles by integrating collections or deliveries into other routes and planning the routes differently.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 G4S plc 25 Australia care and justice services Asia Middle East G4S is one of the leading private providers of care and justice services in Australia and New Zealand, overseeing almost 1,500 offenders and transporting over 100,000 prisoners and 86,000 non-emergency patients in 2014.
Leveraging our local knowledge and international expertise, a key part of the G4S Australia growth strategy is to develop our care and justice portfolio in new markets Queensland and Western Australia and new sectors policing.
To support this we have invested in senior executive level sector expertise in those states, in policing in Australia and transferred policing experts from the UK business.
TM CASH360 global TM CASH360 is the first integrated end-to-end cash management system that controls every stage, from cash payment by purchasers to depositing the proceeds into sellers bank accounts.
It has been launched in Europe and other markets.
Over the last three years, TM CASH360 revenues have grown over five-fold and we have plans to launch in more markets.
This will enable our banking and retail customers to become more efficient and secure and help them to spend more time with their customers.
TM By automating the entire process, CASH360 has been able to mitigate the risks that surround the management of money in a wide range of scenarios.
The financial benefits for customers include better cash flow, simplified operations, a safer environment and reduction in losses, giving business owners and management more time to focus on trading successfully.
Users have reported in-store costs of handling cash reduced by up to 70% and the elimination of shrinkage loss of inventory that can be attributed to a variety of causes, from employee theft to administrative errors.
26 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Strategy in action continued Leverage our global scale and technology Group procurement Operational excellence During 2014 we established the position of In addition to programmes focused on organic growth, we chief procurement officer and conducted a baseline have programmes under way designed to improve operating survey of non-payroll spend.
This allowed us to determine and organisational efficiency.
These programmes are the scale and the nature of the opportunity to reduce described collectively as Accelerated Best Practice ABP.
costs by employing a global approach to procurement.
Two years ago we invested in creating Service Excellence By bringing procurement under a global function we Centres SECs, for both secure solutions and cash solutions.
can use our scale to better negotiate deals with SECs aim to deliver gross margin improvement and suppliers, reduce costs and make more structured improved customer service by driving consistent operational purchasing decisions.
The baseline survey carried out in 2014 identified ABP programmes include: addressable spend of 1.3bn, of which 70% was Telematics and route planning attributable to eight broad categories of expenditure.
We have around 34,000 vehicles in our fleet and spend Since then we have started the process of employing over 300m per year on vehicle capital investment and experienced category managers and opened negotiations operating costs.
The telematics programme involves the with a number of our key suppliers.
We concluded our installation and use of tracking devices that enable us first global procurement deals in early 2015 in IT and to measure and reduce fuel and maintenance costs and telecoms, and believe that this approach presents improve driving safety.
At the end of 2014, 4,500 of significant opportunities to reduce our costs and achieve our vehicles were fitted with telematic devices.
better service and value for money.
Our route scheduling programme involves the use of IT transformation equipment and software that enables our businesses to In IT, we have a new group chief information officer, plan and operate optimal routes for collections, deliveries and have established a global leadership team.
When fully deployed, the programme can reduce both vehicle and crew requirements and improve We are adopting industry-recognised IT service customer service by helping our crews to meet delivery, management models, driving consistency and efficiency in collection and visit windows.
By the end of 2015 we plan IT infrastructure, development and operations.
The first to have 7,000 vehicles operating under an enhanced phase of transformation is focused on infrastructure.
In addition to improving supply chain management we Direct labour efficiency programme are also using vendors IT platforms to give us visibility The programme aims to improve customer service and and control of our spending.
reduce costs by deploying the right security officers at We are also taking a global approach to rationalise the the right time and at the right cost, and by minimising numerous email systems which exist across the group, non-billable time.
This is an enormous multi-year improving communication and productivity.
We are taking programme covering 39 businesses and 376,000 a similar approach to the rationalisation of our telecoms employees in the first phase alone.
Direct labour efficiency reconciles the output from payroll On IT development, we have begun to offshore the systems whats actually been paid and compares it to software development that underpins our accelerated the expected output from the operating systems i. e. what best practice for labour scheduling and route planning.
the scheduling system expects to pay, and highlights any Finally, during 2015 we will seek to bring a standard variance for further review and analysis enabling us to approach to our IT operations.
See the case study on page 25 for more information.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 G4S plc 27 Strategy in action continued 4.
Actively manage our portfolio and performance Achievements During 2013, our strategic review identified a number of businesses which were under-performing or lacking in Portfolio scale.
We also looked at business risk profiles and market values.
Depending on our assessment of all of these factors, we decided to either sell, discontinue or invest in management the turnaround of these businesses.
During 2014, we reviewed 56 businesses in greater depth and detail.
Of these we have sold eight businesses, including US Government Solutions, which was managed through a proxy structure over which we had limited control.
Since 2013, our disposal programme has raised around Portfolio management remains an 248m from businesses which generated a below group important tool for capital discipline average operating margin of 2.8%.
Of this, 177m was raised in 2014. and performance management.
Portfolio management remains an important tool for capital discipline and performance management.
A further 20 smaller businesses are being sold or ceased, and another 22 are currently under review.
None of 2014 highlights these smaller businesses, alone or in aggregate, has a material impact on our revenue, our profit or our cash flows.
Our portfolio management programme has 56 8 improved our strategic focus and we have released capital at attractive overall realisations.
businesses reviewed businesses sold At the same time as divesting under-performing businesses or those lacking materiality, we have been investing in the organic growth opportunity, where we 248m expect to see good returns on our investment and to make G4S more productive.
As outlined in the previous gross proceeds raised Strategy in action sections, we have been investing in since 2013 our continuing businesses in the following areas: people, sales and business development, technology and business improvement programmes, including restructuring to 2015 priorities drive operational excellence and organisation efficiency.
Cease or sell 20 smaller businesses Continue to invest in the organic growth opportunities to drive sustainable profit and cash flow 28 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Since then, we have reviewed 56 businesses Active portfolio management looking at strategic value, risk profile and materiality During 2013, we conducted a bottom-up analysis of contribution growth, PBITA and cash generation, of all of our businesses, evaluating their performance and sold eight businesses, raising gross proceeds of and prospects.
The results showed that 62 countries 248 million.
Twenty further businesses are being sold were expected to contribute 95% of the total PBITA or closed.
2013 Forecast of G4S PBITA in 2016 by country Cumulative PBITA % 100 80 60 62 COUNTRIES CONTRIBUTE 95% OF 2016 PBITA 40 20 0 1 11 21 31 41 51 61 71 81 91 101 111 Country 2016 PBITA High to Low Annual Report and Accounts 2014 G4S plc 29 l a v o r p p a d i B t n e k s m i r s O a c s s d o n s i e n B u - s t r g s r a a o a n i c c n t e g Strategy in action continued 5.
Embed disciplined financial and risk management Achievements Operating cash flow In 2014, we made a material change to the cash Improving measure used in budgets, monthly reviews, long-term business and incentive plans, to deliver free cash flow after working capital.
Our performance management cash flow cycle around cash flow has also changed.
Our debtors sales outstanding DSO, based on revenue for the last 90 days of 2014 was 48 days and there are many businesses where there are opportunities for improvement.
We have moved the monitoring of cash and cash collections from monthly to weekly, and moved The groups capital allocation and the collections agenda beyond finance by engaging the contract review processes have business in cash collections.
We also need to be more been strengthened to ensure that all disciplined about commercial terms for receivables, drive better terms from our supply chain through the new investment opportunities compete for procurement processes and to reduce the time from capital in a single pool and are evaluated event to billing.
On average across the group we bill in 13 days, and as with DSO, there is considerable variation against a stringent set of economic and in the timeliness of billing across the group.
We are developing a programme across the global finance and commercial communities to systematically look at both the order to cash cycle, and the procure to pay cycle and analyse the systemic root causes that 2014 highlights affect cash flow and then drive improvement, based on this root cause analysis.
Contracts, risk management and delivery 526m 553m assurance Cash generated from Total cash generated We now have enhanced contract management operating businesses from continuing operations processes in place across the group.
There are clear in 2014 in 2014 reserved powers for the approval of contracts at group executive committee and board level to approve bidding for major, complex contracts and all material contracts 1bn c. 200 with low profitability are subject to review at regional, revolving credit bank facility contracts across the group or board level, as appropriate, 29 contracts went refinanced in January 2015 group reviewed by the through this process in 2014.
For more detail please see CFO on a quarterly basis the risk management section on page 42.
Contract risk management and governance model 2015 priorities Improve cash generation 30 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 m C o o b i n l e i k t s e s r a i t a t r t i c i o d t m n r a m o o B c l a n r e t t i n d i u p a u o r G Strategic report We have also introduced a 360-degree model for ongoing contract assurance Contract 360.
As the Capital discipline name implies, this brings together a review of the financial, commercial, legal, delivery and reputational risks We believe our new approach to capital discipline is working: one single capital pool: a minimum in taking on work for a customer and means that there is a holistic view of contract risk, both before we commit 10% post-tax internal rate of return on all investments: a group wide investment committee and during the contract life cycle.
Then, during contract execution, amongst other things, we review the progress that oversees both revenue and capital investments: and rebalancing capital away from on delivery commitments made and we monitor customer satisfaction as well as commercial and financial acquisitions to organic capital investment.
The more rigorous process around capital discipline performance.
Contract 360 is well developed and embedded in our UK business and will be progressively was reflected in 138m capital expenditure 2013: 178m down 22% from 2013.
The lower implemented across all regions in 2015. spend is also a deferral of spend into 2015 as we In terms of the broader contract portfolio, every bring some capital investment under the global IT, quarter the finance organisation reviews the financial shared service and other programmes.
performance of all the major contracts, and the CFO performs a top-level review of the top 200 contracts across the group each quarter, equivalent to around a third of group revenue.
These contract disciplines give us early sight of emerging contract issues, and the Contract 360 review process enables us to develop the appropriate commercial and legal strategy and ensures that the accounting is sound.
Restructuring Capability building In 2013, we invested 63m to reduce costs, mainly in These contract management changes would not be the UK and Europe.
New areas of opportunity identified possible without capable people and effective processes, in 2014 accounted for a further 29 million charge.
in finance, risk management and control.
In Audit and These programmes were essential in strengthening our Risk, we have appointed a Head of Global Risk and Audit.
competitive position, principally in the UK and in Europe.
In finance, we have four new regional CFOs and a new In the UK cash solutions business, we have reduced our group Financial Controller.
Together with their teams they branch footprint by 20% and headcount by around have significantly improved our internal financial reporting.
In Europe, we have consolidated our regional HQ We have a much more rigorous monthly and quarterly in Amsterdam, consolidated our operations in the close process, monthly reviews through group finance Netherlands and Belgium, and across the group funded that focus on quality of earnings, as well as enhanced some modest fide-layering of duplicated or overlapping processes around balance sheet integrity and control.
Regional Risk and Audit Committees Balance sheet We also introduced regional risk and audit committees The board remains committed to maintaining a strong across the group, and these bring together the ongoing balance sheet with the long-term net debt to EBITDA risk management agenda in the region, compliance ratio of less than 2.5 times.
At the end of 2014, the matters, issues arising from internal and external audit, net debt EBITDA was 2.8x a little higher than our long and an ongoing review of any issues requiring judgement.
term aim mainly because of the payment relating to the They are chaired by the Regional CEO and include UK electronic monitoring contract settlement.
The groups representatives from group as well as Regional Finance, revolving credit bank facility was successfully refinanced in and are also attended by our external auditor.
January 2015 with improved pricing, terms and conditions The Regional Risk and Audit Committees are now a achieved.
The new facility is a five-year 1 billion core part of the governance processes within the group.
committed facility provided by a consortium of leading Together with the other changes discussed above, they international banks.
Our unutilised but committed facilities provide an enduring platform in risk management and at the year end were 998m.
We continue to be soundly controls and have resulted in significant strengthening financed and have good access to capital markets as of the stewardship in the group.
demonstrated by the recent renewal of the revolving credit facility.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 G4S plc 31
