Our services G4S works to safeguard the welfare and prosperity of millions of people worldwide helping to create safer and better environments in which people live and work.
The breadth of our services and geographic coverage provides both resilience and growth opportunities.
% 84 Secure solutions group revenue Security and facilities management FM services Security systems and technology Market and strategy Market and strategy G4S is a global provider of security and FM services with a top-three market Security systems and technology represented position in the majority of the 91 manned security markets in which we around 8% of group revenue in 2014. operate.
Security and facilities management services accounted for 59% The global security systems market is a large of group revenues in 2014. growing market source: Freedonia, November As one of the few global security companies, our main international competitors 2014 but regional market dynamics vary widely in developed markets tend to be regional and international companies in terms of competition, products sold and operating in a single market segment such as manned security, security systems customer segments.
Our technology strategy or facilities management.
There are also many local security companies operating therefore has to adapt to meet each regions in developed and emerging markets.
We aim to differentiate our business to customers through our expertise, We aim to drive outsourcing and enhance excellent service delivery, integrated security solutions and geographic coverage.
the value of traditional security services through greater use of technology see p23.
The secure solutions business covers a wide range of services, including: Security systems and technology includes: Risk services Risk management and consultancy services including risk Security installation Access control, CCTV, and consultancy analysis, personal protection, compliance and investigations, and maintenance intruder alarms, fire training, mine detection and clearance services detection and video analytics to identify and Monitoring Key holding, mobile security, patrol and response notify operators of issues and response services, and alarm receiving and monitoring facilities System software Security and building Secure facilities Integrated facilities services for entire sites or estates integration systems technology services for commercial customers and governments integration Manned security Trained and vetted security officers services Revenue Revenue 4,004m 566m 2013: 3,898m 2013: 550m 2 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Care and justice services Specialist outsourced services Market and strategy Market and strategy Care and justice services represented around 9% of group Based mainly in the UK, G4S offers revenue in 2014.
The market structure is typically consolidated a range of outsourcing services, on the supply side with a small number of providers.
Larger which together accounted for around companies are usually better equipped to deliver such 8% of group revenues in 2014. highly specialised services.
We aim to offer innovative and While the care and justice services market is concentrated cost-effective solutions to customers.
primarily in the UK, USA, Australia and New Zealand, we see Police Support for frontline a number of countries exploring the possibility of outsourcing services policing including the these services to the private sector in the future provision of custody suite services and forensic Care and justice services offers highly specialised medical services, and services to central and local governments and back-office support government agencies and authorities: functions for police forces Juvenile and Management of all aspects of a facility WelfareAssisting long-term adult custody and those held within the facility to-work unemployed people and rehabilitation similar centres are also used for the programme into work detention of asylum applicants Utility Data and meter Prisoner Transportation of prisoners and asylum services services, and contact escorting applicants between courts, police stations centre management and custody and asylum centres for private energy Asylum services Management of housing provision and and utility companies other services for asylum applicants Electronic Electronic tagging and monitoring of monitoring offenders at home or in the community Revenue Revenue 504m 605m 2013: 586m 2013: 399m Annual Report and Accounts 2014 G4S plc 3
