Strategic report Business model Our business model is market led: Delivering customer everything begins with the customer.
We seek to understand our customers focused solutions strategic and commercial objectives so that we can design and deliver security solutions which support them.
Customer relationships and contacts G4S has a very diverse contract portfolio.
The duration of contracts a higher capital intensity being usually five years in duration varies from annual sporting events to 25-year contracts.
In practice many annual contracts lead to solutions, most contracts are annual, with those contracts requiring long-term relationships.
We foster a high performance culture which focuses on service excellence, operational Service excellence management and financial performance.
High performance leads to strong customer relationships, motivated employees and achievement of strategic goals critical elements of delivering sustainable, profitable growth.
By analysing customers existing and future complex security needs and bringing together Solutions design our expertise in market sectors, technology, project management and service delivery we design solutions which help our customers to manage risks, improve service, protect people and assets and achieve their own organisational objectives.
Understanding customer needs is central to our success.
This enables us to align Customer our organisational objectives to those of the customer and means we can help our understanding customers to be successful.
See pages 2 to 4 for an overview of our service lines.
We build customer understanding through involvement in industry bodies and academic institutions, strategic work with customers, customer service assessments and feedback.
There is positive demand for our core services around the world.
See page 10 Market Demand for a discussion of some of the market growth drivers.
With 623,000 dedicated employees and operations in over 110 countries, Scale and capabilities our ability to deploy skilled staff on a global basis to support local and international customers is central to our business model.
This coverage means we can share learning and experiences across our markets to the benefit of our customers and our business.
We work in line with relevant international standards and strive to achieve consistent high quality employee engagement, health and safety, training and ethical business practices across our operations.
G4S Secure solutions: positioned for future development G4S Cash solutions: unique breadth and reach System software integration 15 Outsourcing services 13 Consultancy services 17 ATM maintenance 34 Monitoring & response 66 ATM replenishment 48 System install & maintenance 73 Cash processing 58 Manned security 91 Secure transportation 62 Number of G4S countries around the world Number of G4S countries around the world A key element of our growth and customer service strategy is to leverage the opportunity to design, sell and deliver more sophisticated, complex solutions in more countries.
Such services tend to have longer contract terms and higher margins than manned security alone.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 G4S plc 5 Increasing complexity, longevity & margin Increasing complexity, longevity & margin
