Divisional review Construction Strategy Construction delivered a robust Construction We continue to follow largely the same strategy that has served performance.
We are continuing our construction business well during difficult market conditions.
We will: our selective approach to new projects, a strategy that has retain our discipline and select projects with appropriate risk and cash profiles: seen us outperform our peers focus on both the public and the private sector, frameworks and increasing our capability in major projects: and inthe tough markets of target margin improvements.
PPP Investments In PPP Investments, our strategy is to: target our PFI and PPP investment capabilities, to support our construction and Partnerships businesses: and increasingly become a collaborative investment partner for public sector clients, to give us access to a pipeline of projects rather than one-off bids.
Performance Market Revenue Cash Up 1% Up 15% The UK construction market has remained challenging during the last 12months but we are seeing more opportunities across the country and an improving outlook.
832.9m 151.3m The regulated sector is driven by five-year investment plans, which means that business has come through consistently as expected.
In the water sector, we are seeing strong competition from new entrants for work on AMP6 programmes, leading to significant Revenue by activity pressure on prices.
Up 10.2m The public sector market depends on the Governments abilitytofinance investment, either directly or by attracting private Building 458.3m sector funds.
The market has been weak but opportunities are Infrastructure 374.6m 832.9m appearing, with the Government beginning to unveil investment plans and most departments being funded as the general electionapproaches.
Private sector work depends on companies having the confidence to invest, which is linked to economic conditions, consumer spending and the availability of finance.
We are seeing a steady increase in opportunities, particularly around London where we have a strong presence, although this improvement is still at an early stage.
The PPP market in England has remained quiet with PF2 failing totake off, although the 700 million procurement initiative, the Priority Schools Building Programme to address the condition ofschools in urgent need of repair, is delivering substantial opportunities.
As in previous years, the market in Scotland remains positive with a strong pipeline of opportunities.
Ken Gillespie, construction division chief executive For our objectives to 2018, see pages 12 and 13 24 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic report Governance Financials 1 2 1.
Liverpool Wastewater Treatment 3 Works in Merseyside.
Riverside Quarter in Wandsworth, South West London.
Halley VI Research Station, Based on Antarctica.
Hillview School for Girls in Tonbridge, Kent.
Waitrose in Oundle, longterm Northamptonshire.
relationships 4 5 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 25 Divisional review: Construction 1 Order Book Performance 1 2014 2013 Revenue m 832.9 822.7 3.0bn Profit from operations m 8.0 12.9 1.
Operating profit margin % 1.0 1.6 2 Order book bn 1.4 1.2 Building Infrastructure 1.
2013 has been restated to reflect the new Partnerships segment, as described in the financial review on page 15.
Increased to 3.0bn following the acquisition of Miller Construction in July 2014.
We have continued to follow our strategy of being selective about the work we bid for, in order to protect our margins and maintain our focus on cash.
2,080m 920m We won important new contracts during the year, as discussed below, contributing to revenue that was up by 1% at 832.9 million 2013: 822.7 million.
We had anticipated that margins would be lower in 2014, owing to challenging conditions in the supply Commercial 446m Water 349m chain, notably in building, leading to higher costs than we expected Education 609m Transport 325m at the time we bid for some contracts.
The effect was mitigated by Facilities management 335m Utilities 122m profits of 3.1 million on the disposal of three investments, held and Health 271m Other civil engineering 62m managed within the building division.
This resulted in a reduced Other 419m Other 62m margin in the second half of the year and a margin for the full year that was in line with our expectations.
We continued to manage our cash carefully and had a cash balance in construction of 151 million at the year end 2013: 132million, representing 18% of revenue.
At the year end, our order book was 1.4 billion 2013: 1.2 billion.
Of this, 29% was public sector, 19% was in regulated industries and 52% was in the private sector.
Importantly, 56% of our order book is in frameworks.
Constructions order book increased to 3.0 billion following the acquisition of Miller Construction.
On 9 July 2014 we acquired the Miller Construction business.
Miller Construction is a UK only contractor, which delivers building and infrastructure projects to both the public and private sectors.
The acquired business hasa strong strategic fit and accelerates our strategy of growth into an improving marketplace.
In the year to 31 December 2013, Miller Construction reported revenue of 409 million.
Focusing on major projects Reflecting our major project capabilities, we are part of the consortium constructing the Queensferry Crossing, a new three-tower cable-stayed bridge in Scotland between Fife and Edinburgh.
Work remains on track to complete the bridge by the end of 2016.
26 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic report Governance Financials Building 2014 2013 Revenue m 458.3 406.4 Profit from operations m 3.0 6.5 Operating profit margin % 0.7 1.6 Order book m 820 635 During the year, Building secured or was appointed preferred bidder for a number of key projects.
These included: in education, the 48 million appointment by hub South EastScotland to develop two new high schools in Kelso andNewbattle: in commercial, construction of the Forbury Place office project in Reading for M&G Real Estate and Bell Hammer 38 million : and in health, the first phase of the 41 million redevelopment ofthe Royal Edinburgh Hospital.
In addition, Building was appointed to both regional segments of the new four-year Education Funding Agency contractors framework.
We are one of ten contractors appointed and one of eight on both Sector strength the North and South sectors.
The framework is potentially worth 4 billion in total and will be the primary means of government bodies We have considerable experience in leisure and hotels.
Current procuring major capital works for academies, free schools and the projects include Hotel Football, next to Manchester Uniteds capital-funded element of the Priority Schools Building Programme.
Exciting features include a terrace with a 16 metre by 12 metre pitch and retractable roof.
Infrastructure 2014 2013 Revenue m 374.6 416.3 Profit from operations m 5.0 6.4 Operating profit margin % 1.3 1.5 Order book m 555 579 Our infrastructure business continued to deliver work for regulated businesses and has a number of major UK projects in progress.
Inparticular, our four-party consortium constructing the new Queensferry Crossing is on programme, with the critical marine based bridge pier foundation work complete.
The business has been appointed as a framework contractor to both Lots 1 and 2 ofthe Midlands Highway Alliance framework.
Yorkshire Water appointed our joint venture with AECOM Design Build to continue as a contractor for its AMP6 framework.
The framework will run from 2015 to 2020 and we expect it to be worth at least 110 million to Galliford Try over this period.
The framework is similar in value and scope to the current AMP5 contract.
We also won our first contract in the airport sector, for Manchester Airports Group.
The contract, worth 80 million, ispart of the clients 500 million Capital Delivery Programme, which we were appointed to in June 2013.
This is a difficult sector to enter and we Leadinglargescale infrastructure expect to win further work based on this success.
The South Devon Link Road is a prime example of our capabilities in delivering large-scale infrastructure schemes.
It will improve access to Torbay and South Devon, helping to create nearly 8,000 jobs in the area.
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 27 Divisional review: Construction Outlook We are seeing increased opportunities across our construction business.
The division is winning work with appropriate margin and inflation protection and continues its focus on risk management and cash.
We have a well-balanced business with strong sectoral capabilities.
The diversity of our order book continues to supportus and helps to protect us from weakness in any particular market.
The acquisition of Miller Construction in July 2014 provides access to new frameworks and more than doubled the size of our order book.
Supply chain conditions remain challenging, particularly in our building business, and we continue to manage them.
We expect to hold our construction margin steady during 2015.
Working in partnership Delivered underhub South East Scotland, the Wester Hailes Healthy Living Centre in Edinburgh is a state-of-the-art facility that allows local people to access a vast range of health and social care services, under one roof.
Protecting the built environment We are experts in delivering flood alleviation schemes.
The scheme we are constructing in Elgin, Scotland, will be able to cope with 190tonnes of floodwater per second an occurrence expected only once every 200 years.
28 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic report Governance Financials PPP Investments Performance 2014 2013 Revenue m 15.1 6.7 Loss from operations m 1.8 3.2 Directors valuation m 1.8 4.5 PPP Investments continued to provide good opportunities for our construction, Partnerships and maintenance businesses during the year.
To date, we have arranged and financed 31 projects, with a total funding requirement in excess of 1.3 billion.
The directors valuation of our PPP portfolio was 1.8 million at 30June 2014, compared with a value invested of 1.1 million 2013: valuation 4.5 million: value invested 2.9 million.
We use discounted cash flows to value our portfolio.
We are particularly active in Scotland, where there are a number of Investing in regeneration PPP projects in progress.
We are part of the Alliance Community Partnerships consortium on the South West Scotland hub initiative, and are also part of the South East Scotland hub.
During We are part of the consortium delivering the Brunswick the year, our construction business in Scotland won a number of regeneration scheme, which will create more than 500 new contracts to build or refurbish schools and hospitals through these homes and refurbish 650 council houses in East Manchester, hub initiatives.
aswell as providing jobs and training for local people.
Together with our infrastructure business, we secured, as part of the Connect Roads Consortium, preferred bidder status for the design, build, finance and operation of the 745 million Aberdeen Western Peripheral Route.
Together with Galliford Try Partnerships, we were confirmed as preferred bidder and reached financial close on the Kent Excellent Homes for All project, which includes a 38 million construction contract and associated facilities management services.
Outlook In the short term, the market for PPPs in England is expected to remain subdued, while Scotland continues to provide a pipeline ofprojects.
Looking further out, we expect to see more opportunities to partner with the public sector across the UK, applying the concept of the Scottish hubs.
This will provide us with a pipeline of work, rather than requiring us to bid for individual projects.
Our collaborative approach will allow public bodies disposing of assets to benefit from the skills in our PPP Investments business.
Creating sustainable communities Our approach to building the Pickaquoy Centre, part of the Orkney Schools Investment Programme, won us a Considerate Constructors Scheme bronze award for exceptional community relations and a positive site image.
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 29
