Directors report and other statutory information 2014 There are no restrictions on the transfer of the Companys shares, The directors present their Annual Report and audited financial with the exceptions that certain shares held by the EBT are statements for the Group for the year ended 30 June 2014. restricted for the duration of the applicable performance periods under relevant Group share plans, and directors and persons Principal activities discharging managerial responsibilities are periodically restricted Galliford Try is a housebuilding and construction group, primarily in dealing in the Companys shares under the Group Dealing Code, operating in the United Kingdom.
Galliford Try plc, registered in which reflects the requirements ofthe Model Code published by England and Wales with company number 00836539, is the Group the UK Listing Authority under its Listing Rules.
In certain specific Parent Company.
More detailed information regarding the Groups circumstances, the directors are permitted to decline to register a activities during the year under review, and its future prospects, is transfer in accordance with the Companys articles of association.
The principal subsidiaries and joint There are no other limitations on holdings of securities, and no ventures operating within the Groups divisions are shown in notes requirements to obtain the approval of the Company, or other 12 and 13 to the financial statements.
holders of securities in the Company, prior to the share transfer.
The Company is not aware ofany agreements between holders Strategic Report ofsecurities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of The Group is required by section 414A of the Companies Act 2006 securities or voting rights.
to present a Strategic Report in the Annual Report.
The Strategic Report can be found on pages 1 to 41.
There are no securities carrying specific rights with regard to control of the Company, with the exception that the EBT holds The Corporate Governance Report on pages 42 to 66is a statement shares in the Company in connection with Group share plans for the purposes of Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.2.
1. which have rights with regard to control of the Company that arenot exercisable directly by the employee.
The EBT abstains The Annual Report and Financial Statements use financial from voting in respect of any shares so held.
The EBT currently andnon-financial key performance indicators wherever possible holds0.82% of the issued share capital of the Company for the and appropriate.
purposes of satisfying employee share options or share awards 2013: 1.32%.
Further information on the Groups employees and employment practices, including its policies on equal opportunities for disabled Articles of association employees and employee involvement, and its approach to environmental, social and community matters, including a The Articles of Association, adopted in 2009 to reflect the Companies consideration of the impact of the Groupsbusiness on the Act 2006, set out the internal regulations of the Company, and define environment, is provided in the Strategic Report on pages various aspects of the Companys constitution including the rights 32to 41. ofshareholders, procedures for the appointment and removal of directors, and the conduct of both directors and general meetings.
Results and dividends The profit for the year, net of tax, of 77.2 million is shown in the In accordance with the Articles, directors can be appointed or consolidated income statement on page 72.
The directors have removed either by the Board or shareholders in general meeting.
recommended a final dividend of 38 pence per share, which together Amendments to the Articles require the approval of shareholders with the interim dividend of 15 pence declared in February, results in general meeting expressly by way of special resolution.
Copies ina total dividend for the financial year of 53 pence.
The total of the Articles are available by contacting the company secretary dividend for the financial year will distribute a total of 43.6 million.
Subject to approval by shareholders in general meeting, the final dividend will be payable on 28 November 2014, to shareholders on Significant direct and indirect holdings the register at close of business on 17 October 2014.
As at 16 September 2014, being the date of this Annual Report, the Company had been made aware, pursuant to the FCAs Disclosure Share capital, authorities andrestrictions & Transparency Rules, of the following beneficial interests in 3% or The Company has one class of ordinary share capital, having a more of the Companys ordinary share capital: nominal value of 50 pence.
The ordinary shares rank pari passu in Shareholder Interest % capital respect of voting and participation and are listed for trading on the Standard Life Investments 8,994,316 10.93 London Stock Exchange.
Aberforth Partners 3,535,408 4.32 The directors are authorised on an annual basis to issue shares, Norges Bank 3,306,435 3.97 toallot a limited number of shares in the Company for cash other than to existing shareholders, and to make market purchases of There were no material changes in any of the significant holdings shares within prescribed limits.
Resolutions to be proposed at the between the financial year end and the date of this Annual Report.
2014 annual general meeting AGM will renew all three of the directors standing authorities relating to share capital, which Change of control provisions arefurther explained in the Notice of AGM sent separately to There has been no change in the Groups contractual change shareholders.
Other than usual activity in connection with the ofcontrol provisions during the financial year although the Groups share plans, no shares have been issued or purchased Groups banking facility has increased to 400 million, and further bythe Company under the relevant authorities either during the related information can be found in the related disclosure on page financial year or to the date of this Annual Report.
58 of the 2012 Annual Report and Financial Statements.
64 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic report Governance Financials Going concern Board and directors interests In accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on Summary biographies of the Board directors as at the date of this Going Concern and Liquidity published in 2009, the requirements Annual Report are on page 43.
Ishbel Macpherson and Terry Miller of the UK Corporate Governance Code and Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3, were both appointed as non-executive directors with effect from the directors have conducted a rigorous and proportionate 1February 2014 and there have been no other changes to the assessment of the Groups ability to continue in existence for the Board, either during or since the financial year end, except that foreseeable future.
This has been reviewed during the financial Greg Fitzgerald has indicated his intention to retire in 2015 and year, taking into account the Groups refinancing of its core Amanda Burton has stepped down from the Board.
revolving credit facility agreed in February 2014, and the directors have concluded that there are no material uncertainties that may The interests of the directors in the share capital of the Company cast significant doubt on the Companys ability to continue as a are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 58 to going concern.
Furthermore, the Group has adequate resources 63, where details of executive directors service contracts and and visibility as to its future workload, as explained in this Annual non-executive directors letters of appointment can also be found.
It is therefore justified in using the going concern basis in preparing these financial statements.
The Company operates a formal ongoing procedure for the disclosure, review and authorisation of directors actual and Independent auditor potential conflicts of interest, in accordance with the Companies Each of the directors at the date of approval of this Annual Report Act 2006.
In addition, conflicts of interest are reviewed, and as confirms that: necessary further authorised, by the Board on an annual basis.
so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit Significant agreements information of which the auditor is unaware: and Except forthe agreements underpinning the Groups refinancing of the director has taken all steps that he she ought to have its revolving credit facility in February 2014, there are no persons taken as a director in order to make himself herself aware of with which it has contractual or other arrangements which are essential to its business.
any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Charitable and political donations For information regarding charitable donations please refer to the This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance Strategic Report on page 38. with section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
It is Group policy to avoid making political donations of any nature A resolution is to be proposed at the forthcoming AGM for the and accordingly none were made during the year.
However, the reappointment of  LLP as auditor of the Group notes the wide application of Part 14 of the Companies Act Company, at a rate of remuneration to be determined by the 2006, but does not consider the housebuilding and construction AuditCommittee.
industry bodies of which it is a member to be political organisations for the purposes of the Act.
AGM The AGM will be held at the offices of Royal Bank of Scotland, Creditor payment policy 3rdFloor Conference Centre, 250 Bishopsgate, London EC2M Group policy regarding creditor payment is to agree payment 4AA, on 7 November 2014at 11 am.
The notice convening the terms contractually with suppliers and land vendors, ensure the AGM, sent to shareholders separately, explains the items of relevant terms of payment are included in contracts, and to abide business which are not of a routine nature.
by those terms when satisfied that goods, services or assets have been provided in accordance with the agreed contractual terms.
Fair, balanced and understandable InNovember 2013, the Group became a signatory to the Prompt In accordance with the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Payment Code which contains, amongst other, commitments to Code and as further described on pages 48 and 49, the Group has pay suppliers within agreed contract terms.
arrangements in place to ensure that the information presented inthis Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
The Financial instruments directors consider, on the advice of the Audit Committee, that Further information regarding the Groups financial instruments, theAnnual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and related policies and a consideration of its liquidity and other understandable and provides the information necessary for financing risks can be found in the financialreview from page 14, shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business andin note 25 to the financial statements.
Important developments since year end Approval of report There have been no material events or developments affecting the This Directors Report, including by reference the Strategic Report Company or any of its operating subsidiaries since 30 June 2014 on page1 to 41 and the Corporate Governance and Directors except that the chief executive, Greg Fitzgerald, has indicated his Remuneration Reports on page 42 to 66, was approved by the intention to retire in 2015.
Also on 9 July 2014 the Group acquired Board of Directors on 16 September 2014.
Miller Construction, a UK construction business which delivers building and infrastructure projects to both the public and private For and on behalf of the Board sectors and which reported revenue of 409 million for the year ended on 31 December 2013.
Kevin Corbett General counsel and company secretary 16 September 2014 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 65 Directors report Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Each of the directors whose names and functions are listed on theDirectors Remuneration Report and financial statements in page 43, confirms that to the best of their knowledge: accordance with applicable law and regulations.
the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in Company law requires the directors to prepare financial accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, statements for each financial year.
Under company law the give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial directors have prepared the Group and Parent Company financial position and profit of the Group: and statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting the Strategic Reportcontained in pages 1 to 41 includes afair Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
Under review of the development and performance of the business company law, the directors must not approve the financial and the position of the Group, together with a description of statements, unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair the principal risks and uncertainties that itfaces.
view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for thatperiod.
For and on behalf of the Board In preparing those financial statements, the directors are Ian Coull requiredto: Chairman 16 September 2014 select suitable accounting policies and then apply themconsistently: Forward looking statements make judgements and accounting estimates that are Forward looking statements have been made by the directors reasonable andprudent: ingood faith using information up until the date on which they state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European approved this Annual Report.
Forward looking statements should Union have been followed, subject to any material departures be regarded with caution due to uncertainties in economic trends disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and and business risks.
The Groups businesses are generally not prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, affected by seasonality.
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and the Company and to enable them to ensure that the Group financial statements comply with both the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the International Accountancy Standards Regulation: and that the Parent Company financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity ofthe Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
66 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
