Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Additional information Annual general meeting Restrictions on the transfer of securities The annual general meeting AGM of the Company will be held at Whilst the Board has the power under the articles of association to 2.00 pm on Thursday, 7 May 2015 at 195 Piccadilly, London W1J 9LN.
refuse to register a transfer of shares, there are no restrictions on The notice of meeting, which includes the business to be transacted the transfer of shares.
at the meeting, is included within the AGM circular.
The circular also contains an explanation of all the resolutions to be considered Under the Companys articles, the Directors have power to suspend at the AGM.
voting rights and the right to receive dividends in respect of shares in circumstances where the holder of those shares fails to comply with a notice issued under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006. Dividend The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders The Directors recommend a final dividend of 5.6p per ordinary share that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting in respect of the year ended 31 December 2014, payable to rights.
shareholders on the register at the close of business on 10 April 2015.
This, together with the interim dividend of 2.8p paid in September 2014, brings the total dividend for the year to 8.4p.
Substantial shareholders As at 31 December 2014, the Company had been notified of the following holdings of voting rights in its shares under Rule 5 of the Issued share capital Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct At 31 December 2014, the issued share capital of the Company Authority: consisted of 1,660,529,859 ordinary shares of 10p 2013: 1,660,529,859 shares, of which 17,797,916 shares 1.07% were held % of in treasury 2013: 20,558,781 shares: 1.24%.
During the year a total voting of 2,760,865 ordinary shares were transferred out of treasury in Shareholder Nature of Interest rights connection with the exercise of options by participants under the Standard Life Investments Companys share option schemes 2013: 7,684,420 shares.
Holdings Ltd Direct 5.13 Indirect 3.86 The ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
In addition, GKN has a sponsored Level 1 American Depositary Receipt Total 8.99 ADR programme for which the Bank of New York Mellon acts as Depositary.
The ADRs trade in the US over-the-counter market where Ameriprise Financial Inc Direct 0.06 each ADR represents one GKN ordinary share.
Indirect 4.88 Contracts for difference 0.07 Rights and obligations attaching to shares Total 5.01 Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends when declared, to receive the Companys annual report, to attend and See footnote on page 101. speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
On a show of hands at a meeting of GKN, every member present holding ordinary shares has one vote.
On a poll taken at a meeting, every member present and entitled to vote has one vote in respect of each ordinary share held by him.
In the case of joint shareholders only the vote of the senior joint holder who votes and any proxy duly authorised by him may be counted.
Shares held in treasury carry no voting rights.
GKN operates an Employee Share Option Plan Trust the Trust to satisfy the vesting and exercise of awards of ordinary shares made under the Groups share-based incentive arrangements.
The trustee of the Trust does not exercise any voting rights in respect of shares held by the Trust.
Once the shares are transferred from the Trust to share scheme participants, the participants are entitled to exercise the voting rights attaching to those shares.
A dividend waiver operates in respect of shares held by the Trust pursuant to the provisions of the Trust deed.
Full details of the rights and obligations attaching to the Companys shares are contained in the articles of association.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 99 GOVERNANCE Additional information continued Directors The Directors who served during the financial year were as follows: Position as at Service in the year ended Name 31 December 2014 31 December 2014 Mike Turner Chairman Served throughout the year Nigel Stein Chief Executive Served throughout the year Marcus Bryson Chief Executive Aerospace and Land Systems Retired from the Board on 31 December 2014 Angus Cockburn Independent non-executive Director Served throughout the year Tufan Erginbilgic Independent non-executive Director Served throughout the year Shonaid Jemmett-Page Independent non-executive Director Served throughout the year Richard Parry-Jones Senior Independent Director Served throughout the year Andrew Reynolds Smith Chief Executive Automotive and Powder Metallurgy Served throughout the year William Seeger N A Retired from the Board on 25 February 2014 Adam Walker Finance Director Served throughout the year Membership of the Board and biographical details of the Directors in Directors indemnities office at the date of this report are shown on page 61.
All Directors Pursuant to the articles of association, the Company has executed a will retire and offer themselves for re-election at the 2015 AGM in deed poll of indemnity for the benefit of the Directors of the accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Further details Company and persons who were Directors of the Company in respect relating to Board and Committee composition are disclosed in the of costs of defending claims against them and third party liabilities.
corporate governance statement on pages 62 to 69.
These provisions, deemed to be qualifying third party indemnity provisions pursuant to section 234 of the Companies Act 2006, were The articles of association provide that a Director may be appointed in force during the year ended 31 December 2014 and remain in force.
by an ordinary resolution of shareholders or by the existing The indemnity provision in the Companys articles of association Directors, either to fill a vacancy or as an additional Director.
Further also extends to provide a limited indemnity in respect of liabilities information on GKNs internal procedures for the appointment of incurred as a director, secretary or officer of an associated company Directors is given in the corporate governance statement.
The executive Directors serve under rolling contracts that are A copy of the deed poll of indemnity is available for inspection at the terminable with 12 months notice from the Company and 6 months Companys registered office during normal business hours and will notice from the executive Director.
The non-executive Directors serve be available for inspection at the Companys AGM.
under letters of appointment and do not have service contracts with the Company.
The Company has also arranged appropriate insurance cover for legal action taken against its Directors and officers.
Copies of the service contracts of the executive Directors and the letters of appointment of the non-executive Directors are available Conflicts of interest for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal Under the Companies Act 2006, Directors must avoid situations business hours and will be available for inspection at the where they have, or could have, a direct or indirect interest that Companys AGM.
conflicts or possibly may conflict with the Companys interests.
As permitted by the Act, the Companys articles of association enable The Directors remuneration report, which includes the Directors Directors to authorise actual and potential conflicts of interest.
interests in GKN shares, is set out on pages 78 to 98.
Formal procedures for the notification and authorisation of such Directors powers conflicts are in place.
These procedures enable non-conflicted The Board of Directors may exercise all the powers of the Company Directors to impose limits or conditions when giving or reviewing subject to the provisions of relevant legislation, the Companys authorisation and require the Board to review the register of articles of association and any directions given by the Company in Directors conflicts annually and on an ad hoc basis when necessary.
The powers of the Directors include those in Any potential conflicts of interest in relation to newly appointed relation to the issue and buyback of shares.
Directors are considered by the Board prior to appointment.
At the 2014 AGM the Directors were authorised to exercise the Articles of association powers of the Company to purchase up to 164,003,599 of its ordinary The Companys articles of association can only be amended by shares.
No shares were purchased under this authority in 2014.
The special resolution of the shareholders.
GKNs current articles are Directors were also authorised to allot shares in the Company up to available on our website at www.
an aggregate nominal amount of 54,667,866.
These authorities will remain valid until the 2015 AGM or 1 July 2015, if earlier.
Resolutions to renew these authorities will be proposed at the 2015 AGM.
100 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Change of control Donations As at 31 December 2014, the Companys subsidiary, GKN Holdings In 2014, charitable donations made by Group companies plc, had agreements with 14 banks for 15 bilateral banking facilities around the world totalled 739,000 of which 175,000 was totalling 800 million and an 80 million loan facility with the to UK registered charities.
Each of these agreements provides that, on a change of control of GKN plc, the respective bank can give In accordance with the Groups policy, no political donations were notice to GKN Holdings plc to repay all outstanding amounts under made and no political expenditure was incurred during 2014. the relevant facility.
The Groups US Aerospace business has a Political Action Committee The Company has in issue 450 million fixed rate notes paying PAC which is funded entirely by employees and their spouses.
No 5.375% semi-annual interest and maturing on 19 September 2022 funds are provided to the PAC by GKN and any administrative under a euro medium term note programme established by GKN services provided to the PAC by the US Aerospace business are fully Holdings plc the Notes.
Pursuant to the terms attaching to the charged to and paid for by the PAC, and the Company does not Notes, a holder of the Notes has the option to require GKN Holdings therefore consider these to be political donations.
Employee plc to redeem or at GKN Holdings plcs option purchase the holders contributions are entirely voluntary and no pressure is placed on Notes at their principal amount if there is a change of control of the employees to participate.
Under US law, an employee-funded PAC Company and either i the Notes are unrated or do not carry an must bear the name of the employing company.
investment grade credit rating from at least two ratings agencies: or ii if the Notes carry an investment grade credit rating from at least Research and development two ratings agencies, the Notes are downgraded to a non-investment Group subsidiaries undertake research and development work in grade rating or that rating is withdrawn within 90 days of the change support of their principal manufacturing activities.
Further details of of control and such downgrade or withdrawal is cited by the ratings the Groups research and development activities can be found agencies as being the result of the change of control.
Companies in the Groups Aerospace division are party to long term Financial instruments supply contracts with customers which are original equipment Details of the Groups use of financial instruments can be found in manufacturers of aircraft and aero engines.
Certain of these Note 19 to the financial statements.
contracts contain provisions which would entitle the customer to terminate the contract in the event of a change of control of the Strategic report Company, where such change of control conflicts with the interests Pursuant to section 414C of the Companies Act 2006 the strategic to the customer.
report contains details in relation to the likely future developments of the business of the Group and the disclosure of greenhouse gas Companies in the Groups Driveline division are party to supply emissions for which the Company is responsible.
contracts with customers which are original equipment manufacturers of motor vehicles.
Certain of these contracts contain Auditors and disclosure of information provisions which would entitle the customer to terminate the Resolutions to reappoint  LLP as auditors of contract in the event of a change of control of the Company.
the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the 2015 AGM.
All of the Companys share schemes contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding options and awards normally vest Each of the Directors who held office at the date of approval of this and become exercisable on a change of control subject to the Directors report confirms that, so far as he she is aware, there is no satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
Each Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to In line with best practice and the Companys policy for future service have taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of contracts of executive Directors, the service contract entered into any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys with Adam Walker does not include any provision for the payment of auditors are aware of that information.
a predetermined amount on a change of control of the Company.
The service contracts of the other executive Directors in office at the The strategic report comprising the inside front cover and pages 1 date of this report were amended on 19 February 2014 to remove the to 59 and this Directors report comprising pages 60 to 102 have change of control provision.
been approved by the Board and are signed on its behalf by Payments to suppliers It is Group policy to abide by the payment terms agreed with suppliers, provided that the supplier has performed its obligations under the contract.
In support of this policy, the Company is a signatory to the UK Governments Prompt Payment Code.
Jos Sclater Branches General Counsel & Company Secretary GKN, through various subsidiaries, has established branches in a 23 February 2015 number of different countries in which the business operates.
As at 25 February 2015, the Company had not been advised of any further changes or additions to the interests notified under Rule 5 of the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority as set out on page 99.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 101
