GOVERNANCE Board of Directors 1 2 3 MIKE TURNER CBE 66 NIGEL STEIN 59 ANGUS COCKBURN 51 Chairman N Chief Executive N E Independent non-executive Director A R N 4 5 6 TUFAN ERGINBILGIC 55 SHONAID JEMMETT-PAGE 54 RICHARD PARRY-JONES CBE 63 Independent non-executive Director A R N Independent non-executive Director A R N Senior Independent Director A R N 7 8 9 ADAM WALKER 47 ANDREW REYNOLDS SMITH 48 JOS SCLATER 42 Group Finance Director E Chief Executive Automotive E General Counsel & Company Secretary E A Member of Audit Committee N Member of Nominations Committee R Member of Remuneration Committee E Member of Executive Committee 60 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 1.
ANGUS COCKBURN Chairman Chief Executive Independent non-executive Director Appointed to the Board in September 2009 Appointed to the Board in August 2001.
Appointed to the Board in January 2013. and became Chairman in May 2012.
Experience Joined GKN in 1994 and held a Experience Currently the Chief Financial Experience Has extensive experience of range of commercial, general management Officer of Serco Group plc.
He joined Serco the aerospace industry having worked for and finance roles, including Group Finance in October 2014 from Aggreko plc where BAE Systems plc for over 40 years, and as Director and Chief Executive Automotive he held the role of Chief Financial Officer its Chief Executive from 2002 to 2008. before becoming Chief Executive in for 14 years and was latterly Interim Chief Former President of the Aerospace & January 2012.
Prior to GKN, he gained Executive.
Prior to this he was Managing Defence Industries Association of Europe.
experience in the commercial vehicle and Director of Pringle Scotland, a division of Fellow of the Royal Aeronautical Society.
manufacturing sector and held senior Dawson International plc.
Previously held financial positions with Laird Group plc a number of roles at PepsiCo Inc and was External Appointments Chairman of and Hestair Duple Ltd.
Member of the latterly Regional Finance Director for Babcock International Group PLC and Institute of Chartered Accountants of Central Europe.
Former non-executive non-executive Director of Lazard Ltd. Scotland and former non-executive Director of Howden Joinery Group plc and Member of the Governments Director of Wolseley plc.
former Chairman of the Group of Scottish Apprenticeship Ambassadors Network.
He is also an Honorary External Appointments Member of the Professor at the University of Edinburgh.
RICHARD PARRY-JONES CBE Independent non-executive Director Independent non-executive Director Senior Independent Director Appointed to the Board in May 2011.
Appointed to the Board in June 2010.
Appointed to the Board in March 2008 and as Senior Independent Director in Experience Currently Chief Executive, Experience Former Chief Operating Officer May 2012.
Downstream for BP plc with specific of CDC Group plc, the UK Governments responsibility for the Fuels, Lubricants and development finance institution.
Joined Experience Has extensive experience of Petrochemicals businesses.
He joined BP CDC from Unilever, where for eight years the automotive industry having previously in 1997 and has held a number of senior she was Senior Vice-President Finance and worked for the Ford Motor Company for marketing and operational roles, including Information, Home and Personal Care, 38 years, latterly as Group Vice-President Chief of Staff to the Group Chief Executive, originally in Asia and later for the group as Global Product Development and Group Chief Operating Officer of the Fuels a whole.
Her early career was spent at Chief Technical Officer.
Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering, the Institution of business and Chief Executive of the KPMG, latterly as a partner.
His early non-executive Director of Havelock Europa Mechanical Engineers and the Royal Society of Statistical Science.
Former career was spent at Mobil Oil.
plc and Close Brothers Group plc.
non-executive Director of Cosworth Group External Appointments Independent Holdings Ltd. Former Chairman of the non-executive Director of Amlin plc, APR Welsh Assembly Government Ministerial Energy plc and Greencoat UK Wind plc.
Advisory Group and former Chairman of Non-executive Director and Vice Chairman the Automotive Council.
External Appointments Non-executive Chairman of Network Rail Ltd. Nonexecutive Director of Kelda Eurobond Co Ltd and Yorkshire Water Services Ltd. 7.
JOS SCLATER Chief Executive Automotive Group Finance Director General Counsel & Company Secretary Appointed General Counsel in Appointed to the Board in June 2007.
Appointed to the Board in January 2014 and as Group Finance Director January 2012.
Assumed the joint Experience Joined GKN in 2002 and has role of General Counsel & Company in February 2014. held a number of senior positions across Secretary in June 2014. the Groups automotive businesses.
Joined Experience Former Finance Director of the Executive Committee in January 2006 Informa plc from 2008 to 2013 and Experience Joined GKN from AkzoNobel and became Chief Executive Automotive operationally responsible for the Events where he was Director of Legal Affairs and Powder Metallurgy in October 2011.
Division from 2012 until leaving the group.
South Asia and Pacific and Lead M&A Prior to GKN, he held various general Prior to this he was Group Finance Director Counsel for Asia Pacific.
Prior to this, he management and functional positions at at National Express Group plc from 2003 spent eight years at Imperial Chemical Ingersoll Rand, Siebe plc now Invensys to 2008, having joined in 2001 as Head Industries plc ICI and held a number of plc and Delphi Automotive Systems.
His early senior legal positions within its Former Chairman of the CBI Manufacturing career was spent at Touche Ross, headquarters and Asia Pacific operations Council and former member of the NatWest Markets and, latterly, Arthur and ICIs Quest International business.
Ministerial Advisory Group for Andersen where he held a number of Manufacturing.
External Appointments Non-executive Director of Morgan Advanced Materials plc and Vice President of CLEPA the European Association of Automotive Suppliers.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 61
