STRATEGIC REPORT Our strategic framework We aim to create long term and sustainable shareholder value in the form of steadily growing earnings and dividends through the delivery of growth in sales, rising profitability and increasing return on invested capital.
We have excellent positions in long term global growth markets and build strong relationships with international original equipment manufacturers OEMs and prime contractors.
To create value we have five strategic objectives.
Creating sustainable value See pages 10 11 for more information on our business model 08 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Our five strategic objectives Our financial goals Our financial goals are based on a balanced approach between sales 1 We aim to succeed in the long term by being the leader in our chosen growth, margin and return LEADING IN OUR markets.
We are selective in our CHOSEN MARKETS focus and work in partnership with on invested capital ROIC.
our customers to deliver the most innovative and high quality products and systems.
GKN is an international business with a global footprint through which we 2 serve our customer base.
By further developing our geographic spread LEVERAGING A we will continue our expansion into STRONG GLOBAL growing markets and build longPRESENCE lasting and mutually beneficial customer relationships that increase GROWTH our market share.
ABOVE MARKET GKN delivers innovative technologies that help our customers stay ahead in their markets and enable us to maintain our competitive edge, 3 ensuring we remain in higher value markets.
We work with our customers DIFFERENTIATING to develop new technologies, DELIVERING OURSELVES driven by global trends such as fuel THROUGH STRONG efficiency, the low-carbon agenda, TECHNOLOGY electrification, urbanisation and FINANCIAL RETURNS population growth.
TRADING MARGIN ROIC - % % We have a strong culture of operational excellence and, through continuous improvement processes, we focus on delivering exceptional 4 quality and customer service.
At the same time, we aim to DRIVING be an employer of choice with OPERATIONAL a high-performance culture, EXCELLENCE INCREASING CASH FLOW, motivated people and outstanding EPS AND DIVIDENDS leaders, always ensuring that safety is paramount in all our locations.
5 We believe that growth, at a manageable rate, is essential to the creation of shareholder value.
SUSTAINING ABOVE Market leadership, global presence, MARKET GROWTH innovative technology and operational excellence combine to help deliver growth above our markets.
See pages 14 15 for more information on our key performance indicators GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 09
