STRATEGIC REPORT Our business model Our business model supports our strategy to create long term and sustainable value for shareholders.
It highlights how we combine our advanced engineering value chain in global markets with our strong core competencies and clear values.
Our business model Strong core competencies GKNs extensive industry know-how, engineering capability and strong customer relationships are central to our value chain and ensure we are well positioned to sustain above market growth and deliver strong financial returns.
Industry know-how Engineering capability Strong customer relationships Understanding our markets and working We are committed to developing We work in partnership with our closely with our customers, academic and maintaining a diverse range of customers, wherever they are in the world, institutions and government agencies to engineering talent across the Group and to deliver customer-valued innovation and identify future technology requirements continually investing in technology to exceptional service.
Listening to feedback gives us the expertise to deliver marketenable the efficient design and delivery of and constantly striving to improve our leading solutions and provides continued high quality, innovative solutions.
products and processes helps us build opportunities for sustainable growth.
and maintain these strong relationships.
See pages 8 9 for more information on our strategic framework 10 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information DESIGNING NEW PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS Investment in technology, together with an understanding of market trends and customer needs, helps GKN create innovative high quality products that are efficient, sustainable and cost effective for our customers, and that deliver benefits to end consumers.
DELIVERING HIGH QUALITY PRODUCTS WINNING NEW BUSINESS We deliver high quality products Our strong engineering capability, CLEAR VALUES to the right place at the right time global footprint and innovative By our people all over the world.
These products solutions enable us to win As a business meet specific consumer needs, business by offering value to our In our world which help us to build strong customers.
P. 5259 STRONG CORE DELIVERING COMPETENCIES STRONG GLOBAL MARKETS FINANCIAL RETURNS Industry know-how Aerospace Engineering capability Automotive Strong customer Land systems relationships P. 1213 P. 10 SOURCING MATERIALS AND APPLYING LEAN MANUFACTURING PRODUCTS We focus on continuous Our well-developed supply chain improvement and reducing waste provides GKN with a reliable in our production processes around source of key raw materials and the world, as well as providing a components, and is supported safe working environment and by processes that assist the minimising our impact on our decision to make in-house or environment.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 11 STRATEGIC REPORT Our business model Global markets The world population is expected to reach over nine billion by 2050, an increase of more than GLOBAL MARKETS two billion from todays level, with growth Aerospace mainly in urban areas.
Automotive Land systems Global markets Population growth drives change across our markets: increased Manufacturers are increasingly opting for lightweight designs demand for flights and larger aircraft, changes in the types of car and materials.
Composite aerostructures and engine components people drive and the number of cars on the roads, a requirement are already relatively common on new platforms, while in the for increased farming efficiency to help double global agricultural automotive industry, components are being designed to reduce production, as well as infrastructure development in cities.
Development work is underway in both sectors this influences our product development and offers significant to increase the opportunities for lightweight materials.
significant know-how in lightweight materials and increasingly in advanced production technologies such as Design for Powder There is also the continual drive to improve the fuel efficiency Metallurgy and additive manufacturing that offer the opportunity of aircraft, cars and other vehicles, while at the same time to optimise product design.
increasing manufacturing efficiency and product safety.
Demand for fuel-efficient solutions remains high due to concerns over CO2 emissions and air quality.
Advanced electric and hybrid alternatives are replacing traditional mechanical processes 9.6bn and GKN has specific expertise in electric and hybrid vehicle Global population technology and electrically-driven machinery which help our customers meet this challenge.
a by 2050 See pages 24, 28 and 36 for more information on our markets 12 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Our markets Aerospace Key market drivers Recent trends Outlook Continued growth in air The development of new generation aircraft Growth in the commercial aerospace market passenger traffic.
and aero engines that are quieter and more is expected to continue but this will be offset Development of lightweight fuel-efficient.
in the short term by a further decline in the materials that improve Commercial aircraft sales backlog at the principal military sector.
OEMs is at an historically high level.
World aircraft production is expected Worldwide defence budgets.
Production rates for many commercial single aisle to grow at 2-3% per annum over the next and the new generation of twin aisle aircraft are five years.
Environmental impact rising in response to increased demand.
Airbus and Boeing forecast a global demand reduction programmes.
Global competition among aircraft manufacturers of between 31,000 and 38,000 large and supply chain continues to emerge.
commercial aircraft over the next 20 years.
Focus on robustness of supply chain from OEMs and willingness to insource if necessary.
Cutbacks in military expenditure in the US.
Airbus and Boeing deliveries in 2014: 1,352 Airbus and Boeing commercial backlog: 12,175 Source: GKN Aerospace forecast.
Automotive Key market drivers Recent trends Outlook Increased affluence in Global light vehicle production increased by 3% in External forecasts indicate that global developing markets.
2014 to 87.4 million vehicles, whilst sales of light vehicle production in 2015 will increase Demand for more fuel-efficient vehicles rose to 86.3 million vehicles.
vehicles and lower tailpipe China and North America saw the largest The fastest growth is expected in China 7% emissions.
production growth in 2014, while Japans output and India is forecast to increase by 6%.
Demand for personal mobility in for the year was better than expected following North America will grow at a slower rate than emerging markets.
2014 and Europe is expected to remain flat.
Customer preference for quality Production in Europe increased 3% due to some and safety.
recovery in the Western European market, which Move by OEMs towards vehicle was partially offset by declines in Russia and the platforms that support larger rest of Eastern Europe.
Production in India and Brazil was affected by economic problems resulting in low domestic demand, and output fell in South Korea and Southeast Asia.
Light vehicle production in 2014: 87.4m Expected growth in global vehicle production 2014-2019: 16.2% Source: IHS Automotive.
Land systems Key market drivers Recent trends Outlook Demand for more efficient After peaking in 2013, global demand for Agricultural equipment markets are agricultural equipment to agricultural equipment declined in 2014. expected to decline further in 2015. improve yields and meet an The construction equipment market in China is Construction markets will show low growth increased demand for food as declining due to high stock levels and difficult in the US and Europe but are expected to populations grow.
Regulatory and economic Industrial markets saw growth in the wind energy The mining equipment market is expecting pressures to increase energy and the material handling segments, while marine further pressure on commodity prices and efficiency and reduce applications saw a small decline.
The largest land systems OEMs are increasingly Most industrial markets will remain flat with Infrastructure development and adopting a global approach to equipment design low growth in North America and China: global demand for commodities.
wind energy markets will return to growth, Need for significantly increased especially offshore.
safety, operational efficiency and reliability.
b Global demand for agricultural equipment in 2018: $216bn c Growth in world urban population by 2050: 2.5bn Source: a UN World Population Prospects: The 2012 Revision.
b Freedonia Group, World Agricultural Equipment Market, 2014. c UN World Urbanisation Prospects: The 2014 Revision.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 13
