S N H O C I A T O E R A A L I P F R P O R A E P E P L A L I B C O N A A N L N I I F A A T T T B S U O S L G 8 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Our business model Who we are We are one of the worlds largest diversified and  producers, processors and marketers of commodities.
We market and distribute physical commodities sourced from our own production and from third party producers to a highly diversified customer base that includes consumers from the industrial, automotive, steel, power generation, oiland food processing industries.
INSIGHT EXPLORE, ACQUIRE & DEVELOP EXTRACT & PRODUCE PROCESS TH & REFINE BLENDING & OPTIMISING LOGISTICS & DELIVERY What we do Our business model Optimising our business model Operating under a framework that We seek to extract a value added We have set up our business model to balances social, environmental, ethical margin at each stage of the commodity generate superior returns by ensuring and commercial interests we produce chain from extraction to delivery it focuses on complementary and high and market over 90 commodities, key to create value for all Glencore return investments, is of a scale and ingredients that help feed, power, stakeholders.
We have three business breadth to endure short-term volatility move and build our world.
segments: metals and minerals, energy and benefit from economies of scale products and agricultural products.
and an entrepreneurial culture that Each business segment is responsible permeates throughout it.
for managing the marketing and industrial investment activities of their commodities.
We are not only focused on minimising costs and maximising operational efficiencies: we focus on maximising returns through the entire supply chain.
I R D P A R T Y S L A Y R E E G R N U I T R M L U C & E I R S G N L A A E T T T E M N O I T A C I F I S R E V I D E R U T L U C L A I R 9 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Diversification Entrepreneurial culture Changing trade flows We are one of the largest resources Our management team, led by Ivan Commodity trade flows continue to companies by any measure, producing Glasenberg, has a strong track record shift as demand growth increasingly and marketing over 90 commodities.
of developing and growing our gravitates towards emerging market We are uniquely diversified in business since the management buyout economies.
The supply of commodities respect of commodity, geography in 1994.
A strong entrepreneurial is increasingly sought from more and activity.
We benefit, together culture has been key to this success.
remote, challenging and often with our consumers and suppliers, This culture remains, underpinned logistically constrained locations, from our scale and diversity, enabling by management and employee many with a range of new industry us to deliver value throughout the ownership of around one third of the participants who lack infrastructure, commodity chain.
This degree of funding and established routes alignment with external shareholders to market.
Our portfolio of industrial assets interests is unique amongst major comprises over 150 mining and In the emerging markets, standards resource companies.
metallurgical facilities, oil production of living remain substantially facilities and agricultural facilities.
below those in developed countries.
Disciplined investment Our asset portfolio mainly contains A long-term driver for our business The deployment of capital in a highly long-life low-cost assets which have remains the continued urbanisation disciplined manner has been and ample attractive growth options.
and industrialisation of highly always will remain key to our ability As our industrial asset base grows it populous emerging economies and to create superior value for our enhances the quality and scale of our the associated growth in demand for shareholders.
Glencore managements marketing activities, thereby creating key commodities.
Technology will substantial stake in the equity of the greater choice for our customers.
continue to encourage and facilitate company ensures that the interests of this progress.
It will also influence For over 40 years, we have established our executive team and shareholders patterns of demand in the future a formidable reputation as a reliable remain closely aligned we act like which are different from those which supplier of high quality and owners of the business because we are.
competitively priced commodities Commitment to strong BBB Baa on a timely basis, irrespective We are confident that Glencores scale, reflects our optimal investment rating of the vagaries of market or diversification and asset base ensures target.
Once we have ensured that our geopolitical conditions.
we remain well positioned to facilitate desired capital structure is maintained both the growth and the changes that Our competitive position and and our base cash distributions will be required.
business model enables us to provide covered, we evaluate two options: a compelling commodity offering return excess capital to shareholders or for the thousands of counterparties reinvest it through M&A or brownfield who are our long-term suppliers and projects.
The decision is assessed consumers.
Additionally, through by a robust analysis process which Optimising our business model buying commodities from thousands considers the risks versus returns, cash of third party producers worldwide, payback duration and the alternative we are better able to identify of buying back shares.
In the case opportunities togrow our business of the redeployment of capital we through acquisitions.
Some of our also consider commodity supply valuable producing assets were formed and demand balance, our existing through the diligent acquisition of presence in a country and the geonumerous smaller operations which political outlook.
we then patiently integrated and developed over a number of years.
Although we monitor all industrial asset performance on a standalone basis, their purpose is also to improve the competitive offering, financial performance and value of our overall business.
U E N E R P E R T N E T N E M T S E V N I D E N I L P I C S I D 10 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Our business model How we create value Sustainable approach Financial profile Insight Explore, acquire anddevelop Through our investments in We have a long track-record of We are an established marketer We prefer to develop our assets and the long-term value creation across economic of commodities and have, brownfield sites and explore commitments we make to the cycles.
Unlike most other over a period of years, built an close to our existing assets, countries in which we operate, natural resources companies, a outstanding market reputation which have a lower risk we believe that our global material portion of our earnings as a reliable supplier of profileand enable us to utilise presence and economic strength is less correlated to movements quality product on a timely , realise contribute positively to socioin commodity prices.
In addition, our long synergies and save costs.
economic development in our of hedging strategies to protect experience has allowed us We usually look for investment host countries.
against price risks ensures to build extensive market opportunities in the countries that marketing profitability knowledge and insight, as well Our corporate sustainability where we are already operating is primarily determined by as full logistics capabilities.
framework balances social, and in the commodities volume activity associated This enables us to generate environmental, ethical and that we are producing.
value added supply chain value added margins, as well as commercial interests at This focus allows us to build margins and other market seeking arbitrage opportunities every level of our Group.
on our economies of scale, our conditions rather than the throughout the physical This framework is called familiarity with a political and absolute price itself.
This lower commodity supply chain.
Glencore Corporate Practice cultural landscape and our correlation with commodity GCP.
We designed and Our global network of offices understanding of commodity prices should ensure that our implemented GCP to be in line and long-standing relationships dynamics.
The nature of overall earnings have greater with internationally recognised, provide us with valuable insight new investments will often protection from commodity good practice, sector specific into the broad production and vary, ranging from an offtake price reductions than those of standards and we continue demand spectrum and access to agreement to an equity stake producers of metals, mining to monitor its performance strategic markets.
In addition, in a business either as a and energy products that do not to ensure it is fit for purpose.
these factors provide us with minority or a joint venture also have significant marketing Our Code of Conduct is an valuable access to a range of partner.
This approach and logistics operations.
important part of the GCP and industrial asset investment helps us mitigate the risks sets out our corporate values Our industrial assets are opportunities and, more involved and over time, as and provides clear guidance competitively positioned broadly, enable us to manage the relationship develops, we toour employees and other around the first quartiles of our industrial assets portfolio, accumulate valuable experience key stakeholders about how their respective cost curves, including production volume and information should an wedo business.
benefiting from the integration and expansion decisions, opportunity arise to acquire and streamlining of Xstratas as well as asset purchases theasset outright.
See pages 14 to 18 for industrial assets along with and disposals.
We evaluate each industrial higher volumes of new lower asset investment opportunity cost production.
both on a standalone basis and on its potential to support and strengthen our physical marketing activities or existing industrial asset base.
Similarly, we evaluate disposals of investments in industrial assets when they are no longer deemed to support our marketing activities and or when compelling selling opportunities arise.
11 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Extract Process Blending Logistics and produce and refine and optimising and delivery We are the operators of the Smelting is a form of Our integrated business Our ownership of global assets that we wholly own extractive metallurgy, model means we can provide distribution capabilities and our or have majority ownership.
which produces crude a superior service to our long-term customer supplier We mine and beneficiate metal from ore.
We can provide relationships differentiates minerals across a broad range a purification process and a them with a wide range of us from our peers and allows of commodities, mining variety of techniques are used product specifications, which us to handle large volumes of techniques and countries, depending on the commodity.
increases our ability to meet commodities.
It enables us to forprocessing and orrefining Our expertise and technology their exactrequirements.
It also fulfil our marketing obligations at our own facilities or forsale advantage in this area enables provides us with valuable and to take advantage to third parties.
us to optimise the end market and local knowledge, of demand and supply product to meet the needs of which combined with the imbalances.
We own vessels Extraction including oil, a wider range of customers.
oversight of supply we get and complement our fleet with by its very nature, is a longOur smelting and refining from working with third time-chartered vessels.
We have term commitment carrying facilities provide volumes party suppliers, enables us to global storage and logistics considerable risks in the form that are utilised by our better understand the balance assets in key strategic locations, of unknown future commodity marketing teams.
including metal warehouses prices, project development, accredited by the LME and sovereign and community We see the ownership of numerous oil and grain storage risks.
Development of major industrial assets not solely facilities worldwide.
assets can often take more than as sources of self-produced 10 years from the date of first commodities, but also as The physical sourcing and discovery to first production.
tools for increasing flexibility, marketing of commodities An integral part ofdeveloping optionality and security requires highly professional new and maintaining of supply and for gaining handling and transfer from existing projects is earning valuable market knowledge.
our sociallicence to operate We purchase additional The employees that handle the from the hostgovernments product, as required, from physical movement of goods are and communities around smaller operators that do not known as the traffic teams our operations.
enjoy the same economies which account for a significant of scale.
proportion of the people in our marketing activities.
Our dedicated chartering teams actively trade freight to gain market knowledge and volume benefits.
The freight element of transactions is also used to maintain maximum physical optionality so that full value can be extracted from the underlying commodity positions of each department.
This complements our ability to take advantage of geographic and time spread arbitrage opportunities as they arise.
The broad range of value added services we can offer fulfils the needs of customers that do not have the equivalent internal capability and cannot outsource to other providers who can offer these services asseamlessly or efficiently aswe can provide them.
See Our marketing activities on page 12 for more information.
12 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Our business model Our marketing activities We have more than 90 marketing offices in over product arbitrage: it is possible to blend 50 countries across the globe.
Our marketing particular commodities being marketed, activities source a diversified range of physical such as the various crude oil products, coal commodities from third party suppliers and or concentrates, in order to supply bespoke from industrial assets in which we have full or products which attract higher prices than their part ownership.
These commodities are sold, base constituents or exploit existing often with value added services such as freight, and or expected price differentials: and insurance, financing and or storage, to a broad time arbitrage: differences often arise between range of consumers and industrial commodity the price of a commodity to be delivered at a end users.
Our customer base is highly diversified future date and the price of a commodity to and contains a high proportion of long-term be delivered immediately, where the available commercial relationships.
storage, financing and other related costs are We focus on maximising fee-like returns from the less than the forward pricing difference.
entire marketing process, taking into account our The credit including performance risk in extensive and global third party supply base, our relation to suppliers and customers is mitigated logistics, risk management and working capital through the systematic application of measures financing capabilities, extensive market insight, such as credit insurance, letters of credit, security business optionality, extensive customer base, arrangements and or bank and corporate strong market position and penetration in most guarantees.
We also leverage our network of commodities and economies of scale.
global offices, which have direct access to and In addition, many of the physical commodity keep close relationships with our customers markets in which we operate are fragmented and suppliers.
As a result, price The marketing teams also manage Glencores discrepancies often occur between the prices market exposure via the reduction of price risks that commodities can be bought or sold in arising from timing differences between the different geographic locations or time periods.
purchase and sale of commodities to acceptably Other factors include freight and product low levels.
These pricing discrepancies can present systems and procedures established over the us with arbitrage opportunities that enable us past 40 years are in place to monitor these to generate profit by sourcing, transporting, activities.
Similarly, we have extensive compliance blending, storing or otherwise processing the policies and procedures in place and use third relevant commodities.
While the strategies used party screening software systems to manage to generate such margin vary from commodity compliance with sanctions and other regulations.
to commodity, the main opportunities can be generally described as being: See Governance section on page 89 for more information on risk management and geographic arbitrage: we leverage our internal control.
relationships and production, processing and logistical capabilities in order to source physical commodities from one location and deliver them to another location where such commodities can command a higher price net of transport and or other transaction costs : 13 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Marketing arbitrage strategies Glencore operates in markets which are fragmented and periodically volatile, which results in price differentials that Glencore is able to benefit from due to its capabilities across the value chain.
Geographic arbitrage Product arbitrage Time arbitrage Disparity Execution Disparity Execution Disparity Execution Pricing differences Leverage global Pricing differences Ensure optionality Pricing differences Book carry for the same relationships between blends, with commodity on a commodity trades benefiting product in different and production, grades or types supply contracts, between delivery from competitive geographic regions, processing of commodity, and look to lock-in immediately, sources of storage, taking into account and logistical taking into account price differentials or at a future insurance and transportation or capabilities to processing or through blending, date, taking into financing transaction costs source product in substitution costs processing or endaccount storage one location and product substitution and financing costs deliver in another until future date Supply products which attract a higher price after blending or processing than their base constituents Logistics & delivery Size and economies of scale, freight and logistics operations support these strategies enabling us to: 1 2 3 Have access to logistics and physically Provide competitively priced transport Blend concentrates and other bulk transport products across key regions andstorage commodities at within storage facilities
