105 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Directors report Introduction Health, safety, environment & communities HSEC This Annual Report is presented by the Directors An overview of health, safety and environmental on the affairs of Glencore plc the Company and its performance and community participation is provided in subsidiaries the Group or Glencore, together with the the Sustainable Development section of the Strategic report.
financial statements and auditors report, for the year Exploration and research and development ended 31 December 2014.
The Directors report, including details of the business, the development of the Group The Group business units carry out exploration and research and likely future developments as set out in the Strategic and development activities that are necessary to support Report, which together forms the management report for and expand their operations.
the purposes of the UK Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rule DTR 4.1.
The notice Employee policies and involvement concerning forward looking statements is set out at the end Glencore operates an equal opportunities policy that aims of the Annual Report.
References to the Company may also to treat individuals fairly and not to discriminate on the include references to the Group or part of the Group.
basis of sex, race, ethnic origin, disability or on any other basis.
Applications for employment and promotion are Corporate structure fully considered on their merits, and employees are given Glencore plc is a public company limited by shares, appropriate training and equal opportunities for career incorporated in Jersey and domiciled in Baar, Switzerland.
Its shares are listed on the London, Johannesburg and Hong Where disability occurs during employment, the Group Kong Stock Exchanges.
seeks to accommodate that disability where reasonably possible, including with appropriate training.
Financial results and distributions The Groups financial results are set out in the financial The Group places considerable value on the involvement of statements section of this Annual Report.
its employees which is reflected in the principles of its Code of Conduct and its related guidance, which requires regular, The Board recommends a final distribution of US$0.12 per open, fair and respectful communication, zero tolerance for share.
Together with the interim distribution of US$0.06 per human rights violations, fair remuneration and, above all, share which has already been paid, this provides for a total asafe working environment.
distribution for the 2014 financial year of US$0.18 per share.
Shareholders will be asked to approve the final distribution Employee communication is mainly provided by the Groups at the Annual General Meeting due to be held on 7 May intranet and corporate website.
A range of information 2015, for payment on 21 May 2015 to ordinary shareholders is made available to employees including all policies whose names are on the register on 24 April 2015. applicable to them as well as information on the Groups financial performance and the main drivers of its business.
Review of business, future developments and post Employee consultation depends upon the type and location balance sheet events of operation or office.
A review of the business and the future developments of the Directors conflicts of interest Group is presented in the Strategic Report.
Under Jersey law and the Companys Articles of Association A description of acquisitions, disposals, and material which mirror section 175 of the UK Companies Act 2006, changes to Group companies undertaken during the year, a Director must avoid a situation in which the Director has, including post balance sheet events, is included in the or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or Financial review and in note 25 to the financial statements.
possibly may conflict, with the interests of the Company.
The duty is not infringed if the matter has been authorised Financial instruments by the Directors.
Under the Articles, the Board has the Descriptions of the use of financial instruments and power to authorise potential or actual conflict situations.
financial risk management objectives and policies, including The Board maintains effective procedures to enable the hedging activities and exposure to price risk, credit risk, Directors to notify the Company of any actual or potential liquidity risk and cash flow risk are included in notes 26 conflict situations and for those situations to be reviewed and27 to the financial statements.
and, if appropriate, to be authorised by the Board.
Directors conflict situations are reviewed annually.
A register of Corporate governance authorisations is maintained.
A report on corporate governance and compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code is set out in the Corporate governance report and forms part of this report by reference.
106 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Directors report Mr Glasenberg has executed a Lock-Up Deed, pursuant to Directors liabilities and indemnities which he agreed, subject to certain customary exceptions, The Company has granted third party indemnities to each that during the period from 24 May 2011 to 24 May 2016 of its Directors against any liability that attaches to them he will not dispose of a certain percentage of the ordinary in defending proceedings brought against them, to the shares held by him at 24 May 2011.
The percentage of extent permitted by Jersey Law.
In addition, Directors and his ordinary shares held at 24 May 2011 that is subject to Officers of the Company and its subsidiaries are covered restrictions on disposal decreases on each anniversary date byDirectors & Officers liability insurance.
by 20 per cent of the original holding.
Directors Share capital and shareholder rights The names of the Companys Directors who were in office As at 16 March 2015, the ordinary share capital of the atthe end of 2014, together with their biographical details Company was US$132,784,054 represented by 13,278,405,466 and other information, are shown on pages 82 and 83. ordinary shares of US$0.01 each, of which 200,459,158 shares are held in treasury.
Directors interests Details of interests in the ordinary shares of the Company of Major interests in shares those Directors who held office during 2014 are given below: As at the date of this report Glencore had been notified Percentage of of the following interests representing 3% or more of the Number of Total Voting Name Glencore Shares Rights issued ordinary share capital of the Company: Executive Directors Percentage of Total Voting 1 Ivan Glasenberg 1,101,848,752 8.43 Name of holder Number of shares Rights Non-Executive Directors Qatar Holding, L. L. C. 1,176,196,974 8.99% 2 Peter Coates 1,441,136 0.01 Ivan Glasenberg 1,101,848,752 8.43% Anthony Hayward 131,742 0.00 BlackRock Inc 657,753,254 5.03% Leonhard Fischer Daniel Francisco Mat Badenes 417,468,330 3.19% 3 William Macaulay 70,046,228 0.54 Aristotelis Mistakidis 414,730,597 3.17% Peter Grauer John Mack 150,000 0.00 Share capital Patrice Merrin 40,000 0.00 The rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, Notes: being the only share class of the Company, are set out in the 1 Ivan Glasenbergs shareholding has not changed however due to the Companys Companys Articles of Association the Articles, which buyback programme detailed in note 16 to the Financial Statements, the total number can be found at www.
Subject to Jersey law, of voting rights has decreased, therefore slightly increasing his percentage share of total voting rights.
any share may be issued with or have attached to it such 2 Peter Coates also has 484,156 options over shares arising from his prior employment preferred, deferred or other special rights and restrictions as with Xstrata which are not included in the above table.
the Company may by special resolution decide or, if no such 3 As at 31 December 2014 123,802,799 shares were held by FR Galaxy Holdings S. a. r. l. FR.
The Company has been notified that FR is a connected person of resolution is in effect, or so far as the resolution does not WilliamMacaulay.
FR has granted security over these shares in favour of a bank.
make specific provision, as the Board may decide.
On 6 March 2015, it was announced that FR had sold 53,756,571 of these shares leavingit with a remaining holding of 70,046,228 shares.
No Director has any other interest in the share capital of the Company whether pursuant to any share plan or otherwise.
Except as noted above, no changes in Directors interests of those in office at the date of this report have occurred between 31 December 2014 and 17 March 2015.
107 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information No such resolution is currently in effect.
Subject to the for example insider trading laws : 2 pursuant to the recommendation of the Board, holders of ordinary shares Companys share dealing code whereby the Directors and may receive a dividend.
On liquidation, holders of ordinary certain employees of the Company require approval to deal shares may share in the assets of the Company.
Holders of in the Companys shares: and 3 where a shareholder with at ordinary shares are also entitled to receive the Companys least a 0.25% interest in the Companys issued share capital Annual Report and Accounts or a summarised version has been served with a disclosure notice and has failed to and, subject to certain thresholds being met, may requisition provide the Company with information concerning interests the Board to convene a general meeting GM or the in those shares.
There are no agreements between holders proposal of resolutions at AGMs.
None of the ordinary of ordinary shares that are known to the Company which shares carry any special rights with regard to control of may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on the Company.
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and speak The rules for appointment and replacement of the Directors at GMs of the Company and to appoint one or more proxies are set out in the Articles.
Directors can be appointed by the or, if the holder of shares is a corporation, a corporate Company by ordinary resolution at a GM or by the Board representative.
On a show of hands, each holder of ordinary upon the recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
shares who being an individual is present in person The Company can remove a Director from office, including or being a corporation is present by a duly appointed by passing an ordinary resolution or by notice being given corporate representative, not being himself a member, shall by all the other Directors.
have one vote and on a poll, every holder of ordinary shares The powers of the Directors are set out in the Articles and present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every provide that the Board may exercise all the powers of the share of which he is the holder.
Electronic and paper proxy Company including to borrow money.
The Company may appointments and voting instructions must be received by ordinary resolution authorise the Board to issue shares, not later than 48 hours before a GM.
A holder of ordinary and increase, consolidate, sub-divide and cancel shares in shares can lose the entitlement to vote at GMs where that accordance with its Articles and Jersey law.
holder has been served with a disclosure notice and has failed toprovide the Company with information concerning The Company may amend its Articles by special resolution interests held in those shares.
Except as 1 set out above approved at a GM.
and 2 permitted under applicable statutes, there are no Purchase of own shares limitations on voting rights of holders of a given percentage, number of votes or deadlines for exercising voting rights.
During 2014 the Company started buying back shares as part of a $1 billion share repurchase programme announced The Directors may refuse to register a transfer of a to the market on 20 August 2014.
As at 31 December 2014, certificated share which is not fully paid, provided that the total number of ordinary shares repurchased under therefusal does not prevent dealings in shares in the this programme was 143,278,000 at a cost of $758 million Company from taking place on an open and proper basis or including transaction costs.
Further details are set out in where the Company has a lien over that share.
The Directors note 16 to the financial statements.
may also refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share unless the instrument of transfer is: i lodged, duly stamped This programme has been implemented in accordance with if necessary, at the registered office of the Company or the UK Listing Rules and the Directors authority under a any other place as the Board may decide accompanied by shareholders resolution passed on 20 May 2014 to purchase the certificate for the share s to be transferred and or such in the market up to 10% of the Companys issued ordinary other evidence as the Directors may reasonably require as shares.
The Directors will seek to renew this authority at the proof of title: or ii in respect of only one class of shares.
Companys AGM to be held on 7 May 2015.
Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out using CREST and the Directors can refuse to register a transfer of an uncertificated share in accordance with the regulations governing the operation of CREST.
The Directors may decide to suspend the registration of transfers, for up to 30 days a year, by closing the register of shareholders.
The Directors cannot suspend the registration of transfers of any uncertificated shares without obtaining consent from CREST.
There are no other restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company except: 1 certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations 108 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Directors report Information required by Listing Rule LR 9.8.
4C In compliance with UK Listing Rule 9.8.
4C the Company discloses the following information: Listing Rule Information required Relevant disclosure 9.8.
4 1 Interest capitalised by the Group See note 7 to the financial statements 9.8.
4 2 Unaudited financial information as required LR 9.2.
4 4 Long-term incentive plans involving a sole director LR 9.4.
4 5 Director waivers of emoluments See Directors Remuneration Report 9.8.
4 6 Director waivers of future emoluments See Directors Remuneration Report 9.8.
4 7 Non pro-rate allotments of equity for cash The Company Own shares have been issued during the year asgranted share options have been exercised, see note 19 to the financial statements 9.8.
4 8 Non pro-rata allotments of equity for cash major subsidiaries Not applicable 9.8.
4 9 Listed company is a subsidiary of another company Not applicable 9.8.
4 10 Contracts of significance involving a director None 9.8.
4 11 Contracts of significance involving a controlling shareholder Not applicable 9.8.
4 12 Waivers of dividends See note 16 to the financial statements 9.8.
4 13 Waivers of future dividends See note 16 to the financial statements 9.8.
4 14 Agreement with a controlling shareholder LR 92.2.
AR 2 a Not applicable b the Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have Going concern taken as a director in order to make himself aware of The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity any relevant audit information and to establish that the position and borrowing facilities are set out in the Strategic Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Furthermore, notes 26 and 27 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives and policies Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue for managing its capital, its financial risk management inoffice as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
activities and its exposure to credit and liquidity risk.
Significant financing activities that took place during the Statement of Directors responsibilities year are detailed in the Financial review section.
As a The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well Report and financial statements in accordance with placed to manage its business despite the current uncertain applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial The Directors believe, having made appropriate enquiries statements for each financial year.
Under that law the that the Group has adequate resources to continue its Directors have elected to prepare the financial statements operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this in accordance with International Financial Reporting reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in Standards as issued by the International Accounting preparing the financial statements.
The Directors have made Standards Board and International Financial Reporting this assessment after consideration of the Groups budgeted Standards as adopted for use in the European Union cash flows and related assumptions including appropriate together IFRS.
The financial statements are required stress testing thereof, key risks and uncertainties, undrawn by law to be properly prepared in accordance with the debt facilities, debt maturity review, and in accordance with Companies Jersey Law 1991. International Accounting the Going Concern and Liquidity Guidance for Directors Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly of UK Companies 2009 published by the UK Financial for each financial year the Companys financial position, Reporting Council.
financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other Auditors events and conditions in accordance with the definitions Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and of this Annual Report confirms that: expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards a so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant Boards Framework for the preparation and presentation of audit information of which the Companys auditors are financial statements.
unaware: and 109 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be Confirmation of Directors responsibilities achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
However, We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the Directors are also required to: the consolidated financial statements, prepared in properly select and apply accounting policies: accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and interpretations as adopted by the European present information, including accounting policies, in a Union, International Financial Reporting Standards and manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and interpretations as issued by the International Accounting understandable information: Standards Board and the Companies Jersey Law 1991, provide additional disclosures when compliance with the give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable position and profit of the Group and the undertakings users to understand the impact of particular transactions, included in the consolidation taken as a whole: other events and conditions on the entitys financial the management report, which is incorporated in the position and financial performance: and Strategic Report, includes a fair review of the development make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue and performance of the business and the position of the as a going concern.
Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting principal risks and uncertainties they face: and records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the Annual Report and consolidated financial the financial position of the Company and enable them statements, taken as a whole, are fair and balanced and to ensure that the financial statements comply with the understandable and provide the information necessary Companies Jersey Law 1991.
They are also responsible for shareholders to assess the performance, strategy for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for andbusiness model of the Company.
taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible The consolidated financial statements of the Group for for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and theyear ended 31 December 2014 were approved on financial information included on the Companys website.
17March 2015 by the Board of Directors.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from Signed on behalf of the Board: legislation in other jurisdictions.
Signed on behalf of the Board: Anthony Hayward Ivan Glasenberg Chairman Chief Executive Officer 17 March 2015 John Burton Company Secretary 17 March 2015 110 Glencore Annual Report 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PAGE 112189 Collinsville, Australia 111 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information In this section 112 Independent Auditors Report 118 Consolidated statement of income loss 119 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income loss 120 Consolidated statement of financial position 121 Consolidated statement of cash flows 123 Consolidated statement of changes of equity 124 Notes to the financial statements
