Board of directors Andrew Allner David Brown Keith Down Katherine Innes Ker Nick Horler Adrian Ewer Carolyn Ferguson Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Group Company Secretary Remuneration committee, Nomination committee Audit committee, Audit committee, Audit committee Chairman, Secretary to audit committee, nomination committee Chairman remuneration committee Chairman, remuneration committee, remuneration committee, remuneration committee and nomination committee nomination committee nomination committee nomination committee Term of office: Term of office: Term of office: Term of office: Term of office: Term of office: Term of office: Andrew Allner joined the Board in David Brown was appointed Deputy Keith Down was appointed to the Katherine Innes Ker joined the Board in Nick Horler joined the Board in Adrian Ewer joined the Board Carolyn Ferguson was appointed October 2008 and was appointed Chief Executive on 1 April 2011 Board as Group Finance Director July 2010 and was appointed as Senior November 2011. in April 2013.
Group Company Secretary in Chairman of the Group in April 2013. before his accession to Group Chief on 7 March 2011.
Length of service: Length of service: Executive on 3 July 2011.
Length of service: Length of service: Length of service: 2 year, 9 months 1 year, 4 months Length of service: 5 years, 10 months Length of service: 3 years, 6 months 4 years, 1 month 8 years, 2 months Skills & experience: Skills & experience: 3 years, 5 months Skills & experience: Skills & experience: Skills & experience: Former Chief Executive Officer Former Chief Executive Director Skills & experience: Significant Board experience Skills & experience: Chartered Accountant.
of Scottish Power and Managing of John Laing plc and associated A Fellow of the Institute of including Finance Director, Chief Over 31 years experience in the Director of E. On Retail.
Chartered Secretaries and Former Finance Director of Extensive executive and non-executive Executive Officer, Non-Executive industry with particular expertise Administrators.
experience in helping to grow Extensive general management Became a Chartered Accountant Director and Chair roles.
experience in UK and USA in 1977 and has sound recent Prior to her appointment as Before joining JD Wetherspoon plc Experience across a broad range Former Managing Director of regulated markets, specialising and relevant financial experience.
Group Company Secretary in 2007 he served as Commercial Held many previous non-executive of UK and multinational companies Surface Transport at Transport in Sales and Marketing.
she was appointed Assistant Finance Director of Tesco plc.
directorships including St Modwen Wealth of experience of major and sectors.
Company Secretary in 2001 Properties Plc, Victoria Plc, Taylor Brings valuable insights into long term contracts.
Experience in businesses with a with responsibility for non-rail Former Partner at Thorough knowledge and Wimpey plc, Taylor Woodrow plc, Go-Aheads development of social strong consumer angle alongside Strong customer focus and flair pensions and a wide range of  and understanding of the Groups The Television Corporation plc, networks and digital marketing to complex logistics is an important for strategy and finance.
company secretariat functions a Fellow of the Institute of business, having been Chief Fibernet plc, Williams Lea plc, Shed attract new passengers.
contribution to the Boards skill set.
Experience in bidding and including share schemes, legislative Chartered Accountants in Executive of Go-Aheads London Media plc and Gyrus Group plc.
operating heavy and light External appointments: compliance, corporate governance England & Wales.
bus business from 2003 to 2006 External appointments: rail franchises as well as rail External appointments: Non-Executive Director of Royal Mail and the Groups code of conduct, and as advisor to the main Board.
Senior Independent Director of Plc member of the audit & risk and policies and procedures.
Non-Executive Director of AZ External appointments: Tribal Group plc Chairman of the nomination committees : Chairman Before joining Go-Ahead, she External appointments: Electronic Materials SA from 2010 Non-Executive Director of the remuneration committee and member of Alderney Renewable Energy spent 12 years working for None.
to 2014, of CSR plc from 2008 to Association of Train Operating of the audit and nomination committees : Limited: Chairman of Meter Provida Northern Electric, predominantly 2013 and of Moss Bros Group plc Companies Limited Chairman Non-Executive Director of S&U plc Limited: Non-Executive Director of in the field of pensions.
from 2001 to 2005. of the remuneration committee member of the audit, remuneration Thames Water Utilities Limited.
and Director of Rail Delivery and nomination committees and External appointments: External appointments: Group Limited.
Non-Executive Director of Colt Group None.
Non-Executive Chairman of Marshalls S. A member of audit and remuneration plc Chairman of the nomination committees.
committee : Non-Executive Director of Northgate plc Chairman of the audit & risk committee and member of the nomination and remuneration committees and Non-Executive Chairman of Fox Marble Holdings plc member of the remuneration committee.
Election and re-election to the Board Independence Andrew Allner, David Brown, Keith Down, Katherine Innes Ker and Nick Horler were last re-elected by shareholders at the 2013 AGM.
Adrian Ewer was elected Each non-executive director is independent.
The Chairman was independent upon appointment.
for the first time at the 2013 AGM following his appointment in April 2013.
All Directors will be standing for annual re-election at the AGM in October 2014.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 50 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Andrew Allner David Brown Keith Down Katherine Innes Ker Nick Horler Adrian Ewer Carolyn Ferguson Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Group Company Secretary Remuneration committee, Nomination committee Audit committee, Audit committee, Audit committee Chairman, Secretary to audit committee, nomination committee Chairman remuneration committee Chairman, remuneration committee, remuneration committee, remuneration committee and nomination committee nomination committee nomination committee nomination committee Term of office: Term of office: Term of office: Term of office: Term of office: Term of office: Term of office: Andrew Allner joined the Board in David Brown was appointed Deputy Keith Down was appointed to the Katherine Innes Ker joined the Board in Nick Horler joined the Board in Adrian Ewer joined the Board Carolyn Ferguson was appointed October 2008 and was appointed Chief Executive on 1 April 2011 Board as Group Finance Director July 2010 and was appointed as Senior November 2011. in April 2013.
committee : Non-Executive Director of Northgate plc Chairman of the audit & risk committee and member of the nomination and remuneration committees and Non-Executive Chairman of Fox Marble Holdings ornouf Read the biographies of our plc member of the remuneration senior management team: committee.
com senior-management Election and re-election to the Board Independence Andrew Allner, David Brown, Keith Down, Katherine Innes Ker and Nick Horler were last re-elected by shareholders at the 2013 AGM.
All Directors will be standing for annual re-election at the AGM in October 2014. www.
