Our markets The UK public transport industry is fundamentally strong.
Continued innovation and investment in the industry are essential to sustainable economic growth.
For individuals with busy lives, convenience is becoming an increasingly The London bus and UK rail markets are regulated by Transport for London important part of their everyday decisions.
In the UK, adults spend the TfL and the Office of Rail Regulation respectively.
Whilst the London bus 1 equivalent of two weeks travelling each year on average.
People want market is relatively stable, operating under an established and successful model, to minimise the impact of this on their lives by being able to use this time the rail industry faced disruption in the last two years following the Governments productively, spending less time planning journeys and making the overall suspension of the franchise bidding process after the failed West Coast franchise journey more convenient.
Following the Department for Transports review of the rail franchise model, the franchise timetable resumed during the year with two Go-Ahead is responding to this changing environment, making it easier for franchises successfully let since May 2014.
The deregulated bus market, outside people to travel from place to place.
By introducing industry leading technology, London, has been faced with the potential of heavier regulation in certain areas such as mobile-ticketing m-ticketing and journey planning applications, and where local authorities have considered the introduction of contract schemes allowing access to real-time information on the move, we are helping our through which operators would run services on behalf of the local authority.
customers reduce the time spent planning and preparing for their journey.
Such a scheme is currently under consultation in north east England.
We are also improving facilities on board and at stations, so people can access the internet and go online to work, shop and socialise while travelling.
Employment and population growth Integrating transport solutions, enabling people to move from one mode The transport market is largely driven by trends in employment.
Many of transport to another using just one smartcard, make end to end journeys passengers use bus and rail services every day for their journeys to and simpler for passengers.
In the quarter to April 2014, 72.9% of 16-24 year olds were 2 As the market is constantly changing, we too are always developing our in work, nearing the 73.0% recorded in 2008, before the recession.
approach to ensure we maintain competitive advantage in the areas and Population growth also plays a part in influencing transport industry markets in which we operate.
In London there is a direct correlation between population growth in the capital and rising passenger numbers on London buses.
TfL Economic environment estimates Londons population to be growing by two buses full of people Following six years of low economic growth, the economy is now growing every day with Londons population forecast to increase by 13% over the 2 at pre-recession levels of 3.2%.
Unlike many sectors that experience volatility 2 next ten years.
with economic changes, the bus and rail markets have remained relatively stable.
Go-Ahead has been particularly strong, outperforming the wider local Competition bus market and has seen consistent growth across its bus and rail businesses The public transport market in the UK is competitive with many established in recent years demonstrating the integrity of our business model and strategy.
Go-Ahead is able to compete due to its expertise, experience Our geographical focus in the south east of England has aided our resilience and reputation as a high quality operator of value for money services.
We as other areas of the UK have been impacted more significantly by the face competition from other bus and train operators as well as other modes economic downturn.
of transport, primarily the private car.
Competition in the market gives people choices and incentivises providers to constantly improve transport solutions.
Political and regulatory overview Since the mid 1990s the proportion of all journeys made in the UK being There is recognition across all major political parties that an efficient taken on public transport has increased from 9% to 11%.
People making an public transport system strengthens the economy, creates jobs, reduces active choice to travel by public transport and use our services is fundamental traffic congestion and air pollution and helps improve social inclusion.
The Government supports public transport and is committed to investing in projects and initiatives to ensure the networks long term future.
In a period when Government and local authority budgets have been stretched there have been no significant reductions in funding impacting the bus and rail industry.
Particularly of note, the Governments commitment to maintain the Bus Service Operators Grant BSOG at current levels until at least 2016 and continued investment in the rail industry, such as the Thameslink Programme, Crossrail and High Speed 2.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 14 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 1 1 1 UK deregulated bus market share UK regulated bus market share UK rail market share 2 Stagecoach 22% Go-Ahead 24% Govia 27% FirstGroup 21% Arriva 19% Stagecoach 20% Arriva 15% Comfort 18% FirstGroup 15% DelGro Go-Ahead 7% Abellio 10% Stagecoach 15% National 6% Arriva 9% Express RATP 12% The DfT 8% Other 29% Abellio 7% Virgin 5% Tower Transit 4% Others 6% Others 1% 1 Go-Ahead estimates.
More people are using our bus and rail services than ever before.
We constantly assess the external market and consider how we can turn market changes into opportunities for the Group.
Safety Value for money Over the last few years the cost of motoring has continued to increase, albeit Investment by operating companies and local and central government in safety measures such as CCTV on buses, trains and stations, coupled with at a slower rate than previously.
Despite fuel prices dipping to a three year low in March 2014 petrol price averaged 129.46p per litre RAC research enforcement by the British Transport Police, has significantly improved the safety and the perception of safety on public transport.
shows almost half of motorists rank the cost of fuel as their biggest motoring 3 concern.
People are aware prices can go up as well as down and that the Market fact: Crime has reduced on Britains railways for the tenth global economy and world events influence the cost of fuel at the forecourt.
On top of fuel costs, the general expense of running a car with insurance costs, successive year.
This year, there were around 3,000 fewer victims 6 car parking charges, road tax, repair and maintenance puts a weekly dent of of crime than the year before.
3 44 in the finances of approximately 800,000 UK households.
Go-Ahead fact: Almost 95% of Go-Aheads trains have CCTV.
Market fact: The cost of running a car can be more than a quarter 3 of income for some of the UKs poorest households.
The 24 hour society Technological improvements such as smart-ticketing, social media, real time Go-Ahead fact: The average Go-Ahead bus fare is just 1.84 for updates and apps have made planning journeys, buying tickets and travelling a single urban journey.
by public transport easier and more convenient, meeting the demands of the 24 hour society.
Convenience Market fact: The average smartphone user spends 119 minutes Travelling by bus or rail can often be the quickest and most convenient mode 7. of transport.
a day on their phone Unlike travelling in a car, while commuting by bus and rail, passengers are able to use their time productively by reading, watching TV and catching Go-Ahead fact: Mobile apps are available to around 95% up on emails.
4 Research shows the UK is fifth in Europe for time wasted in traffic jams.
London is Europes second most congested city with 81 hours wasted by Journey experience motorists each year.
Elsewhere in the UK such as Tyne and Wear it is around Investment by operating companies and Government funding of public transport 4 24 hours a year.
have resulted in better quality services.
Journey times have improved, services are more frequent and reliable, and vehicles are of a higher standard.
At the Market fact: Areas with high levels of public transport accessibility same time, the level of investment in roads has remained low.
In 2010, France 5 8 have lower levels of car use.
spent 75% per head more than the UK on maintaining roads.
Insufficient road capacity and poor quality maintenance are listed as some of the most common frustrations for motorists.
Go-Ahead fact: All new buses used outside London are now being fitted with WiFi as standard.
20% of our buses currently have free Market fact: 66% of drivers are concerned about the conditions WiFi for customers.
Go-Ahead fact: At 92%, passenger satisfaction with Go-Aheads 4 INTRIX Traffic Scorecard 2014. bus services outside London is higher than with leading brands 5 Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport.
such as John Lewis and Amazon.
6 British Transport Police Annual Report 2013 14.
8 HM Treasury Investing in Britains Future 2013. www.
com 15 Our markets continued Effective marketing 2 Market fact: Over half of 16-19 year olds are regular bus users.
In recent years, public transport companies have invested in marketing research and customer databases in order to better understand customers Go-Ahead fact: All Go-Ahead companies have discounted special needs and tailor products accordingly.
Go-Ahead is leading the industry in fares for young people.
the development of targeted marketing and regularly wins awards for its campaigns and promotions.
A mobile ageing population Market fact: Nearly half of the rail industrys passenger revenue The UK population is steadily ageing.
From 2010 to 2030, there is expected 3 to be a 50% increase in people aged 65 and over.
Many older people are comes from promotional and discounted tickets.
This compares 1 leading highly active and mobile lifestyles, benefiting from increased life to 36% a decade ago.
expectancy, higher levels of disposable income and improved healthcare.
Initiatives such as the national bus pass, which gives older people free off-peak Go-Ahead fact: A single targeted email campaign sent to bus travel, and senior rail discounts encourage the use of public transport.
Go-Ahead rail passengers generated over 1m of revenue.
Market fact: The over-fifties account for 40% of consumer spending Behavioural patterns 3 in the UK.
In recent years, there has been a notable shift in attitudes towards using public transport, particularly amongst young urban dwellers.
There is an Go-Ahead fact: One fifth of Go-Aheads deregulated bus revenue increasing focus on living greener and healthier lifestyles, evidenced by the is generated by carrying concessionary travellers.
In addition, an increasing number of young people are living in cities, living with their parents, marrying older and having children 1 ATOC, 2013. later.
All of these factors make them less likely to drive.
Rail franchising In the coming years, the UK rail franchising timetable will continue to gather pace, with nine franchises due to be awarded in the next three years.
Following the award of the Thameslink, Southern and Great Northern franchise to Govia in May 2014, the joint venture was shortlisted to bid for the Northern franchise and Keolis Go-Ahead Ltd, a 65% Keolis 35% Go-Ahead joint venture, was shortlisted for the TransPennine Express franchise.
Rail franchises expected to be tendered over the next five years Awarded in 2014: Contract awarded Start date Awarded to 4 Thameslink Southern and Great Northern May 2014 September 2014 Govia Essex Thameside May 2014 September 2014 National Express 6 Docklands Light Railway July 2014 December 2014 Keolis Amey 6 5 Crossrail July 2014 May 2015 MTR Invitation to Upcoming competitions: tender issued Contract awarded Start date 7 Scotrail January 2014 October 2014 April 2015 East Coast March 2014 November 2014 March 2015 Northern December 2014 October 2015 February 2016 TransPennine Express December 2014 October 2015 February 2016 Great Western March 2015 March 2016 July 2016 Greater Anglia August 2015 June 2016 October 2016 West Coast January 2016 November 2016 April 2017 London Midland April 2016 February 217 June 2017 East Midlands August 2016 June 2017 October 2017 Southeastern April 2017 February 2018 June 2018 Wales & Borders August 2017 June 2018 October 2018 South Western February 2018 December 2018 April 2019 Cross Country September 2018 July 2019 October 2019 Chiltern October 2020 August 2021 December 2021 4 The existing Southern franchise will be integrated in July 2015.
5 Full route not expected to be in operation until December 2016.
Dates shown are subject to change.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 16
