Directors report The directors present their report and audited Material included in the strategic report The Strategic report on pages 2 to 49 includes information on the financial statements for the year ended 28 June 2014. following matters that would otherwise be required to be presented This report has been prepared in accordance with in the directors report: requirements outlined within The Large and Mediumfuture developments in the business: and sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports greenhouse gas emissions.
Regulations 2008 and forms part of the management Employee disclosures report as required under DTR4.
Certain information Our disclosures relating to the employment of disabled persons, the number that fulfils the requirements of this report can be of women in senior management roles, employee engagement and polices found elsewhere in this document and is referred are included in the People section on pages 26 to 29. to below.
This information is incorporated into this Pension directors report by reference.
After a formal 60 day consultation process with existing members and their representatives, the Group took the decision to close the Final Salary Section Directors of the Groups pension plan to future accrual with effect from 1 April 2014.
A full list of the individuals who were directors of the Group during the Existing members were offered the opportunity to join the Money Purchase financial year ended 28 June 2014 is set out below: Section instead.
Andrew Allner, David Brown, Keith Down, Katherine Innes Ker, Rupert A new Workplace Savings Section was established with effect from 1 April Pennant-Rea retired on 24 October 2013, Nick Horler and Adrian Ewer.
2013 for the purposes of auto-enrolment.
This provides a default investment option and receives at least the minimum level of contributions as required Directors conflicts of interest under Government regulations.
Established within the Group is a procedure for managing and monitoring conflicts of interest for directors.
Full details of this procedure are set out Share schemes in the corporate governance report on page 54.
Executive share schemes At the date of this report, Computershare Trustees Jersey Limited, as Directors indemnities Trustee of The Go-Ahead Group plc Employee Trust, holds 0.3% of the issued Details of qualifying third-party indemnity provisions for the benefit of the share capital of the Group, less treasury shares, in trust for the benefit of the Groups directors can be found in the corporate governance report executive directors of the Group under the LTIP and DSBP.
The voting rights in on page 57. relation to these shares are exercised by the Trustee and dividends are waived while the shares are held by the Trustee.
Corporate governance report Vesting of awards under the LTIP and DSBP for the executive directors is Under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7, a requirement exists for certain satisfied by market purchases of shares which are held in trust.
parts of the corporate governance report to be outlined in this directors report.
This information is laid out in the corporate governance report, Share Incentive Plan on pages 50 to 83.
The Group operated a Share Incentive Plan SIP during the year under review, enabling employees of the Group to acquire shares in the Group.
In order to Capital structure and rights attaching to shares preserve certain tax benefits these shares are held in a trust by EES Corporate All information relating to the Groups capital structure, rights attaching to Trustees Limited for participating employees.
Whilst these shares are held in shares, dividends, the policy to repurchase the Groups own shares and other trust, the voting rights attached to them will not be exercised by the Trustee shareholder information is shown on pages 154 to 156 and incorporated into or the employees for whom they are held.
As at the date of this report, 0.9% this directors report by reference.
of the issued share capital of the Group, less treasury shares, was held by EES Corporate Trustees Limited.
In the event of an offer being made to acquire Dividends these shares the employees are entitled to direct EES Corporate Trustees Our dividend policy is for progressive dividend growth whilst maintaining Limited to accept an offer in respect of the shares held on their behalf.
dividend cover of approximately two times adjusted earnings, on a pre Sharesave scheme IAS19 revised basis, through the economic cycle.
Details of the proposed Further to shareholder approval sought at the 2013 AGM, a new HMRC final dividend payment for the year ended 28 June 2014 are shown on the approved Sharesave scheme known as The Go-Ahead Group plc 2013 Savingsconsolidated income statement on page 90 of the report.
Related Share Option Scheme Sharesave was launched in February 2014.
Under Sharesave, all permanent employees who have completed at least six Political donations and expenditure months continuous service with a participating company are invited to make It is the Groups policy not to make political donations and accordingly no monthly savings of between 5 and 50 for three years.
At the end of the such payments were made in the year 2013: nil.
Additionally, the Group savings term, participants have the choice of their money back, or to purchase did not incur any political expenditure as defined in the Companies Act 2006 Go-Ahead Group shares at a 20% discount of the market price set at the date 2013: nil.
Post balance sheet events There are no other post balance sheet events.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 84 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Auditor A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young as auditor of the Group will be proposed at the next AGM.
A resolution will also be proposed that the Directors be authorised to fix the remuneration of the auditor.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position, are set out in the strategic report.
The financial position of the Group, its cashflows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the financial review on pages 46 to 49.
In addition note 23 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Cash generation from the Groups bus and rail operations was excellent and the balance sheet remains strong.
Core financing is provided by a 200m sterling bond securing financing to September 2017 and committed bank facilities of 280m to July 2019.
This facility replaced the 275m February 2016 facility, of which 155m was undrawn and available at the year end.
The directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully, despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
The directors have assessed, in the light of current and anticipated economic conditions, the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
The directors confirm they are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
