Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Our strategy and key performance indicators Our vision Our vision is to be a leading provider of high quality, innovative, customer-focused passenger transport services, delivering the local needs of passengers and communities.
Our strategy Our Group strategy is to increase the profitability of our existing business while growing the Group to deliver sustainable shareholder value.
This strategy is underpinned by our strategic priorities and is supported by our divisional bus and rail strategies.
For details of our bus and rail strategies see pages 38 and 42 Our strategic priorities 1.
Finance To run our companies To provide high quality, To be a leading employer To run our business with locally focused passenger in the transport sector.
strong financial discipline in a safe, socially and environmentally transport services.
to deliver sustainable Our people are our most valuable responsible manner.
Meeting the needs of our and important asset.
Without them We believe a sustainable public Our aim is to deliver shareholder customers is vital to the success of our buses and trains cannot create transport network is essential value through a combination of the Group.
It is our teams across the to the future of any society and earnings growth, and strong cash for money passenger transport Group that keep the business as a leading provider of passenger generation and balance sheet encourages more passengers to moving and are the face of transport services, sustainability management, supplemented by use our services and leaves us well Go-Ahead.
Investing in and is integral to the way we run our value adding growth opportunities.
placed to tender for contracts with developing our people enables business.
Ensuring the safety of We have a steadfast commitment our transport authority customers.
them to fulfil their own potential our passengers and our people to operating with strong financial Our decentralised structure and assists them in carrying out is an absolute priority for us.
discipline and a conservative view ensures strong localised expertise, their jobs to the best of their ability, We are also committed to making towards risk.
The strength of our focuses on the needs of the local thereby improving the customer a contribution to the communities balance sheet allows us to pursue customer and has the ability to in which we operate and wider experience.
Effective leadership opportunities, adding value to society.
Reducing the environmental respond quickly to changing development and succession the Group and making attractive impact of our operations while conditions in the local markets.
planning are essential to sustainable providing a greener alternative to returns to shareholders.
Good customer service is at the success for the Group and a the private car contributes to the heart of everything we do and we diverse workforce further Governments environmental are committed to delivering high enhances this.
The economic contribution levels of customer satisfaction from Go-Ahead helps support across the board.
economic recovery and longer term prosperity.
Measuring our performance The key performance indicators KPIs presented in this report are the measures we use in the business to assess the Groups performance against our strategic objectives.
These measures are regularly reviewed to ensure we are focusing on the right areas of performance.
This year we have included some additional KPIs to better align performance to strategy.
In 2008, we set strategic targets for a number of our core KPIs.
We continue to report on our performance against those targets and have also set new 2020 targets in a number of areas.
Our target setting process is both a top down and bottom up approach, considering guidance from industry bodies while allowing for the unique features of our businesses and markets.
The 2020 targets will use 2014 performance as a baseline for measurement.
The directors remuneration policy is designed to reflect the Groups performance, with elements of remuneration linked to each of our strategic priorities.
Society SPADs per million miles RIDDOR accidents To run our companies What does it mean?
Across the rail industry, train per 100 employees operating companies are legally required to report in a safe, socially and What does it mean?
RIDDOR Reporting of Signals Passed at Danger SPADs.
Although every Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences environmentally SPAD is treated as a serious incident, most SPADs Regulations is a statutory requirement for all occur at low speed, where braking distance has companies and relates to a work place incident responsible manner been misjudged and the train is stopped by automatic that results in absence from work for over seven warning systems, and therefore the likelihood of an days or a legally reportable incident to the Health accident is very low.
It helps us to measure Why is it important?
It helps us to measure against against our commitment to provide a safe rail our commitment to providing a safe working passenger service.
Risks Poor performance in this metric could impact Risks Failing to provide a safe working environment on operational performance, result in a poor safety for our people goes against our objective to be the record and impact reputation.
employer of choice in the sector.
Poor performance could lead to issues around employee relations, 2014 performance The number of SPADs per including satisfaction and productivity, and could million miles increased by 11.1% to 0.80.
To date also increase employers liability insurance claim costs.
we have achieved an improvement of 35.5% against our 2007 08 baseline.
2014 performance The number of RIDDOR This result should be viewed in the context of accidents per 100 employees increased by 4.1% many years of improvement in this metric across to 0.76.
To date we have achieved an improvement the industry.
Performance is tracked against a very of 61.6% against our 2007 08 baseline, exceeding good baseline performance.
We have very tight controls around safety and This result should be viewed in the context of high standards of driver training which minimise many years of improvement in this metric across the likelihood of SPADs occurring.
We work closely the industry.
Performance is tracked against a very with Network Rail to try and minimise the risk good baseline performance.
of SPADs on the network and investigate every We take our responsibility for the safety of our SPAD that occurs on our services.
We encourage people very seriously and ensure our employees accurate and timely reporting of incidents.
have the necessary equipment and training to do Due to the nature of these occurrences and high their jobs properly and safely.
During the year we sensitivity to data changes, relative performance continued to invest in staff training and upgrades to our facilities to ensure a safe working environment can fluctuate from one year to the next.
Targets We investigate every accident and encourage 2020 target To maintain low levels of SPADs per accurate and timely reporting of incidents.
million miles, delivering continuous improvement.
Targets 2015 target To achieve a 60% reduction by 2014 15 2020 target To maintain low levels of RIDDOR from the 2007 08 baseline.
accidents per 100 employees, delivering continuous improvement.
2015 target T o achieve a 60% reduction by 2014 15 against the 2007 08 baseline.
SPADs per million miles RIDDOR accidents per 100 employees Remuneration Directors remuneration is linked to performance against this strategic priority, particularly relating to health and safety.
Read more in the directors remuneration report on pages 68 to 83 10 11 12 14 10 11 12 14 13 13 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 18 0.80 0.75 0.58 0.72 0.80 1.48 1.14 1.01 0.72 0.76 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Bus accidents per million miles Carbon emissions per Greenhouse gas emissions 1 What does it mean?
We monitor the number passenger journey We report on greenhouse gas GHG of bus accidents which result in a notification to a What does it mean?
We monitor the carbon emissions in accordance with the GHG claims handler for every million miles we operate, emissions from our operations for every passenger Protocol Corporate Accounting and including cases where we are not at fault.
CO conversion factors are used to 2 Reporting Standard and the UK Why is it important?
It helps us to measure against measure overall CO emissions which are then 2 Governments Environmental Reporting our commitment to provide a safe and positive measured per passenger journey.
Guidance methodologies together with travel experience for our bus passengers and Why is it important?
It helps us to measure the emissions conversion factors from minimise risk to the general public.
Good against our commitment to improve energy DEFRA DECC GHG conversion factors performance in this area can also reduce cost efficiency while contributing to government for Company Reporting 2014.
In line with through lower insurance claim costs.
and local authority carbon reduction targets this guidance, we have reported the Risks Our objective to run our companies in a safe and providing a greener way for our passengers emissions sources that are required.
These manner would be impacted by poor performance to travel.
Good performance in this area also sources fall within businesses included in against this KPI.
Risks associated with this include reduces cost through fuel efficiency.
reputational risk and higher insurance claim costs.
Risks Our objective to run our companies in an Emissions are expressed in terms of 2014 performance The number of bus accidents environmentally responsible manner would be equivalent carbon dioxide CO2e.
Our per million miles increased by 9.6%.
To date impacted by poor performance against this KPI.
relative performance metric is kilogrammes we have achieved an improvement of 48.1% against Poor performance could result in reputational risk of CO2e emissions per passenger journey.
for the Group and higher costs.
The Bus accidents have significantly reduced over the 2014 performance Carbon emissions per passenger reduction in GHG emissions against this last three years as a result of action we have taken journey have reduced 12.2% since 2007 08. baseline is 12.2%.
despite an increase in accidents where we are not Underlying performance has improved as a Emissions from air conditioning equipment in our at fault.
We invest heavily in training, monitor driving result of initiatives introduced by the Group.
premises and vehicles are not included in this analysis behaviour and encourage our drivers to improve due to the difficulty in obtaining this data.
These However, a larger than expected increase in the emissions account for less than 0.5% of our total their standards of driving through a range of 2 conversion factor applied to electricity, determined GHG emissions and are therefore not considered initiatives across the division.
We have better end by the Department for Food and Rural Affairs material.
to end processes in place from accident prevention and DECC, has resulted in a decline in reported to claims management.
We investigate every GHG emissions data is presented performance.
Had the prior years conversion accident and encourage accurate and timely on page 21 factor been applied, the reduction in CO2 reporting of incidents.
emissions per passenger journey since our Targets 2008 baseline would have been 18.7%.
2020 target To maintain low levels of bus accidents Targets per million miles, delivering continuous 2020 target To consistently reduce underlying improvement.
carbon emissions per passenger journey.
This is 2015 target To reduce bus accidents per million miles against a challenging baseline as we have already by 60% by 2014 15 against the 2007 08 baseline.
made significant improvements in this area.
2015 target To reduce CO emissions per 2 passenger journey by 20% by 2014 15.
Bus accidents per million miles Carbon emissions per passenger journey % 1 Reduction since 2007 08 baseline.
2 Conversion factors, updated annually and provided by the Government, are used to help companies 10 11 12 14 13 10 11 12 13 14 convert energy consumption into the equivalent carbon emissions.
Society continued Flywheel technology Following a successful trial in London, Go-Ahead intends to roll out flywheel technology across more of its bus fleet to reduce fuel consumption.
This will reduce energy costs and carbon emissions, improving air quality in our communities.
Over the next two to three years the Group plans to fit electric gyrodrive systems to 500 buses.
The flywheel-fitted buses are planned to be used in several cities we serve across the UK initially London, Southampton and Oxford.
Go-Ahead Chief Executive, David Brown, explained that working in partnership with the gyrodrive manufacturer, GKN Land Systems plc, to test the technology on two London buses was a positive experience: Our collabor ation with GKN has been a very constructive one.
We have a strong record in continually reducing our carbon emissions.
Flywheel technology will help us make buses an even more environmentally responsible choice and encourage more people to travel by public transport.
The flywheel technology helps us to reduce our fuel consumption and carbon emissions so improving air quality for all those living, working and visiting the areas in which we operate.
Philip Swash, CEO GKN Land Systems, added: Weve worked in close partnership with Go-Ahead throughout the development of this innovative technology and its very exciting to move into the production phase.
The fact that we are using the same groundbreaking technology that helped Audi win at Le Mans for the past three years to improve fuel efficiency in the public transport sector also shows what great innovation there is in the UKs engineering sector.
How the gyrodrive flywheel works The gyrodrive system uses a high speed flywheel made of carbon fibre to store the energy generated by a bus as it slows down to stop.
The flywheel works as a regenerative brake absorbing kinetic energy and slowing the vehicle down.
When the bus starts up again, the flywheel returns its energy to the transmission, saving much of the braking energy that would otherwise have been wasted.
It uses the stored energy to power an electric motor which helps accelerate the bus back up to speed, generating fuel savings of more than 20% at a significantly lower cost than battery hybrid alternatives.
Over the next two to three years the Group plans to fit electric gyrodrive systems to around downloads in first six months 500 buses View a short video about flywheel technology at www.
com flywheel-video The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 20 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Greenhouse gas emissions 2013 14 CO2e tonnes Scope 1 000 Passenger journeys m 1,152.6 Gas buses kwhs m 7.3 9.2 Gas premises kwhs m 42.3 Bus diesel 10% bio-diesel blend ltrs m 128.1 333.4 Rail diesel ltrs m 17.7 51.8 Scope 2 1 Traction electricity kwhs m 1,002.1 495.3 Site electricity kwhs m 85.1 42.1 Scope 3 Electricity transmission and distribution losses within the grid 47.0 Sub total 978.8 Kgs CO2 per passenger journey 0.85 Outside of scopes 2 Biogenic content of bio-diesel 8.0 Total 986.8 1 Traction electricity consumption data relates to the period from 1 April 2013 to 31 March 2014.
This provides the most accurate figure for consumption.
2 The biogenic content of bio-diesel is considered outside of scope as there is no conversion factor for our baseline year.
Emissions from this source are reported for 2013 14 but are excluded from the calculation of our relative performance metric as comparative data is not available.
We define our organisational reporting boundary by applying the financial control approach with a materiality threshold set at 5%.
Read about our reporting of greenhouse gas emissions on page 19 www.
Customers Like for like passenger Customer satisfaction To provide high quality, What does it mean?
Customer satisfaction is volume growth measured by the independent passenger watchdog, locally focused passenger What does it mean?
We measure the number of Passenger Focus.
Surveys are conducted twice passenger journeys taken on our deregulated bus transport services a year for our rail franchises and annually for our and rail services compared with the previous year.
This is measured on a like for like basis.
Our primary customer in regulated bus is TfL.
We As we are contracted on the basis of mileage measure satisfaction by performance against TfL in our regulated bus division we do not measure performance targets, such as excess waiting time.
Providing high quality service Why is it important?
We track this metric closely is a strategic priority for the Group and monitoring as performance against our rail franchise bid customer satisfaction is a key measure of our assumptions and progress towards our 100m performance.
Identifying potential issues allows bus operating profit target are significantly us to take action to improve our services.
Risks If our customers are not satisfied with the Risks Decreasing volumes could be an indication service they receive they may switch to other of performance issues within our operations operators or other modes of transport such or changes in economic or market conditions, as driving, cycling or walking.
all of which could impact on the Groups overall 2014 performance In bus, we achieved the highest performance.
overall passenger satisfaction score in the UK bus 2014 performance In deregulated bus, like for like industry, at 92%.
One of our companies scored growth was 1.9%.
We have consistently delivered 98%, the highest recorded score in the UK.
similar growth rates in recent years, against a Rail scores declined slightly in the year to 77%, backdrop of declining volumes in the UK bus reflecting some factors outside the Groups control, industry, outside London.
This growth has been such as flooding and land slips, and infrastructure supported by our geographical focus in more maintenance, impacting performance in some areas.
economically resilient areas and our approach We continue to work closely with Network Rail to to marketing our high quality services.
improve performance on the networks on which In rail, we continued to deliver consistent growth we operate.
throughout the challenging economic period from The average score for train operators in London 2008 and this has continued in the year, with like for like growth of 4.8%.
and the South East is 80% and the industry average for bus passenger satisfaction is 88%.
We have made improvements over a period of time including sales channels, off-peak services Target 2020 target To maintain our sector leading bus and marketing.
passenger satisfaction scores and improve on levels Target of customer satisfaction in the rail division, bringing 2020 target To maintain growth at broadly similar them in line with the industry average for the levels to those consistently delivered in recent years.
London and South East network.
Passenger volume growth % Customer satisfaction % Remuneration Directors remuneration is linked to performance against this strategic priority, particularly relating to customer satisfaction.
Read more on the directors remuneration report on pages 68 to 83 10 11 12 13 14 10 11 12 13 14 Go-Ahead became the first major transport group to Rail Deregulated bus Rail Deregulated bus conduct an annual independent bus customer satisfaction survey in 2011, therefore no data is available for 2010.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 22 4.5 3.2 2.3 2.3 2.1 2.8 2.0 1.1 4.8 1.9 84 3.2 82 91 83 90 78 90 77 92 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Rail punctuality Regulated bus punctuality Deregulated bus punctuality What does it mean?
The punctuality of our rail What does it mean?
The punctuality of regulated What does it mean?
The punctuality of our operations is measured on the basis of the DfTs bus operations is measured by excess waiting deregulated bus operations is measured as Public Performance Measure PPM on a moving time.
This is the time passengers have to wait for a percentage of buses that arrive at their stop annual average basis.
PPM is the percentage of a bus above the average scheduled waiting time.
between one minute before and five minutes trains that arrive at their final destination within The lower the excess waiting time, the better the after their scheduled time.
Therefore, the higher five minutes of their scheduled arrival time.
Service punctuality is Why is it important?
Service punctuality is important to our passengers.
Our PPM important to the passengers we carry on behalf important to our passengers and is key to performance forms part of our franchise of TfL.
We earn extra revenue through Quality helping us grow passenger numbers.
Incentive Contract QIC bonus payments if Risks Punctuality is a key driver of customer we exceed TfL punctuality targets, on a contract Risks Punctuality is a key driver of customer satisfaction.
If our customers are not satisfied with route basis.
Contract extensions are based satisfaction.
Poor performance could result in the service they receive they may switch to other on performance.
customers stopping using our services.
Breach of operators or other modes of transport such as franchise agreement terms could lead to financial Risks Poor performance could result in lower QIC driving, cycling or walking.
penalties or ultimately result in the loss of a franchise.
bonus payments and contracts not being extended.
2014 performance 90.0% of our deregulated bus 2014 performance Overall PPM for our rail 2014 performance Average excess waiting time services ran on time.
This is a slight decline on last companies was 86.9%.
This is a decline of 1.2ppts was 1.05 minutes, a decline of 16.1%.
The industry years performance but remains consistently high.
As detailed in respect of the average is 1.14 minutes.
Over the last five years, punctuality has not customer satisfaction KPI, our performance in the dropped below 90.0%.
Performance in 2011 12 and 2012 13 was year was impacted by infrastructure issues.
We particularly good as there were fewer roadworks Target continue to work closely with Network Rail to than usual up to, during and following the Olympic 2020 target Achieve deregulated bus punctuality improve performance on the networks on which Games period.
The number of roadworks has since of over 95% in line with industry targets.
Around 60% of delay minutes are increased, impacting our performance.
as a result of incidents outside our control.
Target London Midland was the most improved franchise 2020 target Achieve low average excess waiting in the London and South East network in the year, time of below one minute, in line with TfLs targets.
with PPM up to 86.3%, as we addressed issues around operational performance in the prior year.
Performance in Southern and Southeastern has declined year on year to 85.5% and 88.3% respectively.
Our franchises form part of the London and South East network for which the average PPM is 89.6% The overall rail industry average is 89.9%.
Target 2020 target Increase levels of punctuality in all our franchises to 92.5% or above, in accordance with the ORRs London and South East operators 2019 target.
Rail punctuality % Regulated bus punctuality Deregulated bus punctuality % minutes 10 11 12 13 14 10 11 12 13 14 10 11 12 13 14 www.
Customers continued On Track rail app Go-Aheads rail app On Track is considered one of the best rail journey-planning apps in the UK, providing customers with the ability to look up train times, buy rail tickets and find out exactly how rail services are running to the minute.
Within just three months of being launched in January 2014 more than 100,000 people downloaded the app.
This demonstrates the strong appetite among rail travellers for personalised real-time information and fast journey planning.
On Track enables journey planning for all national rail routes.
It is incredibly easy to use and is personalised to individuals travel habits.
Built in collaboration with rail passengers, On Track is designed to be intelligent and personalised for their journeys.
It provides rail passengers with all that is needed to plan a journey: identifying nearest stations, buying train and car park tickets, through to real-time train-running information.
It also gives one-touch email or phone contact to customer services and allows passengers to claim compensation if their journey is delayed.
For too long its been one size fits all.
We know everyones travel habits are different.
So, we wanted to create a smart, fast, assistant at your fingertips, something tailored to suit regular commuters or occasional travellers.
There are several apps out there, but our customers wanted something simpler, faster and better.
Our audit of existing rail apps made the problem Passengers appreciate the personal touches: the ability to and opportunity abundantly clear.
Without nickname stations, add personalised icons, and show a the ability to remember passengers individual daily countdown clock to the next train.
We tested everything with habits and requirements, tracking down information customers, so we know these things are important to them.
Testing with passengers Other apps can be complicated.
The opportunity for us was Wherever youre going, On Track helps you along the way.
to make an app that rail passengers could On Track is branded separately for Go-Aheads three rail personalise to meet their specific transport needs companies Southern, Southeastern and London Midland but faster and more intuitively.
On Track delivers just covers the whole national UK rail network and uses optimised that.
Regular journey information is surfaced the data sources from Go-Ahead, National Rail Enquiries and Transport for London for up-to-the-second information.
moment you open the app and weve removed every single unnecessary step meaning passengers Download On Track from The App Store or iTunes get answers faster.
Daniel Joseph, Founder and Strategy Director, The App Business 1 50,000 downloads in first six months View a short video about On Track at www.
com rail-app-video The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 24 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information In its own recent independent market research, Passenger Focus, the consumer watchdog, found apps such as On Track were just what customers wanted.
Mobile apps are increasingly becoming part of our daily lives.
The rail industry should continue to develop and promote useful apps.
These apps should be free and provide passengers with the latest travel information, allowing them to make informed choices.
Anthony Smith, Passenger Focus, Chief Executive www.
Our people Employee Engagement Index Absenteeism To be a leading What does it mean?
We measure how engaged What does it mean?
We measure employee our people are through annual independent staff absence by the percentage of scheduled hours employer in the surveys, conducted across our businesses.
not worked due to unplanned absence from work.
transport sector Why is it important?
Go-Ahead strives to be an Why is it important?
High levels of absenteeism employer of choice in the transport sector and could be reflective of low levels of staff satisfaction values the insight gained from employee feedback.
By monitoring levels of absence In addition to making Go-Ahead a great place to we are able to identify areas of the business with work, high levels of employee engagement will potential employee relations or staff shortage contribute to the success of the Group.
This also helps us with our resource planning and allocation.
Risks Low levels of employee engagement could result in reduced productivity and higher levels of Risks Staff shortages could impact on our ability absence or staff turnover, all of which would impact to deliver our services at the frequency, level of on resource planning across the business.
punctuality and to the standard we aim to achieve.
2014 performance In the year, our bus division 2014 performance In the year, the overall rate recorded levels of employee engagement of 40%.
of Group absence was 3.9% with 4.0% in our Rail division employees had levels of engagement bus division and 3.8% in rail.
The national average level of employee a national average of 4.4% across all sectors.
engagement, for large companies, across all sectors, Our local management teams aim to foster good is 34.0%.
relations with employees and seek to identify any We have people plans in place across all of our issues that may arise resulting in periods of absence.
businesses and over the last few years have made Target significant improvements in areas such as personal 2020 target Maintain low levels of absenteeism, development and performance management.
We seek to engage effectively with teams and individuals at a local level, while maintaining a Group identity.
We value the experience and opinions of our people.
Read more about our people plans on pages 27 to 29 Target 2020 target All of our bus and rail companies set their own challenging targets to increase levels of employee engagement.
Overall, our aim is to improve our levels of engagement each year, remaining above the average for large businesses.
Employee Engagement Index % Absenteeism % Remuneration Directors remuneration is linked to performance against this strategic priority, including employee engagement.
Read more on the directors remuneration report on pages 68 to 83 Go-Ahead began conducting employee 10 11 12 13 14 10 11 12 13 14 engagement surveys across our business in 2012 13.
Bus Rail Data for previous years is therefore not available.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 26 45 62 40 60 4.2 3.8 3.6 3.9 3.9 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Employee turnover What does it mean?
Employee turnover is Developing our people measured by the percentage of total number of Retaining skilled, professional people with Grow our own employees who leave the business in a defined the right attitude is important to us.
We Our comprehensive succession plans time period.
spend time and money recruiting, training enable us to create an integrated HR and developing our people, therefore it Why is it important?
High levels of employee management strategy to make sure the makes economic sense to ensure they turnover could be reflective of low levels of staff businesss requirements can be met.
We benefit from satisfaction and engagement.
By monitoring levels We identify areas which need focus and the value they add, as well as keeping of turnover we are able to identify areas of the also where we have the potential to share recruitment costs as low as possible.
business with potential employee relations issues.
skill sets from different Group companies.
The principle underpinning the Investors in This also helps to identify issues such as staff Over the past year there have been People management framework believing shortage and assists us in resource planning several examples of managers moving organisations succeed by realising the and allocation.
into new roles as a direct result of these potential of their people is fundamental Risks Staff shortages could impact our ability to succession plans.
We have also created to our approach.
deliver our services at the frequency, level of leadership development schemes and Investment in developing our people takes punctuality and to the standard we aim to achieve.
talent programmes aimed at identifying place at every level across our companies 2014 performance The overall rate of employee and developing the potential senior and in the past year weve spent more than turnover was 9.4% for the Group, with 13.1% in managers and directors of the future.
Graduate training and our bus division and 5.6% in rail.
We work hard to ensure there is a apprentice schemes are in place in both We aim to develop and incentivise our people supportive and positive culture across our bus and rail divisions.
Many of our to encourage low levels of employee turnover.
our business and an open, fair leadership customer-facing people have achieved structure.
We recognise there are times Levels of turnover are regularly monitored.
National Vocational Qualifications in when recruiting external expertise is Our local management teams are best placed customer service and senior managers necessary but we are also proud of to respond to changing levels of turnover.
have Institute of Learning Management our strong credentials of growing our accreditation.
Ensuring all our people It is important to consider the economic climate own leaders.
Of the 23 senior director have the tools they need to do their job in relation to this KPI as the wider job market can appointments made by the Group over and an understanding of their role and impact turnover levels.
the past year, 65% were internal the contribution it makes towards the Target promotions.
companys overall goals is fundamental 2020 target Maintain consistently low levels of to our learning and development strategy.
Long term benefits employee turnover.
While remuneration is, of course, an A number of our businesses have the important way to motivate and retain Investors in People Status, including employees it is not always feasible for Southeastern which has Champion salaries to rise.
We aim to create long Status the highest possible accreditation.
In the past People worth keeping year around 20% of our employees The cost of replacing an employee earning took advantage of a Go-Ahead Sharesave 25,000 per annum is around 30,600 scheme, aimed at encouraging our people made up of cost of lost output while to potentially benefit financially and the new member gets to know the ropes, increasing their vested interest in the and the logistical cost of recruiting and Groups success.
Specific roles It has long been known that praise and Employee turnover % such as train drivers, cost even more than recognition make a strong contribution this, as up to 12 months training is needed in creating engaged and motivated people.
before an individual can be productive in Engaged employees are likely to go the the workplace.
extra mile to help colleagues and Retaining experienced senior managers customers so our Group companies have also adds a value to an organisation that internal reward and recognition schemes can sometimes be hard to quantify.
We celebrating and promoting our Group are aware that losing our key people can values such as teamwork, customer service be a risk to success.
Over the past three and collaborating and supporting others.
years we have introduced comprehensive Our experience is that these longer-term succession plans across the business to benefits can have a positive impact on consider our current and future capability employee turnover.
conducted annually, strongly indicate that most of our people believe theyll be working for the company in a years time.
Our people continued Our aim is to be the employer of choice in the sector.
The safety and wellbeing of our people is our priority and we pride ourselves on the health and safety standards we maintain across the Group.
Our organisational values and culture encourage an environment through which individuals can thrive and develop.
We seek to provide opportunities for personal and professional Diversity and equal opportunities development and to recognise and reward excellence.
We are Go-Ahead recognises the value of diversity in all areas and at all committed to protecting the rights of our people and believe in levels of the business.
During the year, a Group diversity forum was equal opportunities at all levels of the business.
During the year, established comprising individuals from across the business.
An area we developed our people plans across the organisation from the of particular focus for the forum in the year was gender diversity.
Boardroom to front line operational employees.
We continue to ensure that there is no bias towards either gender and that all appointments and internal promotions are made on the basis of merit.
Board gender diversity The Group believes in equal opportunities regardless of gender, age, religion or belief, sexual orientation, race and, where practical, disability.
We give full and fair consideration to job applications from people with disabilities, considering their particular aptitudes and abilities.
In respect of existing employees who may become Male 71.0% disabled, the Groups policy is to provide continuing employment Female 29.0% and appropriate training, career development and promotion of disabled people employed by the Group.
Human rights We are committed to protecting the rights of our people, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders.
This commitment is reflected in our Group policies and procedures.
Senior management gender diversity Our local approach Go-Ahead has always operated through a devolved management structure, with local teams entrusted and empowered to run their businesses effectively.
Our operating company management teams are best placed to respond to the needs of local customers and Male 81.0% communities.
This approach allows flexibility and fast action which Female 19.0% we believe gives us competitive advantage in the markets we serve.
This local focus is complemented by skills, expertise and support at Group level in areas such as marketing, IT and procurement and we work together, sharing experience and expertise around the Group.
Employee relations We seek to engage effectively with teams and individuals at a local level, while maintaining a Group identity.
We value the experience and opinions of our people and conduct annual employee engagement Overall group gender diversity surveys across the Group.
Response rates to these surveys increased compared to the prior year as people are increasingly seeing their feedback being put into practice.
Almost all of our workforce is represented by trade unions and we strive to foster good relationships Graphs to be built Graphs to be built with union representatives, acknowledging the impact of poor Male 87.2% Female 12.8% employee relations on our success.
Read more about our people focused initiatives on page 27 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 28 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information www.
Finance Like for like revenue growth Operating profit To run our business What does it mean?
For our rail operations we What does it mean?
We measure operating profit measure revenue generated through the provision before amortisation and exceptional items to with strong financial of passenger transport services.
In our bus division, provide more comparable year-on-year information.
discipline to non-passenger revenue is less material, therefore Why is it important?
This helps us measure we measure total revenue.
the underlying performance of our operating deliver sustainable Why is it important?
Profit growth enables us to reinvest shareholder value a combination of growth in passenger numbers in the business and deliver shareholder value.
and modest fare increases drives operating Risks Inadequate levels of profitability can reduce profit growth.
our ability to invest in the business and make Risks Inadequate levels of revenue growth can returns to shareholders.
impact on profitability, reducing our ability to invest 2014 performance Total Group operating profit in the business and make returns to shareholders.
Good progress was 2014 performance In deregulated bus, like for like made towards Target 100 as bus operating profit revenue growth was 4.3%.
Performance was driven increased by 10.3m to 83.5m ahead of our by growth in passenger numbers, network expansion initial expectations.
and modest fare increases, in line with inflation.
Typically, in rail, profitability towards the end of a Regulated bus like for like revenue increased franchise term tends to be lower than at the start.
Performance was impacted by mileage All three of our existing franchises are approaching growth and a reallocation of BSOG subsidy from their original franchise end dates.
Operating profit costs to revenue accounting for 3.7%.
Like for like growth in rail revenue of 6.1% is the Target result of growth in passenger numbers and rail Bus target: Target 100 100m of bus operating fares set by the Government.
Rail fare increases profit by 2015 16. are passed back to the Government through the Read more about our progress towards premium or subsidy payment of each franchise.
Target 100 on page 7 Read more about our bus and rail Rail target: Deliver value from existing franchises performance on pages 38 to 45 and achieve margins nearer industry average of 3%.
Target 2020 target To maintain growth at broadly similar levels to those consistently delivered over recent years.
Like for like revenue growth m Operating profit m Remuneration Directors remuneration is linked to performance against this strategic priority, particularly relating to operating profit and cashflow.
Read more on the directors remuneration report on pages 68 to 83 10 11 12 13 14 10 11 12 13 14 Rail Regulated bus Deregulated bus 2012 13 is restated for the impact of IAS 19 revised.
Prior years are reported on an unadjusted basis.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 30 9.8 1.1 3.9 8.6 2.3 5.1 9.6 5.8 4.7 6.9 5.0 4.3 6.1 7.5 4.3 102.0 115.1 110.2 86.7 103.2 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Adjusted net debt EBITDA Cashflow EBITDA Dividend cover What does it mean?
This ratio is used to indicate What does it mean?
This ratio is used to What does it mean?
We measure the level by the Groups ability to pay down its debt from monitor the conversion of operating profit which our dividend payments can be covered earnings.
Adjusted net debt, which is total net debt into operating cash.
by earnings adjusted earnings per share divided plus restricted cash in our rail division, is measured by dividend per share.
Good performance against against earnings before interest, tax, depreciation this KPI demonstrates strong working capital Why is it important?
We are committed to and amortisation EBITDA.
Strong cash delivering shareholder value through our dividend Why is it important?
We have a bank covenant limit generation provides liquidity.
We measure our dividend cover to help of 3.5x and are required to remain below this level.
us assess how much of our profits we can pay to Risks Not generating sufficient earnings to reinvest This ratio also helps us measure against our shareholders as a dividend whilst allowing sufficient in the business.
commitment to preserve a strong capital structure retained earnings to invest in the business.
2014 performance Cashflow generated from and maintain our investment grade credit ratings.
Risks Insufficient or unsustainable dividend operations was 1.12 times EBITDA.
Risks Exceeding the bank covenant limit of cover could result in the dividend being reduced.
We manage payments and receipts closely to 3.5x cover.
2014 performance Dividend cover was in line convert operating profit into operating cash.
2014 performance In line with managements with our policy at 2.04 times earnings on a The nature of our rail business can lead to large expectations, adjusted net debt to EBITDA pre-IAS 19 basis.
working capital movements at certain times of year, adjusted for the impact of IAS 19 revised Reflecting the Boards confidence in the Groups which can result in some fluctuations from year to was 1.45x, slightly below our target range.
performance and prospects, the Board believes year due to timing of payments and receipts.
Adjusted net debt decreased by 39.6m to it is time to resume the Groups dividend policy Our regulated bus contracts run for five years with 260.0m in the year, while EBITDA was up of progressive dividend growth whilst maintaining a possible two year extension.
dividend cover of approximately two times requirements in this division are impacted by the adjusted earnings on a pre-IAS 19 revised Target timing of contract renewals.
basis through the economic cycle.
2020 target To maintain adjusted net debt EBITDA Target within our target range of 1.5x and 2.5x The Board is proposing a final dividend of 2020 target To match or exceed cashflow throughout the economic cycle.
59.0p, increasing the full year dividend to 84.5p generated from operations to EBITDA.
Had the dividend been maintained at 81.0p, cover would have been 2.13 times earnings.
Target 2020 target Maintain adequate dividend cover throughout the economic cycle, in line with our policy of two times cover, excluding the impact at 1AS 19 revised.
Finance continued Fair Tax Mark As a socially responsible organisation, transparency and openness are important to us.
We are pleased to have been recognised as being the first in the FTSE 350 to be awarded the Fair Tax Mark.
The Fair Tax Mark is a label for good taxpayers and Signing up to the Fair Tax Scheme, which launched companies that are open about tax affairs and seek to in February 2014, was voluntary and Go-Ahead has pay the right amount of corporation tax at the right time taken a decision to apply for accreditation to achieve and in the right place.
A fair tax system is to the benefit of maximum transparency.
everyone and crucial to support a vibrant mixed economy.
Tax is an issue that affects everyone and we hope The Fair Tax Mark was awarded following an independent the recognition of our responsible tax policy reassures review of the Groups policies on tax.
The assessment stakeholders, investors, employees and customers that criteria were devised in consultation with business we are a responsible organisation.
representatives, non-government organisations, academics All our businesses, including our rail companies owned and professionals and takes into consideration several in partnership with Keolis, pay UK corporation tax.
elements such as our desire to be considered low risk Read about the Groups taxation for 2013 14 by HMRC, our review on the levels of disclosures made on page 48 on taxation, and that we have a Board enforced policy not to undertake tax planning and not to use tax havens.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 32 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information www.
