Our business model We are a leading provider of passenger transport services, carrying millions of people on our bus and rail services every day.
How we create value Our business model supports our strategy of providing high quality, locally focused passenger transport services as a leading employer in the transport sector, running our companies in a responsible manner, with strong financial discipline.
In addition to delivering value for our shareholders we create value for our retail and transport authority customers, our people and communities, and wider society.
Our business model is underpinned by a robust governance framework.
Key relationships Key inputs Passengers Communities Government Our people Fuel Finance Strategic partners Our buses Our people Shareholders Infrastructure and suppliers and trains Value created We currently have three business units: Deregulated bus Regulated bus Rail Operating commercial bus businesses in Operating bus contracts in Operating net and rail franchises in the the UK, outside London.
London for Transport for London.
UK for the Department for Transport.
Read more about this business Read more about this business Read more about this business unit on page 12 unit on page 12 unit on page 12 Our business model is underpinned by our strengths Understanding and meeting Delivering safe and efficient Adopting a partnership approach Maintaining a strong and the needs of the travelling public vehicle operations in developing and operating knowledgeable Board in our local markets, delivering services which create long term Providing excellent customer Employing experienced good quality services and value value for all parties involved service, for both our passengers management who are for money and our transport authority Operating on large and complex committed to supporting and Developing strong local brands customers transport networks developing our people while delivering high quality services Marketing our services and sustainable shareholder value to passengers The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 10 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information We generate revenue and profit in two main ways: 1 through the pro vision of transport services to fare-paying passengers, whose revenue covers the cost of service and a profit margin.
2 through the provision of passenger transport services on behalf of public sector transport authorities, for example, TfL, the DfT and local authorities.
We tender for, and run, contracts in two main sub-categories: Gross cost contracts where our entire revenue comprises payments made by the transport authority to us with the authority retaining all fare revenue raised.
Net cost contracts where our revenue is a combination of income from fares and payments from transport authorities.
Where our revenue is partly or wholly derived from public sector transport authorities we have lower revenue risk but exposure to cost risk as cost overruns cannot be offset by fare increases.
Good cost controls are therefore vital in areas such as staff utilisation, fuel efficiency and negotiating and managing contractual relationships.
Part of the Groups core skill set is managing all of these areas without compromising safety or quality.
Our key relationships Our key inputs Passengers Our passengers make over one billion journeys a Our people We directly employ almost all the people involved year on our services: We want to know how we are performing in providing our services.
so we can deliver change and improvements.
We understand Our buses and trains We lease all of our trains and own all of our local markets and strive to meet our passengers needs.
In our regulated bus business, around Our people High levels of employee engagement, commitment half of our fleet is leased and half is owned.
and job satisfaction contribute directly to the success of Infrastructure We pay for the use of public sector infrastructure Go-Ahead.
The majority of our people are members of trade such as railway track access or use of local authority bus stations.
unions and our local teams foster good relationships with their We own the majority of our bus depots.
Rail depots are rented representatives.
from Network Rail or similar providers.
Communities Our businesses are part of the local communities Fuel Our vehicles are mainly powered by a combination of diesel, in which they operate.
Our aim is to play a constructive role electricity and gas.
in the towns and cities we serve, working closely with local Read about our fuel hedging policy on page 41 community groups.
Government Policy and regulatory changes affect our bus Finance We are financed partly by investment from our and rail businesses.
Working closely with both central and local shareholders and partly by bank and other debt.
After payments government enables us to provide input into new policies to transport authorities and infrastructure providers, our largest and ensure we receive regular feedback on our performance.
costs are those of employing our people, funding our vehicle We also support central Government in activities such as rolling fleets and fuel.
stock procurement where our teams have highly valued expertise.
See the breakdown of our bus and rail cost bases Strategic partners and suppliers We work collaboratively in on pages 40 and 44 a number of strategic partnerships including with the DfT, TfL, local authorities, Network Rail and rail rolling stock companies.
Professional relationships with core suppliers help to ensure and support efficient delivery of our passenger transport services.
Shareholders As a publicly listed company we provide open and transparent information which enables informed investment decisions to be made.
Feedback from our shareholders forms part of strategic discussions in the Boardroom.
Our risks The principal risks to our business model are set out on pages 36 to 37 and include the economic climate, political and regulatory framework and severe infrastructure failure.
com 11 Our core business units We create shared value for our stakeholders through our three operating divisions: deregulated bus, regulated bus, and rail.
Key market features Growth opportunities Divisional revenue Deregulated bus Outside London Operators largely make their Go-Ahead operates around We operate commercial Fare paying passengers 70% own decisions, such as setting 7% of the deregulated bus By offering high quality services and value for money fares we are able bus businesses, predominantly Services operated on a largely bus fares, routes and service market in the UK.
It is a stable to grow passenger numbers.
This directly contributes to the success commercial basis in the south of England frequencies and mature market with scope of our business.
Outside London, we have operations Accountable to the traffic for growth through acquisition, Some tendered services in north east England, Brighton, Oxford, commissioner and other Reimbursement for concessionary travel network expansion and 20% are run on behalf of councils, Plymouth, the South Coast and East Anglia.
Government policy entitles anyone of pensionable age to free travel on industry bodies changing behaviours resulting such as school contracts We own 100% of these businesses.
local bus services in England.
Bus operators are reimbursed a percentage of Comprises local markets in increased bus use.
the full fare for revenue forgone.
This is paid by local authorities from a fund Operators have a relatively with unique features flexible cost base which allocated by central Government, based on a principle of the operator being Mainly private operators, some no better and no worse off.
Our typical reimbursement rates are around 50%.
can be adapted to mitigate local authority owned operations external factors Tendered contracts 10% Services which are not commercially viable, such as rural routes and school buses, are tendered by local authorities.
We also operate commercial contracts for universities and other third parties.
Regulated bus Key market features Growth opportunities In London Revenue paid to operators by Go-Ahead is the largest bus We operate tendered contracts Running bus services in London for TfL 95% TfL on a revenue per mile basis operator in London with Operating under a regulated system, TfL issues tenders for bus routes for Transport for London TfL Services operated for TfL which around 24% market share.
Five to seven year contracts, in London and private operators enter a competitive bidding process for In London, we operate around 170 sets routes and service frequency Growth opportunities exist dependent on performance individual route contracts.
Contracts are usually five years in duration with routes from 17 depots in the capital.
Fares set by the Mayor through additional contract a possible two year performance-based extension.
Our revenue comes Around 85% of these depots are freehold.
Gross cost contracts require of London wins, by moving into new areas directly from TfL and is paid on a revenue per mile basis.
tight control of cost base Private operators bid for through acquisition and if the Quality incentive bonuses and other revenue individual route contracts scope of the network increases 5% Performance targets are set by TfL through Quality Incentive Contracts as Londons population grows.
QIC to encourage the provision of punctual services.
Operators receive bonus payments when targets are met and are penalised for poor performance.
Other sources of revenue include providing rail replacement services, advertising on buses and operating other third party contracts.
Rail Key market features Growth opportunities Regulated by the Office of Rail The infrastructure is largely Govia operates around 27% of We operate rail franchises Passenger revenue and subsidies 95% Regulation ORR and other owned and managed by the UK rail market.
There are Operating under a regulated system, the DfT issues tenders for rail franchises for the Department for industry bodies Network Rail significant growth opportunities and private operators enter a competitive bidding process for the right to Transport DfT in this market in the coming years, operate them.
Typically, operators submit detailed franchise bids that specify Peak fares, routes and service Trains are leased from Go-Ahead currently operates with nine franchises due to be the level of premium the operator will pay to the DfT or the level of subsidy frequencies set by the rolling stock operators three UK rail franchises Southern, awarded in the next three years.
it will require from the DfT for operating the franchise, dependent on the Government Southeastern and London Midland Operators have a relatively level of passenger revenue assumed.
The model is designed to maximise the through Govia, a 65% owned joint Existing franchises typically had fixed cost base, reducing See details of upcoming value to the taxpayer by incentivising train companies to operate efficiently venture with Keolis.
Govia will initial contract terms of around flexibility to adapt to changes franchise competitions and encourage passenger growth.
also operate GTR from eight years in the wider economy on page 16 14 September 2014.
Other revenue Including GTR from 14 September 2014.
5% A small proportion of revenue is generated through other activities on the rail franchise network such as car parking, station retailing, advertising at stations and on trains and third party engineering work.
Read about our bus and rail performance from page 38 to 45 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 12 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Group revenue Group operating profit 2,702.4m 103.2m Deregulated bus 13.0% Deregulated bus 40.6% Regulated bus 16.6% Regulated bus 40.3% Rail 70.4% Rail 19.1% Key market features Growth opportunities Divisional revenue Deregulated bus Outside London Operators largely make their Go-Ahead operates around We operate commercial Fare paying passengers 70% own decisions, such as setting 7% of the deregulated bus By offering high quality services and value for money fares we are able bus businesses, predominantly Services operated on a largely bus fares, routes and service market in the UK.
also operate GTR from eight years in the wider economy on page 16 Deregulated bus 14 September 2014.
5% Regulated bus A small proportion of revenue is generated through other activities on the rail franchise network such as car parking, station retailing, advertising Our rail networks at stations and on trains and third party engineering work.
