Strategic report OUR BUSINESS MODEL Our business model is driven by a solid strategy to deliver long-term, sustainable returns and grow our market share in the UK.
Thisis supported by robust corporate governance and corporate social responsibility, centred on our people and our customers.
BUSINESS MODEL The Greene King business model balances strong cash generation Building the best pubs and beer withinvestment aimed at further businessinBritain positioning us towards long-term growth markets and thereby delivering sustainable growth and dividends for our shareholders.
Our business model is supported by PUB PARTNERS BREWING & BRANDS robust governance and corporate social responsibility, centred on our customers, our communities and ourenvironments.
Cash generator Cash generator We have over 1,900 pubs, restaurants and FUTURE STRATEGY FUTURE STRATEGY hotels and we brew the countrys leading cask ale brands.
We operate through reduce estate to 750 pubs focus on core brands three main business units.
forstable, modest andcraftportfolio growthprospects Our strategy is focused on shifting our grow OBV to drive business towards the higher growth areas focus on asset people quality marketshare of our markets, which means increasing our exposure to our Retail business, while back to basics with sector-leading sales and B2Bapproach and marketing investment using the highly cash-generative nature of our Pub Partners and Brewing & Brands simplifiedagreements low cost operating model businesses to support this expansion.
Underpinning our business model isafinancial strategy to maximise thestrength, flexibility and efficiency ofourbalance sheet, with the aim of RETAIL supporting growth through investment inour existing estate and selectively acquiring new sites, while maintaining ourprogressive dividend policy.
Principal driver of growth FUTURE STRATEGY OUR STRATEGY acquire minimum 30 new sites p. a. page 18 improve estate quality to drive growth and returns raise the hospitality bar increase exposure to eating out broaden usage occasions and extend daytime trading Drives attractive shareholder returns: earningsand dividend growth 14 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2014 www.
co. uk Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements KEY BUSINESS DRIVERS RETAIL PUB PARTNERS BREWING & BRANDS Our retail business is split into two Our Pub Partners business offers Our Brewing & Brands division divisions.
We have 512 Destination entrepreneurs the opportunity to run operates two breweries, one in Bury Pubs and Restaurants sites, spread our pubs in England and Scotland.
St Edmunds and the other in Dunbar, across a number of brands, including where we brew industry-leading We offer a range of agreements for Hungry Horse and Loch Fyne Seafood brands such as Old Speckled Hen, tenanted pubs, leased pubs and and Grill, as well as the Metropolitan Greene King IPA and Belhaven Best.
Pub Company, which primarily operates Revenue in our Pub Partners business is We generate revenue in this division from our premium London pubs.
We also principally achieved through the supply the sale and distribution of ales produced have 520 LocalPubs comprising mainly ofbeer and other drinks to our licensees by us in our own breweries, and from branded and unbranded pubs in local and the rent that they pay us to have thesale and distribution of drinks communities, with operating concepts access to the pub and our support.
bothalcoholic and non-alcoholic such as FlameGrill and Meet&Eat.
Wealsoderive a small portion of produced by third parties.
As well as to our internal customers in Our retail sales are determined by the other divisions, we also sell our ales The UK leased and tenanted pub industry thenumber of customers we attract has come under heavy scrutiny from toother pub companies and to individual andthe amount that they spend with us.
A further important industry associations and Government Therefore, the success of Retail is driven bodies in recent years resulting in the revenue stream for Greene King is the sale by our customers desire to eat and drink of our own-brewed ales to supermarkets recent confirmation by The Department outside of their homes.
for Business, Innovation & Skills that they and other retail outlets.
An increasingly Our principal revenue streams are food important channel for Greene King is the plan to set up a statutory code governing and drink available for consumption on the relationship between pub companies export market, where we sell to a wide our premises.
We gain further revenue range of countries both within Europe and their tenants.
from our range of hotels, which offer and further afield.
We have continuously adapted our overnight accommodation.
A number business model to improve licensee and Although the total UK ale market is in ofour sites also have gaming machines.
pub sustainability through increasing our decline, there are still channels of growth We aim to attract customers to our pub, support to them and do not believe the within the sector and we have successfully restaurant and hotel sites through the introduction of a statutory code will make adapted our business model in Brewing consistent provision of outstanding value, a material difference to this business.
&Brands to pursue these channels.
exceptional service and unbeatable quality.
Our focus in Brewing & Brands is the Core to our Pub Partners business is our Our people are crucial in driving footfall ability to recruit and retain quality operation of a highly efficient brewing to our sites, which is further supported model that facilitates industry-leading licensees, which we do through a focus byongoing investment in expanding and onoperating the right pubs, with the investment and delivers consistently maintaining our estate, investment in highservice and quality levels.
This rightpeople, on the right agreement digital and overall innovation to ensure withthe right offer.
focushas driven the continuing market that we remain relevant to the customer outperformance of many of our ales.
in an environment of increasing consumer choice and expectation.
co. uk Annual report 2014 GREENE KING PLC 15
