Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements DIRECTORS REPORT The directors present their annual report contract, that was significant in relation exercise of any voting rights attaching to together with the audited financial statements tothe groups business at any time during the shares held under the scheme by the of the company and the group for the the period.
trustee on the participants behalf.
The fifty-three weeks ended 4 May 2014. trustee will only be entitled to vote on a show of hands if all directions received Substantial shareholdings from participants are identical.
The trustee Profits and dividends The company has been notified of the is under no obligation to call for a poll.
In The groups profit before taxation and following interests in 3% or more of the the case of a poll, the trustee will follow the exceptional items for the period amounted issued share capital of the company: directions of the participants.
Aninterim dividend of 7.60p per No voting rights will be exercised in respect share 2013: 7.15p was paid on 24 January 2014. of any own shares.
Capital Research & The directors recommend a final dividend Management of 20.8p per ordinary share 2013: 19.45p, Company 9.10% 9.10% Transfer of shares making a total dividend for the year of 28.4pper share 2013: 26.6p.
Subject to the Standard Life There are no restrictions on the transfer approval of shareholders at the AGM, the Investments ofshares in the company other than those final dividend will be paid 15 September 2014 Limited 7.99% 7.99% which may from time to time be applicable to shareholders on the register at the close under existing laws and regulations for AXA S. A.
4.99% 4.99% of business on 15 August 2014. example under the Market Abuse Directive.
In addition, pursuant to the Listing Directors Share capital Rulesofthe Financial Conduct Authority, Details of the current directors are given Details of the authorised and issued share directors of the company and persons onpage 40.
All of the directors held office capital of the company, which comprises discharging managerial responsibility throughout the period.
asingle class of shares, ordinary shares of arerequired to obtain prior approval 12p, are set out in note 26 to the accounts.
fromthe company to deal in the companys John Brady will retire from the board on The rights attaching to the shares are set out securities, and are prohibited from dealing 27July 2014, having served as a non-executive in the articles of association.
There are during closed periods.
The board has nospecial control rights in relation to the recommended that all of the other directors companys shares and the company is not Change of control offer themselves for re-election atthe aware of any agreements between holders of forthcoming AGM.
securities that may result in restrictions on All of the companys share incentive plans contain provisions relating to a change of the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Details of the directors service agreements, control and full details of these plans are remuneration, and interests in share options provided in the directors remuneration A total of 735k ordinary shares, with and awards are set out in the directors anaggregate nominal value of 92k were report.
Outstanding options and awards remuneration report.
There have been would normally vest and become exercisable allotted, for cash, during the period in nochanges in their interests between connection with the companys sharesave on a change of control, subject to the 4May2014 and the date of this report.
satisfaction of performance conditions, and executive option schemes.
In addition afurther 38k shares were acquired by the ifapplicable, at that time.
company to satisfy awards under the Directors interests in shares companys deferred share option scheme.
The groups banking facility agreements The beneficial interests of each of the contain provisions entitling the counterparties directors and their immediate families in The company makes regular use of the to exercise termination or other rights in the ordinary share capital of the company the event of a change of control.
Certain employee benefit trust EBT to satisfy the are shown below: exercise of share options and will make market ofthe companys trading contracts also contain similar provisions.
purchases of the companys shares from time 28 April 2013 4 May 2014 to time to ensure that it has sufficient shares There are two employees who, on a change toenable it to do so.
During October 2013, the Rooney Anand 272,794 381,782 EBT made a single market purchase of a total of control of the company resulting in the John Brady 10,000 10,000 termination of their employment, would be of 200k shares at a total price of 1,546k.
Theshare price was 771.3p per share.
entitled to compensation for loss of office.
Tim Bridge 1,362,760 1,389,998 However, in the context of the company as Mike Coupe 2,000 2,000 awhole, these agreements are fide minimis.
Voting rights Ian Durant 22,320 22,320 In a general meeting of the company, on Matthew Fearn 9,654 13,576 Articles of association ashow of hands, every member who is present in person or by proxy and entitled The companys articles of association may Lynne Weedall 2,000 2,000 only be amended by special resolution at tovote shall have one vote.
On a poll every member who is present in person or by general meetings of shareholders.
At 4 May 2014, Tim Bridge had a non-beneficial proxy shall have one vote for every share of interest in 87,900 2013: 87,900 shares, in which they are the holder.
The AGM notice Appointment and replacement addition to the holding shown above.
gives full details of deadlines for exercising ofdirectors voting rights in respect of resolutions to be There have been no changes in the interests The number of directors on the board considered at the meeting.
of the directors between 4 May 2014 and shallbe no less than five nor more than 12. the date of this report.
Directors may be appointed by the company Under the Free4All Employee Profit Share by ordinary resolution or by the board Scheme, participants are the beneficial ofdirectors.
A director appointed by the owners of the shares but not the registered Interests in contracts board of directors holds office until the owners.
The registered owner is the trustee, No director had a material interest in any nextfollowing AGM, and is then eligible Killik & Co Trustees Ltd.
The trustee will contract, other than an employment forelection by the shareholders.
invite participants to direct it on the www.
co. uk Annual report 2014 GREENE KING PLC 61 Corporate governance DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Appointment and replacement totreating all colleagues fairly and equally each director has taken all the steps andwill endeavour to provide workplace adirector might reasonably be expected ofdirectors continued adaptations and training for colleagues to have taken to be aware of relevant The articles provide that at each AGM all orcandidates who have a disability and audit information and to establish that those directors who were elected, or last colleagues who become disabled during the companys auditor is aware of re-elected, at the AGM held in the third theiremployment.
calendar year before the current year shallretire from office and may stand for The company values colleague engagement re-election.
In practice directors submit Going concern across the business and produces a monthly themselves for annual re-election in The groups business activities, together publication containing company news and accordance with the provisions of the withthe factors likely to affect its future articles, which is circulated to all colleagues.
development, performance and position, In addition, thecompany provides regular areset out in the chief executives review.
The briefings andpresentations to staff on the The company may by ordinary resolution, financial position of the group, its cash flows, companys performance and strategy as well ofwhich special notice has been given, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are asannual and interim results.
We are a people remove any director from office.
described in the financial review.
In addition, business so it is vitally important that we note 24 to the financial statements includes recruit and train the right people to deliver Any director automatically ceases to the groups objectives, policies and processes value, service and quality to our customers.
beadirector if i they give the company for managing its capital: its financial risk The company works in partnership with local awritten notice of resignation, ii they give management objectives: details of its financial communities to promote and provide the company a written offer to resignand the instruments and hedging activities: and opportunities for all.
directors decide to accept this offer, iii all of itsexposure to credit and liquidity risk.
the other directors remove them from office by notice in writing served upon them, iv Human rights The directors are of the opinion that the they are or have been suffering from mental Even though the company does not have a groups forecast and projections, which take ill health and have a court order for their formal human rights policy, it is committed account of reasonably possible changes in detention or the appointment of a guardian to conducting business with integrity trading performance, and its stress testing made in respect of them, v a bankruptcy andfairness.
to take account of expected payments in order ismade against them or they make respect of uncertain tax positions show that anyarrangement or composition with their the group should be able to operate within creditors generally, vi they are prohibited Corporate responsibility its current borrowing facilities and comply from being a director by law or vii they are Disclosure of the groups greenhouse with its financing covenants.
absent from board meetings for six months gasemissions under the new regulations is without leave and the other directors resolve contained within the corporate responsibility After making enquiries, the directors have that their office shouldbe vacated.
statement on page 38. areasonable expectation that the company and the group have adequate resources Powers of the directors tocontinue in operational existence for Directors and officers theforeseeable future.
Accordingly, The business of the company is managed by indemnityinsurance theycontinue to adopt the going concern thedirectors who may exercise all thepowers The group has taken out insurance to basisinpreparing the annual report of the company, subject to itsarticles of indemnify, against third party proceedings, andfinancial statements.
association, any relevant legislation and any the directors of the company whilst serving directions given by the company by passing on the board of the company and of any aspecial resolution at a general meeting.
This cover indemnifies all Auditor particular, the directors may exercise all employees of the group who serve on the Ernst & Young LLP has expressed its thepowers of the company to borrow money, boards of all subsidiaries.
These indemnity willingness to continue in office and a issue shares, appoint and remove directors policies subsisted throughout the year and resolution to re-appoint the firm as the andrecommend and declare dividends.
remain in place at the date of this report.
companys auditor will be proposed at theAGM.
Communications with shareholders Financial instruments Shareholders who are interested in signing The groups policy on the use of financial Annual general meeting up to e-communications should refer to the instruments is set out in note 24.
The AGM will be held at 12 noon shareholders information page for further onTuesday 10 September 2014 at information on how to register via theMillennium Grandstand, Rowley Post balance sheet events www.
MileRacecourse Conference Centre, Details of events occurring after the year Newmarket, Suffolk.
The notice of the end are set out in note 32.
AGMis set out in the separate circular Charitable donations toshareholders.
The group continues to support community Directors statement as to disclosure initiatives and charitable causes, in particular of information to the auditor The directors consider that all of the Macmillan Cancer Support, fulldetails of resolutions set out in the notice of AGM are The directors who were members of the board which are given in the corporate social at the time of approving the directors report inthe best interests of the company and its responsibility section ofthis annual report.
The directors will are listed on page 40.
Having made enquiries The group makes nopolitical donations.
of fellow directors and of the companys bevoting in favour of them and unanimously recommend that shareholders vote in favour auditor, each of these directors confirms that: Employment and recruitment policies ofeach of them.
It is the companys policy to ensure that to the best of each directors knowledge employees are recruited, selected, developed, and belief, there is no information By order of the board remunerated and promoted on the basis relevant to the preparation of their oftheir skills and suitability for the work reportof which the companys auditor performed.
The company is committed Lindsay Keswick isunaware: and Company secretary 2 July 2014 62 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2014 www.
