Corporate governance BOARD OF DIRECTORS Tim Bridge, DL 65 Rooney Anand 50 Chairman Chief executive Commenced role 2005 Commenced role 2005 Appointed totheboard in 1977 Appointed totheboard in 2001 N Rooney Anand joined the groupas managing director of Having joined Greene King in 1970 thebrewing division and was Tim Bridge was appointed to the promoted to chief executive board in 1977.
He was previously ofpositions within the group, president and managing director becoming managing director in of the UK bakery division at Sara 1990 and chief executive in 1994.
Lee, the international consumer In2005 hestepped down as goods business, and, prior to that, chiefexecutive to take over at United Biscuits.
Matthew Fearn 49 John Brady 62 Finance director Non-executive director Commenced role 2011 Commenced role 2005 N R A Matthew Fearn joined Greene King in 2011 from Brakes Group Having been a director of where he was chief financial McKinsey and Company, the officer.
Matthew previously management consulting firm, gained extensive finance until 2004 with experience in experience in the leisure sector European retail and marketing, with fide Vere Group plc and John Brady has an extensive Whitbread plc.
Matthew is background in strategy amember of the ICAEW.
John is also a non-executive of Triumph Motorcycles Limited.
John willbe retiring from the boardon 27July 2014.
Mike Coupe 53 Ian Durant 55 Non-executive director Senior independent Commenced role 2011 non-executive director Commenced role 2007 N R A N R A With current experience gained as an executive director on the As a former finance director board of a premium, listed atLiberty International Plc, company, Mike Coupe also IanDurant contributes brings knowledge of a large, extensive financial experience multi-site retail organisation to the Greene King board.
developed through his role as Ianis also the chairman of group commercial director Capital & Counties Properties andchief executive designate PLC and Greggs plc and a atJ Sainsbury plc.
non-executive director of Home Retail Group plc.
Lynne Weedall 47 Key of committees Non-executive director Commenced role 2012 Nomination committee N N R Remuneration committee R Lynne Weedall is currently A Audit committee group HR and strategy director for The Carphone Warehouse Group plc and brings to the board a wealth ofexperience of HR and organisational SENIOR MANAGEMENT development gained from The senior management team comprises Rooney Anand, chief a variety of roles in the executive, Matthew Fearn, finance director, the managing directors retail sector.
of each of the groups business units and the heads of key functional areas, including commercial, HR and property.
They meet once every four weeks under the chairmanship of the chief executive.
40 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2014 www.
