Strategic report OUR MARKETS In each market, we aim togrow ourmarket share utilising ourindustry-leading brands, our high quality asset base andourtalented teams.
MARKET OVERVIEW We compete primarily in the UK GREENE KING RETAIL drinking out, eating out and staying outmarkets.
In each market, we aim LFL SALES VS UK PUB RESTAURANTS togrow ourmarket share utilising ourindustry-leading brands, our high 7% UK market quality asset base and our talented 5% Greene King Retail teams.
Over the last 12 months we 3% havemet those aims within Greene King Retail, our largest and fastest 1% growing business.
Beer volumes per -1% pubin Pub Partners, our tenanted, leased and franchised division, have alsooutperformed the UK on-trade Based on monthly Coffer Peach Business Tracker.
beermarket, while own-brewed volumes of our core ale brands haveoutperformed the total UK alemarket.
Environmental analysis Political BEER DUTY PER 1% ABV HL One of the biggest issues facing the industry atthe moment is the uncertainty of the current political landscape, whether it be the Scottish 20 independence referendum in 2014 or the UK 17 general election in May 2015.
As we invest a 14 significant proportion of our cash in our pubs, 11 restaurants and hotels, and in our people, we 8 prefer more certainty of policy direction and 5 decision making.
We are looking closely at different potential outcomes from these two events and will consider them as part of our ongoing strategic review.
Once again, the UK government has been inconsistent in its approach to the UK beer andpubs industry over the last 12 months.
There was another welcome cut of 1p per pint As regards the tenanted and leased pub industry, that less investment will be made in that asset in beer duty and the removal of the alcohol we believe that self-regulation of the relationship by the landlord, less support given to the tenant duty escalator for wines, spirits and cider.
We between pub companies and licensees is the and more costs added for the tenant to bear.
support the principle of reforming Progressive best approach.
We have, after all, successfully We maintain our support for an alcohol Beer Duty, whereby small brewers currently operated tied agreements with licensees for minimum unit price MUP.
We believe MUP, receive a significant subsidy for brewing beer, over 200 years.
The government has, however, alongside other measures such as improved creating a distorted market for beer in the UK.
proposed a bill to introduce a statutory code to alcohol education, can be a highly effective We also believe that a VAT cut for food sold govern this relationship, notwithstanding the measure in reducing irresponsible retailing inpubs and restaurants would help to boost unintended consequences this code might and consuming of alcohol, thereby helping investment and jobs in the industry, although generate.
If a law is brought in to artificially toreduce the costs to society of rising we recognise this is unlikely in the short rebalance the share of income from a pub asset alcohol-related illness and crime.
between landlord and tenant, then it is likely tomedium term.
16 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2014 www.
co. uk May-13 Jun-13 Jul-13 Aug-13 Sep-13 Oct-13 Nov-13 Dec-13 Jan-14 Feb-14 Mar-14 Apr-14 Jun-93 Jan-95 Jan-97 Jan-99 Mar-01 Apr-03 Jun-04 Mar-06 Mar-08 Apr-09 Mar-11 Mar-12 Mar-14 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Economic CONSUMER CONFIDENCE IN PERSONAL The macro-economic picture improved overthe course of the year with GDP FINANCIAL SITUATION growthaccelerating, unemployment falling and inflation reducing.
This has led to an 15 Last 12 months improvement in consumer confidence.
10 However, we did not see that improvement Next 12 months 5 convert to significant increases in volume 0 and cover sales or spend per head within -5 Retail during the year.
In the second half of the year, we did though see a slight softening -10 in monthly payday spikes as customers felt -15 under less financial pressure towards the end -20 of each month.
London and the south-east -25 remain more buoyant than the rest of the UK.
-30 We are more likely to see material changes to our trading patterns once the UK consumer experiences sustainable real income growth, which we are hopeful we will see during the Monthly GfKNOP report.
Even when that occurs though, we will need to continue delivering exceptional value, service and quality to ourcustomers to ensure we win our fair shareofany incremental discretionary spendagainst the potential pent-up demand forbigger-ticket items.
Social UK alcohol consumption continues to decline for a combination of reasons some social, GREENE KING PERFORMANCE some health related and some economic.
With the exception of premium ale, which saw 5.7% volume growth in the year to April 2014, 8.0% beer consumption remains in steep decline, Greene King LFL sales growth 7.0% averaging a 2.7% decline in each of the last 10years.
UK market growth 6.0% We continue to see consumers choosing to 5.0% drink alcohol at home with beer consumption 4.0% in the on-trade declining by 2.1% in the year to 3.0% April 2014, and growing by 4.4% in the off-trade over the same time period.
Continuously 2.0% improving home comforts are partly responsible, 1.0% as is a further widening of the price differential 0.0% between the onand off-trades.
It now costs Eating out Drinking out Staying out over 2.5 times as much to buy a pint of beer inthe on-trade as it does in the off-trade.
Greene King figures are based on the company year, adjusted for 52 weeks.
Eating out market numbers arebased on Allegra Project Restaurant 2014, drinking outmarketnumbers are based on CGA Brand Index Improved affordability and increasing time toApril 2014, and the UK staying out market numbers are based on PWC UK forecast update 2014 and 2015. pressures are contributing to a growing spend on eating out in the UK.
The average growth rate per annum for spend on eating out in pubs Greene King performance and restaurants is 1.3% between 2011 and We continue to outperform in our core 2014, helped by average growth per annum of6.6% in branded managed pubs, reflecting markets of eating out, drinking out and staying out.
In our Retail business LFL the consumers growing preference for great value casual dining occasions.
The Greene foodsales were up 5% in our financial year, compared with growth in the UK eating out King Leisure Spend Tracker has highlighted the extent to which eating out has become an market of 1.7%.
LFL drink sales in our Retail business grew by 3.2% against the UK drinking integral part of family socialising and major calendar events.
Lastly, LFL accommodation sales in our Retail business The UK provincial staying out market is grew by 6.8%, outperforming the UK staying gaining momentum as the economic recovery out market, which grew by 4.8%.
builds and inbound tourism continues to grow offsetting a small drop in domestic This outperformance has been further enhanced by our expansion programme, and by staycations.
RevPAR revenue per available room grew by 4.8% in the UK provinces in total Retail sales.
We now have market shares BBPA April 2014. of0.8%, 2.3%, and 0.1% in our markets of eating 2013 and is forecast to grow by a further Allegra UK restaurant market 2014.
3% in 2014. out drinking out andstaying out respectively.
UK Hotels forecast update 2014 and 2015. www.
co. uk Annual report 2014 GREENE KING PLC 17 Aug-07 Apr-08 Dec-08 Aug-09 Apr-10 Dec-10 Aug-11 Apr-12 Dec-12 Aug-13 Apr-14 % change YOY
