36 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Board of Directors & Secretary Name and title Ian Durant Roger Whiteside Richard Hutton, FCA Raymond Reynolds Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director Retail Director Biography Ian has a background in Roger began his career at Richard qualified as a Raymond joined Greggs in international financial and Marks and Spencer where Chartered Accountant with retail management in 1986. commercial management, he spent 20 years, ultimately KPMG and gained career As General Manager during with experience in the retail, becoming head of its food experience with Procter the 1990s, he built a significant property, hotels and transport business.
He was then one and Gamble before joining new business for the Company sectors.
His career includes of the founding team of Ocado, Greggs in 1998. in the Edinburgh region, and leadership roles with the retail serving as Joint MD from 2000 was appointed Managing division of Hanson and Jardine to 2004.
From 2004 to 2007 Director for Scotland in 2002.
Matheson, HongKong Land, Roger led a successful Dairy Farm International, Thistle turnaround as Chief Executive Hotels and Sea Containers of the Thresher Group and as Finance Director off-licence chain before joining of Liberty International.
Punch Taverns, ultimately becoming Chief Executive.
Roger was appointed as Chief Executive of Greggs on 4 February 2013.
Appointed since 5 October 2011 17 March 2008 13 March 2006 18 December 2006 Non-Executive Director until 3 February 2013 Independent Yes Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable External appointments Chairman of Capital and No external appointments.
Trustee of the Greggs Director of the Sunderland Counties PLC: Non-Executive Foundation, and Chairman Business Improvement District, Director of Greene King plc, of Business in the and North East Chamber of and Home Retail Group PLC.
Communitys North East Commerce Board member.
Committee membership Chairman of Nominations Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable Committee Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 37 Allison Kirkby Helena Ganczakowski Peter McPhillips Sandra Turner Jonathan Jowett Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Company Secretary Non-Executive Director & General Counsel Allison is currently the Executive Helena worked for Unilever Peter spent most of his Sandra has been involved in Jonathan is a lawyer by VP and Group CFO of Tele 2, for 23 years and held senior executive career in food the retail sector throughout profession, and has held the a major European telecoms positions in brand management manufacturing having held a her career and was employed position of Company Secretary company.
Prior to Tele 2, and marketing including UK number of executive positions by Tesco PLC, latterly as in a number of FTSE 250 and she spent two decades in the Marketing Director and, including Divisional Managing Commercial Director for FTSE Smallcap companies.
FMCG sector at Proctor and ultimately, Head of Global Director of Hillsdown Holdings, Tesco Ireland, from 1987 His previous employers include Gamble in a variety of senior Agencies.
Helena has a PhD in Director of Terranova to 2009.
Prior to this, she Avon Cosmetics Limited, SSL financial and operational roles Engineering from the University the chilled foods business had worked in sales and International plc, Wagon plc before moving to the TMT of Cambridge.
demerged from Hillsdown marketing roles for Unilever and Bakkavor Group.
sector, first at Virgin Media Holdings, and ultimately as and Wilkinson Sword.
and then as Group CFO at UK Managing Director of Uniq Shine, a division of 21st plc.
More recently, Peter was Century Fox.
Allison is a Fellow European Chairman of Hain of the Chartered Institute of Celestial Group.
30 January 2013 2 January 2014 10 March 2014 1 May 2014 12 May 2010 Yes Yes Yes Yes Not applicable No additional activities.
Helena is currently a Peter is currently a NonSandra is currently a Member of the British Retail Non-Executive Director of Executive Director of Browns Non-Executive Director of Consortium Policy Board: Croda International Plc, and Food Group, a privately-owned Carpetright plc, McBride plc Trustee of The Percy also runs her own consulting chilled and frozen food producer.
business working with companies ranging from start-up businesses to FTSE 100 constituents, helping them to develop and implement strategies.
Chair of Audit Committee: Audit, Remuneration Audit, Remuneration and Chair of Remuneration Secretary to Board and Remuneration and Nominations and Nominations Nominations Committee Committee: Audit all its Committees Committee member Committee member member and Nominations Committee member
