06 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Our Strategy Continuing to focus on four key areas will deliver success in food-on-the-go Great tasting Great shopping fresh food experience We believe in Always Fresh.
We believe in taking Greggs to where our freshly prepared food at great value customers are, providing them with a for money.
great shopping environment and fulfilling more of their needs by focusing on food-on-the-go at all times of the day.
Progress made in 2014 Progress made in 2014 New and improved coffee blend launched.
213 shops refitted, most with seating.
Sandwich range completely overhauled 85% of new shop locations away from the and re-presented.
Launch of Balanced Choice healthier eating range.
Popular meal deals extended to include hot drinks, Trading hours extended.
cakes, pastries and a wider range of sandwiches.
Greggs Rewards loyalty programme launched.
Successful programme of new product introductions.
More detail: Strategy in Action More detail: Strategy in Action P8-P9 P10-P11 Plans for 2015 Plans for 2015 We have further product developments and We plan to enhance the customer experience upgrades in the pipeline, with many opportunities further by continuing to improve our service to continue to improve our product offer and offering, shop environments and locations, develop our position in the food-on-the-go market.
rebalancing our estate towards new convenient catchment areas, with help from our franchise partners in travel and other convenience locations.
As we reshaped our estate, overall shop numbers fell slightly in 2014.
However, we continue to believe in the long-term opportunity for significant growth in shop numbers and will aim to return to net shop growth as soon as our property pipeline allows.
More detail: Chief Executives Report More detail: Chief Executives Report P17 P17 Keeping our people, communities and Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 07 Our vision and strategy Measuring progress Our strategic plan focuses on growing like-for-like sales by Our strategic plan represents a major programme of change over improving the quality of our existing estate and making our a period of up to five years and we have mapped out a number operations simpler and more efficient.
The plan has four key of key targets and milestones that we will use to track progress: pillars which are underpinned by our approach to keeping our people, communities and values at the heart of our business.
Achieving target returns on our increased investment in shop refits.
Delivery of operational and supply chain efficiencies.
Achieving the planned benefits from our investment in processes and systems.
Simple and efficient Improvement operations through change We believe in realising the significant We believe investing in our process and efficiency and capacity benefits systems platform will enable us to to be gained within our existing compete more effectively in the fastnetwork in order to develop simple moving food-on-the-go market.
Progress made in 2014 Progress made in 2014 In-store bakery migration programme completed.
Workforce management application QuDOS Regional and central support teams restructured.
Combined financial benefits of 2.9 million in 2014.
Supplier relationship management software PROACTIS put into place.
SAP selected as our core ERP software supplier.
Benefits achieved in excess of our original expectation.
More detail: Strategy in Action More detail: Strategy in Action P12-P13 P14-15 Plans for 2015 Plans for 2015 We will see the full year cost benefit from the In 2015 we will deliver the next three elements structural changes made last year and will build of this programme: on this with further initiatives to improve our Central forecasting and replenishment systems efficiency by investing in our existing supply to deliver improved product availability.
Product change management system to improve efficiency of category development processes.
New customer contact system to improve customer relationship management.
More detail: Chief Executives Report More detail: Chief Executives Report P18 P18 More detail: Social Responsibility P27 values at the heart of our business
