08 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Something for everyone a selection from our Balanced Choice range.
Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 09 Strategy in action Great tasting fresh food Expert bakers for 75 years, Greggs prides itself on freshly preparing food in shops every day and delivering an Always Fresh.
Because we own and run all of our Plans for 2015 bakeries we know and can control exactly We plan to develop our position in the what goes into our food.
Our  market by building on the integrated supply chain, unique recipes success of the changes we introduced last and bakery expertise all help to set year with a healthy pipeline of activity in the Greggs apart and deliver simple, good year ahead.
Highlights include extending our quality, great tasting food at affordable breakfast menu, developing our Balanced and competitive prices.
Choice range, continuing to upgrade product recipes, introducing new products and widening Progress made in 2014 our meal deal offers.
Whilst we continued to see improved sales as a result of the product changes made last year, our 2014 initiatives have been equally successful in driving sales.
Our new and improved coffee blend has been well-received and sales are continuing to grow strongly.
Our reputation for value for money is growing as we extend our popular meal deals to include hot drinks, cakes, pastries and a wider range of sandwiches.
In the summer we completely overhauled and re-presented our sandwich category, including the launch of our new Balanced Choice range of healthier-eating, great tasting sandwiches with fewer than 400 calories.
Case study Outstanding value for money We make all of our sandwiches fresh each day in our shops with no sell-by date so they always deliver that Always Fresh.
In 2014 we completely overhauled and re-presented our entire sandwich range including the introduction of our new Balanced Choice range of healthier-eating options.
Customers loved the new range and sandwiches have been our fastest-growing food category this year.
10 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategy in action continued Great shopping experience Our bakery food-on-the-go format comprises a contemporary interior that draws on Greggs bakery heritage but is designed to meet the demands of the modern retail environment and busy food-on-the-go shoppers.
Important features of this concept include Our franchise partners now include Moto, Euro the provision of seating for customers Garages, Wightlink Limited, Blakemore Retail where appropriate, improved customer flow and SandpiperCI.
The success of this model and more efficient queue management.
The was recognised at the 2014 British Sandwich Greggs customer experience has been Awards, where we were named En-Route enhanced further by improved service Sandwich Retailer of the Year, and the levels and more convenient shop locations Forecourt Trader of the Year Awards where we with new franchise partnerships enabling were awarded the status of Favourite us to reach previously inaccessible travel Forecourt Brand voted for by the consumers.
Plans for 2015 Progress made in 2014 We remain committed to improving the quality We have continued to benefit from the changes of our existing estate and our service offering.
we have made to service levels in our shops, In 2015 we will continue our accelerated refit including improved availability and extended programme aiming to refurbish around 200 trading hours.
Our new customer loyalty scheme, shops in our bakery food-on-the-go format.
Greggs Rewards, launched successfully and is providing us with valuable information to enable In addition we will continue to reshape our estate us to enhance the customer experience further.
this will involve closing some shops, relocating others and opening new ones away from the high Our investment programme to improve street with help from our franchise partners in the quality of our estate is progressing travel and convenience locations.
Overall shop well, and 213 shop refits were completed during numbers fell slightly in 2014: however, we continue 2014.
Our plan to reshape the estate, rebalancing to believe in the long-term opportunity for it towards new convenient catchment areas, is significant growth in shop numbers and will aim to also on track.
We opened 50 new shops return to net shop growth as soon as our property including 20 franchise units and closed 71 pipeline allows.
shops, giving a total of 1,650 shops of which 45 are franchise units trading at 3 January 2015.
We will continue to improve our service levels With help from our franchise partners, new and through a combination of improved availability old, almost all of our new shop locations were at lunchtime, further roll out of our extended away from high streets.
opening hours programme and the customer benefits offered by Greggs Rewards.
Case study Greggs Rewards Our new customer loyalty scheme, Greggs Rewards has been well-received by both our customers and the retail industry winning numerous awards, including the Loyalty Programme of the Year at the 2014 Retail Systems Awards, and the Overall Winner accolade at the 2014 Payment Awards for the most innovative use of payment technology.
We are now planning to build on this as we develop our capability to engage with customers and better meet their needs.
Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 11 An inviting shop environment is key to a great shopping experience.
12 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Greggs 218 strong truck fleet ensures we deliver `Always Fresh.
products to our 1,650 shops everyday Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 13 Strategy in action continued Simple and efficient operations As a retailer with a  supply chain, from production through distribution to point-of-sale, we have an important advantage over many of our competitors who keep products on shelves for longer.
This is particularly the case in an economic climate where consumers are increasingly concerned about the provenance and freshness of the food that they eat.
To make sure we continue to deliver We have continued on our journey to develop simple, good quality, great tasting fresh our production centres of excellence, ensuring food at affordable and competitive prices great product quality and consistency.
The it is imperative that we remain focused quality of our facilities was recognised by the on realising the significant efficiency and award of British Retail Consortium BRC capacity benefits to be gained within our accreditation to a number of our bakeries supply chain and existing network of and production facilities during the year.
Alongside this we will further improve our operational effectiveness in Plans for 2015 support areas in order to maximise our Investment in our supply chain will continue scope for investment in front-line to be focused on improving the efficiency customer service.
of our existing bakery network, building on the work to develop production centres Progress made in 2014 of excellence seen in recent years.
We intend We have completed the restructure of our to build on the success of our cost-saving support areas and consolidated our in-store initiatives with a further pipeline of bakeries into our regional bakery network.
improvements to be implemented this year.
The combined financial benefits from these changes have delivered savings of 2.9 million in 2014 and expected savings of 6.0 million per year from 2015 onwards.
Case study Telematics Since the introduction of vehicle telematics we have reduced fuel consumption by 11 per cent.
Insurance claims have come down significantly and this has been reflected in a premium saving of 350,000 35 per cent reduction for 2015.
We are continuing with our driver training which is based upon data from the telematics system, road traffic incidents and driving licence endorsements.
We are currently trialling on-board vehicle cameras to complement the vehicle telematics.
Footage from these will be used to complement existing driver training and to help investigate any incidents.
14 14 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategy in action continued Improvement through change Greggs has made significant progress in the past five years towards centralising the operation of the business, moving from a  business to a centralised model.
In August 2013 we announced a five-year Plans for 2015 change programme which involves The implementation of SAP technology is investing in the process and systems underway.
Greggs will use SAPs applications platform that will enable us to compete to develop operational efficiency across more effectively in the fast-moving all areas of the business beginning with food-on-the-go market.
category management, retail forecasting and replenishment.
A new customer contact Progress made in 2014 system will also be introduced to improve our We have delivered and are starting to see effectiveness in this key area.
returns from the first two elements of this programme.
QuDOS, a forecast-based manpower planning application has replaced manually-generated staff rotas in shops, and PROACTIS, a more transparent supplier management and procurement system has been put into place to enable greater purchasing opportunities.
The benefits from these two elements are ahead of target and we expect to build on this as we become more familiar with the new ways of working in these areas.
We also selected SAP as our core ERP software supplier which will allow us to move forward to the next phase of the programme.
Case study QuDOS workforce management system QuDOS is a fully integrated workforce management system comprising the core elements of forecasting, scheduling, time and attendance.
Its powerful forecasting engine predicts both sales and labour requirements.
The scheduling part of the tool delivers our shop managers with a schedule which meets the forecasted hours.
Our shop colleagues clock in and out against the schedule and are paid accordingly as the system integrates directly into our payroll system.
This system has replaced a number of older systems which were no longer fit for purpose and ultimately provided us with much greater control and visibility of retail labour costs.
Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 QuDOS is helping to deliver benefits higher than originally estimated
