GettinG into Gear inteGrated annual report for the Year ended 28 March 2014 strateGiC report retail strateGy retail strateGy We have a number Like all businesses, There are a number PRICES YOU of key performance our Group of incentive schemes indicators and faces risks and available across the CAN TRUST milestones that uncertainties that business, which aim allow management could impact the to deliver growth to monitor the achievement of the and key projects performance of our Groups strategy.
aligned with the QUALITY strategy.
These risks are YOU CAN shown in more detail Details of executive accepted as being on pages 42 and 43 remuneration and TRUST a part of doing and on pages 52 incentives can be business and are to 57. found on pages 90 described in more and 110. detail on pages 64 RANGE YOU and 67.
CAN RELY ON SERVICE THAT WOWS strategic pillars our Customer promise Getting into Gear kpis risks remuneration GettinG into Gear the execution of this strategy P 28 is central to our aim to build a sustainable business that not only We aim to offer a significantly enhanced Halfords we Plan to offeR Retail experience for our customers.
We have drives profitable top-line sales embarked upon a series of changes to how we customeRs the aBility growth, but also seeks to promote get the best from our colleagues, introducing our 3-Gears training programme to enable colleagues a strong work culture with a focus to shoP in a WarM, to serve customers knowledgeably and to support on colleague development.
this inVitinG and enGaGinG them going that extra mile.
Weve also executed a number of management programmes for colleagues is combined with a determination store enVironMent.
and managers whilst focusing on improving our to provide a customer shopping selling communications and our product availability.
The services that we offer customers have been experience based on friendly enhanced by our colleagues and have delivered expertise.
we know that this will product-specific fitting training, improving skills and capability.
All of this has been done with the lead to more customers, visiting customer in mind so that we can enhance the more often, taking advantage trust that our customers have in our brand and our colleagues and deliver service that wows every time.
of more products and services, creating value for our shareholders.
com halfords Group plc stock code: hfd annual report and accounts 2014 P 31 P 36 We will have a Supply Chain & IT infrastructure that We will ensure that Halfords is the No.
1 destination supports our delivery and availability aspirations for the products that we offer.
Our Auto offer, the both in-store and direct to customers.
Technical largest part of our business, looks to support drivers improvements must be considered to enable our with the servicing, maintenance and enhancement business to fulfil its potential.
Shopping online or of their motor vehicles.
In Cycling we are already the in-store needs to be seamless and easy, improving largest retailer of cycles in the UK, selling bicycles availability and ensuring that our customers feel into all areas of the market, with Boardman at the engaged.
Well ensure our colleagues are supported heart of our premium range and the biggest UK to serve customers with access to product cycling brand Apollo being used for the majority of information that is accurate, timely and interactive.
our customers leisure and short commute rides.
Our supply chain needs will be flexible to meet the In FY15 we shall be launching a new range of junior needs of our customers and our stores, helping we will ensuRe that bikes within Boardman and relaunching our faststores maintain on-shelf availability with more regular growing Carrera brand as well as adding more parts, out of hours deliveries and delivering web-based halfoRds is the no.
1 accessories and clothing to our store range.
orders at a time and place convenient to the customer.
destination foR the Camping and associated products have been a focus for Halfords over recent years and we will be PRoducts that we looking to build on past successes of equipping families for their leisure time by introducing new offeR.
P 38 ranges of camping accessories, wearable fitness products and offering bundled products.
Our website will continue to evolve to both help and enhance our customers shopping experience.
To ensure that we meet the challenges of a changing P 34 retail marketplace we are significantly improving the website, introducing How To Guides whilst launching a Halfords app and simplifying our Click We plan to offer customers the ability to shop in & Collect process.
We can now give our customers a warm, inviting and engaging store environment.
the opportunity to book services online in both the To do so we have commenced a refresh project Retail and Autocentre businesses.
We are now in the within our store portfolio, with many undergoing process of rolling out tablets to all stores to help our redevelopment as part of our Stores Fit to Shop expert colleagues provide better information to our refresh programme.
We are improving signage both customers.
All these improvements are essential as externally and internally, giving customers clear we move to a truly omnichannel model.
information about store segregation and product usage.
We have reallocated space in some stores to accentuate our specialist offer in Auto and Cycling, enabling stores to range more bikes and to provide a more relevant environment in which to shop.
We are introducing digital technology into stores allowing customers to look up products for their vehicles and to order extended-range products online.
Our colleagues are also very much part of the Halfords shopping experience and changes are being introduced to our stores to ensure that they become central to the services we offer and to the overall customer journey.
to read aBout our autoCentre strateGy turn to paGe 40 27 23157.04 Proof 7 10-06-2014 Halfords AR2014-Strategic Report.
indd 27 12 06 2014 14:21:28 shareholder strateGic report strateGic report strateGic report strateGic report information financials Governance risk performance strateGy overview
