getting into gear integrated annual report for the year ended 28 march 2014 Governance board of directors board of directors dennis Millard chairMan n r current role i Chairman since 28 May 2009. additional roles held i Chairman of Connect Group plc formerly Smiths News plc, Non-Executive Deputy Chairman of Pets at Home Group Plc and Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director of both Debenhams plc and Premier Farnell plc.
past roles i His former appointments include Chief Financial Officer of Cookson Group plc, Finance Director of Medeva plc, Non-Executive Director of Exel plc and a member of the Economic Affairs Committee of the CBI.
brinGs to the board i Dennis has a broad commercial and financial experience in the retail, service, distribution and manufacturing sectors in the UK and internationally.
Dennis is a member of the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants and holds an MBA from the University of Cape Town.
Dennis is a keen cyclist and rides on-road a Boardman Road Team Carbon and off-road either a Boardman Team Comp or a Carrera Crossfire.
He is also an avid surfer and golfer.
Matt davies Group chief executive n current role i Group Chief Executive since 4 October 2012. additional roles held i Matt is a Non-Executive Director at the Dunelm Group plc.
past roles i Matt was Chief Executive of Pets At Home for eight years having originally joined as Finance Director in 2001. brinGs to the board i Under Matts leadership, Pets at Home developed into a market-leading UK retailer, offering an outstanding customer experience.
The approach was to create a strong culture of work ethic and enjoyment amongst colleagues combined with a determination to provide exceptional customer service.
Matt also has in-depth experience in corporate finance with Rothschild and Hawkpoint and extensive financial experience in the consumer-facing retail sector with both Caudwell Communications and as Finance Director of Pets at Home.
Matt rides a Boardman Air Pro and a Boardman Mountain Bike Pro Hardtail 29er.
He can often be found on a weekend cycling the lanes of the Lake District with his family and friends.
His three dogs Archie, Bear and new addition Chester, a golden retriever puppy, form a big part of his life!
andrew findlay chief financial officer current role i Chief Financial Officer since 1 February 2011, with responsibility for IT.
past roles i Prior to his appointment, Andrew was Director of Finance, Tax and Treasury at Marks and Spencer Group plc.
Prior to this, he held senior finance roles at the London Stock Exchange and at Cable and Wireless, both in the UK and US.
Andrew qualified as a chartered accountant with Coopers & Lybrand.
brinGs to the board i A track record in retail and other competitive, consumer and business facing industries.
Andrew has experience of: operational management, strategy development, commercial finance, refinancing and pension scheme funding: bid defence: procurement: shared services: financial accounting, investor relations, tax and audit.
Andrews first car was a Hillman Imp under which he spent many an hour fixing!
He now rides a Carrera TDF at weekends when he gets the chance.
bill ronald independent non-executive director a n r current role i Non-Executive Director since 17 May 2004.
Senior Independent Director to 28 February 2014. additional roles held i Bill is currently Chairman of Dialight plc, Chairman of The Compleat Food Group, Chairman of Fever Tree and Chairman of the Muscular Dystrophy Campaign.
past roles i Bill spent 23 years in a variety of roles within the Mars Corporation ending up as Managing Director of the UK confectionery operation and Vice-President of Masterfoods Europe.
More recently, Bill was also CEO of Uniq plc and a Non-Executive Director of Bezier Limited and Alfesca.
brinGs to the board i Bill brings experience of brand building and winning loyalty by putting the customer first.
He also brings a focus upon organisational development.
Bill rides a Carrera Crossfire but prefers skis in the winter.
com halfords Group plc stock code: hfd annual report and accounts 2014 david adaMs senior independent director a n r current role i Non-Executive Director since 1 March 2011.
Senior Independent Director since 1 March 2014. additional role held i David is currently Chairman of Conviviality Retail plc, Musto Ltd, Park Cameras Ltd, and Walk the Walk a breast cancer charity, and is a Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Audit Committee at Hornby plc.
past roles i David was Finance Director and Deputy Chief Executive of House of Fraser plc until its sale in 2006, then Executive Chairman of Jessops plc in 2007, becoming Non-Executive Chairman after it was taken private, leaving in 2012. in addition he has been Chairman at Moss Bros plc and Alexon plc, and has held several Executive and Non-Executive roles in over 25 years in retailing.
brinGs to the board i He brings extensive and relevant experience in financial and general management roles, including 10 years as plc Finance Director, and has held 4 other plc Audit Chair roles over the last 5 years.
David is a keen tennis player, golfer, and skier and enjoys getting out on his Boardman bike when the sun comes out.
claudia arney independent non-executive director a n r current role i Non-Executive Director since 25 January 2011.
Remuneration Committee chairman since 1 March 2014. additional roles held i Claudia is a Non-Executive Director of Telecity Group PLC, and of Which.
She is Chair of the Public Data Group, and a member of the Advisory Boards of the Shareholder Executive, and of Huawei.
past roles i Claudia was the Group Managing Director, Digital at EMAP Inform until late 2010 where she led the development and execution of online publishing strategy as well as managing the public sector and media divisions.
Prior to this she was Director of the Enterprise and Growth Unit at HM Treasury, which she joined from Goldman Sachs where she was an Executive Director.
She has also worked at FT. Com, and Mckinsey, and was Managing Director of TheStreet.
co. uk from 1998 to 2000. brinGs to the board i Claudia brings extensive experience of strategy formulation and business development, particularly in the online consumer and media space.
Claudia and her family are keen campers and are regularly found out and about in their Urban Escape Kurai tent.
Destinations have ranged from France to Scotland to their back garden, and all have been much enjoyed.
keith harris independent non-executive director a n r current role i Non-Executive Director since 17 May 2004. additional roles held i Keith is currently on the Boards of Cooper Gay Holdings Limited and Sellar Investments Limited.
past roles i More recently Keith was on the Board of Sellar Investments Limited, the company which built the Shard of Glass.
Previously Keith was Executive Chairman of Seymour Pierce Limited following its acquisition from Investment Management Holdings plc, Chairman of the Football League, Chief Executive of HSBC Investment Bank plc and a Benfield plc board member.
brinGs to the board i Keith brings extensive experience of public company governance, particularly in the field of executive remuneration.
helen Jones independent non-executive director a n r current role i Non-Executive Director since 1 March 2014. additional roles held i Helen is currently a senior executive at Caff Nero.
past roles i Helen was CEO of the Zizzi Restaurants group and was also responsible for successfully launching the Ben & Jerrys brand in the UK and Europe.
brinGs to the board i Helen brings valuable and relevant marketing and branding experience in consumer focused businesses.
Helen rides a Specialized Ariel but has yet to muster the courage to move to road bikes, preferring the relative comfort of the hybrid version.
She promises to buy a Halfords brand next time!
She is married with three adult sons.
71 23157.04 Proof 7 10-06-2014 shareholder strateGic report strateGic report strateGic report strateGic report information financials Governance risk performance strateGy overview
