GettinG into Gear inteGrated annual report for the Year ended 28 March 2014 strateGiC report retail strateGy GettinG into Gear Service revolution HELP AND INSPIRE OUR CUSTOMERS WITH THEIR LIFE ON THE MOVE 1 2 3 4 GREAT SHOPS WOW SERVICES PLACE TO BE EVERY THAT TO WORK PROUD OF CUSTOMER MAKE US THE BEST Were all colleagues - Full, clean, inspiring Always going the Linking the omnichannel one team stores extra mile world Passion for solving Unrivalled auto tting Continuous improvement Genuine concern for customer issues colleagues Industry-leading cycle Acting like an owner repair and service Committed to our local communities One Halfords our Retail service Revolution is all about Helping and Inspiring Our Customers with their Life On The Move and has four clear objectives.
to make halfords a great place to work: to provide shops that we are proud of: to have services that make halfords the best: and to wow every customer.
structured three-month induction Gear 1, followed ouR colleaGues aRe by a programme lasting up to nine months Gear 1 a Great plaCe to Work 2, which includes workshops, e-learning and aBsolutely Central Quite simply a great place to work creates a great demonstrable expertise on the shop floor.
Last year we recognised that in focuses on high-skill training for a limited group of to the GRowth Plans this part of our Service Revolution programme we colleagues which will establish them as real technical had to improve our approach to recruiting the very we have.
experts in Auto or Cycling.
best people and provide a structured development We now have our eligible colleagues through Gear 1 programme for all our colleagues.
All of this is and we are now focusing on Gear 2 with the aim underpinned by the ambition to deliver a friendly, to get 50% of colleagues through this part of the expert service for our customers.
programme by the end of FY15.
We have supported During the year we introduced a new process to the completion of 3-Gears in stores by putting laptop recruiting store colleagues.
Now they apply online, computers into our stores which enable colleagues their application is screened: candidates are then to work on the training in-store before or after their telephone interviewed and if successful they go shifts.
to store for a rigorous three-stage process: an interview, a role play and a road test.
We now have The 3-Gears programme is just one part of our the opportunity to see candidates in action before development activity.
In addition, we have developed offering them a job making sure they are right for and built the Aspire, Accelerate and Engage Halfords and Halfords is right for them.
Aspire is a structured programme to help colleagues develop into their first Assistant In May 2013 we launched the 3-Gears programme, Manager role and for current Assistant Managers to focusing on practical training as well as e-Learning, develop into Store Managers.
Accelerate is a three whereby all elligible colleagues now undertake a day leadership programme for store managers whilst 28 23157.04 Proof 7 10-06-2014 Halfords AR2014-Strategic Report.
com halfords Group plc stock code: hfd annual report and accounts 2014 Engage is a programme for our Area Managers that WoW eVery CustoMer 3 also focuses on leadership skills.
CustoMer feedBaCk Last year as well as recognising that we need the All these activities show that we are fully committed right people in store we also recognised that we i aM retired and to our colleagues, their well-being and development.
need to create an environment in which colleagues Our colleagues are absolutely central to the growth had the time and expertise to delight our customers.
i Was needinG Help plans we have, so the Board was delighted that our We knew that we needed to reduce the amount of colleagues voted Halfords as one of the Sunday WitH CHoosinG time our colleagues spent on non-value added tasks, Times 25 Best Big Companies to Work For in the UK increase customer contact time, and incentivise paint to CoVer February 2014.
We are striving to become a truly colleagues to deliver a great customer experience great place to work.
up sCratCHes Reinforcing the ethos that the customer is the most 2 stores to Be proud of on My Car.
i Was important person in the store is key to our business Our stores need to be places that our colleagues and we continue to make sure our teams prioritise serVed By an are proud of and that our customers are happy to customers over other tasks they have to perform.
There is a need to improve and strengthen our We have prioritised net promoter score NPS as operational standards the essential element of our key service metric and over the year we saw leWis HiGGins His managing great stores.
This year we have focused it rise to 72%.
We are also making sure that we on our price mechanics, labelling, merchandising and understand why, if things go wrong, what we have CustoMer serViCe basic availability standards.
We have also worked to do to stop that happening again.
We have a real hard on resource planning and holiday management Was aBsolutely opportunity to solve customers problems using our to ensure we have the right colleagues in the right wide range of products, colleague expertise and outstandinG place at the right time.
genuine concern for the customer.
To illustrate this, dt the imminent roll-out of tablets in every store will give We have also introduced a balanced scorecard of bristol, winterstoke road store us a further opportunity to delight our customers with measures that allows us to identify great and poor an extended range of products and online ordering performance in our stores.
This is key to our store in-store.
operations as we will never be satisfied or complacent about the level of service our customers deserve.
Some examples this year have been the introduction of trading feedback, changes to rotas to meet colleague and store needs, as well as simplifying our communications from the Support Centre.
We are proud tHis year to Be on tHe sunday tiMes 25 Best BiG CoMpanies to Work for list.
We continue to aim to be an employer of choice, where our colleagues enjoy equal opportunities to help our customers and prosper within a rewarding and inspiring team.
indd 29 12 06 2014 14:21:29 shareholder strateGic report strateGic report strateGic report strateGic report information financials Governance risk performance strateGy overview GettinG into Gear inteGrated annual report for the Year ended 28 March 2014 strateGiC report retail strateGy GettinG into Gear Service revolution Continued In our Cycling category we build our customers 4 serViCes tHat Make us tHe Best bikes free of charge, but where this is not the case we provide a weassemble service.
We provide Halfords position as a natural destination for auto weservice where, on purchase of a bicycle, we and cycling products makes it a natural place for provide a free six-week check.
Customers can also us to offer associated services.
Sophisticated car purchase a bike care plan BCP to have the labour production is causing a long-term shift amongst element of any regular maintenance covered.
A focus customers from a Do it Yourself DIY to a Do it of the last year has been werepair as we seek to for Me DIFM attitude.
1 Cycling develop our colleagues expertise in repairing and retailer we are in a position to support our customers servicing cycles and enhance Halfords credentials purchases with advice, bike builds, bike care plans as a comprehensive Cycling destination.
Details of and service and repair.
As our 3-Gears programme the number of jobs performed in FY14 and of the bears fruit this service area gives our colleagues the associated revenues can be found on pages 54 opportunity to showcase their expertise.
Within our Car Maintenance category we supply We are an equal opportunities organisation with our unique wefit service, especially with the fitting clear expectations about how we all behave of bulbs, blades and batteries 3Bs.
This offer both internally and with customers and other allows our colleagues to build a close relationship stakeholders, including in relation to diversity and with our customers, developing an understanding of gender.
Historically there has been a tendency for our customers needs and offering further help and more males than females to be attracted to working advice as appropriate.
It offers convenience for the in our stores and autocentres: however, through our customer, with parts being professionally fitted at the recruitment, talent and development programmeswe point of purchase.
At one point in 2013 our stores seek to become more reflective of the customers and were fitting a bulb, blade or battery for our customers communities that we serve.
We also offer a wecheck service free of charge to customers to ensure that any automotive part or consumable required is not only needed, but is the correct part for their vehicle.
All of our stores provided customer reference lists and we are rolling out digital vehicle registration look-up devices to enhance this offer.
We HaVe Carried out 4.46m wefit werepair joBs in fy14.
