GettinG into Gear inteGrated annual report for the Year ended 28 March 2014 strateGiC report retail strateGy GettinG into Gear StoreS Fit to SHop we acknowledged last year that we needed to improve our stores.
with only low levels of investment in the past decade, the priority was to create a modern, engaging and friendlier store environment that encourages browsing and more interaction with colleagues.
In July 2013 three refreshed stores were opened in 4.
Space Reallocation Reallocating space inEvesham, Coventry and York.
They were designed store in line with sales participation.
This will allow for customers to feel the warmth and personality us to range more bicycles and also to segment of the Halfords brand and to find the products and them better.
services they need more easily, bringing our wefit 5.
Enliven the Customer Journey Making and our werepair offers to life.
the store environment more fun and creating a These stores were also designed to support the pleasurable shopping experience.
digital customer, the smartphone user, and the online 6.
Digital Relevance Introducing digital buyer.
Around 90% of our online sales are collected technology to improve the shopping experience in-store, so we make this process easy and obvious, and making the whole process more convenient.
with better collection points and communication to customers.
Showcase Colleagues Colleagues are central to our service proposition and as their We also leveraged our store space better to expertise grows we want them to be available maximize sales opportunities.
For example, the to customers and for customers to see them in Cycling category space was increased by 50% action.
to more appropriately represent its store sales participation.
Communicate Value We want our customers to clearly understand our pricing messages, to Learning from this initial launch, additional stores know they are getting value for money.
were converted to the refreshed format, so that by the end of the year, 27 stores were trading in the 9.
Considerate Customer Experience We refreshed design.
We showcased the Evesham store have thought about the customer journey and are to investors and sell-side analysts in March 2014. introducing small but helpful benefits, such as a bike park with free air for customers.
Along with progressing our modest refreshes of every single Cycling department by March 2016, we will 10.
Category Stories We want the way we continue to roll out a variety of refresh models in the display products to help customers understand coming years, from light touch to full scale, with the what they do and whether they need them.
ambition of having around 150 stores refreshed by the end of financial year 2016.
Whatever treatment a store gets, our vision is based on a ten-point plan that clearly demonstrates how we want to enhance the customer experience so that we can leverage sales: 1.
Invite Me In Installing new external signage that specifically tells our customers who we are and what we do.
Showcase wefit and Cycle Repair In-store services help to differentiate Halfords from our competitors and this is central to our Getting into Gear strategy.
Customer Guidance Introducing clear signage to direct and guide customers in their iMaGes aBoVe 1 buying decisions.
1 Digital product selection improves the 2 shopping experience.
2 Colleagues with tablets broaden product range and add video capability.
com halfords Group plc stock code: hfd annual report and accounts 2014 kids Holiday Bike CluBs parents Were asked for feedBaCk Via an online surVey folloWinG eVery WorksHop 98% found tHe suMMer WorksHops useful and 97% Would reCoMMend tHeM to otHer parents.
Commencing in Easter 2013, we have offered a free Kids Holiday Bike Clubs for children and their parents.
This was an opportunity for our stores to engage with a new generation of customers and welcome parents in-store who may not otherwise have visited us.
Run during the school holidays, the clubs show children aged 7 to 11 years old, and their parents, the basics of bike maintenance, providing the perfect starting point for children to return home and, together with their parents, make sure their bikes are looked after and safe.
Link to more information: www.
com bikeclub 35 23157.04 Proof 7 10-06-2014 Halfords AR2014-Strategic Report.
indd 35 12 06 2014 14:21:36 shareholder strateGic report strateGic report strateGic report strateGic report information financials Governance risk performance strateGy overview
