com halfords Group plc stock code: hfd annual report and accounts 2014 strateGiC report retail strateGy GettinG into Gear tHe H Factor halfords is an iconic British brand with a strong heritage, having over 100 years presence on the uK high street in both the auto and cycling categories.
however, we needed to do more, so in fy14 we began our journey to reassert our Retail proposition authority by ensuring our offer is more relevant for our customers.
supportinG driVers of eVery Car inspirinG CyClists of eVery aGe we will continue to Our Auto offer comprises Car Maintenance and Cycling has always been at the core of the Halfords BRinG neW produCts Car Enhancement.
Its the largest part of our Retail offer, from the opening of the first shop in Charlotte business, representing around 47% of Group Street, Birmingham in 1892 through the opening of and innoVations to revenues and the changing nature of the Auto the out-of-town retail stores in the 1990s to todays market means we are well placed to exploit material interest in Cycling as a healthy and fun activity.
We cater for all cyclists, from young children to the cominG yeaRs.
The number of cars on British roads continues to families to commuters to premium cyclists.
Our range grow and overall mileage is starting to increase of products includes a large number of SKUs from for the first time since 2008.
The age of the car the UKs biggest bike brand Apollo, our fastestparc continues to increase and newer cars on growing bike brand Carrera to our premium brand the road have added complexity, both of which Boardman and our newest brand Pendleton.
lend themselves to our unique Car Maintenance We recently relaunched much of the Apollo range proposition.
with 21 bikes redesigned to appeal to the very broad In FY15 our Car Maintenance category will continue spectrum of customers, who range in age from 12 to be driven by initiatives across our product ranges to 72.
This new range is all about making Cycling and service offering, including car parts.
bulbs, accessible to everyone, and making our bikes blades and batteries 3Bs represent a significant specific to their leisure needs.
We undertook a lot of growth opportunity for us, with the parts and labour customer research to ensure we got this right and market estimated to be worth around 1bn.
Halfords were really pleased with the results we hope our currently has a relatively low market share.
In FY14 customers will be too.
we sold 5.3m bulbs and fitted 37% of them and we A new range of Carrera, our second-largest bike will continue to enhance the breadth of our car parts brand by volume will be launched in June 2014. range by bringing innovative and specialist products Were delighted with the performance of the to market.
As the technology in wiper blades brand, in part driven by a very successful spot-buy develops we will be extending our range to include programme.
flat blades and widening our range of rear-wiper blades as retail aftermarket demand increases.
More and more new cars are being fitted with batteries that feature start-stop technology and with the knowledge and capability to fit these types of batteries we will be a cost-effective service to our customers.
In the Car Enhancement category we are well prepared for any forthcoming digital radio switchover.
During the year we launched an exclusive range of Pure in-car digital radios.
This is a strong partnership with the leading brand in in-home digital radio and has already delivered an award-winning product.
We will continue to bring new products and innovations to our customers over the coming years.
indd 31 12 06 2014 14:21:30 shareholder strateGic report strateGic report strateGic report strateGic report information financials Governance risk performance strateGy overview GettinG into Gear inteGrated annual report for the Year ended 28 March 2014 strateGiC report retail strateGy GettinG into Gear tHe H Factor Continued We will also be taking advantage of our market on camping accessories, and will be trialling pop-up position to attract more junior riders to Cycling and Click & Collect collection points.
We are also focused will be launching specifically designed junior bikes for on making life easier for our customers - where tHeyre Brilliant every need across Apollo, Carrera and for the first additional items and fitting are required to fulfil our time, Boardman.
Now our aspiring, junior customers customers needs, we will be introducing bundled eVen tHe will be able to choose from hybrid, road and premium complete prices that our customers can trust e. g bikes.
roof boxes CustoMers are Halfords also implemented a major acceleration We will look to take advantage of a new area for CoMMentinG.
of its presence in the Cycling Parts, Accessories the business - the rapidly growing wearable fitness GreG saVaGe and Clothing market PACs during FY14.
This and well-being technology, driven by the success derby store represents an exciting opportunity for growth and of technology within the Cycling category.
The during 2014 our stores will feature a larger range expansion of the fitness and well-being market, along of PACs products with more space allocated to with a stream of innovations in wearable technology, clothing, merchandised by gender and product type.
will see Halfords also offering fitness solutions.
A Were moving closer and closer to something for wide range of products and brands will be available, everyone in clothing and we have introduced a great from Cycling GPS, running watches, health-tracker value range starting at 10 for a jersey under the wristbands and action cams, such as the Go Pro Tenn brand.
We will also offer an extended range online to include additional accessories.
Complementing this we have released space in some stores for our Cycle Repair offer and delivered Cycle tHe H faCtor Repair training as part of our 3-Gears programme as All of our product-ranging activities are designed to we seek to re-establish Halfords as a comprehensive leverage the heritage of over 100 years presence Cycling destination.
on the British retail scene.
Our repositioning has only just begun as we recreate our H-factor!
the eQuippinG faMilies for tHeir confidence and trust with which customers can turn leisure tiMe to Halfords as the natural destination for their Auto, As we leverage the heritage of Halfords into Cycling and Leisure needs.
Equipping Families for their Leisure Time we have focused not only on products but also on customer convenience.
We have refocused our camping offers on two specific markets, introduced new promotions 20,000 CHildren and parents attended kids Holiday Bike CluBs.
Read more: kids Holiday Bike CluBs Page 35 32 23157.04 Proof 7 10-06-2014 Halfords AR2014-Strategic Report.
com halfords Group plc stock code: hfd annual report and accounts 2014 Case study apollo Bikes Halfords have been selling Apollo bikes since 1930, and with over 80 years of heritage, it is now the number one bike brand in the UK for bikes sold over 170,000 bikes per year and the second most recognised bike brand in the UK, with 43% recognition amongst mainstream cyclists.
As a result, the brand is really important to Halfords, and is our second most profitable bike brand.
Halfords have approximately 80% consideration from the mainstream customer, and they form the heartland of our current customer base.
The current Apollo adult range is 3 years old, and in real need of a refresh to match the expectations of the Halfords customer.
When beginning the redesign of the complete range back in summer 2012, we had the following key objectives: Update the visual appearance and specification of the bikes Improve the positioning of the Apollo brand as the solution to mainstream cyclists needs Focus on improving female specific designs Target incremental markets, such as teen and older Mountain Bike customers Increase profitability of mainstream bikes Customer focus groups had informed us that bike design was as important to them as specification when choosing a mainstream bike, so we invested in making the bikes look as contemporary as possible whilst maintaining good value specification to meet the needs of mainstream cyclists.
Consequently design moved away from literal graphics towards cleaner designs.
Key learnings from customer focus groups both preand post-bike design was that the new range offers something for everyone, with very strong value for money.
Most noticeably, the progress in female bike designs was highlighted as a success and a positive move.
As part of the sourcing strategy for the new range, we widened the factory base that produces Apollo bikes.
This involved developing existing factories so that they could produce higher-spec bikes, as well as building relationships with new suppliers and thus increasing our supplier base.
The new bike range spans 21 models in total, grown from 17 models in the previous range.
we seek to maximise on incremental market opportunities, and to invest in hybrid as a fit-for-purpose option for the leisure cyclist.
Nine of these models were launched in September 2013 to provide a new offer and marketing message for the key Christmas trading period.
These models were backed with a large stockholding to ensure a strong Christmas availability.
The brand sold 24% more volume in Q3 FY14 vs. Q3 FY13.
The remaining models were launched between October 2013 and January 2014 to give a new range message in store for spring.
This has been supported by new point-of-sale in store to highlight the newness of the bikes and the great deal for customers.
indd 33 12 06 2014 14:21:32 shareholder strateGic report strateGic report strateGic report strateGic report information financials Governance risk performance strateGy overview
