Remuneration Committee Report continued Remuneration Policy Non-executive Directors Summary details of terms and notice periods for NEDs are included Unless otherwise indicated, all non-executive Directors NEDs have below.
aspecific three-year term of engagement which may be renewed forfurther three-year terms if both the Director and the Board agree.
Non-executive Date of Notice The remuneration of the Chairman and the NEDs is determined by Director appointment period the Committee and the Board based on independent surveys of Paul Walker April 2013 6 months feespaid to the Chairman and NEDs of similar companies.
Stephen Pettit September 2003 3 months The contract in respect of the Chairmans services provides for Jane Aikman August 2007 3 months termination, by either party, by giving not less than six months notice.
The non-executive Directors have contracts in respect Norman Blackwell July 2010 3 months of their services, which can be terminated, by either party, by Steve Marshall July 2010 3 months giving not less than three months notice.
Daniela Barone Soares November 2011 3 months NEDs do not receive benefits from the Company and they are not eligible to join the Companys pension plan or participate in any incentive schemes.
Any reasonable expenses that they incur in performing their duties are reimbursed by the Company.
Paul Walkers personal assistant is an employee of the Company.
Details of the policy on NED fees are set out in the table below: Purpose and link to strategy Operation and process Opportunity To attract and retain NEDs of the highest Fees are normally reviewed annually in April Aggregate fees are limited to 0.5 million calibre with experience relevant to with any increase effective from 1 April.
by theCompanys Articles of Association.
the Company The fee paid to the Chairman is determined The fees paid to non-executive Directors in by the Committee, and fees to NEDs are respect of the year under review and for the determined by the Board.
The fees are following year are disclosed in the Annual calculated by reference to current market Remuneration Report.
levels and take account of the time To avoid setting expectations, there is no commitment and the responsibilities of the prescribed maximum fee.
beapplied taking into account the outcome Additional fees are payable for acting as ofthe review.
Senior Independent Director and for being the Chairman of a Board Committee, as appropriate.
NED Recruitment External Directorships In recruiting a new Chairman or NED, the Committee will use the The Committee acknowledges that executive Directors may be policy as set out in the table above.
invited to become independent non-executive directors of other listed companies which have no business relationship with the Company Considerations of Conditions Elsewhere in the Group and that these roles can broaden their experience and knowledge The Committee considers the remuneration and employment to Halmas benefit.
conditions elsewhere in the Group when determining remuneration Executive Directors are permitted to accept one such appointment for executive Directors.
However, the Committee does not with the prior approval of the Chairman.
Approval will only be given currently consult specifically with employees on the executive where the appointment does not present a conflict of interest with remuneration policy.
the Groups activities and the wider exposure gained will be beneficial Considerations of Shareholder Views to the development of the individual.
Where fees are payable in When determining remuneration, the Committee takes into account respect of such appointments, these would be retained by the the views of our shareholders and best practice guidelines set by executive Director.
The Committee always welcomes feedback from shareholders on the Companys remuneration policy and commits to undergoing shareholder consultation in advance of any significant changes to policy.
Detail on the votes received on the Directors Remuneration Report at the prior annual general meeting isprovided in the Annual Remuneration Report.
80 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
