Chief Executives Strategic Review continued Delivering corporate responsibility andsustainability... widespread growth once Our primary market growth drivers mean that Halma companies operate in markets in which their products contribute positively to the wider community.
These market characteristics and our commitment again demonstrates the to health and safety, the environment and people development are reflected in the values held by our employees and our operating culture.
We regularly review our responsibility and sustainability agility of our organisation... reporting in accordance with best practice.
Legislative changes, particularly concerning the environment and bribery and corruption, have provided an opportunity to review and ensure that our We believe that Halma is an attractive employer for new graduates, procedures in these important areas are accessible, compliant offering them the chance to work in different functional roles, and firmly embedded within our business.
diverse markets, gain international experience and demonstrate A detailed report on Corporate Responsibility is on pages 42 to 47. their potential for significant early career progression.
We aim to use HGDP to increase the depth and quality of talent coming through Outlook our management ranks.
We believe it will also contribute to increasing We achieved growth in all four Halma business sectors and in all the diversity of our senior management at subsidiary company and major geographic regions even though market conditions were Group levels.
This widespread growth once again demonstrates the agility of our organisation and the benefit of senior management being close International expansion contributing strongly to to customers and empowered to allocate resources according to our growth market needs.
We choose to operate in niches within markets which have growth We expect this varied trading environment to continue, providing potential in both developed and developing markets.
This global both opportunities and challenges including a currency headwind opportunity derives from targeting long-term market growth drivers resulting from the increased strength of Sterling.
Our ongoing which have worldwide significance.
For example, demand for investment in new products, people development and international healthcare is driven by ageing population in developed regions and expansion will also continue to open up new market niches and the broader social development and increasing personal healthcare applications for our businesses.
Our proven ability to achieve organic expectations in developing countries.
growth and regularly complete good quality acquisitions gives us When we buy businesses, they often have untapped potential for confidence thatHalma will make further progress in the year ahead.
Frequently, these opportunities are not limited to developing countries as many US-based businesses still need to build a stronger market position in Europe and vice versa.
Andrew Williams Wherever the growth opportunities are, Halma can provide expertise Chief Executive and an infrastructure to support our companies, either through regional Halma hub offices or collaboration with sister companies.
1 Our strategic objective is for 30% of revenue to come from outside See Financial Highlights.
2 the UK, Mainland Europe and the USA by 2015.
Since setting this See Note 1 to the Accounts.
goal in 2010, revenue from outside these developed markets has increased from 98m 21% of Group to 170m 25% of Group, which represents a compound growth rate of 15% p. a.
Although this has contributed a third of all revenue growth during the four-year period, acombination of higher than anticipated growth in Europe and theUSA and new acquisitions, has made achieving this strategic objective more challenging.
However, we remain committed to investing in international expansion and will review our mid-term objectives once again in 2015.
14 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
