Remuneration Committee Report Remuneration Policy This section of the report details the policy for executive and non-executive Directors which shareholders are asked to approve at the 2014 AGM.
The Committee intends that this policy will formally come into effect from 24 July 2014, being the date of the 2014 AGM, and be effective for up to three years.
Compliance Statement Remuneration Policy This report has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of Executive Director remuneration packages are designed to attract, the Companies Act 2006 the Act, the Listing Rules and Regulation retain and motivate the high calibre executives needed to manage 11 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and theGroup successfully, and to align their interests with those of our Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013. shareholders by rewarding them for enhancing shareholder value.
Thereport also meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules Executive Director remuneration also seeks to reward achievement of the Financial Conduct Authority and describes how the Board ofstretching performance targets without driving unacceptable hasapplied the principles relating to Directors remuneration in the UK behaviours or encouraging excessive risk-taking.
The performance Corporate Governance Code.
As required by the Act, resolutions to measurement of the executive Directors and the determination of approve the Remuneration Policy and Annual Report on Remuneration theirannual remuneration package are undertaken by the will be proposed at the AGM ofthe Company at which the financial Remuneration Committee.
There are six elements of the remuneration packages for executive In line with the Regulations, the following parts of the Annual Report Directors.
The remuneration policy for executive Directors is on Remuneration are audited: the single figure for total remuneration summarised in the table below.
for each Director, including annual bonus and performance share plan outcomes for the financial year ending 29 March 2014: plan interests awarded during the year: pension entitlements: payments topast Directors and payments for loss of office: and Directors shareholdings and share interests.
All other parts of the Directors Remuneration Report are unaudited.
Element and objective Operation and process Opportunity Performance measures Salary Reviewed annually or following a material change in responsibilities.
Base salary increases will be applied in line with the outcome of Not applicable Salary is benchmarked against appropriate comparators of similar the review normally with effect from 1 April.
Salaries for the financial To attract and retain key employees and reflect their experience size and operating in a similar sector, and is linked to individual year under review and the following year are disclosed in the and personal contribution to delivery of the Groups strategy performance and contribution.
Annual Report on Remuneration see page 85 for 2013 14 and 2014 15 salaries.
Salary is the only element of remuneration that is pensionable.
It is not anticipated that salary increases for executive Directors will exceed those of the wider employee population over the period this policy will apply.
Where increases are awarded in excess of the wider employee population, for example if there is a material change in the responsibility, size or complexity of the role, the Committee will provide the rationale in the relevant years Annual Report on Remuneration.
Benefits Benefits are appropriate to the location of the executive and typically Benefits may vary by role, and the level is determined to be Not applicable comprise but are not limited to a company car, life assurance, appropriate for the role and circumstances of each individual To provide benefits that are competitive within the relevant market permanent disability insurance, private medical insurance, relocation executive Director.
The maximum value will equate to the reasonable and tax advice for international assignments.
market cost of such benefits.
It is not anticipated that the current cost of benefits as set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration would increase materially over the period for which this policy will apply.
The Committee retains the discretion to approve a higher cost in exceptional circumstances e. g. relocation expenses or an expatriation allowance on recruitment, etc.
or in circumstances where factors outside the Companys control have changed materially e. g. market increases in insurance costs.
The rationale behind the exercise of such discretion will be provided in the relevant years Annual Report on Remuneration.
Pension Executive Directors participate in either a Group Defined Benefit Defined Benefit: maximum pension after 25 years pensionable Not applicable pension plan, Group Defined Contribution pension plan or the US service equivalent to two-thirds of final pensionable salary, up to To provide competitive post-retirement benefits, or to provide the 401k money purchase arrangement.
a CPI-indexed cap: 153,684 for 2014 15. opportunity for executives to save for their retirement Cash supplements in lieu of Company pension contributions may Defined Contribution: maximum contribution of 27.5% of pensionable be made to some individuals.
salary for executive Directors 2014 15: 20% maximum.
To the extent the pension contributions exceed the local tax Cash supplement: Halma contributes 26% of salary in excess of the allowance, the contributions may be paid to the executive, subject cap, or up to 26% of the full salary if the executive Director no longer to taxes and social charges.
participates in the Defined Benefit scheme.
401k contributions of 3% of salary with a discretionary 2% profit share component subject to IRS caps.
74 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements In addition to the elements of remuneration set out below, the Committee may consider it appropriate to grant an award under a different structure in order to facilitate the recruitment of an individual, exercising the discretion available under the relevant Listing Rule to replace incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
Such buyout awards would have a fair value no higher than that of the awards forfeited.
Further, the Committee also retains discretion to make non-significant changes to the policy without reverting to shareholders.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 75 Remuneration Committee Report continued Remuneration Policy Element and objective Operation and process Opportunity Performance measures Annual Incentive The structure of the Annual Incentive including, but not limited to, Maximum opportunity: 100% of salary.
The bonus is based 100% on the achievement of financial performance measures and their weightings is reviewed at the performance targets.
No element of the bonus is linked to To incentivise the achievement of an objective annual target which Target opportunity: 60% of salary.
start of the year to ensure they remain appropriately aligned with the personal objectives.
supports the shortto medium-term strategy of the Group.
Bonus payable at threshold: 0% of salary.
The primary measure used to determine bonus outcomes is EVA, Performance targets are calibrated and set at the start of the year, although the Committee may, in its discretion and from time to time, Target means the attainment of sufficient Economic Value with reference to a range of relevant reference points including, but supplement EVA with additional financial measures including, but Added EVA growth representative of approximately 8% not limited to, the annual budget agreed by the Board.
At the end of notlimited to, revenue growth, cashflow, Return on Capital Employed profit improvement.
the year, the Committee determines the extent to which these targets ROCE, etc.
that reflect Halmas strategic priorities for the year.
In exceptional circumstances, the Committee has the ability to have been achieved.
Discretion is only exercised when a strategic priority that may not be exercise discretion to override the formulaic bonus outcome within immediately earnings enhancing is targeted.
the limits of the scheme where it believes the outcome is not truly reflective of performance and to ensure fairness to both shareholders Details of the measures, weightings and targets applicable for the and participants.
financial year under review are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Performance Share Plan PSP Executive Directors are granted annual awards of Halma plc shares Maximum opportunity: 140% of salary, subject to an executives Vesting of PSP awards is subject to continued employment and the as determined by the Committee, which vest after a period of at least personal performance during the financial year prior to grant.
Companys performance over a three-year performance period.
If To incentivise executives to achieve superior returns to shareholders three years based on Group performance.
performance conditions are not met at the end of the performance over a three-year period: to retain key individuals and align interests In exceptional circumstances, such as to facilitate the recruitment of period, awards will lapse.
with shareholders, reflecting the sustainability of the business model Dividend equivalents accrue over the vesting period.
Dividend an external candidate, the Committee may, in its absolute discretion, over the long-term.
equivalents are paid in cash or shares at the end of the vesting exceed this maximum annual opportunity, as permitted by the Rules The performance measures and respective weightings may vary period, and only on those shares which vest.
currently up to 150% of salary.
year-on-year to reflect strategic priorities, subject to retaining an element on Total Shareholder Return TSR and Return on Total Threshold performance will result in the vesting of 16.7% of the Invested Capital ROTIC, and subject to a minimum weighting of maximum award.
25%, currently 50%, on each of these measures.
The TSR peer group consists of the FTSE250 excluding financial companies.
The Committee considers the performance condition of new awards annually.
Details of the measures, weightings and targets applicable for awards made in the financial year under review are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Share Incentive Plan SIP The SIP is an HMRC-approved arrangement which entitles all Participation limits are in line with those set by HMRC from time to Not applicable.
UK-based employees to receive Halma shares in a potentially time 2013 14: 3,000: 2014 15: 3,600.
To encourage share ownership across all UK-based employees tax-advantageous manner.
As part of their participation in the PSP, UK executive Directors may be awarded a proportion of their PSP awards in SIP Free Shares.
Free shares are awarded based on length of service and earnings.
Notes to the Policy Table Payments from Existing Awards The Committee will honour any commitment entered into, and executive Directors will be eligible to receive payment from any award made, prior to the approval and implementation of the Remuneration Policy detailed in this report, i. e. before 24 July 2014.
Details of these awards are disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Selection of Performance Measures The performance measures used in Halmas executive incentives have been selected to ensure incentives reinforce the Groups strategy and align executive interests closely with those of our shareholders.
In the annual bonus, the use of EVA, in summary, profit less a charge for capital employed definition is provided on page 82 reinforces the Groups business objective to double Group revenue and profit every five years through a mix of acquisitions and organic growth.
Profit is a function of the extent to which the Company has achieved both its organic growth target and its success in identifying appropriate acquisition targets in current and past years.
Ensuring that the cost of funding acquisitions is reflected in the bonus model means that executives share the benefit of an acquisition that outperforms expectations, but equally bear the cost of overpaying for an acquisition.
Good or poor management of working capital is also reflected in the calculation of EVA.
In the PSP, the Committee continues to believe that TSR provides close shareholder alignment and incentivises shareholder value creation, and ROTIC reinforces the focus on capital efficiency and delivery of strong returns, thereby further strengthening the alignment of remuneration with the Group strategy.
76 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Element and objective Operation and process Opportunity Performance measures Annual Incentive The structure of the Annual Incentive including, but not limited to, Maximum opportunity: 100% of salary.
Performance targets are set to be stretching yet achievable, taking into account the Companys strategic priorities and the economic environment in which it operates.
Targets are calibrated taking into account a range of reference points including the Groups strategic plan, broker forecasts and historical performance.
Remuneration Policy for Other Employees Our approach to salary reviews is consistent across the Group, with consideration given to the level of responsibility, experience, individual performance, market levels and the Companys ability to pay.
The Committee considers remuneration surveys to establish market rates, as appropriate.
Executive Board members and other senior executives participate in an annual bonus scheme on a similar basis as the executive Directors.
A number of senior executives also receive PSP awards.
Performance conditions are consistent for all participants, while award sizes vary by organisational level.
All UK employees are eligible to participate in the SIP on the same terms.
Pension and benefits arrangements are tailored to local market conditions, and are determined to be appropriately competitive.
Approach to Recruitment Remuneration The Committees policy is to set pay for new executive Directors and Executive Board members within the existing remuneration policy in order to provide internal consistency.
The Committee aims to ensure that the Company pays no more than is necessary to appoint individuals of an appropriate calibre.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 77
