Other Statutory Information Activities There are no other restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Halma plc is a holding company.
A list of its principal subsidiary Company except certain restrictions which may from time to time be companies and their activities is set out on pages 154 to 157. imposed by laws and regulations for example insider trading laws : or where a shareholder with at least a 0.25% interest in the Companys Ordinary dividends certificated shares has been served with a disclosure notice and has The Directors recommend a final dividend of 6.82p per share and, failed to provide the Company with information concerning interests ifapproved, this dividend will be paid on 20 August 2014 to ordinary inthose shares.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements shareholders on the register at the close of business on 18 July 2014. between holders of the Companys shares that may result in Together with the interim dividend of 4.35p per share already paid, restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
this will make a total of 11.17p 2013: 10.43p per share for the Treasury shares financial year.
Shares held in treasury do not have voting rights and are not eligible Share capital and capital structure for dividends.
Details of the share capital, together with details of the movements Employee share plans inthe share capital during the year, are shown in note 22 to the Details of employee share plans are set out in note 23 to accounts.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which the accounts.
carry no right to fixed income.
Each share carries the right to one voteat general meetings of the Company.
Appointment and replacement of directors There are no other classes of share capital.
There are no specific With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, with the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the UK both governed by the general provisions of the Articles of Association Corporate Governance Code, the Companies Act and related and prevailing legislation.
No person has any special rights of control legislation.
Directors can be appointed by the Company by ordinary over the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
resolution ata general meeting or by the Board.
If a Director is appointed by theBoard, such Director will hold office until the next Rights and obligations of ordinary shares annual general meeting and shall then be eligible for re-election at Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and speak at that meeting.
Therefore, with the exception of Norman Blackwell and general meetings of the Company and to appoint one or more Steve Marshall, inaccordance with the UK Corporate Governance proxies or, if the holder of shares is a corporation, one or more Code each of the Directors, being eligible, will offer themselves for corporate representatives.
On a show of hands, each holder of re-election at this years Annual General Meeting.
The Company ordinary shares who being an individual is present in person or canremove a Director from office, including by passing a special being a corporation is present by a duly appointed corporate resolution or by notice being given by all the other Directors.
The representative, not being himself a member, shall have one vote, Articles themselves may be amended by special resolution of as shall proxies unless they are appointed by more than one holder, the shareholders.
in which case they may vote both for and against the resolution in accordance with the holders instructions.
On a poll every holder of Power of Directors ordinary shares present in person or by proxy shall have one vote The powers of Directors are described in the Matters Reserved for every share of which he is the holder.
Electronic and paper proxy for the Board, copies of which are available on request from the appointments and voting instructions must be received not later than Company Secretary, and the Corporate Governance Report on 48 hours before the meeting.
A holder of ordinary shares can lose pages 59 to 65. the entitlement to vote at general meetings where that holder has Essential contracts and change of control been served with a disclosure notice and has failed to provide There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate the Company with information concerning interests held in those upon a change of control of the Company, principally bank loan shares.
Except as set out above and as permitted under applicable agreements and employee share plans.
statutes, there are no limitations on voting rights of holders of a given percentage, number of votes or deadlines for exercising voting rights.
The only significant agreement, in terms of its likely impact on the business of the Group as a whole, containing such provisions is that Restrictions on transfer of shares governing the 360m syndicated revolving credit facility which, if The Directors may refuse to register a transfer of a certificated within 10 days of a change of control notice to the Loan agent, can share that is not fully paid, provided that the refusal does not prevent result in 30 days notice being given to the Company by any Lender, dealings in shares in the Company from taking place on an open for all amounts outstanding to that Lender, to be immediately due and proper basis or where the Company has a lien over that share.
andpayable, at which time the commitment of that Lender will The Directors may also refuse to register a transfer of a certificated becancelled.
If all of the Lenders give this notice the whole facility share unless the instrument of transfer is: i lodged, duly stamped wouldbe cancelled.
if necessary, at the registered office of the Company or any other place as the Board may decide accompanied by the certificate for the The Group has contractual arrangements with a wide range of share s to be transferred and or such other evidence as the Directors suppliers.
The Group is not unduly dependent upon contractual may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make arrangements with any particular customer.
Whilst the loss or the transfer: ii in respect of only one class of shares: iii in favour of a disruption to certain of these arrangements could temporarily person who is not a minor, infant, bankrupt or a person of unsound affect the Groups business, none is considered to be essential.
mind: or iv in favour of not more than four persons jointly.
The Companys share plans contain provisions as a result of which Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out using options and awards may vest and become exercisable on a change CREST and the Directors can refuse to register a transfer of an of control of the Company in accordance with the rules of the plans.
uncertificated share in accordance with the regulations governing The Directors are not aware of any agreements between the operation of CREST.
the Company and its directors or employees that provide for 90 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs Purchase of the Companys own shares because of a takeover bid.
The Company was authorised at the 2013 annual general meeting to purchase up to 37,700,000 of its own 10p ordinary shares in the Allotment authority market.
This authority expires at the end of the 2014 Annual General Under the Companies Act 2006 the Directors may only allot shares if Meeting.
In accordance with the Directors stated intention to seek authorised by shareholders to do so.
At the Annual General Meeting annual renewal, a special resolution will be proposed at the Annual an ordinary resolution will be proposed which, if passed, will authorise General Meeting to renew this authority, until the end of next years the Directors to allot and issue new shares up to an aggregate nominal annual general meeting, in respect of up to 37,700,000 ordinary value of 12,500,000 up to 125,000,000 new ordinary shares of 10p shares, which is approximately 10% of the Companys issued share each, being just less than one-third of the issued share capital of the capital excluding treasury shares as at 9 June 2014 the latest Company excluding treasury shares as at 9 June 2014 the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the Notice of Meeting.
practicable date prior to the publication of the Notice of Meeting.
TheDirectors consider it desirable that the possibility of making such purchases, under appropriate circumstances, is available.
In accordance with the Directors stated intention to seek annual Their present intention is that the shares purchased under the renewal, the authority will expire at the conclusion of the annual authority will be held in treasury for future cancellation, sale for cash general meeting of the Company in 2015.
Passing this resolution or transfer for the purposes of, or pursuant to, an employee share will give the Directors flexibility to act in the best interests of plan, although in the light of circumstances at the time it may be shareholders, when opportunities arise, by issuing new shares.
decided to cancel them immediately on repurchase.
The effect of As at 9 June 2014 the latest practicable date prior to the publication any cancellation would be to reduce the number of shares in issue.
of the Notice of Meeting, the Company had 379,018,522 ordinary For most purposes, while held in treasury, shares are treated as if shares of 10p each in issue of which 1,278,148 were held as treasury they have been cancelled for example, they carry no voting rights shares, which is equal to approximately 0.3% of the issued share and do not rank for dividends.
capital of the Company excluding treasury shares as at that date.
Following approval of the Performance Share Plan PSP at the 2005 The Companies Act 2006 also requires that, if the Company issues annual general meeting, the Directors made, and intend to continue new shares for cash or sells any treasury shares, it must first offer to make, routine purchases of Halma shares in the market for holding them to existing shareholders in proportion to their current holdings.
in treasury until required for vesting under the PSP.
In the year to At the Annual General Meeting a special resolution will be proposed 29March 2014, 1,333,516 shares, with a nominal value of 133,351.60, which, if passed, will authorise the Directors to issue a limited number which is 0.3% of the Companys issued share capital as at 9 June of shares for cash and or sell treasury shares without offering them to 2014 the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the Notice shareholders first.
The authority is for an aggregate nominal amount of Meeting, were purchased in the market for treasury.
Otherwise, the of up to 5% of the aggregate nominal value of the issued share capital Directors have no present intention of using this authority.
In reaching of the Company as at 9 June 2014 the latest practicable date prior a decision to purchase shares, the Directors will take into account the tothe publication of the Notice of Meeting.
The resolution will also Companys cash resources, capital requirements and the effect of modify statutory pre-emption rights to deal with legal, regulatory or any purchase on the Companys earnings per share.
It is anticipated practical problems that may arise on a rights issue or other prethat renewal of the authority will be requested at subsequent annual emptive offer or issue.
The authority will expire at the same time as general meetings.
the resolution conferring authority on the Directors to allot shares.
As at 9 June 2014, which is the latest practicable date prior to the TheDirectors consider this authority necessary in order to give publication of the Notice of Meeting, options were outstanding to them flexibility to deal with opportunities as they arise, subject to the subscribe for a total number of 626,810 ordinary shares, or 0.2% of restrictions contained in the resolution.
There are no present plans the Companys issued share capital.
If the proposed authority were to toissue shares, except under share plans previously approved in be used in full and all of the repurchased shares were cancelled but general meeting.
the Companys issued share capital otherwise remained unaltered, Directors the total number of options to subscribe for ordinary shares at that The names of the Directors of the Company who served throughout date would represent approximately 0.2% of the Companys issued the year, with brief biographies, are set out on pages 56 and 57. share capital excluding treasury shares.
Directors indemnities The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity with each of the current Directors, which remain in force at the date of this report.
These are qualifying third-party indemnity provisions for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 91 Other Statutory Information continued Substantial shareholdings On 9 June 2014, the Company had been notified, in accordance with chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following voting rights as a shareholder of the Company.
29 March 2014 9 June 2014 Percentage of Percentage of voting rights voting rights No.
of ordinary and issued No.
of ordinary and issued Nature of shares share capital shares share capital holdings Massachusetts Financial Services Company 18,904,896 5.00 37,841,275 10.20 Indirect Sprucegrove Investment Management Ltd 18,776,510 4.97 18,776,510 4.97 Indirect Schroder Investment Management 18,667,466 4.94 18,667,466 4.94 Indirect Norges Bank 14,872,138 3.94 14,872,138 3.94 Direct BlackRock Inc 14,646,007 3.88 14,646,007 3.88 Indirect Mawer Investment Management 11,333,276 3.00 11,333,276 3.00 Direct Capital Group 11,543,117 3.06 11,251,043 2.98 Indirect Annual General Meeting The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held on 24 July 2014.
The Notice of Meeting, together with an explanation of the proposed resolutions, is enclosed with this Annual Report and Accounts and is also available on the Companys website at www.
Special Business The Board will propose three special resolutions under Special Business at the Annual General Meeting.
One of these is to permit the Company to retain the ability to call general meetings other than annual general meetings at 14 days notice rather than 21 days notice, inaccordance with the EU Shareholder Rights Directive implemented in August 2009.
Auditor Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts confirms that: so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office as Auditor and a resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board Carol Chesney Company Secretary 12 June 2014 92 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
