Sector Review Process Safety Products which protect assets and people at work.
Specialised interlocks which safely control critical processes.
Instruments which detect flammable and hazardous gases.
Explosion protection and corrosion monitoring products.
Neil Quinn, Sector Chief Executive, Process Safety Performance Another year of continued strong organic growth in our Process Safety businesses resulted from further extensions to our global Sector Group KPIs performance target reach through establishing additional regional sales operations and new routes to market.
Momentum on new product introductions Revenue growth 0.8% 5% 1 was maintained and investment in our manufacturing operations Profit growth 7.9% 5% ensured that our customers received the levels of product quality 2 Return on Sales 27.5% 18% and on-time delivery to meet their needs.
The acquisition of 3 ROCE 108.8% 45% Rohrback Cosasco Systems in May 2014 expands our portfolio 4 R&D % of Revenue 3.5% 4% of critical safety products.
Contribution to Group m 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Revenue % of Group Profit % of Group Revenue 127 126 122 103 98 Profit 35 32 29 24 20 19% 23% 1 5 Sector revenue and adjusted sector profit before finance expense are compared to the equivalent prior year figure.
2 5 Return on Sales is defined as adjusted before finance expense and taxation expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
3 5 Adjusted sector profit before finance expense expressed as a percentage ofsector operating net assets.
4 S ector research and development expenditure expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
5 Adjusted to remove the amortisation of acquired intangible assets and acquisition items see Note 1 to the Accounts.
Market trends Because onshore oil reserves are maturing, the oil and gas industrys Long-term growth in Process Safety markets is supported by two focus is shifting to deepwater offshore platforms.
Sustained rising key drivers: energy demand coupled with high oil prices is expected to increase offshore oiland gas investment at over 10% per year until 2018. rising expectations of workplace safety and more stringent safety Throughout the world, governments continue to impose stricter and environmental legislation safetyregulations to protect industrial workers and our environment.
rising demand for life-critical resources, such as energy Following the Deepwater Horizon incident in the Gulf of Mexico in The continuous introduction of new safety regulations and tougher 2010, the European Commission concluded that existing oil and gas enforcement of occupational safety and environmental protection industry safety practices did not provide adequate risk protection.
laws drives growth in both developed and developing markets.
Inresponse, in 2013 a new EU Directive came into force which will implement higher offshore safety standards inEurope.
The global process safety market is forecast to grow by over 11% annually for the next two years.
A key factor is rising demand for Continuing investment in new oil and gas exploration techniques, safety systems in the oil and gas industry.
anddelivery of conventional, unconventional and renewable energy resources, has supported our sales growth.
Sustained investment Population growth and rising global incomes drive increasing in hydraulic fracturing fracking in the fast-growing shale oil and gas demand for energy.
By 2030 world population is expected to reach market, deep sea drilling and LNG production and storage ensures 8.3 billion.
Compared to today, this will add an extra 1.3 billion energy that we are operating in vibrant markets.
Global income levels in 2030 are forecast to be about double what they were in 2011.
World primary energy consumption The global market for gas detection equipment is forecast to grow is forecast to grow 1.6% annually between 2011 and2030.
This is driven by increasing regulations to protect workers from harmful gases.
The International Organization for Standardization ISO is working on a new global standard for occupational health and safety which may prompt new safety legislation in many countries.
34 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
