Chief Executives Strategic Review continued This new management structure will result in clearer growth strategies for each sector, clarifying the investment, collaboration and acquisition Our strategy is to priorities.
As Group CEO, I will maintain a close relationship with both the SCEs and our individual operating subsidiaries through their sustain consistent rates regular reporting, meetings and my ongoing programme of company visits.
I am confident that we have a management structure which is capable of scaling up Halmas successful business model over the of organic growth by next decade or more while maintaining our unique operating culture.
Three acquisitions completed recently: pipeline focusing on three areas isgood Following a very busy 2012 13, when Halma spent 137m of investment: innovation, onsixbusinesses excluding net cash acquired of 5m, we completed one acquisition this financial year.
Talentum, a flame detector manufacturer, was acquired by our Infrastructure Safety people development and sector in April 2013 for 3m excluding net cash acquired.
Despite a quiet year, we remain confident about acquisition international expansion.
prospects, having come close to completing a number of additional deals during the year.
Although the current M&A market is more competitive than it has been for the past few years, we are still finding high quality companies in good markets at sensible prices.
To support this confidence, we have completed three acquisitions since the period end: Revenue grew by 53% in the UK, dominated by large sales of flow Plasticspritzerei AG was acquired in May 2014 for a net cash pressure data loggers to UK water utilities as part of their preparation consideration of CHF4.8m 3.2m.
Plasticspritzerei manufactures for the deregulation of the UK commercial water market in 2017. plastic components including critical parts for Medicels ophthalmic There was mid-single digit growth in Mainland Europe and the USA products and joins our Medical sector.
whilst revenue from Asia Pacific declined by 5% as major contracts Advanced Electronics Limited Advanced was acquired in for certain water and photonics businesses last year came to an May 2014 for an initial cash consideration of 14.1m.
Restructuring completed during the year and additional senior manufactures networked fire detection and control systems management changes made shortly after year end should improve and joins our Infrastructure Safety sector.
the consistency of this sectors performance in the mediumterm.
Rohrback Cosasco Systems Inc. RCS was acquired in May 2014 for a cash consideration of $108m 64.7m excluding Executive Board changes enhance the scalability cash acquired.
RCS is a world leader in the design, manufacture ofHalmas business model and sale of pipeline corrosion monitoring products and systems In April 2014, Halmas Executive Board was reorganised to be and is a strong addition to our Process Safety sector.
more clearly aligned with our four reporting sectors and provide a management structure which gives each sector the potential to We made one disposal following the year end, selling our US-based become as large as the whole of Halma today.
Each of our four elevator control panel manufacturing business, Monitor Elevator sectors is now led by a Sector Chief Executive SCE, each of Products Inc. to another industry player, Innovation Industries for whom has already proven successful in delivering both organic and $6m 3.6m.
Halma will record a gain before tax of approximately acquisition growth as a Halma Divisional Chief Executive DCE.
As 1m on this transaction in 2014 15. each sector grows, the SCEs will appoint Sector Vice Presidents to The net spend on the acqusitions and disposal in May 2014 chair small groups of companies in much the same way as Halma was78.4m.
DCEs did successfully for many years in the past.
Creating growth through strategic investment Halmas long track record of success is built on careful selection Our strategy is to sustain consistent rates of organic growth of markets and product niches complemented by an unstinting by focusing on three areas of investment: innovation, people commitment to improve the quality of management.
This need to development and international expansion.
have a strong talent pipeline to support future growth is an everincreasing challenge and, with that in mind, we recruited Jennifer We are strongly cash generative and our medium-term organic Ward to the Halma Executive Board as Group Talent Director.
growth rate determines our ability to fund the acquisition of new Jenniferwill lead the development of a more rigorous approach businesses and increase dividends each year.
These cash resources toidentifying, assessing, developing and attracting diverse are supplemented by income from disposals and external financing management talent working in a partnership with the SCEs.
facilities, although our strategy is always to maintain a strong balance sheet with modest levels of debt.
In the longer term, our ability to shift our portfolio mix also ensures that we can change our exposure to particular end markets as economic circumstances evolve.
12 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
