Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Diversity Our efforts are directed towards increasing the proportion of We see diversity and inclusiveness as an essential part of our individuals with experience in the business and geographic productivity, creativity, innovation and competitive advantage.
markets inwhich we see our operations growing.
It is the foundation of a performance culture that promotes Our strong preference is to develop policies and actions which respect, understanding and appreciation of different perspectives, support our aims rather than establishing measurable targets.
Webelieve the former evolves into part of the corporate culture morereadily than simply setting a target.
Developing regions, including China, Brazil, India and Africa make up an increasing share of the world population.
They will account for Each year our Board of Directors reviews these policies and their approximately 88% of the global population by 2050.
Economically, implementation to ensure that they create and maintain a diverse diverse markets represent a growing source of consumption and andinclusive organisation.
buying power, and we must be prepared to serve the needs of the changing marketplace.
Gender diversity The Board of Directors responded to the consultation document Because our customer base is constantly changing and growing, that the UKs Financial Reporting Council issued in respect of weneed to be prepared in the following ways: Gender Diversity on Boards.
We are not satisfied with the proportion diverse and inclusive enough to recognise the needs of customers of women in senior roles and on the boards of our companies.
We in our current and new markets: are proactively identifying talented women internally and externally aware enough to anticipate, respond to, and serve the needs who could potentially join our leadership teams in the future.
ofthechanging marketplace: and We appreciate the task ahead of us in sectors where relevant engaged enough to contribute at the highest levels to deliver graduates are more than 85% male, so part of our strategy will involve superior performance.
ensuring that Halma has a culture and working practices that make it By increasing the diversity and inclusion of our workforce and more attractive to women.
To that end, we issued a Diversity Policy leveraging the insights of our diverse talent through an inclusive in 2012 which is available on our website.
environment, we enhance our ability to compete in the worlds The 2014 15 year intake on the Halma Graduate Development increasingly diverse marketplace.
We regularly monitor our progress Programme HGDP demonstrates diversity with an intake of toward these aims through executive site visits and annual values graduates from four different countries and 30% of them being surveys, which indicate how strongly our desired culture is female.
The HGDP is already demonstrating our success in demonstrated in our businesses.
attracting women and individuals of diverse backgrounds to Halma.
We must now ensure that they continue to thrive and grow their careers withus.
Diversity Policy Halma believes that the diversity of our staff is a significant contributor to our success: diversity in our organisation attracts talented people to join the Group and to develop to their full potential: diversity within our leadership improves decision making processes and effective teamwork: and diversity encourages fresh thinking and challenges the status quo and boosts innovation.
Our policys objectives are: to build a culture that encourages talented people of all backgrounds, beliefs or any form of personal identity to want to work for Halma: to use recruitment, training, development, promotion and compensation to increase diversity in our organisation: and to ensure that our procedures, systems and behaviours are not discriminatory.
Halma plc Board Other senior Other employees Total % of Total 1 2 Directors managers Male 60% Female 40% M F Total M F Total M F Total M F Total Notes 1 Includes non-executive Directors of the Company.
2 Halmas definition of senior managers is defined as subsidiary company officers andabove.
