Sector Review Infrastructure Safety Products which detect hazards to protect assets and people in public spaces and commercial buildings.
Fire and smoke detectors, fire detection systems, security sensors and audible visual warning devices.
Sensors used on automatic doors and elevators in buildings and transportation.
Nigel Trodd, Sector Chief Executive, Performance Infrastructure Safety Sector Group All major businesses within the sector contributed to a strong year.
KPIs performance target Increasing investment in new products is driving growth above Revenue growth 7.3% 5% market rates in both developed and developing regions.
The 1 Profit growth 7.0% 5% acquisition of Talentum in April 2013 and Advanced Electronics 2 Return on Sales 20.2% 18% in May 2014 demonstrates our strategy to acquire synergistic 3 ROCE 74.3% 45% businesses which broaden our product range across our 4 R&D % of Revenue 5.1% 4% chosen markets.
Contribution to Group 6 m 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Revenue 220 205 204 197 183 Revenue % of Group Profit % of Group Profit 44 42 39 39 36 1 5 Sector revenue and adjusted sector profit before finance expense are compared to the 32% 29% equivalent prior year figure.
2 5 Return on Sales is defined as adjusted before finance expense and taxation expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
3 5 Adjusted sector profit before finance expense expressed as a percentage ofsector operating net assets.
4 S ector research and development expenditure expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
5 Adjusted to remove the amortisation of acquired intangible assets, acquisition items and the effects of closure to future benefit accrual of the Defined Benefit pension scheme net of associated costs see Note 1 to the Accounts.
6 Profit restated for the effects of adopting IAS 19 revised in 2013 14 see Accounting Policies note.
Market trends Elevator equipment demand is projected to grow worldwide by Increasing health and safety regulation remains the primary driver almost 6% annually until 2017, despite slowing demand in China.
in our Infrastructure Safety sector.
China still accounts for over half of the worlds new elevator installations and high single-digit growth is set to continue, driven The global trend of increasing urbanisation also stimulates demand by Chinas extensive social housing programme.
Elevator equipment for our building safety and security products.
In China, for example, sales are growing steadily in Asia and Latin America, the US market the government has recently announced plans to move 100 million isrecovering well and Europe is starting to recover.
people from rural areas to cities by 2020.
Global construction output Door sensor revenue and profits grew due to innovative new products is forecast to grow by 70% between 2012 and 2025.
More than half and new European safety regulations that protect pedestrians from of that growth will probably take place in just three countries: China, automatic door accidents.
Door sensor demand grew in North and India and the United States.
South America, and Asia, during 2013 14 but was weaker in Europe.
Tougher fire regulations continue to be introduced in Asia and Europe: Sales of sensors for use on train doors grew strongly in both China we now maintain over 3,000 international fire product approvals to and Europe.
New laser technology, developed for people detection, give us access to world markets.
New European fire safety legislation, has opened new markets in security and industrial automation.
introduced last year, sets new standards for visual fire alarm devices The electronic access control systems market, the target for our that alert people who cannot hear warning sounders.
We launched intruder alarm business, is forecast to grow by 7% per year until 2017. new visual fire warning products in 2013 compliant with the new Growth drivers are rising security concerns in many countries plus regulations to protect people with hearing disabilities.
New wireless intruder detection sensors, plus The global market for our elevator safety and communications greater UK market share, delivered significant revenue and profit equipment is divided into two segments of almost equal size: new growth this year.
Sales of intruder detectors and emergency signalling building installations, mainly in developing markets, and elevator devices grew due to new products that enable customers to comply modernisation and service in Europe and the USA.
Ageing with the latest UK and European burglar alarm regulations.
A new populations, urbanisation, rising safety awareness and tighter security product undergoing EU approvals will open additional building safety regulations continue to underpin global growth markets in 2014 15. in the new-build elevator market.
36 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Geographic trends The home automation and controls market is growing quickly, particularly in the USA where sales of our wireless carbon monoxide home safety detectors grew strongly in 2013 14.
We relocated our existing elevator safety product manufacture within China to a new factory with more sophisticated manufacturing capability.
The China elevator sales team was strengthened and a new local R&D unit will develop localised products to meet the needs of Chinese customers.
The resulting elevator sales performance in China was very strong.
Last year China passed the new Special Equipment Safety Law to reduce accidents, including deaths and injuries caused by elevators.
This stricter safety law is expected to create favourable growth conditions and stimulate demand from the growing Chinese elevator service and modernisation market.
Our door sensor business grew in all territories, even in Europe where we increased market share in a flat market.
In China the slowing pace of construction stabilised demand but revenue growth was still strong throughout the Asia Pacific region.
Strategy Our primary growth strategy in the Infrastructure Safety sector is Revenue increased in all major geographic regions, including 12% topenetrate new markets.
We will develop our presence in high growth in Mainland Europe.
Healthy mid-single digit growth in the growth areas, such as Russia and Eastern Europe, ASEAN nations UK, USA and Asia Pacific reflected the global reach of our products, and Brazil.
Other key target markets are those with commercial whether selling into major multinational OEMs or through local barriers-to-entry such as Japan, France and the USA.
Our strategy of increasing investment in locally We have developed a dual channel strategy for fire detection based sales and technical resources continues to pay dividends.
In some markets we sell directly under our own brand.
The Talentum flame detector business, acquired in 2013, extended However, OEM sales now make up 50% of international fire detection our fire detection technology offering and has been successfully revenue.
We will target fire detector sales growth in Russia during integrated.
2014 after gaining new technical product approvals.
We aim to grow elevator equipment market share with a dual Outlook brandstrategy.
We now sell highly specified door sensors with We expect continued Infrastructure Safety growth due to technology globalsupport to international elevator manufacturers in developed advances, regulatory pressure and products that are increasingly markets.
Lower specification sensors made in China are sold to developed and manufactured locally within target markets.
cost-focused customers in developing economies.
Global branding A significant amount of emerging market infrastructure cannot was strengthened by reorganising our elevator equipment businesses accommodate rising urbanisation and population growth trends.
into a single organisation called Avire during2013.
To combat this, a number of emerging countries governments Investment in our elevator emergency telephone business centres have committed to substantial urban infrastructure stimulus plans.
onproducts to penetrate new European markets.
R&D activity at Demand for certified products in Europe will be a strong driver and ourelevator display business will add advanced viewing features we expect to benefit from adoption of integrated building monitoring forhigh-end building projects.
China will continue to be a strategic systems and intruder alarms based on wireless communication focus for elevator product R&D, sales and manufacture.
During 2013 14 we entered adjacent pedestrian automatic doors Mature market growth is expected to be modest, while developing markets with new sensors to activate sliding and swinging doors.
Russia, Eastern Europe, Middle East, Weaim to extend our door sensor customer base beyond the Latin America, ASEAN nations and China all offer good growth pedestrian segment where we are market leader.
In the USA and Western Europe legislation-driven adjacent growth will centre on new products for industrial and transport sector markets and the rising use of home automation technology offers customers.
To precisely meet customer needs, door sensor R&D and good growth prospects.
manufacture is increasingly based in target markets.
In 2013 14 we increased new product development spending in the USA and China.
In May 2014 we sold Monitor Elevator Products Inc. which manufactures customised control panels for elevators focused in Performance north-eastern USA and no longer fits with our global market-leading Infrastructure Safety performed strongly, growing both revenue and door safety sensor and display product business.
At constant currency, organic revenue growth In May 2014 we acquired Advanced Electronics Limited Advanced was 6% and profit growth was 5% demonstrating theresilience for an initial cash consideration of 14.1m.
Advanced manufactures of demand for our products which is underpinned by increasing networked fire detection and control systems adding complementary Health & Safety regulation.
products that will help capture the international growth opportunities in the increasingly regulated fire market.
Return on Sales remained strong at 20.2% 2013 restated: 20.2% due to successful new product launches and an effective balance between investment and cost control to maintain strong product margins.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 37
