Remuneration Committee Report Remuneration Policy This section of the report details the policy for executive and non-executive Directors which shareholders are asked to approve at the 2014 AGM.
The Committee intends that this policy will formally come into effect from 24 July 2014, being the date of the 2014 AGM, and be effective for up to three years.
Compliance Statement Remuneration Policy This report has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of Executive Director remuneration packages are designed to attract, the Companies Act 2006 the Act, the Listing Rules and Regulation retain and motivate the high calibre executives needed to manage 11 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and theGroup successfully, and to align their interests with those of our Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013. shareholders by rewarding them for enhancing shareholder value.
Thereport also meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules Executive Director remuneration also seeks to reward achievement of the Financial Conduct Authority and describes how the Board ofstretching performance targets without driving unacceptable hasapplied the principles relating to Directors remuneration in the UK behaviours or encouraging excessive risk-taking.
The performance Corporate Governance Code.
As required by the Act, resolutions to measurement of the executive Directors and the determination of approve the Remuneration Policy and Annual Report on Remuneration theirannual remuneration package are undertaken by the will be proposed at the AGM ofthe Company at which the financial Remuneration Committee.
There are six elements of the remuneration packages for executive In line with the Regulations, the following parts of the Annual Report Directors.
The remuneration policy for executive Directors is on Remuneration are audited: the single figure for total remuneration summarised in the table below.
for each Director, including annual bonus and performance share plan outcomes for the financial year ending 29 March 2014: plan interests awarded during the year: pension entitlements: payments topast Directors and payments for loss of office: and Directors shareholdings and share interests.
All other parts of the Directors Remuneration Report are unaudited.
Element and objective Operation and process Opportunity Performance measures Salary Reviewed annually or following a material change in responsibilities.
Base salary increases will be applied in line with the outcome of Not applicable Salary is benchmarked against appropriate comparators of similar the review normally with effect from 1 April.
Salaries for the financial To attract and retain key employees and reflect their experience size and operating in a similar sector, and is linked to individual year under review and the following year are disclosed in the and personal contribution to delivery of the Groups strategy performance and contribution.
Annual Report on Remuneration see page 85 for 2013 14 and 2014 15 salaries.
Salary is the only element of remuneration that is pensionable.
It is not anticipated that salary increases for executive Directors will exceed those of the wider employee population over the period this policy will apply.
Where increases are awarded in excess of the wider employee population, for example if there is a material change in the responsibility, size or complexity of the role, the Committee will provide the rationale in the relevant years Annual Report on Remuneration.
Benefits Benefits are appropriate to the location of the executive and typically Benefits may vary by role, and the level is determined to be Not applicable comprise but are not limited to a company car, life assurance, appropriate for the role and circumstances of each individual To provide benefits that are competitive within the relevant market permanent disability insurance, private medical insurance, relocation executive Director.
The maximum value will equate to the reasonable and tax advice for international assignments.
market cost of such benefits.
It is not anticipated that the current cost of benefits as set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration would increase materially over the period for which this policy will apply.
The Committee retains the discretion to approve a higher cost in exceptional circumstances e. g. relocation expenses or an expatriation allowance on recruitment, etc.
or in circumstances where factors outside the Companys control have changed materially e. g. market increases in insurance costs.
The rationale behind the exercise of such discretion will be provided in the relevant years Annual Report on Remuneration.
Pension Executive Directors participate in either a Group Defined Benefit Defined Benefit: maximum pension after 25 years pensionable Not applicable pension plan, Group Defined Contribution pension plan or the US service equivalent to two-thirds of final pensionable salary, up to To provide competitive post-retirement benefits, or to provide the 401k money purchase arrangement.
a CPI-indexed cap: 153,684 for 2014 15. opportunity for executives to save for their retirement Cash supplements in lieu of Company pension contributions may Defined Contribution: maximum contribution of 27.5% of pensionable be made to some individuals.
salary for executive Directors 2014 15: 20% maximum.
To the extent the pension contributions exceed the local tax Cash supplement: Halma contributes 26% of salary in excess of the allowance, the contributions may be paid to the executive, subject cap, or up to 26% of the full salary if the executive Director no longer to taxes and social charges.
participates in the Defined Benefit scheme.
401k contributions of 3% of salary with a discretionary 2% profit share component subject to IRS caps.
74 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
