Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements R&D Investment We have an ethical approach to business and this is reflected in our R&D expenditure increased by 5% to 32.1m 2013 excluding Code of Conduct which is adopted internationally.
This year we have disposal: 30.6m.
In 2012 13 we increased R&D spend by 13% on increased our focus on cyber security with enhanced IT monitoring a 7% revenue increase including some larger projects, and this year systems in place and security awareness programmes being rolled there were fewer such projects.
Investment in new products remains out across the Group.
an important strategic priority and in the medium term we expect The Board considers all of the above factors in its review of Going R&D to increase broadly in line with revenue growth.
Concern as described on page 65 and has been able to conclude its review satisfactorily.
We are required under IFRS to capitalise certain development expenditure and amortise it over an appropriate period, for us three This Annual Report and Accounts is prepared in line with the latest years.
R&D by its nature carries risk and all R&D projects, particularly requirements for integrated reporting and the Board has taken care those requiring capitalisation, are subject to close scrutiny and to ensure that it is fair, balanced and understandable.
The Audit arigorous approval and review process.
In 2013 14 we capitalised Committee took a key role in assessing compliance with reporting 5.2m 2013: 5.4m and amortised 3.9m 2013: 3.5m.
This results requirements supported by robust management processes.
in an asset carried on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, after 0.3m of foreign exchange movements, of 13.0m 2013: 12.0m.
The key performance indicators KPIs we choose reflect the importance of investment, growth and returns.
These externally Risk management and the year ahead reported KPIs are an important part of our day to day management Halma has a well established business and financial model of the business.
In the year ahead we will focus on successful delivering success consistently over the long term.
The model is integration of the recent acquisitions, search for further opportunities based on considerable autonomy and accountability at operating and continue to emphasise strong cash generation to fund company level, within a clear strategic framework with strong investment and increasing dividends.
In this way we aim to policies and procedures.
continue to deliver significant long-term value to shareholders.
Risk is managed closely and is spread across the well-resourced companies, each of which manages risk to its individual level of materiality.
There are extensive review processes in place including peer financial review and Internal Audit.
The key Group risks have been referenced in this Annual Report primarily on pages 30 to 33 and in the Chief Executives Strategic Review and Sector Reviews.
In addition key risks are highlighted in the Audit Committee Report on page 66 and Auditors Report on page 94.
Kevin Thompson Finance Director The Strategic Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 12June 2014 and signed on its behalf by: Andrew Williams Chief Executive Cautionary note: this Strategic Report has been prepared solely to assist shareholders to assess the Boards strategies and their potential to succeed.
It should not be relied on by any other party, for other purposes.
Forward-looking statements have been made by the Directors in good faith using information available up until the date that they approved the Report.
Forward-looking statements should be regarded with caution because oftheinherent uncertainties in economic trends and business risks.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 53
