Sector Review Medical Products used to improve personal and public health.
Devices used to assess eye health, assist with eye surgery and primary care applications.
Fluidic components such as pumps, probes, valves and connectors used by medical diagnostic OEMs.
Adam Meyers, Sector Chief Executive, Medical Performance The Medical sector continued its record of producing both revenue and profit growth due to a combination of prior year acquisitions Sector Group KPIs performance target and organic growth.
Revenue growth 20.0% 5% Returns remain high and continue well above Group targets.
1 Profit growth 16.4% 5% Although Return on Sales was down slightly on the prior year, 2 Return on Sales 25.6% 18% ROCE improved, leading to good cash generation.
3 ROCE 116.3% 45% We continue to invest in new products and process innovation and 4 R&D % of Revenue 3.7% 4% in expanding our resources in developing economies.
Revenue from these markets is increasing as a proportion of the sector.
Contribution to Group m 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Revenue % of Group Profit % of Group Revenue 163 136 100 82 69 Profit 42 36 26 20 17 24% 27% 1 5 Sector revenue and adjusted sector profit before finance expense are compared to the equivalent prior year figure.
2 5 Return on Sales is defined as adjusted before finance expense and taxation expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
3 5 Adjusted sector profit before finance expense expressed as a percentage ofsector operating net assets.
4 Sector research and development expenditure expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
5 Adjusted to remove the amortisation of acquired intangible assets and acquisition items see Note 1 to the Accounts.
Market trends We expect continued growth in spending on hypertension The Medical sector growth driver of increasing demand for healthcare management tools throughout the developed world.
In the USA for is underpinned by: example, one in three adults has high blood pressure, but over 50% do not realise they have this condition which causes, or leads to, over worldwide population ageing and increasing life expectancy 2.4 million American deaths annually.
In addition, rising obesity can increasing prevalence of obesity and hypertension lead to both an increase in hypertension-related conditions and an increasing healthcare access in developing economies increase in diabetic-related eye disorders.
new medical diagnostic technologies In South East Asia medical product demand should remain strong new or improved surgical and pharmaceutical therapies as governments continue to improve healthcare provision and extend The proportion of people aged over 60 continues to rise and it to rural areas.
Last year China announced a three-year, 75 billion drives demand for healthcare both in developed and developing healthcare investment project to build 2,000 new regional hospitals geographies.
Population ageing is a key driver for our ophthalmology and 29,000 township hospitals.
and hypertension management businesses because eyesight Molecular diagnostics tests on patients genetic codes, isexpected problems and rising blood pressure are both age-related.
to be our fastest growing market for fluidic components with forecast The global market for ophthalmic diagnostic and eye surgery global growth of 11% annually through 2019.
North America and products is forecast to grow at 4% per year through 2017 as new Europe comprise the largest global markets, while growth in Asia is technologies, population ageing and rising healthcare expectations expected to outpace all other geographies, with an expected annual and affordability in developing economies continue to drive demand.
Eye surgeons are increasingly switching to the type of single-use We continue to invest in resources to increase sales in the fastsurgical instruments that we make.
Cataract surgery is a key market growing Asian and South American healthcare markets.
In the past niche and demand for cataract instruments is forecast to grow year we increased staff in China, India, Brazil and the Middle East.
Additional medical device R&D engineers recruited in China should deliver new products with specifications to meet the needs of Asian customers during 2014 15.
38 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Geographic trends Apart from Japan, our sales in Asia continue to grow strongly as governments invest in health and medical infrastructure and extend healthcare to a wider section of their populations.
China now has more than 330 million people with high blood pressure one out of every three adults with prevalence increasing particularly among the young and rural populations.
Increased awareness and programmes to combat hypertension will increase demand for our diagnostic devices.
In China, most of our medical products have now completed lengthy and costly official testing and registration.
This should ensure that China continues to offer substantial growth opportunities.
However, Chinese growth may be affected by government control of the medical device market, including the possibility of price controls.
US healthcare spending is forecast to continue to rise rapidly at almost 6% annually through 2022.
However, short-term medical market growth in the USA is less certain as the impact of the recently enacted Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act PPACA is being digested.
The US market for single-use surgical devices and consumables should continue to grow with medical procedure growth, but capital equipment sales could be slower until the Performance increased patient flow from the PPACA isrealised.
Following strong growth in 2012 13 our Medical sector grew revenue 1 Growth in the US medical diagnostic market, our largest fluidics by 20% to 163.2m 2013: 136.1m and profit by 16% to 41.8m niche, was also affected by uncertainty in the new US healthcare 2013: 35.9m, including a sizeable contribution from acquisitions model.
Its new 2.3% tax on medical devices in the USA increased completed in the prior financial year.
Organic revenue growth at sales costs by over 0.6m in 2014 and was reported by some of constant currency was 7% and organic profit growth was 1%.
Return our customers to cause reductions in their spending.
We expect flat on Sales remained strong at 25.6%, albeit slightly below last years short-term sales in Europe as economic conditions slowly improve.
record 26.4% due to a combination of minor factors, including the full-year effect of the new medical device tax in the USA.
With the acquisition of a Chinese peristaltic pump maker in 2013, we began selling their products through our US distribution channels Increased investment internationally to support good rates of and our US-made products through the acquired business underlying revenue growth also impacted profitability this year.
While currency translation impact was minimal in the year, if exchange rates remain at current levels we expect an adverse impact on results Strategy in 2014 15 due to the relative strength of Sterling versus the US Dollar Following strong growth in 2012 13 Medical sector strategy is to and Euro.
increase organic growth through: broadening our product lines and commercialising innovative There was strong revenue growth in all geographic regions.
Asia newproducts Pacific growth of 52% benefited from a good first years performance further penetration of geographical markets from Longer Pump in China and strong organic growth of 22% increasing our customer diversity constant currency.
Elsewhere, organic revenue growth constant expansion into adjacent market niches currency from the UK was up 8%, Mainland Europe grew by 6% and the USA increased 3%.
We aim to increase R&D investment in ophthalmology and hypertension management products where we have a competitive Outlook advantage due to our strong sales channels in these niche markets.
Ageing populations in developed economies and rising populations Product line growth will come from both internally and externally with increasing access to affordable healthcare in the developing developed products.
Medical sector R&D focus is on high quality world should, subject to budgetary contraints, continue to create a components and instrumentation that will be readily accepted by our favourable environment for growth.
However, local development We expect our Medical businesses to outperform the market in the and manufacture in emerging markets, to better satisfy local medium term with sales into the healthcare and medical diagnostics customer needs, is a key Medical sector strategic priority.
markets rising consistently, driven by enhanced distribution in export Focusing on Asia, South America, USA and Russia extended markets, new products and acquisitions.
We expect the strongest market penetration will be achieved through additional sales growth in the short term in developing markets, especially Asia and resources, market intelligence sharing, cooperative marketing the Middle East.
Growth in South East Asia, particularly China, should between sector companies and new sales channel partnerships.
remain strong as government healthcare spending continues to rise.
Compliance with national product regulation continues to get more While our fluidics businesses will remain US-centric, we expect to complex and costly, in both developing and developed markets.
reduce reliance on large customers by diversifying our customer Product registration and renewal overheads continue to rise but base in emerging markets and Europe.
provide market access and bar entry by weaker competitors.
Further acquisitions of value-enhancing healthcare businesses should also add significant growth.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 39
