Market Overview What makes our business grow?
Halmas strategy is to develop market positions with ahorizon Macro-economics, of ten years or more.
Growth strategies within our individual operating businesses have three to five-year horizons.
regulatory and Most of our markets are underpinned by regulatory drivers where customer spending is often non-discretionary.
Our competitive environment businesses benefit from strong market positions providing upgrade and replacement sales opportunities.
These factors Our focus on the supply of safety, health create resilience and enable us toachieve organic growth and environmental related products above prevailing market growth rates.
We are exposed to a diverse range of niche markets, each with positions Halma businesses in relatively its own unique market dynamic.
Our approach is to empower non-cyclical markets that have clear, local management to respond to changing market conditions by developing and executing their own growth strategy.
details are given in the sector reviews on pages 34 to 41.
Our competitive environment is heavily influenced by global, regional and national product approvals or technical validations.
Compliance with these product regulations is a steadily increasing cost and technical challenge but our focus on this area enables us to build competitive advantage.
In the current macro-economic environment each of our businesses is experiencing different challenges and opportunities according to their particular market and geographic exposure.
In2014 15, we expect the macro-economic circumstances in Europe and the USA to support steady growth.
GDP growth in developing economies is forecast to grow by around 5% during 2014 and 2015.
The broader socio-economic development of developing regions such as Asia and South America will continue to increase demand for a safer environment and greater access to healthcare and energy water resources.
These factors should enable us to deliver growth ahead of the GDPrate over the medium term.
Our businesses have favourable long-term organic growth prospects because they are positioned in markets with one or more of the following three growthdrivers: increasing health and safety regulation increasing demand for healthcare increasing demand for life-critical resources 6 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Increasing health and safety regulation Employers throughout the world must comply with increasingly strict government laws and regulations to protect their workers, assets and the environment from workplace hazards.
In parallel with government regulation, many multinational employers are extending their health and safety practice to developing regions.
This continuously increasing safety regulation, combined with globalisation, drives demand for our Process Safety and Infrastructure Safety products.
The human cost of workplace accidents and diseases is enormous.
Every year 317 million work accidents occur, many resulting in extended work absences.
The International Labour Organisation Industry update estimates that 2.34million people around the world die annually from An onshore oil pipeline explosion last November that claimed work accidents or work-related disease.
That is over 6,400 fatalities 62 lives and injured 136 people in Qingdao, Shandong per day.
province resulted in legal action against 63 people, including Workplace injury and occupational disease is also a significant the Chairman of Chinas second largest oil producer, for economic burden on national economies and businesses.
The financial impact of poor occupational safety and health practice process safety failures.
Economic losses caused by the isdueto absences from work and sickness, disability benefits, accident were estimated at more than 70m.
compensation, interruption of production and medical expenses.
These costs are estimated to be as high as 4% of global GDP.
Countries with above average workplace casualty rates may lose upto 10% of their GDP.
Safety and health at work varies considerably between countries, Every 15 seconds economic sectors and social groups.
Deaths and injuries take a particularly heavy toll in developing countries, where a large part ofthe population may work in hazardous conditions.
However, aworker dies from a advances in occupational safety are reducing the number of fatal accidents at work.
work-related accident Throughout the world, deaths and injuries caused by accidents prompt governments to introduce new and tougher regulations that protect people from harm in public access and commercial ordisease and buildings.
The continuous introduction of new, mandatory building codes affecting fire protection, building security, automated doors and elevators drives demand for our Infrastructure Safety products.
150 workers have a work-related accident Industry update Europes population of 50 million deaf or hard-of-hearing people will benefit from new European fire safety regulations.
Stricter installation and performance standards for visual fire alarm warning devices will improve fire protection in commercial buildings and factories for deaf people and workers wearing ear protectors.
Read more PP34 and 36 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 7 Market Overview continued Global population ageing: 19502050 Increasing demand for healthcare 2,000 Four long-term demographic trends drive increasing spend on healthcare worldwide and support demand 1,500 for products in our Medical and Environmental & Analysis sectors: 1,000 population ageing population growth 500 increase in chronic disease rising incomes in the developing world 0 1950 1960 1970 1980 1990 2000 2010 2020 2030 2040 2050 Worldwide healthcare expenditure is about 8% of global GDP.
Total Year global health spending is forecast to rise by over 5% a year until 2017.
Healthcare spending continues to rise rapidly in the developed world.
In the USA, for example, total healthcare expenditure was estimated at $2.9 trillion in 2013, and is projected to rise to $3.4 trillion within three years.
The trend in emerging nations is also for spending on healthcare to rise dramatically.
Population growth and growing wealth are strong drivers of 10% of people healthcare demand in the developing world.
Healthcare spending in China continues to increase rapidly and is the fastest-growing emerging market.
Healthcare spending in China is forecast to over 65 grow from $357 billion in 2011 to $1trillion in 2020.
Population ageing and rising numbers of people suffering from Global senior population by 2017 age-related chronic disease combine as a strong, long-term driver for healthcare services and products in our Medical sector in both developed and emerging economies.
73.7 years The number of people aged over 65 is expected to more than triple over the next half-century.
Life expectancy is expected to rise from Global life expectancy by 2017 72.6 years in 2012 to 73.7 years by 2017.
This will mean that more than 10% of the worlds population will be over 65.
In Western Europe the proportion will hit 20 percent: in Japan, 27 percent.
$1 trillion In the USA, the worlds largest healthcare market, increasing life expectancy is predicted to double the population of people over Chinese healthcare spend 2020 65 years old by 2050.
While the more developed countries have the oldest population distribution, the vast majority of older people, and the most rapidly ageing populations, are in less developed regions.
Rising incomes in the developing world make healthcare more accessible but, combined with less active lifestyles, lead to a higher prevalence of chronic disease.
Worldwide, deaths due to cancer, heart disease, stroke, respiratory disease, diabetes and hypertension have risen sharply in the past decade.
These chronic diseases, now the leading cause of mortality worldwide, can be attributed to population ageing, more sedentary lifestyles, changing diets and rising obesity.
Halmas focus on ophthalmology and advanced blood pressure monitoring directly relates to the diagnosis and treatment of these chronic diseases.
Read more PP38 and 40 8 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 World population over 60 in millions Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Increasing demand for Competition for life-critical resources water resources is Rising energy consumption and water usage, the inevitable consequences of social and economic forecast to increase development, are driven by three key trends: population growth between countries in rising living standards dietary and agricultural changes both developed and Many of our Environmental & Analysis and Process Safety sector businesses operate in markets driven by the global trends of rising developing regions.
demand for life-critical resources such as energy and water.
Water consumption grew twice as fast as the world population in the 20th century and demand continues to rise relentlessly today.
A third of the worlds population now lives in water-stressed countries.
Water demand is predicted to increase by 50% by 2025 in developing countries and by 18% in developed countries, and both the quality and availability of clean water continues todecline.
Global population: 19502050 Competition for water resources is forecast to increase between 10 countries in both developed and developing regions.
The rising 9 value placed on finite water resources drives demand for our water 9 billion 8 conservation, treatment, monitoring and quality testing products.
8 billion 7 Demand for water is strongly linked to energy demand.
Water is 7 billion 6 needed to convert resources into electricity via thermal, nuclear, 6 billion 5 and hydro processes and also for irrigation of biofuel crops.
In turn, 5 billion energy is needed at all stages of water extraction, treatment and 4 4 billion distribution.
Fifteen percent of water withdrawal is currently used for 3 energy production, but this is expected to rise 20% by 2035 due to 3 billion 2 population growth, urbanisation and changing consumption patterns.
1 Worldwide energy demand is expected to grow by more 0 than one-third up to 2035, with China, India and the Middle East 1950 1960 1970 1980 1990 2000 2010 2020 2030 2040 2050 Year accounting for more than half of the increase.
Rising demand for Source: U. S. Census Bureau.
energy will put further strain on the worlds fresh water resources in the coming decade, especially in developing and emerging economies.
Rising incomes are enabling developing region populations to change their diets from mainly starch-based to meat and dairy.
This is changing agricultural practices and raising water demand.
Dietary change has been the most significant factor affecting global water consumption over the past 30 years, and is expected to continue well into the middle of the twenty-first century.
Read more PP34 and 40 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 9 Population billions
