Remuneration Committee Report continued Remuneration Policy External appointments In the case of appointing a new executive Director, the Committee may make use of any of the existing elements of remuneration, as follows: Maximum incentive Component Approach opportunity Salary The base salaries of new appointees will be determined by reference to relevant market data, experience and skills of the individual, internal relativities and the current salary of any incumbent in the same role.
Where a new appointee has an initial base salary set below market, the Committee may make phased increases over a period of several years, subject to the individuals development and performance in the role.
Benefits New appointees will be eligible to receive benefits in line with the current policy, as well as expatriation allowances and any necessary expenses relating to an executives relocation on appointment.
Pension New appointees will be eligible to participate in the Companys Defined Contribution pension plan or local equivalent.
Annual bonus The scheme as described in the policy table will apply to new appointees with the 100% of salary relevant maximum being pro-rated to reflect the proportion of the year employed.
PSP New appointees will be granted awards under the PSP on the same terms as other 150% of salary executives, as described in the policy table.
SIP New appointees will be eligible to participate on identical terms to other employees.
3,600 The Committee may also make an award in respect of a new Executive Director Service Contracts and appointment to buy out incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving Exit Payment Policies a previous employer, and may avail itself of the relevant Listing Rule to It is the Companys policy that executive Directors should have grant an award under a different structure, as appropriate.
In making contracts with an indefinite term providing for a maximum of one such awards, the Committee will consider relevant factors including years notice.
The details of the Directors contracts are summarised any performance conditions attached to these awards, the likelihood in the table below.
of those conditions being met, and the remaining vesting period of these awards.
If such an award is made, details will be disclosed in Executive Director Date of service contract Notice period the following years Annual Report on Remuneration.
Andrew Williams April 2003 One year Internal appointments Kevin Thompson April 2003 One year Remuneration for new executive Directors appointed by way of internal promotion will similarly be determined in line with the policy Neil Quinn April 2003 One year forexternal appointees, as detailed above.
Where an individual has Adam Meyers July 2008 One year contractual commitments made prior to their promotion to the Board, the Company will continue to honour those commitments.
Incentive The Companys policy is to limit exit payments to pre-established opportunities for below-Board employees are generally no higher contractual arrangements.
In the event that the employment of an than for executive Directors, and incentive measures vary to ensure executive Director is terminated, any compensation payable will be they are appropriate.
determined in accordance with the terms of the service contract between the Company and the employee, as well as the rules of any Share Ownership Guidelines incentive plans.
No predetermined compensation is provided for in To ensure alignment between the interests of executive Directors and the Directors contracts.
The UK executive Director contracts enable those of shareholders, the Company requires executive Directors to the Company to pay one years salary in lieu of notice, with no progressively build up and maintain a beneficial holding of Halma plc contractual entitlement to any other benefits, and the Remuneration shares equivalent to a minimum of 100% of salary.
Committee may determine the individuals leaving status for pro-rated share plan vesting purposes.
If the financial year end has passed, any bonus earned is payable to the individual.
US Director contracts permit the individual to remain an employee for the entire period of notice enjoying any benefits related to employment.
The share plan and bonus provisions are identical to the UK.
Both contracts contain appropriate non-compete restrictions for a suitable period post-employment.
When considering termination payments under incentive schemes, the Committee reviews all potential incentive outcomes to ensure they are fair to both shareholders and participants.
The table below summarises how the awards under the annual bonus and PSP are typically treated in specific circumstances, with the final treatment remaining subject to the Committees discretion: 78 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
