Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements k s I i R e n r n i u o q v c a t A C e o r p o r a t e Business Model and Strategy Business model What is Halmas growth objective?
Our business model objective is to double Group revenue and profit every five years.
We aim to achieve this through a mix of acquisitions and organic growth.
Return on Sales in excess of 18% and Return on Capital Employed over 45% ensure that cash generation is strong enough to sustain growth and increase dividends without the need for high levels of external funding.
Grow Acquire KPIs KPIs Organic revenue growth Cash generation Organic profit growth Acquisitions International expansion Read more PP18 and 26 Return on sales ROCE ROTIC Read more PP16, 24 and 25 Sustainable growth Innovate Empower KPIs KPIs R&D development Development programmes Read more PP22 and 27 Values alignment CO emissions reduction 2 Read more PP20, 26 and 27 Strategy How do we grow?
We operate in relatively non-cyclical, specialised global niche markets.
Our technology and application know-how deliver strong competitive advantage to sustain growth and high returns.
Our chosen markets have significant barriers to entry.
Demand for our products is underpinned by resilient, long-term growth drivers.
We place our operational resources close toour customers through autonomous locally managed businesses.
We reinvest cash into acquiring high performance businesses in, or close to, our existing markets.
Governance Risk Corporate Responsibility Halma is committed to maintaining the highest Group risk is mitigated by means of an operating Halma companies are involved in the manufacture standards of corporate governance and ensuring structure which spreads the Groups activities of a wide range of products that protect and values and behaviours are consistent across the across a number of autonomous subsidiary improve the quality of life for people worldwide.
Halma promotes open and transparent companies.
Each of these companies is led by a Halma has developed meaningful key performance discussion and constructive challenge across the high-quality board of directors including a finance indicators KPIs that reflect the importance the Group to ensure best practice is maintained.
Group companies operate under a Group places on corporate responsibility and Thatgovernance culture is integral to our strategy system of robust controls which address our enable the Board to monitor theGroups progress and decision-making processes for the benefit principal risks and uncertainties.
in meeting its objectives andresponsibilities in ofour shareholders.
Read more PP59 to 65 Read more PP28 to 33 Read more PP26 and 27 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 R e s p o n s i b i l i t y E m w p o e c o r n a G w n r e e v r o G
