Sector Review Process Safety Products which protect assets and people at work.
Specialised interlocks which safely control critical processes.
Instruments which detect flammable and hazardous gases.
Explosion protection and corrosion monitoring products.
Neil Quinn, Sector Chief Executive, Process Safety Performance Another year of continued strong organic growth in our Process Safety businesses resulted from further extensions to our global Sector Group KPIs performance target reach through establishing additional regional sales operations and new routes to market.
Momentum on new product introductions Revenue growth 0.8% 5% 1 was maintained and investment in our manufacturing operations Profit growth 7.9% 5% ensured that our customers received the levels of product quality 2 Return on Sales 27.5% 18% and on-time delivery to meet their needs.
The acquisition of 3 ROCE 108.8% 45% Rohrback Cosasco Systems in May 2014 expands our portfolio 4 R&D % of Revenue 3.5% 4% of critical safety products.
Contribution to Group m 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Revenue % of Group Profit % of Group Revenue 127 126 122 103 98 Profit 35 32 29 24 20 19% 23% 1 5 Sector revenue and adjusted sector profit before finance expense are compared to the equivalent prior year figure.
2 5 Return on Sales is defined as adjusted before finance expense and taxation expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
3 5 Adjusted sector profit before finance expense expressed as a percentage ofsector operating net assets.
4 S ector research and development expenditure expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
5 Adjusted to remove the amortisation of acquired intangible assets and acquisition items see Note 1 to the Accounts.
Market trends Because onshore oil reserves are maturing, the oil and gas industrys Long-term growth in Process Safety markets is supported by two focus is shifting to deepwater offshore platforms.
Sustained rising key drivers: energy demand coupled with high oil prices is expected to increase offshore oiland gas investment at over 10% per year until 2018. rising expectations of workplace safety and more stringent safety Throughout the world, governments continue to impose stricter and environmental legislation safetyregulations to protect industrial workers and our environment.
rising demand for life-critical resources, such as energy Following the Deepwater Horizon incident in the Gulf of Mexico in The continuous introduction of new safety regulations and tougher 2010, the European Commission concluded that existing oil and gas enforcement of occupational safety and environmental protection industry safety practices did not provide adequate risk protection.
laws drives growth in both developed and developing markets.
Inresponse, in 2013 a new EU Directive came into force which will implement higher offshore safety standards inEurope.
The global process safety market is forecast to grow by over 11% annually for the next two years.
A key factor is rising demand for Continuing investment in new oil and gas exploration techniques, safety systems in the oil and gas industry.
anddelivery of conventional, unconventional and renewable energy resources, has supported our sales growth.
Sustained investment Population growth and rising global incomes drive increasing in hydraulic fracturing fracking in the fast-growing shale oil and gas demand for energy.
By 2030 world population is expected to reach market, deep sea drilling and LNG production and storage ensures 8.3 billion.
Compared to today, this will add an extra 1.3 billion energy that we are operating in vibrant markets.
Global income levels in 2030 are forecast to be about double what they were in 2011.
World primary energy consumption The global market for gas detection equipment is forecast to grow is forecast to grow 1.6% annually between 2011 and2030.
This is driven by increasing regulations to protect workers from harmful gases.
The International Organization for Standardization ISO is working on a new global standard for occupational health and safety which may prompt new safety legislation in many countries.
34 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Geographic trends Worldwide growth in demand for energy, chemicals, food and metals continues to increase with the USA, Middle East and Asia Pacific very buoyant.
European process safety markets are returning to growth and emerging markets are performing well.
Economic conditions have reduced demand in India and Australia but we expect these areas to recover slowly.
The main existing areas of offshore activity, such as the golden triangle including Brazil, US Gulf of Mexico, and West Africa, are the key markets where offshore investment is focused.
Asia Pacific is the key emerging market in terms of energy demand and offshore drilling activities.
Awareness of process safety in China has increased following a pipeline explosion last year that cost 62 lives.
A large number of government officials were dismissed and a nationwide survey of 3,000 petrochemical sites revealed 20,000 disaster risk points.
Strategy In the Process Safety sector, our strategy for growth focuses on: geographic market diversification via shared hubs investment in new product development to meet local Outlook market needs Growth prospects in the Process Safety sector remain positive acquisitions in adjacent markets supported by rising investment forecasts in our targeted oil, gas and energy markets.
We plan to extend further into the transport Our commitment to new product development R&D investment has and logistics market where the latest forecasts also suggest a seen sales of products designed in the last three years make up over positive growth outlook.
30% of total sales in this sector.
New technology and shorter product lifecycles, together with industry-leading quality and customer service, In May 2014 we acquired Rohrback Cosasco Systems Inc. RCS ensures that we maintain competitive advantage with sales growth fora cash consideration of $108m see Note 30 to the Accounts.
Asa world leader in the design, manufacture and sale of pipeline corrosion monitoring products and systems, RCS expands our Our safety product companies now have 21 manufacturing sites portfolio of critical safety products which are sold into the energy across four continents.
In addition to 22 existing regional sales and andutility markets to protect life and operational assets.
service centres, during 2013 14 we opened three new regional hubs in Brazil, the Middle East and Poland.
R&D resources are increasingly We continue to search for further acquisitions in the Process localised to ensure that products meet local market needs.
Safety sector, particularly in complementary markets, to expand our technology portfolio and access new sales channels.
To optimise customer service we continue to develop internal collaboration and strategic alliances between our businesses.
More long-term customer partnerships to maintain market leadership in our process safety market niches remains a key strategic goal.
Performance Process Safety grew revenue by 1% to 126.7m 2013: 125.7m and 1 profit by 8% to 34.9m 2013: 32.3m.
Excluding the contribution of Tritech, which was sold in August 2012, revenue increased by 5% and profit by 11%.
These were also the sectors organic growth rates.
Return on Sales improved from 25.7% to 27.5% due to continued strong product margins and good operational management.
New product introductions contributed to both this margin expansion and to revenue growth through diversification into new application niches.
Excluding the prior year disposal, there was growth in all major geographic regions except the UK, where revenue declined by 1%.
There was double-digit growth from the USA up 13% and Asia Pacific up 12%.
Mainland Europe revenue increased by 1%.
Thesector hub set up in Brazil in 2013 is now firmly established and promises to boost Process Safety revenue from this territory inthefuture.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 35
