Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Increased investment in innovation In April 2013, we introduced a programme to encourage our Halma businesses build market leadership, gain market share and companies to increase R&D resources in China in order to develop create opportunities in new markets through innovation of products more products for the local market.
This innovation comes from leveraging the deep businesses have been granted a subsidy to support the cost of market knowledge and application know-how residing within each engineers in China and we expect the first new products to be Halma business.
This is another good example of how being in Halma can accelerate the growth and development of There is a significant benefit to be gained from Halma companies individual businesses.
collaborating and sharing know-how with their sister companies.
We are building a culture which encourages these behaviours in a People development variety of ways including diverse company representation at Halma A key component of Halmas success is to build and develop training programmes and holding a biennial Halma Innovation and company management teams who thrive on the opportunity to Technology Exposition HITE.
Network groups focused on functional devise their own growth strategy and take management action areas such as manufacturing, HR and IT also foster regular as market needs dictate.
Each Halma company board manages benchmarking and drive continuous improvement.
their own R&D, manufacturing, sales, marketing and financial control resources.
In May 2013, we held our third HITE event in Florida, USA.
HITE brings together senior managers from all Halma companies and Halmas Executive Board ensures that, collectively, the subsidiary acts as a catalyst for collaboration and sharing know-how thereby companies strategic plans, financial goals and incentive programmes increasing subsidiaries rates of innovation and competitive are aligned with Halmas, supported by a relentless commitment to advantage.
Plans are already underway for HITE 2015 which will attract and develop high quality talent.
be held during April 2015 in Barcelona, Spain and, once again, We continue to offer a range of training for employees including the we intend to invite institutional investors and analysts to join us.
Halma Executive Development Programmes HEDP and HEDP, Innovation is formally recognised in Halma through the annual Halma Management Development Programmes HMDP and Halma Innovation Award which includes a first prize of 20,000 HMDP and Halma Certificate in Applied Technology HCAT.
All for the winning employees.
programme content is continuously reviewed and upgraded as the needs of our business evolve.
During 2013 14, 104 employees The Halma Innovation Award 2014 was won by a collaboration attended these Halma run programmes and many more attended between two of our US-based Environmental & Analysis sector locally organised in-house training or externally run programmes.
In businesses, Avo Photonics and Aquionics.
Avos expertise in recent years, Executive Board members have attended Advanced electro-optics and Aquionics knowledge of UV light disinfection of Management Programmes at Harvard, Wharton, INSEAD and IESE water were combined to develop PearlSenseT.
This is the first product Business Schools.
to use UV LED lamps instead of mercury-based lamps to monitor the effectiveness of UV disinfection systems in real-time.
Compared to The Halma Graduate Development Programme HGDP continues older technology, PearlSenseT offers customers a smaller device to go from strength to strength and our first intake of graduates are footprint, a more robust design, lower operating costs and, through securing their first permanent jobs with Halma companies.
Of the the elimination of mercury, an environmentally friendly solution.
nine graduates who joined this first programme in 2012, seven are still with us and all have proved that they have the potential to make Both runners-up prizes were won by teams from Oseco, which a significant contribution to Halmas future success.
The HGDP 2013 manufactures pressure relief devices for safety-critical processes.
group is also showing high potential and we are close to completing Their winning innovations were a new pressure safety system for recruitment into the HGDP 2014 programme.
shale gas production and a high pressure, high temperature bursting disk used in chemical manufacturing.
Both of these products provide a level of technical performance and reliability way beyond that achieved by the competition, creating two new market niches for Osecos business.
During the year, R&D expenditure grew by 5% to 32.1m 2013: 30.5m excluding disposal.
There was higher R&D investment in allsectors.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 13
