06HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 tHe eConomiC bACkdroP in our mArketS tHiS YeAr IMPROvING GLOBAL SENTIMENT Longer term keY WHAT DRIVES GROWTH?
trendS The global specialist recruitment market is driven primarily byconfidence among businesses to hire skilled people and 1.
LAbour forCe candidate confidence to move jobs.
evoLutionS Including more flexible, project-based In addition, we identify four further factors which drive our performance: the emergence of work, remote working, or the globalisation structural growth markets in specialist recruitment: skillsshortages in certain recruitment of skills and jobs.
The entry to the jobs markets: the globalisation oftheflow of labour: and the macroeconomic cycle.
market of Generation Y and the ageing professional workforce in many mature economies.
2. evoLving teCHnoLogY Impacting how people work, enabling remote working and having a direct impact on the way clients and candidates access the jobs market.
CHAnging CLient mArketS beHAviourS Including clients seeking to add flexibility to their workforce by employing skilled people on a contract or project basis.
CHAnging buSineSS PrACtiCeS Including continued outsourcing of mACrogLobALiSAtion recruitment of skilled employees in many eConomiC of tHe fLow immature markets around the world.
CYCLe of LAbour Strategic report governance financial Statements Shareholder information 06HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 07 we exPerienCed vAried bACkdroPS in our keY mArketS Many of the factors we discuss on the previous page are directly impacted by the uk: CLEAR SIGNS OF BROADprevailing economic conditions.
The health BASED ECONOMIC RECOvERY of the economy and outlook in the markets in which we operate have a direct and often significant impact on activity levels, The UK economy showed clear signs of 7%.
The BoE maintained its supportive approach particularly with respect to the confidence broad-based recovery, with quarterly growth to monetary policy and oversaw a steady decline levels of businesses and individuals.
Activity, in inflation to settle around the 2% target.
In though, was primarily led by higher consumption spite of this fall in inflation, limited average wage In 2014 we saw improved conditions in and strong house-price growth, leading growth resulted in an overall fall in real earnings several key markets, notably the UK and to a focus on when interest rates may rise.
North America, as well as across Asia and Conversely, labour market productivity and A pick up in Mergers & Acquisitions activity many European countries, some of which industrial output remained subdued.
highlighted improved business confidence and had been very challenging for several The year saw a steady fall in unemployment and the number of stock market flotations was the years.
While the recovery in most cases interest rates remained at historically low levels, highest level since the global financial crisis.
has been fragile, it has been generally despite prior BoE forward guidance of a potential consistent, although growth levels overall rate rise linked to a fall of unemployment below are subdued by historical standards.
Importantly, there has been a lack of major economic shocks or significant negative events in the year, which is key to supporting sentiment amongst our clients and candidates.
Major central banks maintained supportive monetary policy measures, with historic low interest rates in regions such as the UK, the US and the Eurozone.
Additionally, germAnY: FUNDAMENTALS SOLID BUT Australia and the Eurozone saw further cuts in base rates, with the ECB introducing TRAJECTORY MORE UNCERTAIN negative deposit rates for banks in a bid to encourage lending to businesses and to In Germany, low unemployment, high job a coalition with the main opposition party, avoid a drift into deflation, as previously security and rising incomes, as well as very low the Social Democrats, which was finalised in seen in Japan.
The recent economic inflation have supported consumer and business December.
This created a degree of uncertainty measures undertaken by the Japanese confidence, while low interest rates offer little regarding future regulations governing Temp Government had a positive effect on both incentive to save, further fuelling domestic and Contractor markets, which has impacted consumption.
However, business sentiment fell recruitment decision-making in certain client businesses and individuals.
towards the end of the year, partially affected by segments.
Elections took place in major economies, global geopolitical instability, notably in Eastern Overall, through the second half of the year, including Germany and Australia, while Europe and Russia, and the ongoing structural economic data was more subdued and GDP geopolitical instability in Eastern Europe issues within the Eurozone.
fell 0.2% in the quarter to June, raising some and the Middle East impacted investor In September 2013s election, Chancellor Merkels concerns about the future trajectory of the sentiment towards the latter part of the party fell short of a majority and entered into German economy.
The outlook for the global economy has broadly strengthened and while the recovery remains fragile, the International Monetary Fund expects it to improve further.
However, lower than expected inflation in advanced economies, escalating geopolitical tensions and increased financial volatility in emerging markets all pose potential risks to growth.
AuStrALiA: SENTIMENT FRAGILE, BUT ECONOMIC GROWTH CONTINUED Although the Australian economy remained Consumer and business confidence remained relatively subdued through the year, it continued fragile through the year, although the positive to grow.
The General Election saw a change effect of lower interest rates and an easing in of Government, which was then faced with the strength of the Australian Dollar led to some immediate pressure to tackle the countrys improvement.
economic slowdown and pledged to overturn As a result, Australias economy grew more than both the mining and carbon taxes.
forecast in the first six months of 2014, boosted After a series of interest rate cuts earlier in the by a rise in exports and domestic consumption.
year the economy experienced a transition phase, with mining investment declining from peak levels as growth slowed in key markets such as China, leading to a fall in the market price of many Australian resources, notably iron ore.
