40HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 our boArd of direCtorS 1 2 3 4 5 6 Strategic report governance financial Statements Shareholder information 40HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 41 1.
ALAn tHomSon 7. torSten kreindL non-executive Chairman independent non-executive director 2.
ALiStAir Cox 8. riCHArd SmeLt Chief executive independent non-executive director 3.
PiPPA wiCkS group finance director independent non-executive director 4.
doug evAnS Senior independent non-executive director Company Secretary & general Counsel 5. wiLLiAm eCCLeSHAre independent non-executive director 6. viCtoriA JArmAn independent non-executive director 7 8 9 10 42HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 our boArd of direCtorS Continued 1.
ALiStAir Cox 53 non-executive Chairman Chief executive Appointed: 1 october 2010 and as Chairman Appointed: 1 September 2007 on10november2010 Skills and experience: A Chartered Engineer with an MBA from Committees: Nomination Chairman Stanford University, Alistairs early career was in various field engineering, management and research science roles with British Skills and experience: A post-graduate of Glasgow University Aerospace and then Schlumberger.
Following his MBA, Alistair andaChartered Accountant, Alans early career was with Arthur worked for McKinsey & Company before joining Blue Circle Industries, Andersen and Price Waterhouse.
This was followed by senior where he was the Group Strategy Director and then the Regional management roles with Rockwell International plc, Raychem Ltd Director for Asia.
Prior to joining Hays, Alistair was Chief Executive andCourtaulds plc, after which he became Finance Director of Rugby of xansa plc.
Group plc and then Smiths Group plc.
Alan is a former Non-Executive Director of Johnson Matthey plc and a past President of the Institute Principal external appointments: Non-Executive Director of of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
Principal external appointments: Chairman of Bodycote plc: 4.
PAuL HArriSon 50 Chairman of Polypipe Group plc: Non-executive Director of Alstom Senior independent non-executive director SA: Non-Executive Director of HSBC Bank plc.
Appointed: 8 may 2007 and Senior independent director on9november 2011 3.
PAuL venAbLeS 52 group finance director Committees: Remuneration Chairman, Audit and Nomination Appointed: 2 may 2006 Skills and experience: Paul trained as a Chartered Accountant Skills and experience: A Chartered Accountant and also USA with Price Waterhouse.
He joined The Sage Group plc as Financial qualified, Paul started his career at Deloitte & Touche where he was Controller in 1997 and was Group Finance Director from 2000 a Senior Manager in its USA practice.
This was followed by a 13-year to 2013.
In September 2013, Paul joined WANdisco plc as Chief career at Exel plc where he held a number of senior finance and Financial Officer.
operational roles including Deputy Group Finance Director and was a member of the Executive Board of Exel plc and Chairman of their 6. viCtoriA JArmAn 42 Acquisitions and Project Review Board.
Following the acquisition of independent non-executive director Exel plc by Deutsche Post, Paul worked in its DHL Logistics division Appointed: 1 october 2011 before joining Hays.
Committees: Audit Chairman, Nominationand Remuneration Principal external appointments: Senior Independent Non-Executive Skills and experience: An engineering graduate of the University Director of Wincanton plc.
of Leicester and a Chartered Accountant, victoria started her career with KPMG before moving to Lazard Corporate Finance, where she 5. wiLLiAm eCCLeSHAre 58 was Chief Operating Officer of Lazards London and Middle East independent non-executive director operations and a member of its European Management Committee.
Appointed: 24 november 2004: retires from the board victoria is currently a Non-Executive Director of fide La Rue plc where after the Annual general meeting on 12 november 2014 she is a member of its Audit, Ethics, Nomination and Remuneration Committees: Audit, Nomination andRemuneration Committees and a Non-Executive Director of Equiniti Group Limited where she is the Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of Skills and experience: A graduate of Cambridge University, the Risk Committee.
William has had an extensive career in international marketing and advertising.
He is a former partner of McKinsey & Company.
He has held the positions of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of each of Young & Rubicam EMEA, Wunderman EMEA and BBDO Europe.
William is currently the Chief Executive Officer of Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings Inc. one of the worlds largest outdoor media companies.
Strategic report governance financial Statements Shareholder information 42HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 43 2 1 3 4 7 8 5 6 9 10 7. torSten kreindL 51 8. riCHArd SmeLt 57 independent non-executive director independent non-executive director Appointed: 1 June 2013 Appointed: 15 november 2007 Committees: Audit, Nomination andRemuneration Committees: Audit, Nomination andRemuneration Skills and experience: A graduate from Johannes Kepler University Skills and experience: A psychology graduate from Leeds University in Linz, Austria with a PhD in industrial engineering and technical with an MBA from the London Business School, Richard is a Fellow of chemistry.
Torsten has held senior executive positions for Booz Allen the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development with a 30-year Hamilton and Deutsche Telekom AG.
He is a partner in Grazia Equity, career in Human Resources.
Richard has previously been the Human a Munich-based capital firm, and a member of the Swisscom Resources Director for Carphone Warehouse Group plc and Northern AGboard.
Rock plc, post nationalisation, and has also worked in private equity.
Richard is presently the HR Director of McCain Foods.
PiPPA wiCkS 51 independent non-executive director 10. doug evAnS 51 Appointed: 1 January 2012 Company Secretary & general Counsel Appointed: 4 february 2013 Committees: Audit, Nomination andRemuneration Skills and experience: A law graduate from Rhodes University who Skills and experience: A post-graduate of Oxford University with began his career with Webber Wentzel in South Africa, specialising a diploma in corporate finance from the London Business School, in corporate and commercial law before moving in-house.
Doug has Pippa started her career with Bain & Company.
She subsequently previously held the posts of Company Secretary & Corporate Legal became Chief Financial Officer of Courtauld Textiles plc and then Director at Exel plc and Group General Counsel at Royal Mail Limited.
Chief Executive Officer of FT Knowledge, the corporate training Prior to joining Hays, Doug was an Executive Director, Company division of Pearson plc.
Her previous non-executive directorships Secretary & General Counsel at Mitchells & Butlers plc.
have been with Ladbrokes plc, Hilton International plc and Arcadia plc.
Pippa is presently the Managing Director of AlixPartners UK LLP.
