56HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 direCtorS rePort Hays is incorporated in the UK and registered reLAted PArtY trAnSACtionS The Articles contain an express authority for as a public limited company in England and Details of the related party transactions the appointment of executive directors and Wales.
Its headquarters are in London and it undertaken during the reporting period are provide the directors with the authority to is listed on the main market of the London contained in note 30 to the Consolidated delegate or confer upon such directors any Stock Exchange.
ofthe powers exercisable by them upon suchterms and conditions and with such StrAtegiC rePort PoSt bALAnCe SHeet eventS restrictions as they see fit.
The Articles A description of the Companys business There have been no significant events to contain additional authorities to delegate model and strategy is set out in the Strategic report since the date of the balance sheet.
powers and discretions to committees and Report along with the factors likely to dividendS subcommittees.
affectthe Groups future development, An interim dividend of 0.83 pence performance and position.
An overview direCtorS PowerS to ALLot And buY 2013: 0.83 pence per Ordinary share was ofthe principal risks and uncertainties faced bACk SHAreS paid to shareholders on 9 April 2014.
The by the Group are also provided in the The directors have the power to authorise the Board recommends the payment of a final Strategic Report.
issue and buy-back of the Companys shares dividend of 1.80 pence 2013: 1.67 pence per by the Company, subject to authority being The Statement of Compliance with the Code Ordinary share, representing a total dividend given to the directors by the shareholders in for the reporting period is contained in the of 2.63 pence 2013: 2.50 pence for the general meeting, applicable legislation and Corporate Governance Statement.
the shareholders of the Company approving Information on environmental, employee, this recommendation at the 2014 AGM, the APPointment And rePLACement social and community matters, including final dividend will be paid on 14 November ofdireCtorS information on gender diversity within the 2014 to those shareholders appearing on the Shareholders may appoint any person who Group, is detailed in the Corporate register of members as at 10 October 2014. iswilling to act as a director by ordinary Responsibility Report.
The ex-dividend date is 9 October 2014. resolution and may remove any director by Information relating to matters addressed ordinary resolution.
The Board may appoint finAnCiAL inStrumentS bythe Audit, Remuneration and Nomination any person to fill any vacancy or as an Details of the financial instruments used by Committees, which operate within clearly additional director, provided that they are the Group are set out in notes 17 to 19 of the defined terms of reference, are set out within submitted for election by the shareholders Consolidated Financial Statements.
A general the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination atthe AGM following their appointment.
outline of Hays use of financial instruments Committee Reports.
Specific conditions apply to the vacation isset out in the treasury management section ofoffice, including cases where a director All of the matters above are incorporated on page 27 of the Financial Review of becomes prohibited by law or regulation byreference into this Directors Report.
from holding office, or is persistently absent The purpose of this Report is to provide direCtorS from directors meetings, or if three-quarters information to the members of the Company, Biographies of the serving directors of Hays of appointed directors request his or her as a body.
The Company, its directors, are provided on pages 42 and 43 of this resignation or in the case of mental employees, agents or advisers do not accept Report.
They all served on the Board incapacity or bankruptcy.
or assume responsibility to any other person throughout the 2014 financial year.
direCtorS intereStS to whom this document is shown or into generAL PowerS of direCtorS Details of the interests of Hays directors whose hands it may come and any such The powers of the directors are contained andtheir connected persons in the ordinary responsibility or liability is expressly inthe Companys Articles of Association.
shares of the Company are outlined in the disclaimed.
This Report contains certain These powers may be exercised by any Remuneration Report.
forward-looking statements with respect to meeting of the Board at which a quorum the operations, performance and financial ofthree directors is present.
The power of the condition of the Group.
By their nature, these Board to manage the business is subject to statements involve uncertainty since future any limitations imposed by the Companies events and circumstances can cause results Act 2006, the Articles of Association and developments to differ from those Articles or any directions given by special anticipated.
The forward-looking statements resolution of the shareholders applicable at reflect knowledge and information available arelevant time.
at the date of preparation of this Report.
Nothing in this Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Strategic report governance financial Statements Shareholder information 56HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 57 direCtorS indemnitieS The Company is not aware of any diLution LimitS in reSPeCt of The Company continues to maintain third agreements between shareholders that SHAreSCHemeS party directors & officers liability insurance might result in the restriction of transfer of The current Association of British Insurers for the benefit of its directors.
This provides voting rights in relation to the shares held ABI guidance on dilution limits provide insurance cover for any claim brought against bysuch shareholders.
that the overall dilution under all share plans directors or officers for wrongful acts in operated by a company should not exceed treASurY SHAreS connection with their positions.
The directors 10% over a 10-year period in relation to the As Hays has only one class of share in issue, have also been granted qualifying third-party Companys share capital, with a further itmay hold a maximum of 10% of its issued indemnities, as permitted under the Companies limitation of 5% in any 10-year period on share capital in treasury.
As at 30 June 2014, Act 2006, which remain in force.
The Companys share plans 3.95% of the Companys shares were held in the insurance nor the indemnities extend to operate within ABI recommended guidelines treasury.
Legislation restricts the exercise of claims arising from fraud or dishonesty and on dilution limits.
rights on Ordinary shares held in treasury.
do not provide cover for civil or criminal The Company is not allowed to exercise mAJor SHAreHoLderS fines or penalties provided by law.
voting rights conferred by the shares whilst As at 30 June 2014, the following SHAre CAPitAL they are held in treasury.
It is prohibited shareholders held an interest of 3% or more Hays has one class of Ordinary shares which frompaying any dividend or making any of the Companys issued share capital: carry no right to fixed income or control over distribution of assets on treasury shares.
These shares may be held in Once in treasury, shares can only be sold voting rights certificated or uncertificated form.
On forcash, transferred to an employee share virtus Trust Limited 7.4% 30June 2014, the Company had 1,464,096,566 scheme or cancelled.
During the 2014 fully paid Ordinary shares in issue, of which financial year, Hays transferred 7,379,069 Cedar Rock Capital Limited 6.6% 57,869,244 Ordinary shares were held in shares out of treasury to satisfy the award Baillie Gifford & Co 5.6% treasury by the Company.
ofshares under the Companys employee Marathon Asset Management 3.4% share schemes.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Heronbridge Investment Companys Ordinary shares are contained SHAreS HeLd bY tHe emPLoYee Management LLP 3.3% inthe Articles.
In brief, the Ordinary shares benefittruSt BlackRock Inc 3.2% allow holders to receive dividends and to The Hays plc Employee Share Trust the exercise one vote on a poll per Ordinary share Trust is an employee benefit trust which Legal & General Group Plc 3.1% for every holder present in person or by proxy holds Ordinary shares in the Company for Standard Life 3.1% at general meetings of the Company.
They employee share schemes purposes.
The total On 27 August 2014 the Company was notified that the also have the right to a return of capital on number of shares held by the Trust as at the interest in its shares held by Baillie Gifford was 5.08%.
the winding up of the Company.
year end are detailed in note 28 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page There are no restrictions on the size of 105.
The shares will be held in the Trust until holding or the transfer of shares, which are such time as they may be transferred to both governed by the general provisions of participants of the various Group share the Companys Articles and legislation.
No voting rights are exercised in the Articles, the directors have the power to relation to shares unallocated to individual suspend voting rights and the right to receive beneficiaries.
dividends in respect of Ordinary shares and to refuse to register a transfer of Ordinary shares in circumstances where the holder of those shares fails to comply with a notice issued under Section 793 of the Companies Act 2006.
The directors also have the power to refuse to register any transfer of certificated shares that does not satisfy theconditions set out in the Articles.
58HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 direCtorS rePort Continued emPLoYeeS Hays believes that loyalty works and This confirmation should be interpreted in Our goal at Hays is for our people to reach considers its employee incentive programme accordance with Section 418 of the their full potential and to give of their best of commission schemes, performance-related Companies Act 2006. as individuals and in teams.
In this context, cash bonuses and share schemes to be 2014 AnnuAL rePort And ACCountS we are committed to never discriminating on important factors in keeping its employees On the recommendation of the Audit the grounds of race, colour, creed, disability, motivated.
The employee share schemes Committee and having considered all matters religion, ethnic origin, gender, sexual have been running successfully since brought to the attention of the Board during orientation or age.
All Hays employees are inception and provide many employees the financial year, the Board is satisfied that required to abide by these principles which with an additional stake in the business.
the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a are set out in the Groups Equal Opportunities going ConCern whole, is fair, balanced and understandable.
Policy and Code of Conduct.
The Groups business activities, together The Board believes that the disclosures set Hays gives full consideration to applications with the factors likely to affect its future out in the Annual Report provide the for employment from disabled persons development, performance and position information necessary for shareholders to where they have the right skills and abilities are set out in the Strategic Report.
The assess the Companys performance, business for the role.
Should an employee become financial position of the Group, its cash flows model and strategy.
disabled whilst working for the Group, Hays and liquidity position are described in the AnnuAL generAL meeting would make every effort to accommodate Financial Review, with details of the Groups The Notice of AGM, to be held at 12 noon them, to assist them in any re-training or to treasury activities, long-term funding on12 November 2014 at the offices of UBS, find suitable alternative employment within arrangements and exposure to financial 100Liverpool Street, London EC2M 2RH, the Group.
risk included in notes 18 and 19 to the iscontained in a separate circular to Consolidated Financial Statements.
emPLoYee invoLvement shareholders which is being mailed or Ongoing communication forms the basis The Group has sufficient financial resources otherwise provided to shareholders at of the partnership between Hays leadership which, together with internally generated the same time as this Report.
Employees receive business cash flows, will continue to provide sufficient The Notice of Meeting sets out the resolutions performance updates from Alistair Cox, the sources of liquidity to fund its current to be proposed at the AGM and gives details Chief Executive, and from their respective operations, including its contractual and of the voting record date and proxy regional managing directors, by email on a commercial commitments and any proposed appointment deadline for that Meeting.
These are posted on the dividends.
The Group is therefore well placed Groups intranet, which acts as a source of to manage its business risks, despite the Auditor reference for the Groups brand, values, current uncertain economic outlook.
Resolutions 13 and 14 at the forthcoming policies and procedures.
Regular AGM will respectively propose the After making enquiries, the directors presentations are also made to employees by reappointment of Deloitte LLP as Auditor have formed the judgment at the time of the Chief Executive and regional managing ofthe Company and authorise the directors approving the financial statements, that directors during office visits made over the to determine its remuneration.
These there is a reasonable expectation that the course of the year.
resolutions will be proposed as ordinary Group has adequate resources to continue resolutions and shall have effect until the Hays continues to provide tailored training in operational existence for the foreseeable conclusion of the next general meeting of to the people who are in the front line of future.
For this reason, they continue to theCompany at which accounts are laid.
delivering recruitment solutions as well as adopt the going concern basis of accounting in management and leadership roles.
These in preparing the Consolidated Financial PoLitiCAL donAtionS programmes take a number of different Statements.
The Company made no political donations guises across the Groups regional businesses during the year and intends to maintain its ArtiCLeS of ASSoCiAtion but all share the common goal of improving policy of not making such payments.
It will The Companys Articles may only be amended the service we provide to clients.
however as a precautionary measure to by special resolution of the shareholders.
avoidinadvertent breach of the law, seek To ensure that Hays employees remain diSCLoSure of informAtion shareholder authority at the 2014 AGM to engaged in its business, an annual employee to tHe Auditor make limited donations or incur limited engagement survey, known as TALKback, is So far as the directors who held office at the political expenditure, although it has no carried out each year.
This allows employees date of approval of this Report are aware, intention of using the authority.
to voice their views and opinions on all there is no relevant audit information of aspects of their workplace environment, Resolution 15 will be proposed as an ordinary which the external Auditor is unaware and training and development, work culture, resolution to seek authority to make political each director has taken all steps that he or leadership and client relations.
The results, donations, and if passed, such authority shall she ought to have taken as a director to make which indicate employee engagement levels expire at the conclusion of the 2015 AGM.
himself or herself aware of any relevant audit and highlight any areas of concern, are information and to establish that the external presented to the Management Board Auditor is aware of that information.
Strategic report governance financial Statements Shareholder information 58HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 59 AutHoritY to ALLot SHAreS The price paid for Ordinary shares will not At the 2013 AGM, shareholders authorised beless than the nominal value of 1 pence per the directors, subject to the Companies Act share and not more than the higher of 5% 2006, to allot Ordinary shares or grant rights above the average of the middle market to subscribe for or grant rights to subscribe quotations of the Companys Ordinary shares for or convert any securities into shares as derived from the London Stock Exchange.
without the prior consent of shareholders.
Resolution 18 will be proposed as a special This authority expires at the conclusion of resolution to renew this authority for a period the2014 AGM.
Accordingly, Resolution 16 expiring at the conclusion of the 2015 AGM.
willbe proposed as an ordinary resolution torenew this authority for a period expiring notiCe of generAL meetingS at the conclusion of the 2015 AGM.
The The notice period required by the Companies directors have no present intention of Act 2006 for general meetings of the exercising this authority.
Company is 21 clear days, unless shareholders approve a shorter notice period, which diSAPPLiCAtion of Pre-emPtion rigHtS cannot however be less than 14 clear days.
Also at last years meeting, a special resolution was passed under the Companies At last years AGM, shareholders authorised Act 2006 empowering the directors to allot the calling of general meetings other than equity securities for cash without first being anAGM on not less than 14 clear days notice required to offer such shares to existing and Resolution 19 will be proposed as a shareholders.
Resolution 17 will seek to renew special resolution and seeks to renew this this authority.
If approved, the resolution will authority.
The authority granted by this authorise directors in accordance with the resolution, if passed, will be for a period Articles to issue shares in connection with expiring at the conclusion of the 2015 AGM.
arights issue and otherwise to issue shares The flexibility offered by this resolution will for cash up to a specified maximum nominal beused where, taking into account the amount which includes the sale on a nonprecircumstances, the directors consider this emptive basis of any shares held in treasury.
appropriate in relation to the business to Resolution 17 will be proposed as a special beconsidered at the meeting and in the resolution to renew this authority for a period interests of the Company and shareholders expiring at the conclusion of the 2015 AGM.
AutHoritY to PurCHASe own SHAreS reCommendAtion A special resolution was also passed at last The directors consider that all the resolutions years meeting enabling the Company to to be put to the meeting are in the best purchase its own shares in the market.
interests of the Company and its shareholders Resolution 18 will seek to renew this authority.
Your Board will be voting in The directors intend only to exercise this favour of them and unanimously authority if to do so would, in their opinion, recommends that you do so as well.
The Company By order of the Board will have the option of holding, as treasury shares, any of its own shares that it purchases doug evAnS pursuant to the authority conferred by this Company Secretary resolution.
This would give the Company the 28 August 2014 ability to sell treasury shares, providing the Company with flexibility in the management of its employee shares schemes.
No dividends will be paid on shares whilst held in treasury and no voting rights will attach to the treasury shares.
