Strategic Financial Other HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2014 report Governance statements information 5 A proven strategy to deliver growth The Board of Directors is responsible for strategy and monitoring the Groups progress against strategic objectives.
Executive management is responsible for implementing strategy through a sustainable business model, which is effective and decentralised, and designed to maximise responsiveness to local market conditions and to minimise central overhead costs.
Strategic focus enables it to provide comprehensive cable management solutions to its customers.
The Group is committed to continue Although focused on cable management, delivering long-term revenue growth of HellermannTytons products are often between 3% and 4% above the growth in not unique to a particular end-market or global industrial production.
In the five-year geography and it aims to identify new period since 2009, the Group has achieved opportunities for its solutions that enable a constant currency revenue growth of it to scale up its successes through mass approximately 14%CAGR.
The Group has considerable expertise and capabilities to develop and HellermannTyton is well placed to take introduce innovative new products and advantage of underlying structural growth solutions where opportunities are identified.
opportunities, given its broad range of solutions and market-leading position in its Through its understanding of local core geographies.
Further details of these and regional industry requirements, its industry growth drivers are provided on technical expertise, broad product portfolio and strong operational capabilities, the pages 6 and 7.
Group intends to take advantage of the HellermannTytons aim is to continue opportunities in its markets to further to extend its leadership in the cable increase its market share by focusing on areas with high growth potential, management industry and to be its strengthening its presence in higher customers partner of choice by providing growth geographies and increasing consistent, high-quality, reliable and customer penetration.
innovative solutions, as well as strong customer service.
The following are key For example, the Group expects to benefit elements of the Groups strategy: from the increasing demand for cable management solutions in higher growth focus on providing cable end-markets such as alternative energy management solutions for and mass transit, where the Group already chosen markets provides a strong range of products.
design and produce innovative High levels of quality and service are products and solutions essential to ensuring HellermannTytons position as a leader in cable management strengthen presence in geographies and the Group therefore invests in its with high growth opportunities infrastructure to maintain this position.
increase customer penetration Overall, the Group believes that its strategy will help it meet its focus on areas with the highest objective of outperforming growth in growth potential within thechosen underlying industrial production levels.
market segments Oxford Economics has forecast that global industrial production will grow at a CAGR continue to invest in the Groups of 3.2% in the period from 2014 to 2018. infrastructure to maintain high service levels whilst minimising The case studies on pages 14 and 15 provide overall cost at the point of delivery specific examples of how the key elements of the strategy address specific structural growth A key aspect of the Groups strategy is to drivers to deliver strategic objectives.
have an extensive range of products that HellermannTyton 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Industry structural growth drivers Increasing functionality End-users and consumers demand Similar trends exist in cars where the Structural growth drivers ever-increasing amounts of safety and amount of wire and cable has increased Increasing end-user demand for safety, comfort features and functionality from from a couple of hundred metres in comfort and functionality, driving up the 1 the equipment and appliances that the 1960s to several kilometres today.
content of cable and wiring, all of which they use or encounter.
This increases In aircraft or ships it can be many needcable management solutions the amount of wired infrastructure.
HellermannTyton estimates, for example, Deeper penetration of these expectations All of this requires cable management, that the front carriage of a high speed inemerging economies and, as every platform and type of train typically contains around 30km of equipment is different, each design needs wire and cable.
Urbanisation and growing middle classes Urbanisation drives the need for These populations have sufficient Structural growth drivers investment in infrastructure such as disposable income to buy discretionary Increased investment in mass transit railways and airports, with corresponding items such as white goods and infrastructure and growth in air travel 2 investment in rolling stock and aircraft cars, all of which have power and to meet the transportation needs of data requirements.
Increasing disposable incomes fuelling the population.
discretionary purchases including cars and All these trends help drive the need white goods Also, more people in emerging for increasing volumes of products economies are moving into income and equipment that require cable Higher aspirations and expectations of management solutions.
segments where the consumption of consumers in terms of reliability, comfort goods and services increases rapidly.
and functionality World population billions 4.2 3.7 2025 2010 2.4 4.4 1990 1.2 4.0 1970 0.9 2.8 1950 0.3 2.2 1900 0.1 1.5 0 2 4 6 8 Consuming classes Below consuming classes Source: McKinsey Global Institute Denition: Consuming classes are people with incomes high enough to become significant consumers of goods and services.
Environmental factors The drive to increase fuel efficiency and to ensure these solutions are suitable for Structural growth drivers reduce emissions of carbon dioxide CO2 thedemands placed on them.
Improving fuel economy by replacing metal and other compounds arefavourable parts with lighter plastic components Another example is the replacement of 3 trends for HellermannTyton.
fossil fuels in power generation, which High growth of investment in renewable One example is the drive to reduce creates some high growth end-markets energy sources such as solar and wind in order the weight of cars and mass transit to for HellermannTyton to target, such as 2 to reduce CO emissions and diversify sources improve fuel efficiency that is resulting in wind and solar where components are of power generation the replacement of metal components exposed to demanding conditions such with lighter plastic ones.
Leading-edge as extremes of weather and long-term materials technology is often needed to exposure to corrosion.
Cumulative global investment in renewable energies $ billion 1,500 1,200 900 600 300 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Source: Renewable Energy Policy Network Strategic Financial Other HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2014 report Governance statements information 7 Evolving customer and industry standards Safety and performance are critical to There are also standards for products Structural growth drivers manufactured products.
Consequently, such as those that, for example, limit Manufacturers are required to meet an industries such as aerospace, railway, the amount of hazardous materials increasing number of industry and customer 4 defence and automotive have standards they contain.
standards and approvals which reflect their specific requirements.
New standards are continually being For example, the automotive industry Increasing focus on safety and reliability driving introduced whilst existing standards TS16949 certification is a prerequisite up the need for more product compliance evolve, resulting in more opportunities for to supply many automotive customers.
HellermannTyton to introduce innovative Additionally, many customers have their solutions and creating more barriers to own specific requirements.
Timeline for implementation of nationwide emissions standards for gasoline light duty vehicles Year of implementation all sales and registrations Brazil L-5 L-6 China China 3 China 4 China 5 European Union Euro 4 Euro 5a Euro 5b Euro 6 Australia Euro 4 Euro 6 Core Euro 5 Full Euro 5 Russia Euro 3 Euro 4 Euro 5 Tier 2 Tier 3 Phase-in United States 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Source: International Council on Clean Transportation Reduction in number of vendors Vendor reduction in the Structural growth drivers OEMs have been increasingly limiting aerospace industry the number of suppliers on their new OEMs reducing number of suppliers Number of suppliers programmes and requiring collaborative in order to simplify supply chains and 5 0 50 100 150 200 250 partners with design and development improve efficiency capabilities.
This is an established trend in the car industry, where Ford announced Wholesalers and distributors consolidating in 2013 its aim to reduce its number of purchase of cable management products component suppliers from 1,260 in 2012 with strategic suppliers to 750.
It is also a strong trend in other industries, including aerospace, meaning that OEMs are increasingly looking for suppliers that can provide all their cable Airbus A330 1994 A350 2014 management needs and deliver added value in terms of design and development Bombardier of integrated solutions.
CRJ 700-900 2001 CSeries 2014 Rolls-Royce Trent 500 2002 Trent XWB 2014 Source: Deloitte Globalisation As the automotive industry strives to Global design, manufacturing and Structural growth drivers achieve economies of scale and efficient supply chain capabilities are therefore Increasing focus of OEMs manufacturing product launches, major OEMs are all key elements that are increasingly larger volumes of passenger cars on 6 increasingly focusing on manufacturing important to customers when choosing select global platforms a larger proportion of passenger cars their suppliers.
These platforms International tendering of projects, but with Global light vehicle production are used to design and produce vehicles the need for local content Millions across segments and brands on a global 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 scale.
For example, in 2011, General Consolidation of customer base Motors announced that, by 2018, it 2018 will cut its vehicle architecture by 50%, meaning more cars will be built onmore 2013 standardised global platforms.
2007 Globalisation strategies exist in other industries such as the consolidation of the Mega platforms 1m Other electrical wholesale market, which benefit strategic suppliers to the larger customers Large platforms 500k 1m in those industries.
