HellermannTyton 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Key performance indicators Each business unit uses a set of detailed operational and financial KPIs to measure and track day-to-day activity.
These are often specific to the activities of the individual operation and can be difficult to quantify or aggregate to a group level in a meaningful way.
The Group has therefore determined that the following KPIs are an effective way to measure and track progress towards achieving HellermannTytons strategic objectives.
Definition Objectives Constant currency sales growth Year-on-year revenue growth, on a constant Constant currency sales growth is a measure of currency basis using 2014 average exchange how we are growing our business organically, rates, and excluding the effects of acquisitions excluding the effects of changing exchange 1 3.5% and divestments.
We aimtoachieve year-on-year constant currency organic growth insales 2013: 11.1% of 34% above the rate of growth of global industrial production.
Definition Objectives Underlying return on sales Underlying EBITA as a percentage of sales.
Underlying return on sales is a measure of A reconciliation of underlying EBITA to reported profitability in our business.
Our intention is to operating profit is presented on page 17. maintain a return in the mid-teens throughout 15.2% the cycle as we continue to invest in resources and infrastructure to grow the business.
2013: 15.4% Definition Objectives Underlying EBITDA margin Underlying EBITDA as a percentage of sales.
Underlying EBITDA margin is a measure of Areconciliation of underlying EBITDA to profitability in our business.
Our intention is reported operating profit is presented on to maintain the underlying EBITDA margin at 19.4% page 17. around the 20% level throughout the cycle as we continue to invest in resources and 2013: 19.5% infrastructure to grow the business.
Definition Objectives Underlying basic earnings per share Underlying basic EPS is the ratio of underlying We aim to achieve growth in underlying earnings to the weighted average number of basicEPS.
ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
26.08 cents Underlying earnings excludes certain nonoperational items which are presented in Note 5 2013: 22.81 cents of the consolidated financial statements.
Definition Objectives CO emissions 2 CO emissions are defined as tonnes of CO Good environmental practice and the 2 2 created from the Groups electrical and gas usage impactthat our operations have on the plus fuel consumption for business miles travelled environment are of great importance to 2.22 tonnes by Company vehicles, per million parts produced HellermannTyton and we aim to achieve by the Groups manufacturing operations.
continuous improvement in the energy 2013: 2.48 tonnes andfuel efficiencyof our activities.
