HellermannTyton 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Business model The Groups broad diversification, global presence and decentralised management structureensure responsiveness to customer and market needs for cable management solutions.
A focus on innovation exists throughout the Groups activities.
Procurement Manufacturing Highly automated Secondary operations, e. g. production, e. g. Raw materials, e. g. Assembly PA66 Injection moulding Packing PEEK Blow moulding ETFE Extrusion Outsourced components andfinished products Examples of innovation throughout business model Collaboration with suppliers on leadingMould design for effective manufacture Automation of assembly edge materials technology and packaging for quality Automation, cycle time reduction and and repeatability energy-efficient machinery Lean manufacturing multiple sources of supply for these raw Situating manufacturing local to customers Strong development capabilities materials and products and seeks to maintain also enables the Group to manage the impact The Group possesses the technical expertise strong relationships with suppliers.
Suppliers are of exchange rates on the business by matching to design and manufacture products and regularly reviewed and evaluated to ensure costs, as far as practical, with the currencies develop customised designs and solutions they provide the highest quality service while in which theproducts are sold, and ensures to meet its customers cable management optimising  margins.
responsiveness to local market conditions.
needs in every region of the world.
These can then be standardised for mass production to World-class manufacturing Global supply chain achieve economies of scale.
The know-how and HellermannTyton currently operates world-class Maintaining distribution centres in close technical expertise accumulated in developing, production facilities in 12 primary locations proximity to its customers gives HellermannTyton designing and manufacturing the Groups across ten countries.
These production locations a deep understanding of local requirements products in-house give it a distinct advantage operate over 400 injection moulding machines and regulations thereby allowing it to target over competitors with more centralised models.
and carry out other activities such as extrusion those local markets with high levels of service.
Local product development capabilities enable and secondary operations.
The Groups worldThis proximity has also created a flexible supply fast and responsive development of solutions class production facilities are highly automated chain capable of responding quickly to shortfor customers, wherever they require the and utilise the principles of lean manufacturing.
term fluctuations in customer demand and Groups design expertise.
A global design They are integrated globally but managed on delivering orders in a cost-effective manner on database enables regional development teams a regional basis in order to optimise capital a short lead time.
The Group also utilises thirdto efficiently share ideas and collaborate on investment, manufacturing and freight costs party warehousing and logistics where it makes global projects.
while achieving economies of scale.
many accreditations and approvals such as Procurement Complete cable management solutions ISO14001 certification for environmental management systems and TS16949 for the The Groups largest raw material purchases are The broad product range focused on cable automotive industry, as well as many customerplastics, including PA66 and PVC.
It also uses management is a key part of the business model.
third-party manufacturers for the manufacturing The Group offers over 20,000 products in more of certain items, as well as for sourcing some than 70,000 SKUs which are grouped into five finished goods.
The Group strives to obtain product categories Fixings, Insulation and Strategic Financial Other HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2014 report Governance statements information 13 Distribution Sales and marketing Logistics, warehousing and distribution OEMs Tier suppliers Wholesalers Distributors End-of-line shipping to customer Optimised management of inventory levels Customer-led innovation of new solutions Automation of picking in warehouses Mass customisation to other markets and geographies Market-leading customer interface and e-business capabilities Protection, Network Connectivity, Identification The breadth of its product offering therefore These capabilities, together with the Groups and Installer Solutions.
These categories are enables the Group to provide a broad range of strong presence on the ground in key chosen as they best describe the cable cable management solutions to its customers geographies, enable it to cement its position management function of the individual worldwide.
The Group also has longstanding asthe partner of choice for its customers in components within the category.
For example, customer relationships with processes being thecable management industry.
the Fixings products help secure or attach a pre-approved, where required.
This saves Broad diversification bundle of cables or wires to a piece of customers time and costs by eliminating equipment or structure, whereas products in the theneed for them to undertake multiple HellermannTytons relationships with its Protection category help to protect the cables approval processes for particular products customers have been established over many and wires from damage such as abrasion indifferent geographies.
years and help to entrench the Group in its endor impact.
markets, enabling it to anticipate and respond Sales and marketing toemerging opportunities and trends.
Any given cable management situation faced by HellermannTyton has strong brand recognition HellermannTytons customers is likely to require The Groups business is diversified across regions, for the quality, service and reliability that it products from several categories in order to customers, end-markets and product lines, thus provides.
Its strong and integrated marketing provide a complete solution.
A key aspect of the giving it exposure to a wide range of different capabilities, which include a central global business model is therefore that it provides a growth trends and enhancing its overallresilience product database, enable the Group to target comprehensive range of products that enable to cyclicality in particular markets or regions.
technical and marketing information toparticular the Group to provide solutions to its customers, This diversification enhances the Groups stability markets and geographies which offer attractive as shown in the wind and aerospace examples and protects against reliance on any particular growth opportunities and therefore quickly on pages 10 and11.
The Groups industry-leading These needs are often not unique to a particular e-business capabilities enable it to integrate with The case studies on pages 14 and 15 customer, industry or region, and HellermannTyton its customers systems and deliver the most upprovidespecific examples of the business is able to use its scale to offer successful products to-date content in whichever format is required model in action, together with the strategy from one particular market or geography in by theend-user.
that enables the Group to harness growth another with a strategy that it describes as from the underlying structural growth drivers.
