HellermannTyton 8 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report End-markets and customers Each industry has its own cable management needs with its own requirements in terms of specification, design, quality, reliability, service and installation efficiency.
HellermannTyton uses its comprehensive product range and world-class technical leadership to create customised solutions to the cable management needs of its worldwidecustomer base.
These solutions are specified by the OEMs and installers, then delivered directly to their production lines, their tier suppliers or via the wholesale and distribution channels.
Solar energy Wind energy Rail transportation Automotive Industrial automation Electronics Electrical installation Aerospace Oil and gas Shipbuilding Defence Telecommunications Truck and bus Agricultural equipment Mining equipment White goods Strategic Financial Other HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2014 report Governance statements information 9 Comprehensive cable management solutions Example: Wire harnesses for vehicles The complex electrical architecture in vehicles requires wire harnesses with cablemanagement products specified and approved by the OEM The wire harnesses are assembled byharness makers, often in a low labour cost country or region HellermannTyton produces a comprehensive range of cable management solutions that are assembled directly onto vehicles orwire harnesses as required Insulation Fixings Protection Identification Application tools HellermannTyton 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Comprehensive cable management solutions continued Example: Wind turbine industry HellermannTytons product range covers cable management requirements within the wind turbine, as well as the network infrastructure of the wind farm.
Where necessary, these are fireproof and resistant to UV weathering, extreme temperature and vibrations.
The Groups technical experts work directly with customers to develop optimised solutions, and then seek opportunities to scale up the success with other customers or markets.
1 2 3 4 5 Cable ties make it easy Heat shrinkable tubing Spiral hoses are very Cable clamps for heavy The HelaGuard range to secure cables in many has very good electrical robust and can withstand load applications made of includes hoses, fastening demanding applications insulation properties and strong mechanical forces.
impact-resistant polyamide clamps and screw e. g. for fastening power physical strength.
They ensure reliable line provide the best durability connections in a variety of andenergy cables in the Suitablefor cable joints protection especially in in extreme climatic designs and specifications, nacelle on top of the andtermination in thehollow shaft between conditions.
to protect wires and cables towersegment.
6 7 3 The HellermannTyton TIPTAG identification 1 Loop Spacer designed plates were developed specifically to ensure especially for permanent optimal routing and loading under tough reduced abrasion of high conditions suitable for voltage cables in thetower.
marking large diameter hydraulic hoses, and cables 7 5 for drives or power cables.
4 8 RapidNet is the innovative solution used 9 forminimising wind park Glass fibre splicing joints control centre installation provide secure routing and 2 times.
The modular, connection of sensitive pluggable system consists glass fibre cable networks ofpre-assembled in wind farms.
Numerous point-to-point connections sizes and configurations made of glass fibre and the enable customised latest copper technologies.
6 8 9 Strategic Financial Other HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2014 report Governance statements information 11 Example: Aerospace industry Current conditions in the aerospace industry, with a focus on fuel efficiency, mean thatproducts must belight yet sturdy, and display space-saving capabilities whilst withstanding the highest mechanical loads.
HellermannTyton products are distinguished bytheir extreme stability, durability, resilience, resistance to heat andcold, shock resistance, fire safety, resistance to UV and weathering, as well as their weight-saving properties.
1 2 3 4 5 Cable ties are available in Helagaine expandable Heat shrinkable tubing is Dual swivel connecting The outside serrated different materials to allow braided sleeves, made of available in a range of elements can be rotated cable ties are best suited cables to be easily bundled meta-aramid, protect the materials and dimensions through 360 allowing for sensitive cable bundles.
and secured throughout the cables in the most extreme with features to enable wires, tubing or cable Designed to withstand air frame in applications conditions such as high theelectrical insulation of bundles to be aligned to high temperatures and requiring high weather temperatures, abrasion, wires.
Aerospace each other whilst keeping increased fire protection resistance, heat stability or radiation or exposure to applications include cockpit them apart, e. g. the air requirements: these are fire protection.
conditioning piping in often used on thewings.
1 3 6 TULT DS is a heat-shrink 7 SBPAV0 spiral binding material pre-cut and which meets fire protection formatted onto a classUL94 V0, provides convenient ladder system mechanical protection that allows printing on andcan be easily removed bothsides of the marker.
Applications on wiring 6 2 harnesses throughout 8 theaircraft.
9 7 9 Wide range of heat shrinkable moulded shapes 5 for numerous applications 4 8 PEEK ties are intended including the engine from for applications in high straight and right-angled temperature environments plug-in connector end bells up to 240C, making them to multi-pronged splitters particularly useful near the and spreader and end caps.
They are also extremely resistant to acids and radiation.
