HellermannTyton 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Board of Directors David Newlands John Biles Chairman Non-executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee Appointed: February 2013 Appointed: February 2013 Experience: David Newlands qualified as a Chartered Accountant Experience: John Biles qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Price with Deloitte & Touche in 1968 and was admitted to the partnership Waterhouse & Co, following which he held the position of Financial at the age of 30.
In 1989, he joined The General Electric Company Director at various subsidiaries of Racal Electronics Plc and then plc and spent eight years as Group Finance Director.
Since leaving successively Group Finance Director of Chubb Security Plc and FKI Plc.
the Company in 1997, he has held numerous directorships with Since 2001, he has served in numerous non-executive roles with companies such as Standard Life Assurance, Britax International plc companies such as Charter International PLC and Viridian Group PLC.
and Tomkins plc, amongst others.
He holds a Bachelor of Sciences Combined Honours degree in Chemistry and Physics from the University of Exeter.
Committee memberships: Nomination Committee Chairman, Remuneration Committee.
Other roles: John Biles is currently a Non-executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Bodycote PLC, Skyepharma plc Steve Salmon and Sutton & East Surrey Water plc.
Executive Director and Chief Executive Committee memberships: Nomination Committee, Audit Appointed: Executive Director in March 2013, Chief Executive in Committee Chairman, Remuneration Committee.
February 2006 David Lindsell Experience: Steve Salmon has been the team leader of the business Non-executive Director and Chairman of the for 19 years, previously as Group President and Group General Remuneration Committee Manager.
Having qualified as a Chartered Accountant at the age of 21, he went into industry initially at Courtaulds London head Appointed: February 2013 office in 1970, joining the Bowthorpe Group then owners of the Experience: David Lindsell spent almost 30 years as a partner at Ernst HellermannTyton business in 1973, where he became Group Financial & Young and served as the lead audit partner for numerous FTSE 100 Controller in 1985. companies during his career at the firm.
He was Deputy Chairman Tim Jones of the Financial Reporting Review Panel from 2008 to 2012 and has served on a number of professional bodies relating to financial Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer reporting and the accountancy profession.
He graduated from Appointed: Executive Director in March 2013, Chief Financial Officer Cambridge University with a Bachelors degree in History and is in February 2006 a Chartered Accountant.
Experience: Tim Jones was appointed Chief Financial Officer of the Other roles: David Lindsell is currently a Non-executive Director and Group in February 2006.
He was previously Head of Internal Control Chairman of the Audit Committees of Premier Oil plc and Drax Group at Spirent plc, with a reporting line to the Audit Committee, a role plc.
He is also Deputy Chair of Governors of the University of the Arts he held for five years.
Prior to that, he was Group Management London and a Trustee and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Accountant.
He spent 11 years working for fide La Rue plc in a number Cancer Research UK.
of financial roles, including Management Accountant at both divisional Committee memberships: Nomination Committee, Audit and business unit level.
He has a Bachelor of Arts degree in Business Committee, Remuneration Committee Chairman.
Studies from Bournemouth University and is qualified as a Chartered Management Accountant.
Tim Hancock Senior Non-executive Director Appointed: February 2013 Experience: Tim Hancock has over 35 years experience in the investment banking industry and was formerly a Managing Director and Partner at Rothschild.
In the past 15 years, he has served as a Non-executive Director to several companies and charities, including British-Borneo Petroleum PLC and the British Neurological Research Trust.
He holds a Bachelor of Arts degree with Honours in Modern History from the University of Oxford.
Other roles: Tim Hancock is also a Director of Thos Proctor & Son Limited, a Senior Advisor to Douglas Bay Capital plc and a Trustee of St Peter & St James Hospice.
Committee memberships: Nomination Committee, Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee.
