Strategic Financial Other HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2014 report Governance statements information 47 Directors report Introduction Authority to allot shares and disapplication of pre-emption rights This Directors report, which has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, also includes disclosures The Directors were granted authority at the 2014 AGM to allot made in the following sections: relevant securities up to maximum aggregate nominal amount of 717,922, save in connection with a pre-emptive offer by way of details of the Groups principal activities, likely future developments, rights issue, in which case the authority permitted the allotment of greenhouse gas emissions, research and development activities and ordinary shares up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of employee information, as set out in the Strategic report pages 4 1,436,059.
This authority is renewable annually and the Directors to 21 : will seek to renew it again at the 2015 AGM.
the Corporate governance report pages 24 to 27 : A special resolution will also be proposed to renew the Directors details of the Companys risk management objectives and policies authority to waive the statutory pre-emption rights applicable to the and the Companys exposure to market risk, credit risk and liquidity allotment of equity securities for cash for a period ending at the close risk, as set out in the Strategic report page 19 the Audit Committee of the 2016 AGM.
This resolution proposes to confer on the Board the report pages 29 to 32 and Note 3 to the financial statements.
authority to issue ordinary shares for cash either i by way of a rights issue or other pre-emptive issue or ii other than by way of a preOther information to be disclosed in the Directors report is given in emptive issue, in the latter case limited to a total of 5% of the issued this section.
share capital of the Company.
The Board does not intend to issue For the purposes of LR 9.8.
4C R, details of the Companys long-term more than 7.5% of the issued share capital of the Company for cash incentive schemes are disclosed in the Directors remuneration report on a non-pre-emptive basis in any rolling three-year period without starting on page 33.
All other information required to be disclosed by prior consultation with the shareholders and the Investment LR 9.8.
4 R is not applicable for the period under review.
Committees of the Association of British Insurers and the National Association of Pension Funds.
Conflicts of interest Authority to purchase own shares The Companys articles of association enable the Board to authorise conflicts of interest matters pursuant to Section 175 of the Companies At the 2014 AGM, the Company was authorised by shareholders to Act 2006.
No conflicts of interest arose during the year.
purchase up to 10% of its ordinary shares in the market, as permitted under the Companys articles of association.
That authority will apply Final dividend until the conclusion of the 2015 AGM and a special resolution will be proposed to renew this authority at the 2015 AGM.
As before, this The Company has proposed that a final dividend of 5.63 cents per authority will be limited to 21,539,811 ordinary shares and will set the share will be paid in respect of the year ended 31 December 2014. minimum and maximum prices that will be paid.
Under the Companies Act 2006, the Company is allowed to hold its Share capital own shares in treasury following a buyback, instead of cancelling them The Company has the following single class of shares in issue: as previously required.
Such shares may be resold for cash or used to satisfy share options and share awards under the Companys share Class of share Number of shares in issue incentive schemes but all rights attaching to them, including voting Ordinary shares rights and any right to receive dividends, are suspended whilst they of 0.01 each 215,398,109 are held in treasury.
The ordinary shares carry the right to the profits of the Company At the year end, the Company had purchased 50,294 of its own available for distribution and to the return of capital on a winding up shares in accordance with its Global Share Plan, which are held in of the Company.
The ordinary shares carry the right to attend and treasury by the Companys employees share trust.
speak at general meetings of the Company: each share holds the right to one vote.
The ordinary shares were admitted to trading on the Official List of the London Stock Exchange on 2 April 2013.
HellermannTyton 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors report continued Share transfer restrictions Auditors The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of  LLP, Chartered Accountants, the Companys the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer external auditors, have expressed their willingness to be reappointed as of shares or on voting rights.
Upon the recommendation of the Audit Committee, resolutions to reappoint them as the Companys auditors Provisions on change of control and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the 2015 AGM.
The Groups revolving credit facility provides that, on any change of control of the Company, any lender under the agreement is entitled to Annual general meeting i not fund a new utilisation of the facility, and ii with ten days notice cancel the facility commitment and receive repayment of amounts The notice convening the AGM to be held on 29 April 2015 at owing to such lender.
11.30 a. m. is contained in a circular sent out to shareholders with this report.
The meeting will be held at Hotel Sofitel, Gatwick Airport, Political donations Crawley, West Sussex, RH6 0PH.
The notice of AGM contains full details of the resolutions that will be put to shareholders.
The Company did not make any political donations during 2014 Special business Major shareholdings At the AGM, a special resolution will be proposed that, in accordance As at 27 February 2015, the Company had been notified, in with the Companys articles of association, a general meeting other accordance with Rule 5 of the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules than an AGM may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
of the UK Listing Authority, of the following major shareholdings in the ordinary share capital of the Company: Hayley Whitehead Company Secretary Number Percentage of of shares issued capital 27 February 2015 Name held % Standard Life Investments 32,288,400 14.99 Registered office Mondrian Investment 12,677,366 5.89 Griffin House Partners Ltd 135 High Street Ruffer LLP 10,959,389 5.09 Crawley Artemis Investment Mgt 10,404,453 4.83 West Sussex RH10 1DQ Henderson Global Investors 8,187,743 3.80 Danske Bank 6,732,787 3.13 Registered number Disclosures were also received from DHC H S.. r. l and Schroders plc 08409650 during the year notifying the Company that they no longer held a notifiable interest.
It should be noted that these holdings are likely to have changed since notified to the Company.
However, notification of any change is not required until the next applicable threshold is crossed.
Strategic Financial Other HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2014 report Governance statements information 49 Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on Annual Report, the Directors remuneration report and page 22 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: the financial statements The Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs, as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the report on Directors remuneration and the financial statements Group: and in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial The Strategic report includes a fair review of true development and year.
Under that law, the Directors have prepared the Group financial performance of the business and the position of the Group, statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU, and the Parent Company that it faces.
financial statements in accordance with UK generally accepted accounting practice UK Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Going concern responsibilities and disclosure Under company law, the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view The Directors have formed a judgement that there is a reasonable of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in or loss of the Group for that period.
operational existence for the foreseeable future, based upon: In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: significant cash and cash equivalents at the year end: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: the 230 million revolving credit facility arranged during the year, of which 30 million is undrawn, which expires on 26 February 2019: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: a history of cash generation and covenant compliance: and state whether IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable UK good visibility in near-term forecasts and budget, taking account of Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material capital expenditure plans and reasonably possible changes in trading departures disclosed and explained in the Group and Parent performance, indicating that the Group expects to be able to Company financial statements respectively: and operate within the level of its banking facilities.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless For these reasons, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Disclosure of information to auditors The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and Each of the Directors who held office at the date of approval of this disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of Directors report confirms that, so far as they are aware, there is no the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are financial statements and the report on Directors remuneration comply unaware: and that they have taken all steps that they ought to have with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence of that information.
for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud By order of the Board.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Steve Salmon Tim Jones Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation 27 February 2015 in other jurisdictions.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
