HellermannTyton 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Case studies HellermannTytons business model, together with the strategy outlined on page 5, enables the Group to benefit from the underlying structural growth drivers explained earlier in this report.
These case studies provide recent practical examples of this with reference to the relevant growth drivers and areas of strategic focus.
Chinese domestic automotive HellermannTytons local manufacturing capability in China ensures that the Group provides world-class quality and serviceand reduced supply chains to its global customers whoare manufacturing in the region.
It also enables the Group to use its on-the-ground expertise to meet the needs ofdomestic Chinese manufacturers, whose production volumes are forecast by IHS to grow by an average of 6.3% per annum over the next five years.
2014 saw the ramp up in production of a car that was relaunched by one of the four largest Chinese domestic manufacturers.
HellermannTyton worked closely with the OEM and their chosen Tier1 harness maker to propose a comprehensive solution of over 260items for each vehicle.
These were then specified and are now being used in production.
The Groups local development expertise andglobalexperience in designing solutions for the automotive industrywere key success factors in winning the project.
This has cemented HellermannTytons reputation with the customer as the production of the vehicle continues to ramp up, and positions the Group well for future projects with both the OEM and the harness maker.
Structural drivers: European railway rolling stock Strategic focus: The front carriage of a European high speed train can have Geographies with high growth opportunities 30km of wire and cable that must be managed and secured.
Safety is of the utmost importance here, and throughout Increase customer penetration all the train carriages, so all components must minimise, or better still eliminate, potential danger to passengers, even in Invest in the Groups infrastructure extreme conditions.
HellermannTyton has products for this industry from across the Groups product range which meet the highest demands and have industry relevant certifications such as for longevity and fire protection, so that they meet the latest standards such as EN45545.
For these reasons, HellermannTyton has preferred supplier status with well-known European railway carriage manufacturers, ensuring that the Group continues to benefit from new investments in this area.
As the wiring in the trains continues to increase in volume and complexity, the need for weight reduction in order to improve efficiency continues to present opportunities for HellermannTytons lighter plastic solutions.
Structural drivers: Strategic focus: Design and produce innovative solutions Increase customer penetration Strategic Financial Other HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2014 report Governance statements information 15 Japanese solar In 2009, the Japanese government set a target of increasing solar PV capacity more than ten-fold to 28GW by 2020 and for 10% of the countrys total energy demand to be met by solar PV by 2050.
This is largely being met by large-scale mega-solar projects.
The demands placed on the solar energy infrastructure are enormous, including severe material wear, safety, high mechanical strain, extremes of weather, corrosion and ultraviolet UV exposure.
Continuous maintenance is unacceptable and components should ideally last for decades while also ensuring lasting and effective power output.
HellermannTytons series of GalvaLok fixings, made using Polyamide 11 PA11 material, have been very successful in this market.
PA11 exhibits markedly reduced reaction to chemical solvents and high resistance to UV radiation and is therefore a reliable choice for the bundling and fixing of solar cables to galvanised steel frames installed in coastal areas, where there are high concentrations of salt in the atmosphere.
The Group is able to use this experience with PA11 products in the solar industry to identify markets with similar challenges and therefore further grow the sales of this product range.
Structural drivers: American heavy equipment Strategic focus: HellermannTyton has been working closely with a High growth end-markets North American manufacturer of agricultural equipment on an initiative to reduce the weight of their tractors.
Design and produce innovative solutions During workshops with the customers engineers HellermannTyton identified an opportunity to replace metalclamps that were used to manage cables in the enginecompartment with lighter plastic components.
As with most heavy equipment, the engine compartment of these tractors is a particularly challenging environment, where components need to withstand the rugged demands placed on them as well as high temperatures of up to 200C.
HellermannTytons development team in Milwaukee used their experience in the latest materials technology to adapt an existing product design to bemanufactured with high performance material, which has reduced brittleness at these higher temperatures.
This solution has other benefits compared to the previous metal products, such as less movement in the fixing once it has been installed and more flexibility to manage different sizes of wire bundles.
The solution has been adopted by the customer for future production along with other new fixings that the Group has introduced as part of the overall cable management solution for this particular agricultural vehicle.
Structural drivers: Strategic focus: Design and produce innovative solutions Increase customer penetration
