Strategic report Hikma celebrated World Heart Day WHD STRATEGIC PRIORITY Treating major by organising activities focusing on the 2014 healthissues WHD global theme of creating healthy-heart SUPPORTING environments.
A number of our employees LEUKAEMIA AND Why this is important participated in a cycling event Cycling LYMPHOMA INTHE US Towards a Healthier Heart to generate The global pharmaceutical market continues awareness for a heart-healthy lifestyle and to grow, driven by strong patient demand We partnered with the Leukaemia and Lymphoma we distributed heart-healthy gifts to doctors for medicines to treat major health issues.
Society LLS in New Jersey, US to raise funds and employees.
We also raised awareness for The sustainability of our business model and generate awareness for LLS work with World Diabetes Day through the distribution depends on our ability to meet the needs of cancer patients.
Our employees participated in of vouchers to obtain free blood tests and doctors and patients, adapting our portfolio weekly fundraising events which were followed by providing health advice from various by Light the Night Walks, joined by hundreds and capabilities to address their changing of other enthusiasts walking to support the credible sources.
We achieve this societys achievements Cancer is a major health issue worldwide through continuous investment in the and it is becoming increasingly prevalent development of a relevant product portfolio across all of our markets.
We continue to for each of our markets, providing both STRATEGIC PRIORITY develop our global portfolio of high quality, innovative products under licence and high MAINTAINING SECURE affordable oncology products to increase quality, affordable generic alternatives across patients access to these critical medicines.
a broad range of therapeutic categories.
SUPPLY OF CRITICAL As part of our focus on raising doctors Our focus on maintaining a secure supply MEDICINES THROUGH awareness and confidence in the quality and of products in markets where demand is DONATIONS TO GAZA effectiveness of our oncology products, we highest, will enable us to deliver sustainable undertook a clinical research programme long-term growth across our businesses.
Hikma made substantial donations of medicines in 2014 for our product Cemivil imatinib, What were doing to the people who are suffering in the Gaza Strip.
completing the interim data analysis and Hikma collaborated with the Jordan Hashemite As the global population ages and study report.
Eighty-seven patients were Charity Organisation and with the United Nations lifestyles are changing, we are seeing recruited and followed up for one full year Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees a higher incidence of chronic and nonfrom three haematology sites in Jordan.
in the Near East UNRWA to supply critical communicable diseases NCDs.
We are medicines including antibiotics and treatments for The study provides evidence to the medical continuing to address the demand for patients suffering from diabetes and hypertension community on the effectiveness and safety treatment for conditions such as diabetes and of our generic product, Imatinib.
We are cardiovascular disease, through new product planning to publish the study results in Secure supply of medications is essential launches and patient activities.
2015 and to conduct similar studies in other for our patients.
In 2014, we continued In 2014, we successfully launched MENA countries.
to address product shortages in areas Superstat rosuvastatin and Torvast The continued growth of our global facing conflict by donating antibiotics, 80mg atorvastatin in Tunisa and Algeria Injectables business is helping us to address immunosuppressants, cardiovascular respectively, in line with our strategy to the growing needs of hospitalised patients products and other medicines to patients enrich our cardiovascular portfolio with and we made significant advancements in in markets such as Gaza, Syria, Libya and leading treatments.
In the US, the acquisition of Bedford Algeria.
We worked with reliable nonsignificantly enhances our R&D capabilities governmental organisations NGOs in generic injectable products and will toensure a secure delivery.
accelerate our ability to develop a strong In 2014, we started utilising new portfolio and pipeline.
While our short-term mediums to enhance our support for focus is on making the Bedford products patients, such as social media and available to patients in the US, we plan to apps for mobile devices.
Our recently take these products to our MENA markets developed Hikma Health smartphone over time.
In the MENA, we have recently app offers helpful tools to enable patients restructured the way we manage the to improve their adherence to medicines.
business and we have increased the resource We also supplemented our annual we are dedicating to injectables in terms health campaigns, such as the obesity, of sales and marketing and other business diabetes andcardiovascular programmes, functions.
This will position us to drive with socialmedia awareness events, stronger future growth.
enabling health information to reach aglobal audience.
