Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report 2014 COMMITTEE REPORTS Audit Letter from The Chairman Dear Shareholders This is my final letter to you as Chairman of the Committee.
I have very much enjoyed my time chairing the Committee and I am proud of the work it has done.
We have come a long way since Hikma listed and I have enjoyed my part in the development journey of the finance department.
There is more to be done in the future and I am sure that Pat and Khalid will do an excellent job continuing on the upwards path.
Pat will become Chairman of the Committee at the May 2015 AGM.
Pat joined us as a Committee member and chair designate in April 2014.
Pat, Khalid and I have spent a significant amount of time over the past year ensuring that there is a smooth handover of responsibilities and that relationships and historical background are passed on.
I will be continuing to serve on the Committee, to ensure the process is completed and that AUDIT REPORT there is an additional sounding board for Pat and Khalid.
Dr Pamela Kirby joined the Committee during the year.
I welcome her to Hikma and 74 Letter from The Chairman the Committee: she is a valuable addition.
Sir David Rowe-Ham retired from the Committee 75 Our Highlights during the year: I have greatly enjoyed working with him, the Committee has benefited 75 Membership and Attendance greatly from his wisdom and experience and we wish him the best for the future.
76 Significant Accounting Judgements This letter and the following report should provide you with an overview of the 76 Responsibilities operation and scope of the Audit Committee and report on its work over the past year.
77 Fair, Balanced and Understandable The Committees written terms of reference are available on Hikmas website.
We invited the 78 External Audit Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, VP for Investor Relations, Group Financial Controller, 79 Internal Audit Auditors, Internal Auditors and certain members of the finance team to attend meetings 80 Risk Management asrequired.
As in previous years, the Committee met with the internal and external auditors 80 Principal Risks and Uncertainties without management present and I met with each team separately as part of my review oftheir work.
As you will see from our highlights, we have undertaken extensive work during the year, including enhancing our approach to risk appetite, identification and management.
In line with current guidance, we have provided more detail on the accounting judgements and issues considered by the finance team and Committee during the year.
As an organisation Hikma is committed to clear and open communication.
As Imentioned last year, I remain open to discussion with shareholders should they haveanymatters that they wish to raise directly with me.
Breffni Byrne, Chairman of the Audit Committee 74
