Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report 2014 GOVERNANCE REPORT continued Meetings PROGRESS ON PREVIOUSLY IDENTIFIED ISSUES During the year under review the Board held eight scheduled meetings and five unscheduled meetings.
All Directors attended OBSERVATIONS ACTION TAKEN each scheduled meeting.
Through no fault of their own, Dr Ronald Greater clarity on The Board has established a medium-term Goode and Mr Pat Butler were unable to attend one meeting each succession plan, providing clear succession Boardsuccession which were called on short notice.
Both Directors read the papers for Non-Independent Directors, Committee Chairmen and key members of executive for consideration at those meetings and relayed their comments management.
Additional Directors have in advance through the Senior Independent Director and directly been recruited during 2014 and are being with relevant executives.
In each case, the Director contacted the fully inducted in advance of handover Company Secretary as soon possible, in order to establish the ofCommittee chair roles.
outcome and key points considered.
In each case, the outcome Identification and The Chairman and Chief Executive has ofthemeeting reflected the position of the relevant Director.
identified certain individuals with the development of executives The table below shows attendance at the Board and Committee potential to take on the Chief Executive for the Chief Executive role meetings.
The Company Secretary attended all Board meetings and rolein the fullness of time.
At the discretion of the Board or relevant have been considered by the Nomination Committee and soundings taken from the Committee, senior management are invited to attend meetings and Directors.
Development plans have been make presentations on developments and results in their business put in place.
The annual cycle of the Boards work is detailed in the Consolidate and develop Group strategy has been given additional Calendar section opposite.
focus through the creation of the Chief the Hikma strategy Director Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Compliance Strategy Officer role and the formation Samih Darwazah 100% of a centralised business development, Said Darwazah 100% M&A and R&D departments under that position.
The overall Group strategy was Mazen Darwazah 100% 100% 100% consolidated into one succinct document Ali Al-Husry 100% that was presented to the Board as Sir David Rowe-Ham 100% 100% 100% 100% part of the strategy session in Morocco.
Breffni Byrne 100% 100% 100% 100% The management team have further enhanced the five-year business plan, Michael Ashton 100% 100% 100% 100% which has been reviewed by the Board Dr Ronald Goode 92% 100% 100% 100% atappropriate intervals.
Robert Pickering 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Focus meeting time Greater use of the Executive Committee Pat Butler 91% 100% 100% 100% has removed management considerations onadding value Dr Pamela Kirby 100% 100% 100% 100% from the Board agenda and ensured that Total fully developed proposals are put to the meetings held 13 7 6 5 6 Board.
The agendas for meetings has been refined to focus on Board-level issues and the Committee Chairmen have continued to provide close oversight and guidance to relevant executives.
The level of duplication between the Board and the Committees has decreased.
70 Corporate governance ITEMS SPECIFICALLY DISCUSSED AT BOARD MEETINGS 2014 BOARD KEY BUSINESS ITEM ON THE AGENDA RESPONSIBLE PERSON f Committee reports f Committee Chairmen FEBRUARY f Financial performance f Chief Financial Officer f Initial business performance f Business operational update f Head of business divisions f Board evaluation f Acquisitions and JV f Head of M&A opportunities f Chairman and Chief Executive MARCH f Strategic review f Company Secretary f Forecast I f Corporate governance update f General Counsel f Preliminary statements and Report and Account 2013 f Legal update f VP Investor Relations f Performance evaluation f Investor relations review f Head of Business Development f Business development f Directors f Directors external APRIL commitments f AGM notice f Potential acquisition business venture f Strategy review and discussion f Morocco site visit MAY f AGM f Forecast II f Interim management statement f Potential acquisition business venture f Launched the search for a Director JULY f Potential acquisition business venture AUGUST f Potential acquisition business venture f Proposed interim dividend f Forecast III SEPTEMBER f Potential acquisition business venture NOVEMBER f Forecast IV f Major Injectables investment f Interim management statement f Dr Pamela Kirby appointment consideration DECEMBER f Budget for 2015 f Financing 71 2014
