Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report 2014 GOVERNANCE REPORT continued Senior Management Bassam Kanaan Majda Labadi Khalid Nabilsi Chief Strategy and Corporate Corporate Vice President for Human Chief Financial Officer Development Officer Resources and Head of Operations, MENA Appointed to current role: 2014 Appointed to current role: 2009 Appointed to current role: 2011 Joined Hikma: 2001 Joined Hikma: 1985 Joined Hikma: 2001 Nationality: Jordanian Nationality: Jordanian Nationality: Jordanian Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Bassam joined Hikma as Chief Financial Officer in During her 28 years at Hikma, Majda has held a Prior to assuming his current role, Khalid held 2001 and played a leading role in preparing for variety of roles including Purchasing Manager at several senior positions in the Hikma finance Hikmas IPO in 2005 and in its subsequent M&A Hikma Pharmaceuticals Limited, Strategy Manager department including Corporate Vice President, activity.
InJanuary 2011 Bassam was promoted at Hikma Investment, General Manager of Hikma Finance and was a key member of the IPO team in tothe position of President and Chief Operating Farmacutica and Vice President of Injectables.
Following qualification as a CPA he held a Officer for the MENA and EU regions, where InFebruary 2009 Majda assumed her current variety of roles in financial accounting, reporting heled the implementation of important position as Corporate Vice President, Human and financial advisory services, and with Atlas organisational and operational improvements.
Resources and she took on additional Investment Group now AB Invest where he was In2014 he was promoted to the newly created responsibility for MENA operations in January involved in mergers and acquisitions advisory role of Chief Strategy and Corporate Development 2015.
She has been responsible for establishing services.
Prior to Atlas, Khalid had managed Officer, withGroup-level responsibility for acentral human resource practice and leading the several multinational audit engagements at strategic development, acquisitions, alliances and development of several Group-wide initiatives, ArthurAndersen in Amman, Jordan.
Bassam is responsible for including the grading structure, performance Financial Officer, Khalid has integrated several delivering the expansion vision of the Chief evaluation process and the Group bonus scheme.
acquisitions into the financial reporting structure, Executive.
developed the Group internal control framework Majda has completed the Advanced Management and implemented new leverage arrangements Bassam is qualified as a US Certified Public Program AMP programme at INSEAD, holds tofundacquisitions and capital investment.
Accountant CPA and Chartered Financial Analyst aBAfrom the American University of Beirut and CFA.
Bassam has a BA from Claremont McKenna aMasters degree from Hochschule Fur Okonomie Khalid qualified as a US Certified Public Accountant College and an International Executive MBA from inBerlin, Germany.
and has an MBA from the University of Hull.
Kellogg Recanati Schools of Management.
Committee membership: Other appointments: Other appointments: Executive Committee Khalid is a founder of the Jordan Association for Bassam currently holds a Non-Executive Management Accountants and a Board member Directorship in Arab Bank.
Bassam has served of the Jordan Armed Forces and Security onthe Boards of Aqaba Development Co. Apparatuses Credit Union.
JordanDubai Properties, Zara Holding, Capital Bank Committee membership: of Jordan, CEGCO and Paltel.
Bassam is active in Executive Committee several non-profit and charity organisations and iscurrently a member of the Board of Trustees ofthe Welfare Association in Jordan.
Committee membership: Executive Committee Global Management Committee Chair 60 Corporate governance Susan Ringdal Michael Raya Riad Mishlawi Vice President, Corporate Strategy President and Chief Executive of the US EU Vice President and Global Head andInvestor Relations ofInjectables Appointed to current role: 2012 Appointed to current role: 2008 Appointed to current role: 2011 Joined Hikma: 2005 Joined Hikma: 1992 Joined Hikma: 1990 Nationality: American Nationality: American Nationality: Lebanese Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Susan joined Hikma as Investor Relations Director, Michael joined Hikmas US subsidiary West-Ward Riad joined Hikma as a Project Engineer in the having previously worked for the pharmaceutical Pharmaceuticals from Vitarine Pharmaceuticals engineering department where he was involved distribution and retail pharmacy group where he had worked from 1984 until 1992 inthe construction of Hikmas facility in Portugal.
AllianceUniChem plc as Investor Relations invarious roles, including Vice President, Riad spent a significant period in the Manager.
She also has experience as an Equity QualityControl.
Prior to this, Michael worked manufacturing operations of many Hikma sites, Analyst at Morgan Stanley in London.
In early 2012 atSchering-Plough and Hoffman LaRoche.
At was General Manager of Hikma Italy and became Susan assumed responsibility for corporate strategy.
Hikma, Michael was responsible for all West-Ward Head of Injectables Manufacturing Operations, Pharmaceuticals operations as well as quality before assuming his current role.
Riad was an Susan holds a BA in History from Cornell University compliance for all worldwide Hikma facilities until Executive Director at Watson Pharmaceuticals and an MBA from London Business School.
his appointment as President and Chief Executive from 1998 to 2005, responsible for Injectables of West-Ward Pharmaceuticals in 2008. operations.
Riad has led Hikmas Injectables Committee membership: division through a period of rapid growth and Executive Committee Michael holds a Masters degree in Industrial hasintegrated operations into a global operation.
Pharmacy from Long Island University and a Global Management Committee Bachelors degree in Chemistry from St. Francis Riad has a BSc in Engineering and a Masters College.
Michael is also a graduate of INSEADs inEngineering and Management from International Executive Program.
Committee membership: Committee membership: Executive Committee Executive Committee 61 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report 2014 GOVERNANCE REPORT continued Senior Management Hussein Arkhagha Peter Speirs Dr Ibrahim Jalal General Counsel Company Secretary Senior Corporate Vice President, TechnicalAffairs Appointed to current role: 2013 Appointed to current role: 2012 Appointed to current role: 1979 Joined Hikma: 2001 Joined Hikma: 2010 Joined Hikma: 1979 Nationality: Jordanian Nationality: British Nationality: Jordanian Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Hussein joined Hikma in July 2001 as a Legal Peter joined Hikma as a Deputy Company Ibrahim joined Hikma as Technical Director and Counsel.
Since then, Hussein has occupied several Secretary in 2010 and assumed the role of has held a variety of roles including Corporate positions at Hikma, including Head of Tax, Head Company Secretary in 2012.
Prior to joining Hikma Technical Vice President for Compliance and ofMENA Legal and Head of The Shareholders he worked in the Corporate Secretariat of Barclays Senior Corporate Vice President for R&D.
and Pool Re, the UK terrorism re-insurer.
Peter also Hehasplayed a leading role in Hikma securing worked at Manifest, a leading corporate FDA approval for its manufacturing units.
Hussein is a qualified lawyer in Jordan and holds governance and proxy advisory agency.
Peter is aMasters degree in International Business Law Ibrahim holds a PhD in Pharmacy from the responsible for advising on governance and listing from the University of Manchester, under a UK University of Wisconsin-Madison.
matters at the Board and across the Group and Chevening Scholarship.
ensuring the smooth management of the Board and Committees.
Peter is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators and holds a Law degree from the University of East Anglia.
Peter is a Governor of the Lime Tree Trust.
62 Corporate governance Fadi Nassar Ragheb Al-Shakhshir Corporate Vice President, Corporate Vice President, Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients Research and Development Appointed to current role: 2007 Appointed to current role: 2009 Joined Hikma: 1988 Joined Hikma: 2000 Nationality: Jordanian Nationality: Jordanian Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Fadi has worked in various roles within the Group Ragheb joined Hikma as a Research and including Operations, Purchasing and Business Development Manager.
Prior to joining Hikma Development.
He was promoted to Corporate heheld a variety of roles as Senior Scientist at Vice President, API in 2007.
Fadi is a Director of Novartis Pharmaceuticals, and at Alcon Labs in the Hubei Haosun Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd. an Active US.
From 20032008 Ragheb led the Hikma R&D Pharmaceutical Ingredient manufacturing Injectables team and from February 2009 company in which Hikma purchased a significant assumed the responsibility of Corporate Vice minority interest in 2011.
Fadi holds a BSc in Chemical Engineering from Ragheb has a PhD in Industrial and Physical Newcastle University and an MSc in Chemical Pharmacy from Purdue University, a Masters in Engineering from Leeds University.
Fadi is Engineering from the University of  of INSEADs International Amherst and a BSc in Chemical Engineering from ExecutiveProgram.
Committee membership: Committee membership: Global Management Committee Global Management Committee 63
