Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report 2014 GOVERNANCE REPORT continued The Board Said Darwazah Mazen Darwazah Chairman and Chief Executive Executive Vice Chairman, Chief Executive of MENA and Emerging Markets Age: 57 Age: 56 Appointed: 1 July 2007 Appointed: 8 September 2005 Joined Hikma: 1981 Joined Hikma: 1985 Nationality: Jordanian Nationality: Jordanian Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Said has served as Chief Executive since July 2007 Mazen was appointed Group Executive Vice and Chairman since May 2014.
Said was Chairman Chairman and MENA Chief Executive in 2005 and and Chief Executive of Hikmas group holding became President and Chief Executive of MENA company from 1994 to 2003 and Minister of and Emerging Markets in 2014.
During his 29 Health for the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan years service at Hikma he has held an extensive from2003 to 2006. range of positions within the Group starting as a medical representative and working in different During his 33 years at Hikma, Said has undertaken capacities including Chairman and Chief Executive several executive roles which have provided him of Hikma Pharmaceuticals Limited, a major group with extensive experience in each functional area operational and holding company.
of Hikmas global generic pharmaceuticals business and in the broader strategic leadership of an Mazen is responsible for the strategic and international and entrepreneurial organisation.
operational direction of the MENA business.
Said has led the development of the Group Heisalso responsible for the expansion of the strategy, the Injectables business in Europe and Group into emerging markets outside of the theMENA region and acquisitions including MENA region, global alliances, business West-Ward Pharmaceuticals and Baxters injectable relationships, CSR and business integrity.
Under Saids leadership, Hikmas facilities Mazen holds a BA in Business Administration from in the US, Jordan and Portugal received US FDA the Lebanese American University and an AMP approval, the leading international pharmaceutical from INSEAD.
He has served as the President of regulatory standard.
the Jordanian Association of Manufacturers of Said has a degree in industrial engineering from Pharmaceuticals and Medical Appliances.
Purdue University and an MBA from INSEAD.
Other appointments: Other appointments: Mazen holds various public and charitable positions.
Said holds various public and charitable positions.
Mazen is the Chairman of the Jordan International During 2014, HM Queen Rania of Jordan requested Insurance Company and Vice Chairman of the that Said become the Chairman of the Queen Rania Capital Bank of Jordan.
Mazenisalso a Member Foundation, a major charitable project.
He is ofthe Board of Trustees of Yarmouk University Chairman of the Dead Sea Touristic and Real Estate Jordan.
He is on the advisory Board for the Investments and a member of the Central Bank of Lebanese American University LAU, Lebanon, Jordan Board.
He is a Director of Endeavour Jordan, andthe Buck Institute for Education, San Francisco.
a charitable organisation that assists in the Committee membership: development of entrepreneurs, and a Trustee of Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics Committee Jordan River Foundation, a charitable organisation that aims to empower Jordanian society.
Corporate Responsibility Committee Chairman Executive Committee Committee membership: Executive Committee Chairman Nomination Committee 5 56 6 Corporate governance Robert Pickering Dr Pamela Kirby Senior Independent Director Independent Non-Executive Director Age: 55 Age: 61 Appointed: 1 September 2011 Appointed: 1 December 2014 Joined Hikma: 2011 Joined Hikma: 2014 Nationality: British Nationality: British Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Robert joined the Board as a Non-Executive Dr Pamela Kirby was Chief Executive of Quintiles Director in September 2011 and became Senior Transnational Corp and has held senior executive Independent Director in May 2014.
Robert spent positions in F Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd and 23 years at Cazenove and Co. becoming the first AstraZeneca plc.
Dr Kirby has chaired Oxford Chief Executive of Cazenove Group PLC in 2001.
Immunotec Ltd and was Senior Independent He subsequently served as Chief Executive of Director of Informa plc.
Dr Kirby has previously JPMorgan Cazenove, until his retirement in 2008. held Non-Executive Director positions with Hehas extensive experience of capital raising, Smith&Nephew plc, Novo Nordisk A S, mergers and acquisitions and of the relationship CuralogicA S and Oscient Pharmaceuticals Corp. between quoted companies and investors.
Dr Kirby holds a first-class Bachelor of Science Robert is a qualified solicitor with a law degree degree in Pharmacology and a PhD in Clinical from Lincoln College, Oxford.
Pharmacology from the University of London.
Other appointments: Other appointments: Robert is a Non-Executive Director of Neptune Dr Kirby is Chairman of Scynexis Inc and a Investment Management, a fund management Non-Executive Director of DCC plc, Victrex plc company, and Itau BBA International PLC, the andReckitt Benckiser Group PLC.
investment bank of the Ita Unibanco group.
Committee membership: HeisChairman of the Trustees of Lincoln College Audit Committee Oxford 2027 Trust.
Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics Committee Committee membership: Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Nomination Committee Chairman Remuneration Committee 57 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report 2014 GOVERNANCE REPORT continued The Board Ali Al-Husry Michael Ashton Breffni Byrne Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Age: 57 Age: 69 Age: 69 Appointed: 14 October 2005 Appointed: 14 October 2005 Appointed: 14 October 2005 Joined Hikma: 1981 Joined Hikma: 2005 Joined Hikma: 2005 Nationality: Jordanian Nationality: Australian Nationality: Irish Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Ali joined Hikma as Director of Hikma Pharma Michael has over 30 years experience in the Breffni is a chartered accountant with over 30 Limited in 1981 and has held various directorships pharmaceutical industry, holding senior executive years of experience in public practice, including within the Group.
Ali brings great financial positions with Pfizer and Merck.
Michael was Chief significant international responsibilities.
Breffni experience to the Board as well as an in-depth Executive of SkyePharma PLC from November 1998 served as the Managing Partner of the Audit and knowledge of the MENA region and Hikma to March 2006 and prior to thatwas Chairman, Business Advisory practice of Arthur Andersen in Pharmaceuticals.
Ali was a founder of The Capital President and Chief Executive of Faulding.
He has Ireland and as Director of Risk Management of Bank of Jordan, which offers commercial and held a number of non-executive and advisory Andersens audit practice in the Middle East, India, investment banking services, and served as positions across the pharmaceutical industry.
Africa and the Nordic countries.
Breffni has ChiefExecutive of the Bank until 2007. extensive experience in financial reporting, Michael has a Bachelor of Pharmacy degree from international operations, corporate governance Ali has a degree in Mechanical Engineering from Sydney University, and an MBA degree from and general financial and commercial matters.
the University of Southern California and an MBA Rutgers University, New Jersey.
Breffni is a former Non-Executive Director of from INSEAD.
IrishLife, Permanent plc and Coillte Teoranta, Other appointments: theIrish state-owned forestry company.
Breffni Other appointments: Michael is a Non-Executive Director at Transition was Chairman of Avivas life insurance operations Ali is Chairman of Endeavour Jordan, a not for Therapeutics, a therapeutics biopharmaceutical in Ireland.
Breffni is considered by the Board to profit organisation that assists in the development company.
He is also Chief Executive of PuriCore have recent and relevant financial experience.
of entrepreneurs and a Director of the Microfund plc, a water-based clean technology company, for Women, which provides microfinance to and Komix, a childrens educational organisation.
Breffni holds a Masters degree in Economic low-income female entrepreneurs.
Additionally, Science from University College Dublin and is a Committee membership: Ali is a Director of the Capital Bank of Jordan.
Audit Committee Other appointments: Nomination Committee Breffni is Chairman of Tedcastles Holdings, an oil Remuneration Committee Chairman distribution company.
Breffni is also a NonExecutive Director of Citibank Europe plc and CplResources plc, a human resources company.
Breffni has been a member of the Audit Committee of all of the above companies, in most cases the Chairman.
Committee membership: Audit Committee Chairman Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics Committee Remuneration Committee 58 Corporate governance Dr Ronald Goode Pat Butler Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Age: 71 Age: 54 Appointed: 12 December 2006 Appointed: 1 April 2014 Joined Hikma: 2006 Joined Hikma: 2014 Nationality: American Nationality: Irish Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Ron has spent over 30 years in the international Pat is a former Senior Director at Mckinsey & Co. pharmaceutical industry, including roles as During his 25 years at McKinsey, he focused on President of International Operations at Searle and advising large corporations in the EU, US and Vice President of Clinical and Scientific Affairs at MENA on strategic, acquisition and organisational Pfizer.
Rons extensive experience includes leading issues.
Pat has extensive experience in strategy companies as Chief Executive and acting as an implementation, integrating acquisitions, adviser to companies in the pharmaceutical performance improvement and a range of finance industry.
Ron also advises companies involved in functions including treasury and risk management.
nanotechnology and in the information Pat is considered to have recent and relevant technology business sectors.
Ron was formerly President and Chief Executive of Prior to McKinsey, Pat qualified as a chartered Unimed Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and eXegenics Inc. accountant with the audit and tax practice of Ron was a Trustee of Thunderbird School of Arthur Andersen.
He has a first class honours Global Management, which was ranked by the degree in Commerce and a postgraduate diploma Financial Times as the premier international in Accounting and Corporate Finance from business school.
Ron has a PhD from the University of Georgia and Other appointments: a MS and BS from the University of Memphis.
Pat is a Non-Executive Director of the Bank of Ireland and British Business Bank Investments Limited.
Other appointments: Heisalso a Governor of the British Film Institute Ron is the Chairman of The Goode Group, andatrustee of the Resolution Foundation.
advisers to the pharmaceutical industry.
RonisaDirector of Mercy Ships International, Committee membership: amedical services charity.
Ron is a Senior Business Audit Committee Chairman from May 2015 Advisor toThe Kinsella Group, an investment Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics Committee banking company.
Nomination Committee Committee membership: Audit Committee Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics Committee Chairman Remuneration Committee 59
