Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report 2014 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Injectables Excellent revenue growth with significant margin improvement STRATEGIC PRIORITY 2014 ACHIEVEMENTS 2015 TARGETS 3 Launched 16 products across our markets 3 Continue to launch more differentiated, higher value Maximising portfolio products 3 Successfully captured specific market opportunities opportunities intheUS 3 Drive stronger sales in MENA, leveraging the increased sales and marketing focus on injectable products 3 Restructured our sales teams in MENA to increase theresources dedicated to injectable products 3 Submitted 165 products across all our markets 3 Increase investment in internal R&D Strengthening and 3 Signed three new in-licence agreements 3 Re-launch the first Bedford products to the US market broadening our 3 Received approval for first biosimilar product, Remsima, 3 Submit additional products in pre-filled syringes productportfolio in-licensed from Celltrion 3 Submitted first product in a pre-filled syringe totheUSFDA 3 Leveraged vertically integrated API capabilities 3 Return Portuguese facility to full FDA compliance Maintaining high onselected products to ensure security of supply 3 Continue to invest in quality, including employee training quality and efficient forcustomers 3 Drive continued operational efficiencies manufacturing 3 Leveraged strong quality track record to strengthen facilitiesto maximise customer relationships in the US profitability 3 Drove operational efficiencies to support continued improvement in profitability 3 Acquired assets of Bedford and Ben Venue for an upfront 3 Pursue opportunities across our geographies to add Investing for growth consideration of $225 million newproducts, technologies and markets through business development and acquisitions 3 Invested over $30 million to expand injectables manufacturing capacity in the US and Portugal, including 3 Transfer and install Ben Venue equipment in our US and the installation of a pre-filled syringe line European facilities 3 Acquired Bedfords experienced R&D team, comprising 39 3 Assess the business case to establish injectables employees, and a state-of-the-art QDC in Bedford, Ohio manufacturing in certain MENA markets, utilising manufacturing equipment from the Ben Venue site 3 Acquired the Ben Venue manufacturing facility, enabling the transfer of equipment to our facilities in the US andEurope 3 Added a total of 72 Bedford employees in the US, 3 Integrate Bedford employees across business functions and Developing a highly strengthening R&D, business development and sales ensure maximum benefit from best practice and skilled, effective and andmarketing capabilities for the Injectables business knowledge sharing diverse workforce 3 Restructured MENA team to increase the resource 3 Leverage increased resource in MENA to drive a stronger dedicated to sales and marketing and other business performance functions for the Injectables business 3 Continued evolving our product portfolio through new 3 Focus on patients and doctors needs to continue bringing Ensuring sustainable launches and increased investment in R&D high quality, affordable products to our globalmarkets long-term growth 3 Began integrating the Bedford R&D team to strengthen our global R&D capabilities KPIs: HOW WE MEASURE OUR PERFORMANCE INJECTABLES ADJUSTE D 1 INJECTABLES REVENUE $ MILLION OPERATING MARGIN % INJECTABLES MARKETED PRODUCTS 33% 620bps 182 products 14 713 14 14 182 37.2 13 536 13 31.0 13 200 1 Before the amortisation of intangible assets excluding software and exceptional items 30 Strategic report Injectables performance Overview of the marketplace 2014 highlights: 2014 2013 Hikmas Injectables business manufactures 3 Injectables revenue grew by 33% to US 77% 68% and markets branded and non-branded $713 million, with an adjusted operating generic injectable products in the US, Europe margin of 37.2%, up from 31.0% MENA 13% 17% and MENA.
Injectable products represent 3 Excellent performance in US Injectables, Europe 10% 15% the second largest segment of the global with revenue up 51%, reflects our success pharmaceutical market in terms of delivery in capturing specific market opportunities mechanism after oral products.
The value 3 Acquisition of Bedford and Ben Venue of the global generic injectables market assets strengthens our portfolio and 1 isestimated to exceed $12 billion.
pipeline for future growth Injectable products are produced inliquid, powder and lyophilised Revenue in our global Injectables business freeze-dried forms.
The manufacture increased by 33% to $713 million, compared ofinjectable products requires specialised with $536 million in 2013. and sterile manufacturing facilities and US Injectables revenue grew by techniques, which must meet the strict $185 million, or 51%, to $548 million.
quality standards imposed by the regulatory This excellent performance reflects strong authorities.
These factors have created underlying growth and our success in amarket with high barriers to entry and, capturing specific market opportunities.
asaresult, a limited number of competitors.
We benefited from our focus on improving The global injectables market is expected the mix of sales, with our higher value to benefit from the key drivers of generic products delivering strong performances in 2014.
In 2015, we expect increasing growth as well as from the patent expiries of a number of high value injectable products.
competition for a number of these products: however, good demand across our broad product portfolio should enable us to sustain underlying revenue.
We also expect the contribution from certain specific market opportunities to continue in 2015.
In 2014, MENA Injectables revenue was $90 million, a decrease of 3% compared with $93 million in 2013.
Whilst revenue grew in most of our markets, this was offset by lower than expected sales in Algeria.
During the year, we restructured our MENA sales teams to increase the resources dedicated to injectable products and we expect this todrive stronger growth going forward.
1 Espicom Business Intelligence 31 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report 2014 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW continued 32 Strategic report In Europe, revenue decreased by 7% to A key contributor to future growth for our A key contributor to $75 million, reflecting a shift in contract Injectables business will be the acquisition futuregrowth for our manufacturing from European to US of Bedford Laboratories Bedford, which customers.
Own drug sales continued to we acquired on 15 July 2014 for an upfront Injectables business will grow steadily, with strong volumes more cash consideration of $225 million.
The assets bethe acquisition of than offsetting double-digit price erosion.
acquired include a portfolio of 82 products, In October 2014, we received a warning letter a strong R&D and business development Bedford Laboratories.
from the US Food and Drug Administration pipeline and a number of employees across FDA relating to an inspection of our key business functions, such as R&D and sales Portuguese facility in March 2014.
We have begun the process believe that the warning letter will impact the of transferring an initial tranche of around manufacturing or distribution of the products 20 of Bedfords products to our global manufactured at this facility and we do not manufacturing facilities in the US, Germany expect the remediation costs to be material.
and Portugal all manufacturing at the Ben We have dedicated significant management Venue site ceased in December2013 and time to addressing the issues raised by the we will begin re-launching these products FDA and we are working hard to bring towards the end of 2015.
In 2017, we expect the facility back into compliance as quickly to have all 20 of the products back on the as possible.
market, generating revenue of around Injectables gross profit increased by 53% $150 million.
to $431 million, compared with $282 million On 17 September 2014, we acquired in 2013.
Gross margin increased significantly the Ben Venue Laboratories Ben Venue to 60.4%, compared with 52.6% in 2013. manufacturing facility in Bedford, This reflects extremely strong sales from Ohio.
The Ben Venue site includes four certain market opportunities in the US, manufacturing plants and a QDC with agood performance from other higher excellent capabilities.
No incremental value products and efficient management consideration was paid.
We are using the ofmanufacturing overhead.
QDC and Bedfords strong R&D team to Operating profit increased by 68% expedite the transfer and reactivation of to $260 million.
The four manufacturing profit increased by 60% to $265 million.
sites remain dormant, but we have begun the Adjusted operating margin increased from process of transferring equipment, including 31.0% to 37.2%.
This excellent margin lyophilisers and filling lines, to our other improvement reflects the increase in gross global manufacturing facilities in the US and margin and was achieved while making Europe to support our future growth plans.
investments across the business, including Following the extremely strong a significant increase in R&D spend and the performance in 2014, which included the expansion of our US sales team.
benefit from a number of higher value During 2014, the Injectables business products, we expect to maintain Injectables launched a total of 16 products across all revenue at the same level in 2015.
This will markets, including six new compounds and be supported by strong performances across eight new dosage forms and strengths.
our geographies and a continued benefit The Injectables business also received a total from specific market opportunities in the of 83 regulatory approvals across all regions US.
We expect a robust adjusted operating and markets, namely 31 in MENA and 52 margin of around 35%, even after the slight in Europe.
We signed three new licensing dilution from Bedford R&D costs.
agreements during 2014, adding innovative injectable products to our portfolio.
