Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report 2014 SUSTAINABILITY continued As a provider of generic products, we are STRATEGIC PRIORITY Delivering high quality, facilitating greater healthcare coverage affordable products through more affordable access to medicines.
INCREASING PATIENT Particularly in MENA, we aim to focus our ACCESS Why this is important pipeline on the newer, fastest growing therapeutic categories and to accelerate The challenge for governments and other We aim to be the first to bring a more affordable the speed at which patients can access new customers across our global markets is version of innovative products to the market.
treatments by targeting to launch the first howto meet the ever-increasing demand InAlgeria in 2014, we launched two central nervous system products, Arini aripiprazole orsecond generic on the market.
forhealthcare with limited resources, and Gabatrex gabapentin, which were the In the US in 2014, we provided around particularly as populations are ageing and first generics on that market.
In Egypt, we 13% of the total volume of generic injectable agrowing number of patients require launched Durjoy dapoxetine, a selective pharmaceutical products sold in the market.
Our aim is to offer customers serotonin reuptake inhibitor, and first generic.
Our broad and growing portfolio of critical a cost-effective solution to healthcare Thisdemonstrates our ability to help improve care injectable products is helping us to provision by developing a broad portfolio of patient access to newtreatments and increase healthcare  prices address the rapidly increasing demand for high quality and affordable products.
This is hospital products at more affordable prices particularly relevant in developing markets, than originator products.
This is helping including the MENA region and sub-Saharan STRATEGIC PRIORITY providers to reduce the cost of healthcare Africa, where healthcare spend per capita and is facilitating an increase in patient is significantly lower than more developed FOCUSING ON DOCTOR coverage.
Following our acquisition of markets and generic penetration is limited.
AND PATIENT SAFETY Bedfords product portfolio in 2014, we What were doing have begun the process of transferring those In 2013, we signed a long-term supply agreement In 2014, we increased our investment in R&D products to our facilities so that we can begin with Unilife to bring differentiated, advanced across the Group to support the continuous re-launching them to the market.
We expect technology pre-filled syringes to the market.
development of our pipeline and broaden These products have been designed to greatly to have an initial tranche of 20 of the Bedford our product offering to patients.
Across our enhance the safety of both doctors and patients products back on the US market by 2017. markets, we are successfully driving new in the delivery of drugs.
In 2014, we submitted By re-introducing the products, we are our first product in a pre-filled syringe to the US product launches, adding new dosage helping to address critical supply shortages FDA for approval and we have identified a total forms and strengths, expanding into new inthe US market.
of20products to be manufactured in this form therapeutic categories and developing new delivery systems.
Our focused investment is enabling us to offer a greater number ofproducts to patients.
