Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report 2014 GOVERNANCE REPORT continued Board Responsibility BOARD COMPOSITION The Board is the ultimate decision-making and control authority The charts below compares the Board composition as at the 2013 inHikma.
The Board sets the strategic direction, monitors financial and 2014 year ends performance and challenges management ideas and performance.
The Board promotes good governance within the Group, and seeks As at 31 December 2013 to ensure that Hikma meets its responsibilities to shareholders, f One Non-Executive Chairman employees, suppliers, customers and other stakeholders.
There is f Two Executive Directors a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board, which was f One Non-Executive Director reviewed in early 2015 as part of the annual corporate governance review conducted by the Audit Committee and approved by f Five Independent Non-Executive Directors the Board.
A summary of the schedule is included on page 72.
As at 31 December 2014 The Chief Executive is responsible for delivering Hikmas strategic f One Chairman and Chief Executive and operational objectives and has authority from the Board to f One Executive Director deliver those objectives through matters which are not reserved and f One Non-Executive Director where authority has been delegated specifically.
The Chief Executive is assisted in this task by the Executive Committee, the members f Six Independent Non-Executive Directors of which meet with the Chief Executive to develop strategy and report on the delivery of key objectives in their areas of responsibility.
BOARD COMPOSITION The Chief Executive reports on operational progress and corporate AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2013 actions to the Board at each meeting.
Where appropriate, the Chief Executive is assisted by internal and external advisers in presenting 1.
Chairman 11% 1 operational progress and key strategic decisions to the Board.
Executive Directors 22% INTERNAL ADVISERS EXTERNAL ADVISERS 3.
Non-Independent NED 11% f President and CEO, MENA f Bank of America Merrill Lynch 4.
Independent NEDs 56% f Chief Financial Officer f CenterView Partners f CEO US f Citigroup 3 f Chief Strategy Officer f Deloitte f General Counsel f E&Y 4 f VP Human Resources f Lintstock f Company Secretary f PwC f One Non-Executive Chairman f VP EU and Injectables f Two Executive Directors f VP IR and Strategy f One Non-Independent Non-Executive Director f Five Independent Non-Executive Directors AS AT 15 MAY 2014 1.
Independent NEDs 61% 3 4 f One Chairman and Chief Executive f One Executive Director f One Non-Independent Non-Executive Director f Five Independent Non-Executive Directors 64
