Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report 2014 DELIVERING OUR STRATEGY Delivering our strategy forgrowth We have made excellent strategic progress this year, taking actions to strengthen our operations in the MENA region, significantly enhancing and expanding our global Injectables business and developing a product portfolio for our non-injectable generics business in the US.
This has been achieved by focusing on our key strategic priorities across our three businesses Said Darwazah, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Strengthening and broadening Leading pharmaceutical company 2014 HIGHLIGHTS ourproductportfolio in MENA and emerging markets GROUP REVENUE INCREASED BY Continued momentum in new product Maximising portfolio opportunities launches reflects a focused investment in The strength of our market position in MENA, R&D to develop a strong pipeline.
In 2014, 9% where we are the fifth largest pharmaceutical we submitted 245 products across MENA, TO company and the leading regional player, is including 38 products for the treatment of enabling us to maximise the potential of our diabetes and heart disease and 16 oncology product portfolio.
We are benefiting from $1,489m products.
Markets such as Egypt and Algeria the breadth of our geographic reach and have strong local R&D centres, which are BASIC EPS INCREASED the expertise and scale of our sales team.
enabling us to accelerate new launches Our team of 1,892 sales people across the in those markets and address specific region detail doctors on a daily basis to drive market opportunities.
In 2014, we We continue to build and grow our TO 140.4 CENTS PER SHARE have continued to invest in promotional relationships with in-licensing partners, activities, expanded our coverage of doctors, LAUNCHED signing six new agreements in 2014, which deepened the expertise of our sales teams, will support us in bringing innovative, strengthened our relationships with doctors patented products to MENA and increasing 75 and key opinion leaders in the region patients access to affordable medicines.
PRODUCTS AND RECEIVED and enhanced our Customer Relationship Maintaining high quality and Management CRM capabilities.
 facilities Future sales growth will depend 263  on the quality of our product portfolio.
TOTAL PRODUCT APPROVALS A key strategic priority is to maintain We are focused on improving the mix of facilities which meet the highest quality sales towards higher value products in the standards, while driving operational fastestgrowing therapeutic categories, such efficiencies and tight cost control.
In 2014, as cardiovascular, diabetes, central nervous we continued to focus on initiatives to system and oncology.
We target to be reduce procurement costs throughout our the first or second generic on the market, supply chain and improve manufacturing ensuring the best price for our products processes.
We increased the production and strengthening our brand with doctors.
output in our local facilities across MENA, Continued new product launches enable enabling better utilisation, greater us to offset the impact of price erosion in manufacturing flexibility and security of certain markets.
We are making gradual progress 59 new products across our MENA markets, with our programme of cutting tail products helping to address changing patient needs to streamline our portfolio and maximise inthe region.
16 Strategic report Our team of 1,892 sales people across the MENA region detail doctors onadaily basis.
STRATEGIC PRIORITY MAXIMISING PORTFOLIO OPPORTUNITIES Across our MENA markets, we continue to invest to strengthen our sales teams and enhance our promotional activities.
In recent years we have restructured our teams to enable an increased focus on key strategic products and to develop the expertise of our reps in the fastest growing therapeutic categories.
Weare leveraging our recently implemented CRM system to optimise thefocus and frequency of doctor visits, helpingtomaximise the potential  in the region 17 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report 2014 DELIVERING OUR STRATEGY continued STRATEGIC PRIORITY STRENGTHENING ANDBROADENING OUR PRODUCT PORTFOLIO Across the Group, we are increasing our investment in R&D and product-related investments to drive future growth.
In MENA, we are successfully developing our portfolio and pipeline of higher value products for the treatment of chronic diseases, such as diabetes, heart disease, cancer and CNS conditions.
In 2014, wesubmitted 245 products, including 54 products in these therapeutic categories.
We are benefiting from recent investments to establish strong local R&Dcentres which are accelerating the rate ofproduct submissions and approvals Continued momentum innew product launches reflects a focused investment in R&D to develop a strong pipeline.
18 Strategic report Investing for growth Strengthening and broadening Leading global injectables ourproductportfolio The success of our operating model in manufacturer Developing a strong product portfolio and MENA has come from investing in strong Maximising portfolio opportunities local businesses in each of our markets pipeline is the key to ensuring sustainable The breadth of our global product portfolio, long-term growth for our global Injectables and in 2014, we invested a further our strong market positions in the US, $60 million in maintaining and expanding business.
In recent years, we have increased MENA and Europe and the expertise of our our investment in internal R&D, whilst our manufacturing facilities across the region.
sales teams are enabling us to maximise the As well as continuing to grow our businesses broadening our R&D model to include potential of our portfolio.
In 2014, our focus external partnerships and product file in existing markets, we are actively looking has been on enhancing the mix of sales at entry points into new emerging markets.
We are seeing the benefits of towards higher value, more differentiated this investment and in 2014 we submitted As weve done historically, we will use a products.
Our success in capturing specific combination of greenfield expansion and 165 products across our global markets, market opportunities has also helped to including some more complex regulatory acquisitions to enter these new markets.
The dedicated Developing a highly skilled and In July 2014, we completed the R&D line that is currently being installed in effectiveworkforce acquisition of Bedford, adding 82 products Portugal will further increase our annual The quality and commitment of our and giving us the largest portfolio of submission capabilities.
employees is a key differentiator and is generic injectable products in the US.
The acquisition of Bedford significantly supported by our operating model of This significantly strengthens our market strengthens and deepens our pipeline, employing local people to build strong local position and brings a large number of bringing 13 products pending approval and businesses in each of our MENA markets.
niche, differentiated products, including 11 under development.
A number of these In 2014, we continued our long track record lyophilised and oncology products.
We are are more differentiated products, including of investing to train and develop our people transferring an initial tranche of 20 of the complex filings such as ParagraphIVs, across the region.
Bedford products to our other injectables inline with our strategic focus on higher manufacturing facilities in the US, Portugal value products.
We are delighted that Ensuring sustainable long-term growth and Germany and we expect to have Bedfords large and experienced R&D team byaddressing changing patient needs re-launched the first of these products by have joined Hikma, significantly enhancing The healthcare market in the MENA region the end of 2015.
We have added a team our capabilities for developing our future continues to grow very strongly, driven by of eight sales people from Bedford, which product pipeline.
changing demographics such as increasing will help to enhance and deepen our US Oncology remains a key area of focus life expectancy and greater health awareness.
in all of our geographies.
We are growing We are continuously evolving our product In MENA, we undertook extensive our portfolio and we submitted a further portfolio to address changing patient needs, restructuring of our sales teams during 43 injectable oncology products across such as the increased incidence of heart 2014, which will enable us to increase the our markets during 2014.
Bedfords large disease, diabetes and cancer in the region.
focus and resource that we dedicate to oncology portfolio will accelerate this In 2014, we launched 59 oral products in promoting our injectable products going strategy and, whilst the priority will be to MENA, of which 36 were in these newer forward.
Following lower sales in 2014, we launch those products in the US market, we therapies.
This investment in products, expect these actions to drive a stronger plan to register them in MENA and Europe combined with our commitment to investing performance in 2015 and beyond.
We are successfully leveraging in strong local businesses in our markets team in Europe, which includes a specialised our strategic investment in Haosun, a will help to drive sustainable growth in the oncology division, continues to drive strong manufacturer of oncology APIs in China, medium and long term.
sales growth from our portfolio despite very to support new product development strong price erosion.
and in 2014 we added a dedicated API manufacturing plant to our Jordan facility.
19 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report 2014 DELIVERING OUR STRATEGY continued STRATEGIC PRIORITY INVESTING FOR GROWTH Our acquisition of the assets of Bedford and the Ben Venue manufacturing facility will significantly increase the scale and scope of our Injectables business.
As well as adding a large portfolio of high value, niche and differentiated products, Bedford brings a deep pipeline and an experienced R&D team of 39 employees.
We have also begun transferring equipment from the Ben Venue manufacturing site to expand capacity at our facilities in the US and Europe to support medium-term growth.
The acquisition will be a keydriveroffuture growth and takes us a step further to achieving our ambition to be a global market leader in generic injectables Our continued investment in capacity expansion andM&A will support future growth.
20 Strategic report Maintaining high quality and efficient We are also assessing the potential to use manufacturing facilities to maximise profitability equipment from Ben Venue to establish local injectable manufacturing facilities in certain In 2014, we continued our long track MENA markets.
record of investing in the maintenance and expansion of our high quality injectable Developing a highly skilled and manufacturing facilities and, by successfully effectiveworkforce leveraging our global manufacturing In 2014, we continued to invest in the footprint, we are optimising the allocation of development and expansion of our highly production and maximising efficiencies.
In the US, we have Our broad manufacturing capabilities expanded our sales and marketing capabilities and significant capacity meant we were through the addition of eight former Bedford well positioned to complete the Bedford employees and we are already seeing the acquisition.
The transfer of the Bedford benefits from the sharing of knowledge and products to our own facilities will enable us best practice.
We have also been developing to enhance capacity utilisation and reduce our sales and marketing capabilities in MENA unit costs.
Operational excellence remains this year, increasing the number of employees a focus across our facilities and continuous dedicated to the Injectables business to efficiency improvements are reflected in build a stronger route to market through increased profitability.
STRATEGIC PRIORITY greater expertise and specialism in our In October 2014, we received a teams.
The Bedford acquisition has enabled warning letter from the US FDA relating to MAINTAINING HIGH us to significantly develop the capabilities our Portuguese facility.
We do not believe QUALITY, EFFICIENT of our R&D team, adding 39 experienced that the warning letter will impact the employees with expertise in more complex MANUFACTURING manufacturing or distribution of the products product development.
from this facility and we do not expect the FACILITIES remediation costs to be material.
We have Ensuring sustainable long-term growth TOMAXIMISE dedicated significant management time byaddressing changing patient needs PROFITABILITY to addressing the issues raised and we are Our overarching strategic priority for the working hard to enable a swift resolution.
Injectables business is to drive sustainable Our commitment to maintaining the highest growth by continuously evolving our product quality standards across our global manufacturing Investing for growth portfolio in response to the changing needs facilities is enabling us to provide consistent supply Our continued investment in products of doctors and patients across our different of our products to the market.
Our continuous and capacity and our strong track record drive to improve our operations is generating geographies.
By developing products in of successful M&A will support long-term efficiencies and we are investing to maintain and fast growing therapeutic areas such as growth.
We are completing the installation upgrade all of our facilities.
We invested around oncology and combining our products with of a new high volume, high speed line to add $91 million in our facilities during 2014.
In MENA, advanced delivery systems, such as pre-filled we are gradually progressing our programme of capacity in Portugal and we are broadening syringes, we are addressing the needs of cutting tail products to maximise efficiencies and our manufacturing capabilities in the US with patients and increasing access to high quality, in our global Injectables business we are optimising the installation of a pre-filled syringe line.
the allocation of production between our facilities affordable medicine.
In 2014, we submitted our first product in and maximising efficiencies a pre-filled syringe and our programme of High quality provider submissions will continue in 2015. ofgenericsinthe US Our acquisition of the generic injectables manufacturing site of Ben Venue in Bedford, Maximising portfolio opportunities Ohio, reflects our commitment to long-term In the last couple of years, we have been growth.
The site includes a state-of-the-art working hard to re-launch our legacy portfolio Quality and Development Centre QDC, to the market and we have done an excellent which will meaningfully strengthen our job of re-establishing market positions for those existing R&D capabilities.
At the same time, we have been facilities on the site will remain dormant: successful in maximising the potential of specific however, we have begun transferring market opportunities, which have contributed certain equipment to our other facilities to strong revenue and profitability.
21 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report 2014 DELIVERING OUR STRATEGY continued By the end of 2014, we had re-launched 27 Investing for growth STRATEGIC PRIORITY products from our Eatontown facility, adding We continue to see attractive opportunities ENSURING to the 39 products being supplied to the US in the US generics market for both oral and market from our US FDA approved facilities in other non-injectable product forms.
Our strategy for the Generics business investing to develop our product portfolio LONG-TERM GROWTH is to continue maximising the potential of our and pipeline, including expansion into new existing portfolio, to re-launch a further five therapeutic categories and product forms.
Across the Group, we are building businesses that legacy products during 2015 and to drive We will continue to take a broad approach can deliver sustainable long-term growth.
Through further growth through new product launches.
to new product development, investing continuous investment in our products, people through a combination of focused business and manufacturing facilities, we will be able to Strengthening and broadening development activities and targeted M&A.
address the changing demands of doctors and ourproductportfolio patients in our different markets.
Our continued Our key strategic priority is to develop a Developing a highly skilled and momentum in new product launches in MENA strong product pipeline, with a focus on effectiveworkforce in2014 will help us to build strong franchises in thefastest growing therapeutic areas.
In the US, niche, differentiated products.
In part, In recent years, we have made significant we are meeting doctors growing concerns for this is being achieved through increased investments to strengthen our operations greater safety intheadministration of injectable investment in internal R&D, including in the US, adding high calibre talent across productsthrough our recent investment more complex regulatory filings such as key business functions, including sales intechnology, including pre-filled syringes the 505 b 2 approval we received for and marketing, R&D, manufacturing and TM Mitigare colchicine in 2014.
The continuous training development team is also expanding our and development across our workforce portfolio through external partnerships and is providing a strong platform to drive product acquisitions.
In the last two years future growth.
we have signed six agreements for seven Ensuring sustainable long-term growth products which will provide the potential for byaddressing changing patient needs good market opportunities in 2016 onwards.
We are actively developing our strategy In 2014, the first of several products being for the US market to ensure that we can developed by Unimark, the Indian company address the fastest growing areas of patient in which we hold a strategic investment, demand.
We believe that supplementing our received approval.
legacy business with focused diversification As well as building our portfolio of into new areas of the market with attractive oralproducts, we are expanding into competitive dynamics will enable us to drive other non-injectable product forms, sustainable long-term growth.
such as transdermal patches, creams and ointments and moving into more niche Looking ahead therapeutic areas, such as dermatologicals I am very pleased with the excellent and opthalmics.
performance that the Group has delivered in Maintaining high quality and efficient 2014.
It reflects the strength of our diversified manufacturing facilities to maximise business model and our success in delivering profitability our strategy for growth.
The continuous In April 2014, we were pleased to be investment we are making across our notified by the US FDA that the warning businesses to develop strong product letter received in respect of our Eatontown portfolios and pipelines and to maintain facility in February 2012 had been lifted.
highquality manufacturing facilities will This followed their review of our corrective drivecontinued growth in 2015 and beyond.
actions and reflects the significant investment we made to complete the remediation work, upgrade our manufacturing processes and strengthen our operations.
We are committed to maintaining the highest quality standards of regulatory compliance and efficient manufacturing and we continuously invest in equipment upgrades and process improvements.
22 Strategic report Continuous training and development across our workforce is providing aplatform to drive futuregrowth.
STRATEGIC PRIORITY DEVELOPING A HIGHLY SKILLED ANDEFFECTIVE WORKFORCE As we rapidly grow our businesses across the Group, it is important that we can underpin this with the continuous development of our people and capabilities.
On the job training, advanced education programmes and overseas assignments are some of the ways we are building expertise across the Group.
Inaddition, wehired87experienced new hires intomanagerialroles during 2014 23
