Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report 2014 COMMITTEE REPORTS Audit Letter from The Chairman Dear Shareholders This is my final letter to you as Chairman of the Committee.
I have very much enjoyed my time chairing the Committee and I am proud of the work it has done.
We have come a long way since Hikma listed and I have enjoyed my part in the development journey of the finance department.
There is more to be done in the future and I am sure that Pat and Khalid will do an excellent job continuing on the upwards path.
Pat will become Chairman of the Committee at the May 2015 AGM.
Pat joined us as a Committee member and chair designate in April 2014.
Pat, Khalid and I have spent a significant amount of time over the past year ensuring that there is a smooth handover of responsibilities and that relationships and historical background are passed on.
I will be continuing to serve on the Committee, to ensure the process is completed and that AUDIT REPORT there is an additional sounding board for Pat and Khalid.
Dr Pamela Kirby joined the Committee during the year.
I welcome her to Hikma and 74 Letter from The Chairman the Committee: she is a valuable addition.
Sir David Rowe-Ham retired from the Committee 75 Our Highlights during the year: I have greatly enjoyed working with him, the Committee has benefited 75 Membership and Attendance greatly from his wisdom and experience and we wish him the best for the future.
76 Significant Accounting Judgements This letter and the following report should provide you with an overview of the 76 Responsibilities operation and scope of the Audit Committee and report on its work over the past year.
77 Fair, Balanced and Understandable The Committees written terms of reference are available on Hikmas website.
We invited the 78 External Audit Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, VP for Investor Relations, Group Financial Controller, 79 Internal Audit Auditors, Internal Auditors and certain members of the finance team to attend meetings 80 Risk Management asrequired.
As in previous years, the Committee met with the internal and external auditors 80 Principal Risks and Uncertainties without management present and I met with each team separately as part of my review oftheir work.
As you will see from our highlights, we have undertaken extensive work during the year, including enhancing our approach to risk appetite, identification and management.
In line with current guidance, we have provided more detail on the accounting judgements and issues considered by the finance team and Committee during the year.
As an organisation Hikma is committed to clear and open communication.
As Imentioned last year, I remain open to discussion with shareholders should they haveanymatters that they wish to raise directly with me.
Breffni Byrne, Chairman of the Audit Committee 74 Corporate governance OUR HIGHLIGHTS MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE f Risk management We have thoroughly reviewed our risk appetite The Audit Committee consists of six Independent Non-Executive andprincipal risks Directors: Breffni Byrne Committee Chairman, Michael Ashton, Ronald Goode, Robert Pickering, Pat Butler and Dr Pamela Kirby.
f Audit tendering We have considered guidance on audit tendering All members of the Committee have extensive financial experience, andhave decided to conduct a tender over 20152016 including international operations.
f Non-audit fees We have reviewed the position on non-audit fees The Chairman has over 30 years experience as a public andhave resolved to minimise the level of non-audit services accountant and is considered by the Board to have recent and f Governance Monitored and reviewed the corporate governance relevant financial experience.
Pat Butler, the Chairman designate, arrangements and made recommendations for enhancement has extensive experience of financing, accounting, risk and internal control matters from his 30 years at McKinsey and f Auditing Monitored the performance and findings of the external Arthur Andersen.
All members have spent a significant portion andinternal auditors of their careers in leading positions at financial, advisory and f Evaluation Implemented the results of the 2014 Audit Committees pharmaceutical companies.
evaluation exercise resulting in refocusing the Committee meetings Meeting toavoid duplication Members Member since Attended Potential attendance ALLOCATION OF COMMITTEES TIME Breffni Byrne Chairman 14 October 2005 7 7 100% Pat Butler 1 April 2014 5 5 100% 1.
Announcements results 7% 6 Michael Ashton 14 October 2005 7 7 100% 3.
Forecasts 20% Dr Ronald Goode 12 December 2006 7 7 100% Dr Pamela Kirby 1 December 2014 1 1 100% 4.
Internal audit 11% 2 Robert Pickering 1 September 2011 7 7 100% 5.
Corporate governance 10% retired 15 May 2014 4 TOTAL MEETINGS 7 7.
Risk 6% INTERNAL ADVISERS EXTERNAL ADVISERS f Chief Financial Officer f Deloitte Audit f Company Secretary f Ernst & Young Internal Audit f VP Investor Relations and Strategy f VP of Reporting and Financial Compliance 75 E E T T I M M O C T I D U A CORPORATE GOVERNANCE R E M U INTERNAL AUDIT S N C E I R H A T T E I O D N N EXTERNAL AUDIT A C O Y T M Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report 2014 COMMITTEE REPORTS AUDIT continued Responsibilities SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS During 2014 and up until the date of this report, the Audit Committee also considered and discussed the following financial matters: f Revenue recognition: The Committee reviewed the judgements and recommendations of management made in respect of revenue recognition for higher-margin products where the potential for returns and rebates was also high.
The Committee was satisfied that the review by local and Group management validated the approach f Rebates and chargebacks: The Committee assessed the financial reports on the processing of chargebacks and rebates in the US.
This is a highly judgemental area and applies to a significant proportion of Group revenue.
The Committee noted the improvements in the control THE BOARD and modelling environment and considered the appropriateness of COMMITTEES associated provisions f Taxation: The Groups worldwide operations are highly integrated and involve a number of cross-border transactions.
As a result there is complexity and judgement regarding the potential tax liabilities in various jurisdictions.
The Committee reviewed and considered the advice of and presentations from professional services firms and management in this regard f Acquisitions: The Group acquired tangible and intangible assets from Bedford Laboratories during the year.
There are significant judgemental issues regarding valuation of assets and allocation of consideration.
TheCommittee reviewed and considered recommendations of management and support analysis from external advisers The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its f Accounts receivable and inventory: Reviewed the reports on major responsibilities with regard to financial reporting, external audit, receivables and considered managements relationships with those parties, plans to ensure payment and relevant provisions.
Assessed the internal audit, internal control, corporate governance and risk potential impact of remediation and other factors on the impairment management.
The Committee reviews Hikmas Annual Report, of inventory financial statements, interim report, interim management statements and trading updates and monitors all audit and non-audit work f Asset impairment: The Group has significant investment in fixed assets relating to its manufacturing operations and intangible assets relating to undertaken by external auditors.
The Committee monitors marketing authorisations and acquisitions.
The Committee continuously the effectiveness and output of Hikmas internal and external monitors the application of the Groups policies in relation to impairment audit activities, internal controls and risk management systems.
and valuation of those assets and considers and challenges The Committee is responsible for overseeing corporate governance managements recommendations regarding the appropriate impairment arrangements across the Group, including the annual corporate f Going concern: Conducted a rigorous assessment of whether Hikma governance review.
The Audit Committee advises the Board on the isa going concern when preparing the annual and half-yearly financial appointment, reappointment and removal of the external auditors, statements.
In reaching its conclusion, the Committee took into as well as the effectiveness of the audit process.
The Committee account Hikmas forecasts and budget, borrowing facilities, contingent operates Hikmas policies on monitoring Directors conflicts of liabilities, medium and long-term plan, and financial and operational risk management interest.
The Audit Committee terms of reference include all matters indicated by the Code and clearly set out its authority and duties.
They are reviewed by the Board as part of the annual corporate governance review.
The terms of reference are available on the Hikmawebsite and by contacting investors@hikma.
76 I L M I I B T I INTERNAL CONTROL S T N E E O P S E R, REPORTING E C N A I L P M RISK MANAGEMENT O C E E T T I M M O C N O I T A N I M O N Corporate governance The Reporting Committee, which meets regularly during the year: Fair, Balanced and Understandable Hikma is committed to clear and transparent disclosure and has f Initiates the first review of the Annual Report in November, at which embedded the procedures that were developed last year to point areas for improvement are identified and enhancements improve the clarity of its reporting.
In producing the Annual Report recommended and Accounts, the focus of management, the auditors and the f Discusses the proposed disclosures with external auditors, brokers and Committee is on ensuring that the disclosures are in clear language, public relations advisers to obtain their input reflect the underlying situation and that appropriate information f Meets to review and refine disclosure and ensure the opinions of the isdisclosed that allows readers to form a reasoned opinion.
adviser continue to be sought The process of reporting is an extensive exercise both from an f Instructs a verification process to ensure the accuracy of disclosures internal management perspective and in the use of advisers.
At the request of the Board, the Audit Committee considers f Issues guidance to contributors at the beginning and throughout the whether Hikmas Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable process and reports on actions and significant areas of judgement totheAudit Committee as appropriate and whether it provides the necessary information for shareholders to assess Hikmas performance, business model and strategy.
The Audit Committee closely oversees the work of the Reporting The Audit Committee builds its recommendation based on Committee, which is responsible for ensuring the accuracy of the acomprehensive review conducted by a committee of senior information submitted in the Annual Report and assessing whether management the Reporting Committee, which consists of the: the narrative section of the report is consistent with the accounting f Chief Financial Officer information.
Each of the members of the Audit Committee and the Reporting Committee was satisfied that the 2014 Annual Report is f Vice President Corporate Strategy and Investor Relations fair, balanced and understandable and recommended the adoption f Company Secretary of the report and accounts to the Board.
f General Counsel f Deputy Director of Investor Relations f Vice President for Human Resources f Divisional Heads f VP of Reporting and Financial Compliance f Chief Compliance Officer Where the matters on the agenda relate to their areas of responsibility 77 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report 2014 COMMITTEE REPORTS AUDIT continued Independence External Audit The Committee regularly reviews the independence safeguards The external audit is undertaken by Deloitte LLP.
The auditors are not allowed to undertake work that Committee is responsible for the development, implementation involves promoting Hikma, installing systems, making management and monitoring of the Groups policy on external audit and for decisions, supporting litigation or tasks that would involve review monitoring the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
or reliance upon their audit work.
The Committee aims to minimise The Audit Committee is the primary point of contact for the auditors non-audit work and only authorises such activities where the and the auditors have direct access to all Committee members, appointment is in the best interests of the Group and: without management involvement.
The Committee regularly reviews the work of the external auditors and in doing so examined the f The independence of the auditors is maintained both in terms of the following issues during the year: typeof work undertaken and the overall level of the non-audit fee Audit quality and technical capabilities f The service quality and experience of the team are significantly ahead ofpotential competitors The Committee formally reviewed the quality of the audit and capabilities of the team during the year and concluded that f The services of other major providers is limited due to issues such the existing team continues to conduct an effective audit.
asconflicts of interest The Committee considered that the teams in-depth knowledge of Fees paid in respect of audit, audit-related and non-audit services the Group, particularly the Groups diverse international operations, are outlined in Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements and is advantageous in terms of its ability to identify issues of importance in the chart below.
Audit-related services are services carried out by and relay them clearly to the Committee.
The Committee feeds the external audit team by virtue of the role and principally include back its comments on the auditors performance as part of the assurance-related work.
regular meetings with them that occur without management present.
The Committee evaluation process, which is anonymous AUDITORS FEES $ MILLION and externally facilitated, includes an assessment of the work AUDIT-RELATED FEES NON-AUDIT-RELATED FEES of the auditors, which was rated positively.
The auditors ensure Tax advisory services that experienced specialists assist management and present to Tax compliance services the Committee where there are issues of a more complex nature, Other non-audit services suchasinternational taxation.
The Committee believes that there 14 $1.8m isastrong, appropriate and open relationship between the audit team leadership, the Audit Committee and management.
80% 20% $0.5m 13 $1.7m 17%17% 66% $0.6m 0.0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.6 1.7 1.8 78 Corporate governance The prior approval of the Audit Committee is required for the Internal Audit recruitment of a senior member of the audit team or the recruitment During the year under review and up to the date of this report, of an employee of the external auditors to a senior finance position Ernstand Young E&Y continued its management and execution of within the Group.
The Committee did not receive a request the Groups internal audit function on a global basis under a contract toexercise its discretion under that policy during the year.
There is a regular programme ofinteraction between E&Y and the Committee detailed at the Tendering bottom of this page.
Deloitte LLP were appointed as auditors in advance of when Hikma listed on the London Stock Exchange in November 2005.
Since that Internal Control point there have been three senior audit partners.
Following changes The Board is ultimately responsible for the effectiveness of the to regulations during the year, Hikma will now be required to put Groups systems of internal controls and risk management during the audit out to tender by 2017.
Mr Paul Franek, the current senior the year and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board confirms audit partner, assumed responsibility in 2011 and will complete his that it is in accordance with the Code and the Turnbull guidance term after the audit of the 31 December 2015 financial statements.
The system for identifying, evaluating and The Committee considers it prudent to undertake the tender managing the risks the Group faces draws on the on-going output exercise during late 2015 and early 2016, with a view to making of the finance department on Group performance, the work of the arecommendation in time for the end of Mr Franeks tenure.
internal auditors and issues identified by the external auditors to the There are no contractual provisions that restrict the Committees extent covered by their audit work.
The Board monitors the on-going choice of auditors.
effectiveness of the system and formally reviews the Groups policies Reappointment on internal control on an annual basis including all material controls, As in previous years, the Committee maintained regular contact including financial, operational and compliance control.
The system with the auditors throughout the year and undertook an assessment of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the of the auditors performance and independence.
The Committee risk of failure to achieve the business objectives and can only provide recommended to the Board the reappointment of Deloitte as external reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement auditor.
The re-election and remuneration of Deloitte LLP as Hikmas or loss.
The Board confirms that the necessary actions will be taken auditors will be proposed to shareholders at the 2015 Annual to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified from General Meeting.
Should shareholders wish to discuss the auditor, this review.
the Chairman of the Audit Committee will make himself available.
MAY JULY OCTOBER DECEMBER f The Committee Chairman f E&Y report their initial f The Committee Chairman has f E&Y report their full-year meets E&Y at the Hikma findingsto the full a further meeting with E&Y to findings, risk assessment headoffice in order to Committee.
The Committee undertake an in-depth review andplan for the following undertake a thorough meets with E&Y without of the full-year audit findings, year tothe Committee.
reviewof the internal audit management present.
review the results of the TheCommittee meets findings to date and the riskassessment that is withE&Y without management responses.
undertaken in conjunction management present.
with management and consider the plan for the following year.
79 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report 2014 COMMITTEE REPORTS AUDIT continued The key elements of our internal control framework are as follows: AUTHORITY TO INVEST $ MILLION f A documented and disseminated reporting structure with clear procedures, authorisation limits, segregation of duties and BOARD OF DIRECTORS 20m delegatedauthorities f Annual budgets, updated forecasting and long-term business plans forthe Group that identify risks and opportunities and that are reviewed 1020m EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE and approved by the Board f A comprehensive system of internal financial reporting that includes regular comparison of results against budget and forecast and a review of KPIs, each informed by management commentary INVESTMENT COMMITTEE f An established process for reviewing the financial performance and providing support to our joint ventures and associates together with REGIONAL REGIONAL REGIONAL 110m direct support from the Hikma finance function INVESTMENT INVESTMENT INVESTMENT f Written policies and procedures for material functional areas with M&A CORPORATE DEVELOPMENT  allocated to individual managers DEPARTMENT f A defined process for controlling capital expenditure which is detailed inthe governance framework PROJECT TEAM: PROJECT TEAM: PROJECT TEAM: 1m MENA US EUROPE Risk Management The Committee oversees Hikmas risk management framework in the context of its responsibilities for internal control and annually reviews the strategic risks facing the Group.
The Audit Committee reviews business and operational risks with the internal and external auditors which arise through the audit work that they perform, including risk interviews with all executive management.
During the year the Board resolved to further enhance its approach to risk management.
The process is being led by the AuditCommittee and extensively involved the Chief Financial Officer, Company Secretary and executive management team.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties A detailed description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing Hikma are detailed on pages 42 and 43.
For and on behalf of the Audit Committee Breffni Byrne, Audit Committee Chairman 11 March 2015 80
