Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report 2014 GOVERNANCE REPORT continued Directors Delegation of Authority Terms of appointment MATTERS RESERVED TO THE BOARD Details of the Executive Directors service arrangements and NonHikma maintains a formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board Executive Directors letters of appointment are contained in the inthe Board Governance Manual.
This includes the following items: Remuneration Report on pages 90 to 109.
They are made available f Operational management: Approval of strategy, operations oversight, for inspection before the Annual General Meeting and during performance review business hours at Hikmas registered office at 13 Hanover Square, f Structure and capital: Approval of changes toGroup structure London.
orchanges to capital structure External commitments f Financial reporting and controls: Approval offinancial announcements, The Directors external commitments are detailed in their profiles accounts, dividends: significant changes to treasury and accountancy on pages 56 to 59.
The Audit Committee operates, monitors and practice reviews the conflicts of interest procedures, which have operated f Internal controls: Reviewing effectiveness ofGroups risk and control effectively during the year.
A register of external commitments processes, and forreviewing its effectiveness including an annual is maintained by the Company Secretary and is reviewed at each assessment Audit Committee and Board meeting.
Where new commitments are f Contracts: Approval of significant contracts, investments and projects proposed, these are reviewed in advance by the Audit Committee which meet pre-set monetary thresholds and where appropriate, recommendations on necessary controls are f Communication: Approval of certain press releases, and all circulars made to the Board.
The Board considers that a degree of outside and prospectuses commitments enhances a Directors ability to perform the role.
f Board membership and other appointments: Approval of changes Time commitment and duties toBoard structure and composition, succession, auditors and The Directors commit an appropriate amount of time to their roles CompanySecretary and are readily available at short notice.
The Non-Executive Directors f Remuneration: Determining remuneration policy for senior are required to commit 20 days during each year to the execution of management and Directors and officers and amending or introducing their duties.
However, all of the Non-Executive Directors devote at share incentive plans least 30 days per annum to their Hikma responsibilities.
In addition, f Corporate governance: Annually reviewing Board, Committees and the Committee Chairmen spend a significant amount of time on their individual Director performance, and reviewing corporate governance respective areas of responsibility and Non-Executive Directors take arrangements time to meet with management and visit operations where there areparticular areas of interest.
Consequently, the Independent Non-Executive Directors dedicate substantially more time to Hikmathan their appointment requires.
The duties of the Directors, Chief Executive, Chairman and Committee Chairmen are set out inthe Board Governance Manual.
Indemnities and insurance Hikma maintains an appropriate level of Directors and officers insurance.
The Directors benefit from qualifying third-party indemnities made by Hikma which were in force during the year and as at the date of this report.
These indemnities are uncapped in amount in relation to losses and liabilities which Directors may incur to third parties in the course of the performance of their duties.
