Corporate governance The Remuneration Committee's terms of reference include all Responsibilities matters indicated by the corporate governance principles and The Committee is responsible for developing and setting Group clearly set out its authority and duties.
The Committees terms of remuneration policy and overseeing its application.
The Committee reference are reviewed by the Board on an annual basis.
The terms sets the remuneration of the Executive Directors and makes of reference are available on the Hikma website and by contacting recommendations on reward for the senior management team.
The Committee reviews executive performance and strives to ensure Hikmas remuneration structures align the interests of management and shareholders.
HIGHLIGHTS OF 2014 MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE f Conducted a full shareholder consultation on executive salary The Remuneration Committee consists of five Independent Nonarrangements Executive Directors, with an Independent Non-Executive Director holding the chairmanship of the Committee.
All members of the f Finalised and implemented the new Executive Incentive Plan Committee have held positions at the highest levels in multinational f Reviewed the comparator group to reduce the weight of organisations and hence have experienced business and resource pharmaceuticals companies with a larger market capitalisation issues at all levels.
The members have spent a significant proportion andbetter align it to the Companys size and market position of their careers leading teams and in executive management.
f Nominated for the Building Trust Award for best Remuneration The members understand the need to incentivise top management Disclosure intheFTSE 250 for the third year appropriately, while ensuring that rewards are fair throughout f Further developed advice and guidance regarding remuneration alllevels of Hikmas business.
belowboard level Meeting f Considered developments in the business and governance arena Members Member since Attended Potential attendance Michael Ashton Chairman 14 October 2005 6 6 100% f Fully implemented our policies in respect of minimum shareholdings at 300% ofsalary for Executive Directors and 200% for other executives Breffni Byrne 14 October 2005 6 6 100% Ronald Goode 12 December 2006 6 6 100% f Benchmarked Executive Director, Non-Executive and senior Dr Pamela Kirby 1 December 2014 1 1 100% management compensation Robert Pickering 1 March 2014 5 5 100% f Acted as a sounding board for significant projects undertaken Sir David Rowe-Ham 14 October 2005 2 2 100% bytheHuman Resources department retired 15 May 2014 f Reviewed executive performance base incentives TOTAL MEETINGS 6 f Developed the usage of KPIs, the bonus plan and share scheme usagefor employees below executive level INTERNAL ADVISERS EXTERNAL ADVISERS f Reviewed the performance and competitiveness of our f Chairman and Chief Executive f PwC RemunerationAdvisers f VP Human Resources f Company Secretary ALLOCATION OF COMMITTEES TIME 1.
