Strategic report It is critical to the safety of our patients that In 2014, we held a HikmaCardiovascular STRATEGIC PRIORITY we operate high quality manufacturing Forum in Portugal.
Cardiologists were facilities and can maintain secure supply provided with new information and RAISING DIABETES of our products.
We continuously invest in perspectives on effective strategies to AWARENESS the maintenance of our facilities to ensure help patients reach their treatment goals.
compliance with the appropriate regulatory The scientific programme was endorsed by In recognition of World Diabetes Day, we standards.
Our plants are subject to regular the Jordanian Cardiac Society, the Saudi conducted a series of health activities to benefit inspections by regional regulatory authorities Heart Association and the Egyptian Society our people, doctors and communities.
Internally, we educated our people with health advice including the US FDA for a number of our of Cardiology.
Also in Portugal, more than to lead more active and healthy lifestyles.
global facilities, our licensing partners and 100 Ear, Nose and Throat ENT specialists Ourdifferent businesses participated in various our contract manufacturing customers.
and pulmonologists attended the CURE ways: forexample, in Morocco, we provided The emphasis we place on quality ensures symposium held by Hikma, which focused continuous medical education for endocrinologists we invest in the long-term sustainability onnew findings inthefield of anti-infectives.
by organising a diabetes forum, bringing together ofour businesses.
In 2014, we sponsored key doctors diabetologists from all the MENA countries.
The forum was sponsored by the Jordan Society from the MENA region to participate in of Endocrinologists, the American Association of the European Association for the Study Enhancing patient Clinical Endocrinologists Gulf chapter and the of Diabetes EASD congress that was Arabic diabetes forum.
In Jordan, we also offered anddoctor awareness held in Vienna, Austria.
The EASD is the free public screening to serve the local community worlds leading international forum for and education diabetes research, not only for individual STRATEGIC PRIORITY scientists but also for the pharmaceutical Why this is important industry worldwide.
Providing holistic treatment for our patients is SUPPORTING We care for our cancer patients needs a key component of the way we do business.
IMPROVED and work with NGOs to improve cancer In the communities where we operate, we careand critical knowledge.
In the US, TRANSPLANT focus on raising public awareness of critical weco-operated with the Susan Komen health issues and helping people to improve OUTCOMES Foundation which we have a longtheir lives by making healthy choices.
In the standing relationship with.
This year, our Our focus on working more closely with transplant MENA region, our sales representatives employees participated in the Race for the surgeons across our markets is increasing, fuelled provide an important source of information Cure Campaign.
by the higher demand in Syria, Libya and other for doctors, making them aware of new The sustainability of our business relies countries in MENA.
In 2014, we organised group advancements in research and diagnosis to meetings for surgeons in Egypt and Algeria to upon an open dialogue with our stakeholders improve treatment.
Our mission to improve discuss the optimisation of transplant treatments.
to achieve shared knowledge and education.
lives depends on sharing knowledge and InSaudi Arabia, we addressed the risk of nonWe continuously work on advancing the adherence of immunosuppressant regimens to promoting healthy practices to improve the efficacy and safety of our products.
We also sponsored a kidney treatment and care available to our patients.
Hikma signed a service agreement with transplant workshop and symposium in Sudan.
PrimeVigilance, a leading international A clinical study began for Myora mycophenolate What were doing mofetil, an immunosuppressant used for renal company that provides pharmacovigilance This year, we continued to organise education transplants.
The study was funded by Hikma and medical information services.
In June, our programmes for doctors.
These included a based on a request from the Jordan Food and Global Pharmacovigilance System went live, number of events for top physicians in critical Drug Administration as part of the Myora risk marking the beginning of a new phase in the therapeutic categories such as diabetes, management plan to assess the safety and way we manage safety information and case cardiovascular disease, central nervous efficacy of the product, covering 25 patients reports from patients and doctors.
fromtwohospitals over a one-year period system conditions and transplant surgery.
As part of this programme, we held a Hikma Oriented Psychiatric Education HOPE workshop in 2014 to support doctors in addressing the high level of unmet needs in neurological and psychiatric care.
The meeting was accredited by the European bipolar forum, bringing together around 125psychiatrists in Istanbul, Turkey to be taught by notable international speakers anddiscuss new findings in neuroscience.
