FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL Home Retail Group STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Annual Report 2014 5 Our strategy Home Retail Group operates with a clear scale advantage, derived from a In Homebase this means: well-invested infrastructure which has been built up over a period of many Enhanced products and brands years.
Our strategy has been developed with the intention of creating Create clear points of customer differentiation and competitive long-term value for our stakeholders by delivering sustainable growth in advantage our retail brands.
Develop and extend the reach of both exclusive and own brands Our vision is to build successful businesses that bring outstanding value Showcase product displays to help our customers with ideas and convenience to our customers, whether shopping at home or on and inspiration the move.
Each of our retail brands has its own clear strategic plans to Expert service and advice both in-store and online achieve this vision.
In October 2012 we outlined the five-year strategic Transformation plan to reinvent Argos as a digital retail leader.
The Digital leadership and accelerating multi-channel Homebase Renewal plan is a strategy designed to position the business We are taking advantage of developments in technology that have brought as a clearly differentiated multi-channel home enhancement retailer.
about a fundamental and permanent shift in the way customers shop.
Our Group strategy is focused on the following pillars, which support Increasingly customers choose to shop online or on the move through both our vision and each of the operating businesses strategies.
mobile devices, principally for pick-up in a local store but also for home delivery.
This multi-channel experience is core to what we do and is the Compelling customer offer reason we have an ongoing focus on developing our successful internet We are committed to utilising our scale advantage to source products for and mobile commerce channels to meet this customer demand.
We will our customers, enabling us to offer them a broad choice of products at prioritise future investment to these multi-channel capabilities to satisfy competitive prices.
Our logistics network is based on a well-developed customers in whichever way they want to interact and shop with us.
We infrastructure that allows us to continue to focus on improving the speed will continue to support this with the convenience of immediate product at which products can be both sourced and delivered to our customers, collection via our national store network.
through whichever channel they choose to shop with us.
For Argos and Homebase this means: In Argos this means: Create world-class digital customer experiences More choice available faster Investment in platforms to drive online sales growth Leverage the existing store network and replenishment routes Exploit the strategic advantage of having ef cient collection points Introduce market-leading ful lment options to complement the in local markets immediacy of in-store collection Innovation of store experience Provide high levels of availability to our customers Shift the paper catalogue in Argos to a supporting role in the digital offer, and develop a market-leading digital catalogue Reposition channels for a digital future Develop large-scale customer data collection, insight and Innovation of the store experience, including fast-track collection personalisation capabilities and web-based browsers Create engaging experiences online and in-store Expand customer reach and build loyalty In Homebase this means: Store investment programme Financial Services Rollout of a radically different store format, providing clear competitive Both Argos and Homebase are supported by an in-house financial services differentiation offer.
Our Financial Services business offers a range of credit products Space recon guration which make it easy for our customers to buy the products they want, when Introduction of mini Habitat store-in-store they want.
Introduction of unique decorating centres Cost management Increase ful lment choice and speed We have a strong track record of delivering signi cant organisational and Offer named or next day delivery proposition on a wide range of products infrastructure changes which improve the exibility of our businesses and reduce costs, while maintaining or improving our operational standards.
Product leadership and exclusive brands This means we will maintain a lean and exible cost base through: We use the strength of our retail brands to drive leadership in our core Ongoing cost-reduction programmes markets through expanding our product ranges.
With over 80,000 Continuing to re-shape the store estate products across Argos and Homebase, we are always looking for opportunities to offer new products and services.
Financial strength The Group has strong operational cash ow characteristics and it has In Argos this means: 331m of net cash as at 1 March 2014.
In addition, we have a 165m Universal customer appeal committed borrowing facility which is undrawn and which expires in Extend ranges to build both authority and choice March 2016.
This financial strength will enable us to deliver on the Ensure competitive pricing and value investment plans incorporated in both the Argos Transformation plan Reposition brand and customer experiences for universal appeal and the Homebase Renewal plan.
Strengthen exclusive brand offer through fewer, cross-category own brands You can read more about our progress in all areas of the Argos and Homebase Enhance product quality and design to meet the needs of new strategies in the respective business reviews on pages 12 to 19.
There are customer segments areas of risk and uncertainty associated with our strategy that you can read about in the principal risk and uncertainties section on pages 24 and 25.
