Home Retail Group 4 Annual Report 2014 Our business model We aim to provide outstanding value and convenience for our customers through the operation of our two retail brands: Argos andHomebase.
Customers are at the heart of our business, with over180m transactions during the year.
We use the insight that ourmany customers provide to add value to our business model.
Retail brands Financial Sourcing and strength infrastructure Outstanding value and convenience for our customers Financial Products Services Colleagues Multi-channel retailer Retail brands advantage of developments in technology that have brought about We are one of the UKs leading home and general merchandise retailers, a fundamental and permanent shift in the way our customers shop.
bringing together two of the UKs most recognisable retail brands Our successful internet and mobile channels help make us a market leader Argos and Homebase.
This is supported with a national network of over 1,000 stores which provides customers with local pick-up points, giving us Sourcing and infrastructure both digital leadership and local presence which we believe gives us a We source our products both locally and globally.
The scale of the signi cant competitive advantage over our pure-play internet competitors.
combined sourcing synergy of Argos and Homebase allows us to offer great choice and value to our customers.
We have a strong supply chain which, Colleagues together with our logistics infrastructure, enables us to provide products Our ability to deliver our business model is underpinned by our 47,000 for our customers for either store pick-up or home delivery.
dedicated colleagues who serve our customers every day and we are committed to their ongoing training and development.
Products We offer a comprehensive range of over 80,000 products across home and Financial Services general merchandise.
We support our offer of well-known product brands Both Argos and Homebase are supported by an in-house financial with a portfolio of own and exclusive brands such as Habitat, Bush, Alba, services offer, which provides a range of credit products for our customers.
Financial strength Multi-channel retailer The Group has strong operational cash-generating characteristics and is in We are a multi-channel retailer in that we offer our customers a number of a strong financial position, with 331m of cash.
This supports our strategy convenient ways in which they can purchase their products.
