Home Retail Group 60 Annual Report 2014 Directors report The directors present their report and the Other information, which forms part of the directors report, can be found in the following sections audited consolidated financial statements for and locations within the Annual Report: the 52 weeks ended 1 March 2014 the period.
Home Retail Group plc the Company is Section Page No's Note the ultimate parent company of Home Retail Audit Committee report Page 40 Group the Group, which operates in the UK and in the Republic of Ireland.
Board and committee membership Page 33 Sections required to be included in this Chairmans statement Page 7 Annual Report and Accounts in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 are set out below.
Corporate governance Page 34 Pages 60 to 62 inclusive together with sections Corporate responsibility, including greenhouse gas emissions Page 22 of the Annual Report incorporated by reference form part of the directors report which is Directors biographies Page 33 presented in accordance with, and with reliance upon, applicable English company law.
The Directors responsibilities statement Page 63 liabilities of the directors in connection with that Diversity Page 36 report shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
Financial results and dividends Page 26 and page 93 In accordance with s. 414C 11 of the Nomination Committee report Page 39 Companies Act 2006, the Company has chosen to include certain information in the strategic Post balance sheet events financial statements Note 35 on page 111 report as follows: Risk management Principal risks and uncertainties Page 24 Particulars of important events affecting the Group since the last financial year.
Strategic report Pages 4 to 31 Indication of likely future development of the business of the Group.
Pro t and dividends summarised within the directors remuneration Shareholder rights, appointment, removal The Groups consolidated income statement on report on pages 50 to 52.
Neither contract for the of directors and directors powers page 68 shows a pro t for the year of 54.0m.
executive directors provides for extended notice The internal regulation of the Company is set The directors recommend the payment of a final periods or compensation in the event of out in its Articles of Association which cover dividend of 2.3p per ordinary share, to be paid on termination or a change of control.
such matters as the rights of shareholders, the 23 July 2014 to shareholders on the register at During the period and up to the date of this appointment or removal of directors and the the close of business on 23 May 2014.
An interim report, the Group maintained liability insurance conduct of the Board and general meetings.
dividend of 1.0p per ordinary share was paid on and third-party indemni cation provisions for its Copies are available upon request and are 22 January 2014, giving a total dividend for the directors, under which the Company has agreed displayed on the Groups website at year of 3.3p per ordinary share.
to indemnify the directors to the extent homeretailgroup.
In accordance with permitted by law in respect of all liabilities to the Articles of Association, directors can be Directors third parties arising out of, or in connection with, appointed or removed by the Board or The names and biographical details of the the execution of their powers, duties and shareholders in general meeting.
Subject to directors are shown in the Board of Directors responsibilities as directors of the Company and company law and the Articles of Association, and Operating Board section on page 33.
On any of its associated companies.
These the directors may exercise all the powers of the 14 March 2014, Terry Duddy stepped down from indemnities are Qualifying Third-Party Company and may delegate authorities to the Board as Chief Executive and John Walden Indemnity Provisions as fide ned in Section 234 of committees.
Details of the main Board joined the Board as Chief Executive.
Particulars of the Companies Act 2006 and copies are available committees can be found in the corporate directors remuneration are shown in the for inspection at the registered of ce of the governance section on page 35.
Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 59.
Details Company during business hours on any weekday of the service contracts of the directors, and how except public holidays.
a change of control will affect the service contracts of the executive directors, are FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL Home Retail Group STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Annual Report 2014 61 Share capital and control Substantial shareholdings As at 30 April 2014, the Companys issued As at 30 April 2014, the Company had been noti ed under Rule 5 of the Financial Conduct Authoritys share capital comprised a single class of shares, Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the following holdings of voting rights in the issued share capital referred to as ordinary shares.
Details of the of the Company: ordinary share capital can be found in note 27 to the financial statements on page 107.
Each share Total number of Percentage of voting rights total voting carries the right to one vote at general meetings ordinary shares rights % of the Company and ordinary rights to dividends.
Schroders plc 80,972,305 9.95 The rights and obligations attaching to the shares are more fully set out in the Articles of Sanderson 59,246,016 7.28 Association of the Company.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares AXA S. A.
42,510,359 5.23 in the Company other than the following: Silchester International 40,606,717 4.99 Certain restrictions may, from time to time, be imposed by laws and regulations such as Citibank 37,392,176 4.60 insider trading laws.
RBC cees Trustee Limited 34,314,121 4.21 Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, the Company requires Capital Group Companies Inc 32,774,159 4.02 certain employees to seek the Companys permission to deal in the Companys Norges Bank 25,570,045 3.14 ordinary shares.
The Company is not aware of any Employees Employee share plans agreements between shareholders which may The Group has in place measures to provide Some of the Companys employee share plans result in restrictions on the transfer of securities its employees with information on matters include restrictions on the transfer of shares and or voting rights.
There are no shareholdings of concern to them as employees, including while the shares are subject to the plan.
As which carry special rights relating to control of consulting employees or their representatives on described in the directors remuneration report, the Company.
A change of control of the a regular basis so that the views of employees non-executive directors use part of their fees Company following a takeover bid may cause a can be taken into account in making decisions to purchase shares, which may not normally be number of agreements to which the Company or which are likely to affect their interests.
Various transferred during a directors period of of ce.
its trading subsidiaries is party to take effect, communication routes are made available to Where, under an employee share plan alter or terminate.
employees to give them awareness of the operated by the Company, participants are the financial and economic factors affecting the bene cial owners of the shares but are not the Purchase of own shares performance of the Group and employees are registered owners, the voting rights are normally At the Annual General Meeting of the Company also encouraged to be involved in the Groups exercised by the registered owner, at the held on 3 July 2013, authority was given for the performance through a SAYE share scheme.
Company to purchase, in the market, up to The Group has a policy in place for giving All of the Companys share plans contain 81,000,000 ordinary shares of 10p each.
At the full and fair consideration to applications for provisions relating to a change of control.
Annual General Meeting to be held on 2 July employment by the Group made by disabled Outstanding awards and options would normally 2014, shareholders will be asked to give the persons, having regard to their particular vest and become exercisable on a change of Company authority to purchase, in the market, aptitudes and abilities, and for continuing the control, subject to the satisfaction of any up to 81,000,000 ordinary shares of 10p each, employment of, and for arranging appropriate performance conditions at that time.
details of which are contained in the Notice training for, employees of the Group who have of Meeting.
Financial risk management become disabled persons during the period when Details of the Companys interests in its own The financial risk management objectives and they were employed by the Group.
The policy shares are set out in note 28 to the financial policies of the Group and the exposure of the also covers the training, career development and statements on pages 107 and 108.
Group to price, credit, liquidity and cash ow promotion of disabled persons employed by the risk are set out in note 4 to the consolidated Group.
financial statements on pages 82 to 85.
Political donations The Group has made no political donations and incurred no items of political expenditure during the period.
Home Retail Group 62 Annual Report 2014 Directors report continued Relevant audit information Annual General Meeting As at 30 April 2014, so far as each director is The Annual General Meeting of the Company aware, there is no relevant audit information of will be held at the Jurys Inn Hotel, Midsummer which the Companys auditors are unaware and Boulevard, Milton Keynes MK9 2HP, each director has taken all steps that he or she commencing at 11.00 am on Wednesday 2 July ought to have taken as a director in order to make 2014.
The Notice of Meeting is included in a himself or herself aware of any relevant audit separate circular to shareholders which is information and to ensure that the auditors are available on the Groups website at aware of that information.
Paper copies will have been posted to shareholders Going concern who have elected to receive documents in that The strategic report and financial highlight format.
reviews on pages 4 to 31 contain information on The strategic report and the directors report the performance of the Group, its cash ow and were each approved by the Board and authorised net cash position, capital structure and liquidity for issue on 30 April 2014. and funding.
Further information relating to the Groups financial risk management is set out in By order of the Board note 4 to the financial statements and the Gordon Bentley principal risks and uncertainties that could Secretary impact the Groups performance are set out on 30 April 2014 pages 24 and 25.
Registered Of ce: After making enquiries, the directors are Avebury satis ed that the Company has suf cient 489-499 Avebury Boulevard resources to continue in operation for the Milton Keynes foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue MK9 2NW to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
5863533 Independent auditors  LLP have indicated their willingness to continue in of ce as auditors to the Company and a resolution proposing their reappointment will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
