Home Retail Group 6 Annual Report 2014 Our product markets Home Retail Group operates in the home and general merchandise market, reporting 5.7bn of sales in the financial year.
The Group saw its overall market share increase, maintaining its leading market positions in the key product categories within which it trades.
Argos TV and audio markets, albeit the latter two shares.
It is against this metric that Homebases Argos offers a broad range of product categories categories remain in decline.
The clear gain sales performance has been compared to with no one single metric existing that measures reported across those broad categories was ascertain its market share.
its complete market share performance across partially offset by photographic, DVD, digital Following a contraction in the market last year, all of its product categories.
Instead, Argos set-top box and e-books markets, which all both the overall DIY and home enhancement collates the market data from various thirdexperienced larger declines.
market and the DIY sheds market, both as party sources, such as GfK and National Large and small domestic appliances also measured by GfK, reported growth this financial Purchase Diary, to create what Argos refers to as saw good market growth with white goods and year, with both markets estimated to have grown its tracked markets.
It is against this tracked oorcare categories both reporting strong by around 3%, helped by good seasonal weather markets measure that Argos sales performance double-digit market growth.
Argos grew market during the second quarter of the financial year.
has been compared to ascertain its market share.
share in both of these product areas, supported The DIY sheds market is divided into five product The tracked markets for this financial year both by our long-standing supplier relationships, categories, these being DIY, decorating, home, have indicated that the total market in which which enabled us to secure good product garden and big ticket, and for this financial Argos trades was broadly at year-on-year.
availability, and our ability to offer an increased year, Homebase has again gained overall Market growth occurred in certain product range of large domestic appliances for market share.
categories such as video gaming, Android immediate pick-up from store.
Seasonal The strongest market-share gain was platform-based tablets, large and small products also saw a much-improved market, reported in garden, driven by the strong domestic appliances and seasonal products, with bene ting from the warm and sunny weather execution of seasonal product sales over this growth partially offset by contracting during the second quarter of the financial year, Homebases peak trading period when the UK markets in photographic, DVD, digital set-top helping Argos to maintain market share in this experienced long periods of favourable weather boxes and e-books.
in the second quarter after poor weather at the Video gaming, after many years of market Overall, it was a strong year for Argos, start of the year.
Share growth was also reported decline in the absence of new product resulting in not only increased sales, but also an in home and big ticket categories, with the latter innovation, saw the launch of two new console overall market-share gain across the total of its re ective of the continued investment we have platforms this financial year, the PS4 and Xbox tracked market categories.
made in improving our offer, in particular around One, which reported record-breaking levels of our range of own-brand tted kitchens.
Argos is one of only three major Homebase across these three categories was partly offset, retailers within the video gaming market and, Homebase trades within the DIY and home however, by a small loss reported in decorating due to our strong relationships with both console enhancement market, which in the UK is a very and DIY categories, which saw sales broadly at manufacturers, we were able to grow our market fragmented market comprising the DIY sheds year-on-year against a shed market that saw low share and further strengthen our position in this together with a signi cant number of specialists levels of growth.
On a total basis, Homebase has category.
Android-based tablets also reported and independents.
These two components are continued to increase its market share within the high double-digit growth, as customers became each estimated to represent about 50% of the DIY sheds market with this latest gain being its more familiar with both the new platform and overall DIY and home enhancement market as fifth consecutive year of market-share growth.
general tablet use, helping Argos to gain market measured by GfK, a third-party source.
the fragmented markets in which Homebase Despite the growth experienced in both the operates, sourcing accurate data across the video gaming and Android platform tablets broad product offering is challenging.
Homebase market, the consumer electronics market in therefore reports its market share performance total, as fide ned by GfK, declined by around 11%, using the GfK data as the most appropriate which is an improvement on the decline seen the independent consolidated data source.
The DIY previous financial year of around 15%.
This sheds market contains the UKs three DIY shed slower rate of decline was principally driven by retailers, these being Homebase, B&Q and the growing video gaming and Android-based Wickes.
All three DIY shed retailers subscribe to tablet market as mentioned, and improved GfK which measures the sheds relative market
