Home Retail Group 12 Annual Report 2014 Argos business review Argos has an outstanding offer of convenience, choice and value to meet customer needs, selling products through its 734 stores, website and mobile apps.
Highlights In what remained a challenging market environment in FY14, Argos made good progress against its key 4,051m transformation milestones and Sales up 3.0% year-on-year delivered a solid trading performance throughout the year.
44% Of total sales are internet-led, including mobile commerce 52 WEEKS TO 1 MARCH 2014 2 MARCH 2013 Sales m 4,051.1 3,931.3 Benchmark operating pro t m 112.3 100.3 Benchmark operating margin 2.8% 2.6% Like-for-like sales change 3.3% 2.1% Net space sales change 0.3% 0.6% Total sales change 3.0% 1.5% Gross margin rate movement Down c. 50bps Down c. 50bps 734 stores Benchmark operating profit change 12% 6% Remain a critical part of the Argos strategy Number of stores at year-end 734 737 FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL Home Retail Group STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Annual Report 2014 13 Argos key facts Sales Number of stores m Argos sales increased by 3% or During the year, a net three stores 5,000 120m in total.
This was driven were closed reducing the store 800 predominantly by strong growth in portfolio to 734.
All 734 stores 4,347 4,194 electrical products with tablets, offer around 16,000 product lines 4,051 751 3,931 4,000 748 745 3,873 750 TVs and video gaming systems for collection, with around 27,000 737 734 reporting good growth in the year, additional lines available online to combined with strong growth in order for home delivery.
3,000 700 white goods and core electricals.
fide nition: Total number of stores This helped to offset small declines at year-end.
2,000 in furniture, homewares and 650 Source: Measured internally.
1,000 fide nition: Income received from 600 goods and services.
0 550 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 Sales trends Number of products % Like-for-like sales increased by Thousand Our spring summer catalogue 3.3% in the year.
Net closed space featured 20,000 lines and, 50 1.5 3.0 reduced sales by 0.3%.
combined with our online- 43,300 3.5 1.5 exclusive range, this was more than fide nition: Annual percentage 7.7 40 doubled to around 43,300 lines.
Like-for-like sales 34,000 33,900 are calculated on stores that have 0 32,500 fide nition: Total number of product been open for more than a year: the 29,600 30 lines offered in the main spring summer contribution to sales from net new catalogue and online.
space is the sales performances for Source: Measured internally.
the first 52 weeks trading of any 20 newly opened stores less the sales performances for the last 52 weeks of any stores that have been closed.
10 Source: Audited financial statements measured internally.
0 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 Space Like-for-like Catalogue Total online only Benchmark operating profit and benchmark Multi-channel sales operating profit margin m % Benchmark operating profit % Multi-channel sales grew to 53% or increased by 12% or 12m, to 2.1bn of Argos sales.
This recovery in profit was represented 44% of Argos sales: 266 53 51 due to an improved level of sales, over two-thirds of this or 32% of 48 240 8 48 partially offset by a reduction in 46 Argos total sales were customers 219 43 gross margin rate and a small using online Check & Reserve for 6.1 increase in costs.
Sales through 180 6 36 mobile channels have grown over 5.2 fide nition: Benchmark operating the last four years to represent pro t is fide ned as operating pro t 18% of Argos sales.
120 4 24 112 before amortisation of acquisition 100 94 intangibles, post-employment bene t fide nition: Percentage of sales across scheme administration costs, store more than one channel.
There are three 60 2 12 2.8 impairment and onerous lease charges 2.6 2.4 ordering channels: the internet, phone or releases and costs or income or store and two ful lment channels, associated with store closures and store or home delivery.
are sales accessed via mobile devices Source: Audited financial statements.
FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 through either our mobitised website or through our apps.
Check & Reserve internet Home delivery internet Source: Measured internally.
Check & Reserve phone Home delivery phone Home delivery store Home Retail Group 14 Annual Report 2014 The Argos store network remains a critical part of the Argos strategy by providing customers with local convenience and an important human connection for digital transactions.
Six digital concept stores were trialled during the Christmas period, incorporating many new developments to streamline customers experience.
In October 2012 Argos outlined a five-year Argos has made signi cant technological track product collection and a dynamic Transformation plan to reinvent itself as a digital improvements during the course of the year voice-driven picking system that facilitates rapid retail leader, transforming from a catalogue-led which, as with all enhancements of this scale, retrieval of customer orders.
Argos traditional business to a digitally-led business.
The plan is had an element of execution risk.
Argos dealt laminated catalogues were replaced in these designed to address the competitive challenges, well with the risk involved and managed the stores with tablet browsers which enable exploit the market opportunities and restore challenges that arose while delivering a strong customers to search for products, ef ciently sustainable growth.
trading performance, particularly in the second check stock availability and streamline their There are four key elements to the half of the year.
Argos has con dence in delivering store experience.
The stores also incorporate Transformation plan: the future upgrades required in this area.
the hub & spoke distribution model to provide 1.
Reposition Argos channels for a digital future: Over its peak trading period Argos customers with access to extended product 2.
Provide more product choice, available to introduced the Christmas gift guide in both ranges for prompt collection.
Early customer customers faster: paper and digital forms.
The digital version feedback on the digital concept stores has been 3.
Develop a customer offer that has universal offered richer content together with a unique encouraging, and Argos plans to extend its trial appeal: and and intuitive shopping journey.
The traditional of the concept to around an additional 25 stores 4.
Operate a lean and exible cost base.
paper gift guide was enriched with augmented in FY15.
reality through Blippar in order to increase the The hub & spoke distribution model will In what remained a challenging environment in level of customer interaction and to direct allow Argos to consider different store formats FY14, Argos made good progress against its key customers to the wider online offering.
that could hold little or no stock.
During FY15 it transformation milestones and delivered a solid Over the coming year Argos will build on will trial formats that will include Argos stores trading performance throughout the year.
these digital enhancements by redesigning its embedded within Homebase stores and a small Operational review online checkout to accommodate exible format store within London.
During FY15 Argos Reposition Argos channels for a digital future payment and credit options, improving search will also complete the roll out of the voice Internet-led sales grew to represent 44% of total functions and making it easier for customers to picking system and fast track collection across Argos sales in FY14 aided by a strong performance nd their product by showing real-time stock the estate.
from both mobile phones and tablets, which grew availability by location.
Argos will also further by 89% and now represent 18% of total Argos personalise the shopping experience on its digital Provide more product choice, available sales.
Check & Reserve also continued to grow and channels, which will improve its ability to offer to customers faster represented 32% of total Argos sales, with the relevant products and promotions to customers.
Argos is uniquely positioned, through its store remaining 12% of internet-led sales being ful lled In addition, a dynamic route scheduling system estate and supply chain, to provide marketthrough home delivery.
will be implemented which will allow customers leading ful lment options to customers on a Underlying its strong internet performance, to select accurate narrow timeslots for home national scale.
An initial 32-store hub & spoke Argos has improved its digital offer across both delivery.
Argos will also introduce a new secure trial in the North East provided us with good online and mobile commerce.
The launch of a payment infrastructure which will enable operational insight into the workings of this new My account function has enabled Argos to customers to store their card details safely with model which were then implemented into a improve consistency across its online channels, Argos for future use.
further 13-store trial in the Manchester and whilst introducing several new features such as The Argos store network remains a critical Lancashire region over Argos peak trading period a single customer login, 1 Click reservation and a part of the Argos strategy by providing as well as the four London digital concept stores.
Further developments during customers with local convenience and an In the Manchester and Lancashire trial, the year included the functionality that enables important human connection.
Argos trialled six customers were able to take advantage of customers to order products via their mobile digital concept stores during the Christmas same-day access to expanded product ranges device for home delivery.
trading period that incorporated many new from hub stores and Argos was able to test a developments, including online prepayment, fast number of different stocking options, delivery FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL Home Retail Group STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Annual Report 2014 15 Argos again joined forces with the childrens charity, Barnardos, to launch the second year of the Argos Toy Exchange, which encourages parents and children to donate pre-loved toys to raise money for some of the UKs most disadvantaged children and young people.
More than 1.2m has been raised so far.
Traditional laminated catalogues have been replaced with tablet browsers in our six digital concept stores which enable customers to search for products and check stock availability efficiently.
frequencies and also the ratio of the number include its implementation across further increased level of capital expenditure are of hub stores to the number of spoke stores.
product categories, as well as the introduction expected to result in net cost increases Following these trials, Argos will begin to roll out of an enhanced commercial dashboard which going forward.
the hub & spoke model during FY15.
will bring real-time digital and customer Argos has continued to review its store In order to drive further improvements in information to Argos trading teams, enabling portfolio during FY14 and to negotiate lease stock availability, Argos is planning to pilot an better decision-making.
renewals onto shorter terms in order to improve enhanced home delivery offer, with time slots Argos has continued to invest in getting to know the exibility of its store portfolio.
In the past two available for larger two-man delivery items for its customers better.
With the launch of My years Argos has closed a net 14 stores and reduced next day delivery and will also trial a same day or account, Argos has now increased its customer the average lease term of the estate from 7.1 to 5.5 next day delivery offer on one-man items from database to 11.6 million registered customers.
Over the next five years, Argos has around hub to home.
The customer insight gathered as a result of the a further 330 lease renewals or break clauses due.
In September, Argos and eBay announced a increased level of registrations has enabled a trial of a UK collection service, enabling shoppers more tailored product offering based on Financial review at selected eBay merchants to order products for customers needs, and has also enabled Argos to Total sales in the 52 weeks to 1 March 2014 collection at around 150 Argos stores throughout run bespoke promotional offers based on both increased by 3.0% to 4,051m.
This trial is still in progress with over 100 customers previous activity and their pro les.
change reduced sales by 0.3% with the store merchants having signed up to the initiative During FY15, Argos will continue to expand its portfolio reducing by a net 3 stores, to 734. so far.
customer database of registered customers, Like-for-like sales increased by 3.3%.
Electrical collect more customer data and use this data products continued to deliver sales growth Develop a customer offer that has to further improve customer satisfaction with driven by growth in tablets, TVs and white goods, universal appeal its offerings.
which together with strong sales of video game Argos continues to improve the quality of its systems following the launch of new consoles, product range whilst simultaneously Operate a lean and exible cost base more than offset small declines in furniture, rationalising its offering to suit customer needs.
Argos has a strong track record of delivering homewares and jewellery.
Argos added about 9,000 new lines during FY14, signi cant organisational and infrastructure The gross margin rate was down by resulting in a total offering of around 43,000 changes which have historically reduced its costs approximately 50 basis points.
The new lines included several aspirational and improved the exibility of the business, drivers were an adverse sales mix impact, brands, such as Emma Bridgewater homewares, while maintaining or improving operational resulting from the growth in sales of margin Oxo kitchenware, Baby Bjorn nursery products, standards.
During FY14 costs reduced by 5m dilutive electrical products, combined with a Monsoon accessories, Denby kitchenware and during the first half as a result of ongoing cost reduction from the net impact of the adverse Stoves appliances.
During FY15 Argos will further reduction initiatives, but increased by 10m movement in the US dollar exchange rate and expand its ranges of branded and own-brand during the second half, resulting in a 5m sea freight costs.
These reductions were partially products by around an additional15,000 lines increase in FY14.
This second half increase is offset by an improvement from a reduced level and will launch a new line of own-brand principally a result of the increased level of cost of stock clearance activity.
investment in strategic initiatives, for example Total operating and distribution costs Argos implemented a new dynamic price the opening of a digital hub in London to increased by 5m as a result of increased sales, optimisation tool in certain product categories accommodate the newly-hired digital team.
underlying cost in ation and cost investment prior to the peak trading period which has Argos will continue to work hard on cost in strategic initiatives partially offset by further enabled faster and more data driven pricing reduction initiatives, but the impact of ongoing cost saving initiatives.
Benchmark operating decisions, and has helped optimise its in ationary cost pressures, further cost pro t increased by 12.0m, or 12%, to 112.3m competitive pricing position.
Further investments in strategic initiatives and an FY13: 100.3m.
developments to this tool during FY15 will increased level of depreciation as a result of an
