Governance Remuneration report Executive Directors service agreements and policy on payments for loss of office Under the Executive Directors service contracts twelve months notice of termination of employment is required by either party reduced to six months if following a prolonged period of incapacity.
Dates of current contracts are summarised in the table below: Name Date of contract R Harpin 18 January 2002 M Bennett 1 January 2014 J Ford 1 October 2012 Should notice be served, the Executives can continue to receive basic salary, benefits and pension for the duration of their notice period.
The Company may require the individual to continue to fulfil their current duties, or may assign a period of garden leave.
The Company applies a general principle of mitigation in relation to termination payments and supports the use of phased payments.
Outplacement services may be provided where appropriate, and any statutory entitlements or sums to settle or compromise claims in connection with a termination including, at the discretion of the Committee, reimbursement for legal advice would be paid as necessary.
The service contracts also enable the Company to elect to make a payment in lieu of notice equivalent in value to twelve months base salary, benefits and pension and full bonus in the case of Richard Harpin.
In the event of cessation of employment, the executives may still be eligible for a performance related bonus for the period worked.
Different performance measures may be set to reflect changes in the directors responsibilities until the point of departure.
The rules of the LTIP set out what happens to outstanding share awards if a participant leaves employment before the end of the vesting period.
Generally, any outstanding share awards will lapse when an Executive leaves employment, except in certain circumstances.
If the Executive leaves employment as a result of redundancy, death, ill-health, injury, disability, retirement, transfer of employment or any other reason at the discretion of the Committee, then they will be treated as a good leaver under the plan rules.
