Strategic report Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements Customers with employee representatives across the We continue to reinforce a customer focused Group.
A Group-wide employee survey is run culture in all of our businesses.
A Customer each year, with results reported to the Board Charter is now in place in each territory which and action plans devised, implemented outlines our commitment to our customers: and tracked locally.
Employees are actively well make things easy for customers and involved in the creation and delivery of these treat customers fairly, every step of the way.
plans and best practice for the promotion of The charters have been committed to by all of employee engagement is shared across the our colleagues, from the management teams Group.
to those on the front line.
It is our policy that all persons should be We undertake ongoing customer satisfaction considered for employment, training, career surveys and actively monitor customer development and promotion on the basis satisfaction, net promoter scores and of their abilities and aptitudes, regardless customer effort.
Customer satisfaction of physical ability, age, gender, sexual has increased in all of our businesses during orientation, religion or ethnic origin.
We apply employment policies that are fair Employees and equitable for all employees and these Our values and behavioural characteristics ensure that entry into, and progression continue to underpin our focus on delivering within, the Group is determined solely by consistently good customer service and are the fair application of relevant job criteria embedded in our recruitment, selection, and by personal ability and competence.
We development and reward arrangements.
actively promote the international transfer of Using our behavioural characteristics our employees where this is likely to assist effectively has ensured that individuals hired the development of both employee and or promoted possess the right attitude and business, and our senior HR managers meet core behaviours, as well as the necessary regularly to share best practice and identify commercial and technical skills.
We continue opportunities to develop our employees to review both performance and potential careers.
against the characteristics as a key part of our annual performance management, Full and fair consideration having regard career development and succession planning to the persons particular aptitudes processes.
and abilities is given to applications for employment and the career development We attach considerable importance to of disabled persons.
Our training and ensuring that all our employees benefit from development policies also make it clear that effective communications and engagement, we will take all practicable steps to ensure using regular business updates, senior that if an employee becomes disabled management briefing sessions and during the time they are employed, their surgeries, question and answer employment can continue.
opportunities and constructive relationships HomeServe Annual Report & Accounts 2014 | 47
