Title Strategic report Our business model Our vision To be the first place people turn to for home emergencies and repairs Our mission To provide an affinity branded membership service which frees our customers from the worry and inconvenience of home emergencies and repairs Our business is built on developing long-term relationships with our affinity partners and offering our customers home assistance in respect of water, electrical and gas related emergencies and repairs.
We provide our services through the use of directly employed, franchised and sub-contract networks of engineers.
With the customer clearly at the heart of the business, we have developed strategies to enable us to fulfil our vision and mission.
Strong affinity partnerships Claims and network management Long-term relationships with partners We primarily use our own local whose brands are relevant to our products, call centres to handle customers allowing us to offer our product to millions claims, and manage networks of of homeowners through trusted brands.
qualified engineers in order to Our partners benefit by offering offer our customers the best their customers a valuable service when they experience home related product while a home emergency.
Happy earning a risk free income.
customers that stay with us year on year Product design Marketing capability We create water, gas and We use our expertise in electrical related home assistance direct marketing across a number products.
Our products are of channels to offer our products individually underwritten by third directly to customers.
Teamed with party underwriters, independent of our affinity partners we also offer our HomeServe.
We act as an insurance products through their sales channels.
intermediary and do not take on any We constantly innovate to ensure our material insurance risk.
marketing is fresh and relevant.
4 | HomeServe Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements Strategic priorities Progress in the year Strong partnerships We have over 70 affinity partners across the six geographies in which we operate.
During the year we signed 12 new partnerships in the USA, with utilities that provide energy and water services to over 4.4m residential customers across a number of states.
We signed one new water partner in Spain that provides water to over 2.6m households.
Products people want In the UK we increased the cover offered in our core plumbing and drainage product to include maintenance elements such as fixing dripping taps, outside taps and leaking toilets, giving more value to customers and increasing the opportunity to use the product and experience our customer service.
In Spain, we developed a lower cost electrical assistance product, sold through our partners sales channels, which gives customers access to a highly skilled network of technicians.
In France, we enhanced the cover in our water products, offering leakage cover within the interior and exterior water products.
Customer service We are focused on providing consistently good customer service through our service delivery operations at each touch point in the customer journey.
This is an area of continued focus in all of our businesses.
In the UK, we recruited additional plumbers to ensure we had sufficient capacity to cover any winter surge activity, while in the USA during the extreme winter weather conditions, we engaged additional contractors to support our directly employed gas specialists along the East coast.
During the year our customer satisfaction ratings, measured by an external third party, improved significantly across all of our businesses.
Efficiency We are focused in all our businesses on improving efficiency across each area of the value chain, while at the same time ensuring we deliver consistently good customer service.
This will be a continued theme as we invest in upgrading our core customer IT system.
People We have a team of over 3,800 people across our businesses.
We are committed to developing our people, ensuring they are engaged, which will in turn result in a better customer experience.
During the year we have filled a number of senior vacancies with internal candidates and we will develop our succession planning to ensure that this can continue.
