Strategic report Chief Executives review New Markets 24 | HomeServe Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements What our customers say I was very happy because the Im very satisfied with the tradesman arrived in no time at all electrics service, now I really even though I called during the Christmas need to buy the gas policy for my holidays.
In addition the gas leak was apartment as well!
Emilia G Carlo P HomeServe Annual Report & Accounts 2014 | 25 Strategic report Chief Executives review New Markets IT investment Continued strong relationship with Enel As outlined previously we are investing in in Italy upgrading our core customer IT system.
Marketing testing continues in Germany In the UK the new system will improve our Sold Socit Franaise fide Garantie SFG marketing effectiveness and retention the retail warranties business based by providing better customer insight and in France flexibility around the products and offers we can provide our customers.
The new system Our New Markets segment includes our will improve the speed and access our call developing businesses in Italy and Germany.
centre agents have to customer data thus Up to 5 March 2014, it also included SFG, our improving the customer experience and French retail warranty business.
In the USA the new system will also help us to more easily link The New Markets businesses reported into new partners systems allowing us to revenue of 14.4m, up from 9.4m in the increase the speed and efficiency of new prior year reflecting higher sales in Italy.
The adjusted operating loss of 5.7m 2013: 4.8m principally reflects the additional To date activity has focused on planning, investment in Italy over the past 12 months.
design and selecting the most appropriate partners.
I am pleased that we have recently The business in Italy is making good selected Pega Systems Inc, a business with progress.
We increased the marketing extensive transformational experience, to investment and now have 0.1m customers, provide the software and build our new principally acquired by Enel through their system.
Going forward, we expect to invest sales channel.
The customers pay for around 30m in respect of this system the product through an on-bill billing upgrade.
In Germany, we are focused on developing relationships with utilities and continue to invest in test activity.
In recent years SFG has been impacted by the weak French retail appliance market and during the year we took the decision to sell the business and the sale was completed in March 2014.
26 | HomeServe Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements Outlook International All of our businesses are progressing in line We are confident of delivering strong growth with our expectations and we continue to in customer numbers in our International expect the Group to deliver modest growth businesses.
We intend to increase investment in FY15.
in marketing and business development resource in the USA and therefore we UK expect operating profits in the USA in FY15 In FY15 we expect to acquire 0.3m gross new to be broadly in line with FY14, with higher customers with an increased proportion customer and profit growth in future years.
of new sales coming from our partner and digital channels.
We expect to maintain the In France, we will continue to target new current retention rate despite the higher affinity relationships while still maintaining a proportion of first year customers.
This will strong profit performance.
enable us to stabilise customer numbers at at least 2.0m.
In Spain, we now expect profits to increase given the continued success of our relationship with Endesa which will also give rise to continued growth in customer numbers.
In FY15, we plan to continue to invest up to 6m in New Markets.
