Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of HomeServe plc The Audit and Risk Committees consideration of these risks is set out on page 66.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 5.4m, which is based on 7.5% of profit before tax and exceptional items.
The exceptional items are unique in nature and their exclusion is consistent with the Groups internal and external reporting to facilitate a better understanding of the underlying trading performance.
We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences that impact profit in excess of 100,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit and Risk Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit scope focused primarily on the audit work at the following components: UK USA France, and Spain.
All of these were subject to a full audit, whilst the New Markets segment was subject to specific audit procedures where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups operations at those locations.
The UK, USA, France and Spain components represent the principal business units within the Groups reportable segments and account for 96.6% of the Groups net assets, 97.5% of the Groups revenue and 100% of the Groups profit before tax from profit-making components there was a loss for the year in the New Markets segment which is not subject to a full audit.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
