Strategic report Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements Annual Report on Remuneration This part of the report has been prepared in accordance with Part 3 of the revised Schedule 8 set out in The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013, and 9.8.
The annual report on remuneration will be put to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
Remuneration Committee Members Ian Chippendale Chair Stella David JM Barry Gibson Mark Morris All of the members are independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board determined that the Company Chairman, Barry Gibson, should remain a member of the Committee taking account of the fact that he was considered to be independent on appointment and also that, as a former Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, his knowledge of the development of the remuneration policy and practices at HomeServe is invaluable.
He takes no part in discussions relating to his own remuneration.
Responsibilities The primary responsibilities of the Committee are to: determine the Groups overall remuneration strategy determine the remuneration packages of the Executive Directors and other members of the Executive Committee approve the grant and exercise of executive long-term incentive arrangements and oversee the operation of other share-based plans across the Group.
In determining remuneration policy, the Committee is free to obtain such professional advice as it sees fit, and it periodically monitors both the policies of comparator companies and current market practice in order to ensure that the packages provided are sufficient to attract and retain Executive Directors of the necessary quality.
The Committee aims to develop and recommend remuneration strategies that drive performance and reward it appropriately.
In determining its policy, the Committee has paid regard to the principles and provisions of good governance contained in the Code and the guidelines issued by institutions such as the ABI and NAPF.
The Committee operates under the delegated authority of the Board and its terms of reference are available on the website.
The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is a matter for the Board.
No Director is involved in determining his or her own remuneration.
The Committee has also agreed and implemented a procedure for reviewing and assessing its own effectiveness.
