Strategic report Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements Remuneration policy FY14 The remuneration policy for FY14 was unchanged from the FY13 policy.
The Committees activities during the year are described in more detail later in this report.
Jonathan King stood down from the Board on 31 March 2014.
He will remain an employee of the company for the duration of his notice period and will continue to be paid salary and benefits until the cessation of his employment.
Further detail is provided later in the report.
Martin Bennett became the UK CEO on 1 January 2014 and it was agreed that his basic salary be increased by 6.7% to 400,000 to acknowledge his change of role and, in particular, the important role he will play in continuing the strengthening and re-focusing of the UK business.
Remuneration policy FY15 During the year the Committee reviewed the remuneration policy and concluded that the overall policy remained appropriate.
Each element of the policy was reviewed in detail and in general will remain unchanged.
The key proposed change is in respect of pension provision.
The Committee recognised that going forward, more executives may not wish to join occupational pension schemes as a result of the lifetime allowance restrictions.
It is therefore proposed that the Company will provide a cash allowance of 20% of the notional earnings cap as an alternative.
As reported last year, salaries will now normally be reviewed in July each year unless responsibilities change.
As Martin Bennetts salary was increased in the year, he will not receive an increase in July.
Johnathan Ford joined the Group eighteen months ago and having reviewed his performance and contribution over that period, his salary will be increased by 15.3%.
This reflects the market median for the role.
Richard Harpins salary will increase by 2.6%.
The general increase being given to HomeServe employees in the UK will be 3%.
Ian Chippendale Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 20 May 2014 HomeServe Annual Report & Accounts 2014 | 71
