Strategic report Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements In the USA, we have continued to work The programme will leverage our existing with Habitat for Humanity which seeks to service infrastructure and financial eliminate poverty housing and homelessness resources to help homeowners in need.
It by building houses in partnership with will be managed locally and will be used families in need.
In addition, employees in a number of different ways to help have raised $16,000 for the American Cancer homeowners in need.
Examples include low Society and supported a number of local income households facing an emergency causes.
situation but who do not have a policy and existing policyholders whose policy might not cover the work required.
Health & Safety We are committed to health and safety excellence through a process of continual health and safety improvement for all employees, contractors and the communities in which we operate.
We actively focus on providing a safe working environment for our office and mobile workforces.
There have been no prosecutions or other In France and Spain, we have continued enforcement actions taken in respect of our to support local charities both by businesses by any of the national health and fundraising and volunteering.
Activities safety regulators for breaches of health and have included decorating, electrical safety laws.
repairs and toy and food collections.
Our Group Safety Director sits as an Independent Member of the UK Health During the year we agreed to establish a and Safety Executives Challenge Panel.
new programme to help disadvantaged Johnathan Ford, Group Chief Financial Officer, homeowners who are faced with a home is the Board Champion for health and safety.
emergency but dont have a policy or service contract or the funds to cover the repair.
The Risks programme was inspired by an initiative We have a variety of physical and introduced in the USA and is now being rolled psychological health and safety risks to out in the UK, France, Spain and Italy.
All our businesses have suitable and proportionate health and safety management systems, reflecting the risks within each particular business.
HomeServe Annual Report & Accounts 2014 | 49 Title Corporate responsibility Our services are often delivered via Reparalia in Spain continues to utilise partnerships with contractors, franchisees specialist third party auditors to undertake and other suppliers.
We work with these inspections and make recommendations to partners to ensure that our health and safety local management in respect of health and expectations are understood and met, and safety improvements.
The most common that the work they undertake on our behalf cause of incidents in the Spanish business is managed as safely as is reasonably relate to commuting to and from work.
Such incidents form part of the national frameworks for accident reporting in both Performance Spain and France.
During the year, we strengthened our health and safety performance across the In France we received favourable reports Group.
There has been another year-onfrom the three Government Inspectors the year reduction in the number of accidents Medecins du Travail who are statutorily reported.
obliged to visit each business multiple times each year.
The business has concentrated In the UK, the business was successful on a proactive programme to evaluate and in achieving RoSPAs Gold Award for reduce organisational stress.
occupational health and safety performance for the fourth year running.
This prestigious The German and Italian businesses continue award follows a rigorous self-assessment to be accident free.
and submission of a portfolio of evidence against the judging criteria.
This fourth Gold Incidents Award follows a previous Silver Award and Reporting of accidents and incidents has was extended to cover the whole business, continued to improve allowing us to monitor having previously been awarded to our trends, anticipate issues and cascade service operations division.
There is no directly transferable measure of incident Our business in the USA has a firmly severity with each country having differing embedded health and safety management statutory reporting requirements.
For structure with a strong focus on incident example, France must report every accident reduction.
A comprehensive carbon to their regulator irrespective of severity monoxide personal monitoring scheme and the USA must keep a written record of was successfully introduced across the reportable accidents the OSHA log, but not whole Energy Services operation during actually make the report externally.
Changes to US law mandated increased health and safety training which has been successfully delivered to all affected employees and automated external defibrillators were installed in all principal offices.
