Directors report The directors have pleasure in submitting their report and the audited financial statements for the 52 week period ended 30 27 December 2014.
Comparative figures relate to the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2013.
In order to make our annual report and accounts more accessible, and in keeping with the restructured directors report adopted for the period ended 28 December 2013, a number of the sections traditionally found in this report can now be found in other sections of this annual report and accounts where it was deemed that the information would be presented in a more connected and accessible way.
The directors report is comprised of the sections detailed below and the Business Review and statement on political contributions on page 31.
Any sections that have been moved have been cross-referenced below for ease of reference: Located in the Strategic Report: Principal Group activities, business review and results: The principal activities of Howden Joinery Group plc and its subsidiaries can be found on pages 1 to 27. Dividend: Information about the final dividend can be found in the Chairmans statement on pages 8 and 9 and the Review of operations and finance on page 15.
Located in the Corporate Greenhouse Gas Emissions: Details of the Groups greenhouse gas emissions, as required Social Responsibility Report: by Schedule 7 of the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulation 2008 SI 2008 410 as amended by the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013 SI 2013 1970, are set out on page 25.
Located in the Corporate Share capital, substantial shareholdings and acquisition of the Companys own shares: Governance Report: Information in this regard can be found on pages 51 and 52.
Employees: Information about the Groups employees is located on page 52.
Directors: Details of directors and their interests are on page 52.
Annual General Meeting: Information about the Annual General Meeting, including reappointment of the Groups Auditors, can be found on page 52.
A copy of the UK Corporate Governance Code can be accessed at https: www.
aspx Located in the Nominations Directors: Information with regard to the appointment and replacement of directors is Committee Report: located on page 65.
Employees: Information about the total number of employees and gender diversity statistics are located on page 64.
The average number of employees and their remuneration are shown in note 8 to the financial statements.
The statements of the directors in connection with the Annual Report and Accounts can be found on pages 66 and 67.
These statements include the Going Concern statement, the Statement of Directors Responsibilities, the statements in relation to Audit Information and Auditors and the Directors Responsibility Statement.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 BUSINESS REVIEW 31 The Company is required by the Companies Act 2006 to include a business review in this report.
The information that fulfils the requirements of the business review can be found in the following sections which are incorporated in this report by reference: Chairmans statement on pages 8 to 9.
Chief Executives statement on pages 10 to 13. Review of operations and finance and Review of principal risks and uncertainties on pages 14 to 21 which includes key performance indicators and the illustrated business model on pages 2 to 7.
Corporate governance report on pages 49 to 54 and Going Concern statement on page 66.
Audit Committee report on pages 55 to 60.
Corporate social responsibility report on pages to 22 to 27 containing environmental matters, social & community issues and additional information on employees.
The full results for the period are shown in the financial statements on pages 68 to 119.
Information about the use of financial instruments by the Company and its subsidiaries is given in note 28 to the financial statements.
The subsidiary and associated undertakings principally affecting the profits or net assets of the Group in the year are listed in the table of parent company and principal subsidiary undertakings on page 124.
There have been no significant events since the balance sheet date.
POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS The Group made no political donations during the current and previous period.
By order of the Board Forbes McNaughton Secretary 25 February 2015
