CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS 48 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS The Directors present their report, together with the audited consolidated Further details of the resolutions and voting procedures are set out in the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014.
Shareholders can vote by completing the form of proxy sent with the Notice of Meeting, or by submitting votes electronically via Principal Activities and Strategic Report the Registrars website www.
co. uk or via their online portfolio Hunting PLC is a holding company whose subsidiaries are primarily service, Shareview, if registered as a member.
Alternatively, shares held in involved in the manufacture and distribution of products that enable CREST may be voted through the CREST Proxy Voting Service.
To be valid the extraction of oil and gas for the worlds leading energy companies.
all votes must be received no later than 48 hours before the time set for the meeting.
The Company is UK domiciled and incorporated in England and Wales.
A list of the Companys principal subsidiaries is set out in note 42 on page Directors 140 of the financial statements.
A full list of the Companys subsidiaries will The biographies of the Directors of the Company as at 31 December 2014 be annexed to the next Annual Return to be filed at Companies House in and at the date of signature of these accounts are set out on pages 46 2015. and 47.
The Strategic Report, which is set out on pages 4 to 44, provides a On 1 August 2014, Richard Hunting was reappointed as Chairman and comprehensive review of the development, performance and future non-executive Director of the Company for a further two year term.
prospects of the business for the year ended 31 December 2014 pages 22 to 34.
The information set out includes a description of the Companys On 15 September 2014, Andrew Szescila retired from the Board, following strategy and business model pages 6 to 12, the principal risks and completion of his three year term of appointment, with John Hofmeister uncertainties facing the Group pages 36 to 39, key performance indicators succeeding him as Chaiman of the Remuneration Committee.
pages 14 to 16 and key information about environmental matters, the Companys employees and community issues.
These sections, including On 2 February 2015, Annell Bay and John Jay Glick were appointed as the Corporate Governance Report on pages 52 to 55, are deemed to form independent non-executive Directors to the Board and its subcommittees.
At the AGM of the Company in April 2015, they will both retire and offer themselves for reappointment.
Results The results of the Group are set out in the Consolidated Income Statement As recommended by the UK Corporate Governance Code, all other on page 85.
Directors will submit themselves for re-election at the Companys AGM.
Dividends No Director during the year had a material interest in any contract of The Directors, subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General significance to which either the Company or any of its subsidiaries were Meeting AGM of the Company to be held on 15 April 2015, recommend a party.
Directors interests in the shares of the Company are shown on a final dividend of 22.9 cents per share 2013 21.8 cents, which together page 73. with the interim dividend of 8.1 cents per share 2013 7.7 cents, takes the total dividend for the year to 31.0 cents per share 2013 29.5 cents, an As at 31 December 2014, no Director of the Company had any beneficial increase of 5.1%.
The final dividend will be paid on 26 May 2015 to interest in the shares of subsidiary companies.
shareholders on the register at the close of business on 1 May 2015.
Powers of the Directors Changes in the Group and its Interests During the Financial Year Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, UK legislation and any During the year negotiations with the employees of E. A. Gibson directions prescribed by resolution at a general meeting, the business Shipbrokers Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of Hunting PLC, commenced of the Company is managed by the Board.
with a view to an employee benefit trust buying the business.
Given the high probability of the transaction completing the business has been The Directors have been authorised to allot and issue Ordinary shares and designated as a discontinued operation and the Companys results have to disapply statutory pre-emption rights.
These powers are exercised under been restated to reflect this.
authority of resolutions of the Company passed at its AGM.
During the financial year ended 31 December 2014 725,917 Ordinary shares were issued Post Balance Sheet Events pursuant to the Companys various share plans.
There are no disclosable post balance sheet events.
Further, the Company has authority, renewed annually, to purchase up Annual General Meeting to 14.99% of the issued share capital, equating to 22,147,128 shares.
Any The AGM of the Company will take place on Wednesday, 15 April 2015 at shares purchased will either be cancelled, and the number of Ordinary The Royal Automobile Club, 89 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5HS, commencing shares in issue reduced accordingly, or held in Treasury.
These powers are effective for 15 months from the date of shareholder approval, or up to the next general meeting where new authorities are sought.
The Directors will be seeking new authorities for these powers at the 2015 AGM.
Hunting PLC 2014 Annual Report and Accounts STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS 49 Directors and Officers Liability Insurance There are no restrictions on the transfer of Ordinary shares in the Company The Company maintains insurance against certain liabilities, which could other than: arise from a negligent act or a breach of duty by its Directors and Officers certain restrictions that may from time to time be imposed by laws and in the discharge of their duties.
This is a qualifying third party indemnity regulations, for example insider trading laws: provision, which was in force throughout the financial year.
pursuant to the Companys share dealing code whereby the Directors and certain employees of the Company require approval to deal in the Articles of Association Companys shares: and The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by special where a shareholder with at least a 0.25% interest in the Companys resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
Where class rights are certificated shares has been served with a disclosure notice and has varied, such amendments must be approved by the members of each failed to provide the Company with information concerning interests class of share separately.
Share Capital As noted in the table of Substantial Interests on page 50 certain members The Companys issued share capital comprises a single class, which is of the Hunting family and their associated interests entered into a voting divided into Ordinary shares of 25 pence each, details of which are set agreement on 22 September 2014, whereby the voting rights of signatories out in note 33 on page 130 of the financial statements.
All of the Companys to the agreement transferred their voting rights to a committee.
Excluding issued Ordinary shares are fully paid up and rank equally in all respects.
this, the Company is not aware of any further agreements between As at 31 December 2014, there were 148,468,677 Ordinary shares in issue.
shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of Ordinary The rights and obligations attached to these shares are summarised below shares or on voting rights.
and are detailed in the Articles of Association of the Company, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House in the UK, or by writing to Registrar the Company Secretary at the registered office of the Company.
Subject to The address and contact details of Equiniti Limited, the Companys applicable statutes, shares may be issued with such rights and restrictions Registrar, are listed on the inside back cover of this report.
Equiniti as the Company may, by ordinary resolution, decide, or if there is no such is the Companys single alternative inspection location, whereby resolution or so far as it does not make specific provision as the Board may individuals can inspect the register of members.
The movements in share capital during the year are detailed in note may view their personal shareholder information online, through the 33 on page 130 of the financial statements.
Voting Rights and Restrictions on Transfer of Shares Employee Share Trust On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company, every holder The Hunting Employees Share Trust was established on 5 June 1996 as of Ordinary shares present in person or by proxy, and entitled to vote, a vehicle to satisfy shares options and awards granted to employees has one vote, and, on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy who participate in the Companys share-based incentive schemes.
and entitled to vote has one vote for every Ordinary share held.
None of At 31 December 2014 the Trust held 986,944 Ordinary shares in the the Ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard to control of the Company 2013 986,731.
The Trust has elected to waive its voting rights Company.
Proxy appointments and voting instructions must be received by and all dividends attached to the shares held.
The Trust has a policy to the Companys Registrars not later than 48 hours before a general meeting.
purchase shares in the market or subscribe for new shares to meet future requirements of these incentive schemes.
During the year, the Trust A shareholder can lose his entitlement to vote at a general meeting where subscribed for 162,083 Ordinary shares with an aggregate nominal value that shareholder has been served with a disclosure notice and has failed of $66,774.
to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares.
Shareholders rights to transfer shares are subject to the Companys Details of the employee share-based incentive schemes can be found Articles of Association.
in the Directors Remuneration Policy on pages 65 and 66 and in note 37 on pages 133 to 137 of the financial statements.
Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out using CREST and the Directors can refuse to register a transfer of an uncertificated share in accordance with the regulations governing the operation of CREST.
The Directors may decide to suspend the registration of transfers, for up to 30 days a year, by closing the register of shareholders.
The Directors cannot suspend the registration of transfers of any uncertificated shares without obtaining consent from CREST.
Hunting PLC 2014 Annual Report and Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS 50 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CONTINUED Substantial Interests As at 31 December 2014 pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Directive, issued by the Financial Conduct Authority, the major shareholders of the Company are as follows: Percentage Number of of issued Ordinary Ordinary Notes shares shares AXA group of companies 16,948,638 11.4 Hunting Investments Limited i iv v 10,973,487 7.4 Threadneedle Asset Management vi 6,954,849 4.7 Franklin Templeton group of companies 6,912,200 4.7 Slaley Investments Limited v 6,411,679 4.3 J Trafford as trustee ii v 6,025,864 4.1 Royal London Asset Management 5,919,733 4.0 Mondrian Investment Partners 5,776,991 3.9 F Godson as trustee ii v 5,722,170 3.9 Norges Bank Investment Management 4,824,884 3.2 David RL Hunting v 199,910 0.1 as trustee ii v 2,549,117 1.7 other beneficial iii v 2,484,583 1.7 Notes i.
Included in this holding are 9,437,743 Ordinary shares held by Huntridge Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Hunting Investments Limited.
Neither of these companies is owned by Hunting PLC either directly or indirectly.
After elimination of duplicate holdings, the total Hunting family trustee interests shown above amount to 6,025,864 Ordinary shares.
Arise because David RL Hunting and his children are or could become beneficiaries under the relevant family trusts of which David RL Hunting is a trustee.
Richard H Hunting Chairman of Hunting PLC and David RL Hunting are both directors of Hunting Investments Limited.
v. On 22 September 2014 the Company was notified that Hunting Investments Limited, Slaley Investments Limited, certain Hunting family members, including Richard H Hunting and David RL Hunting and the Hunting family trusts, to which Fred Godson and James Trafford are trustees together known as the Hunting Family Interests entered into a voting agreement.
The voting agreement has the legal effect of transferring all voting rights of Hunting PLC Ordinary shares held by the Hunting Family Interests to a voting committee.
The beneficial ownership of Hunting PLC Ordinary shares remains as per the table shown above.
At 5 March 2015, the Hunting Family Interests party to the agreement totalled 25,410,438 Ordinary shares in the Company, or 17.12% of the total voting rights.
On 22 January 2015, the Company was notified that Threadneedle Asset Management had increased its holding to 7,517,166 Ordinary shares representing 5.1% of the issued share capital.
Further, on 30 January 2015, the Company received a notification from Threadneedle Asset Management confirming that it had reduced its holding to 7,286,465 Ordinary shares representing 4.9% of the issued share capital.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Going Concern The Groups greenhouse gas emissions for 2014 were 42,172 tonnes 2013 The Group has a broad range of products and services, a large portfolio of 41,853 tonnes.
For further details please see page 44 of the Strategic Report.
production and storage facilities, a sufficiently diverse global customer and supplier base and meets its day-to-day working capital requirements Research and Development through its cash and debt facilities.
Group subsidiaries undertake, where appropriate, research and development to meet particular market and product needs.
The amount The Group retains limited exposure to credit risk as it has strong, wellexpensed by the Group during the year was $0.8m 2013 $0.6m.
developed relationships with its major customers and maintains insurance cover for 96% of its trade receivables.
Political Contributions It is the Groups policy not to make political donations, accordingly there In conducting its review of the Groups ability to remain as a going concern were no political donations made during the year 2013 $nil.
for the foreseeable future, the Board assessed the Groups recent trading position and its latest financial forecasts and took account of reasonably Significant Agreements predictable changes in future trading performance.
The Board also The Company is a party to a revolving credit facility in which the considered the Groups current business model, its strategy, the principal counterparties can determine whether or not to cancel the agreement risks and the potential financial impact of the estimates, judgements and where there has been a change of control of the Company.
assumptions that were used to prepare these financial statements.
The Board is satisfied that all material uncertainties have been identified and The service agreements of the executive Directors include provisions for that they are not considered to be sufficiently material to impact the compensation for loss of office or employment as a result of a change of financial viability of the Group.
Further details of the Directors service contracts can be found in the Directors Remuneration Policy contained within pages 66 and 67.
Hunting PLC 2014 Annual Report and Accounts STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS 51 The Group has access to considerable financial resources including a $585m In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: 375m committed bank facility.
The main financial covenants attached to this select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: facility are 1 EBITDA should not be less than four times net finance charges, make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and 2 net debt should be no more than three times adjusted EBITDA.
The and prudent: Group continues to have significant headroom over both covenants.
state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the EU have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained The Board is satisfied that it has conducted a robust review of the Groups in the financial statements: and foreseeable future and has a high level of confidence that the Group has prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, unless it is the necessary liquid resources to meet its liabilities as they fall due, will be inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
able to sustain its operational requirements and will remain solvent during The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that period.
Consequently the Board continues to adopt the going concern that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups and Companys basis of accounting in preparing these consolidated financial statements.
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and the Company and to enable them to ensure Independent Auditors that the financial statements and the Remuneration Committee Report  LLP has indicated its willingness to continue in comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial office as auditors.
A resolution to reappoint them as auditors to the Group statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Directors are also will be proposed at the AGM to be held on 15 April 2015. responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and the Company and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud Statement of Listing Rule Compliance and other irregularities.
In accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
4C, the Directors confirm that: All waivers of dividends over the Companys Ordinary shares are noted The Directors are also responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the in the Directors Report on page 49.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may Statement of Disclosure of Information to Auditors differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, all Directors in office as at the date of this report have confirmed, so far as they are aware, there is no Pursuant to the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules, Disclosure and relevant audit information of which the Groups auditors are unaware and Transparency Rules and the UK Corporate Governance Code, each of the each Director has taken all reasonable steps necessary in order to make Directors, whose names and responsibilities are listed on pages 46 and 47, themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that confirm that, to the best of their knowledge and belief: the Groups auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation should the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial Companies Act 2006. position and profit of the Group and of the Company: the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and Statement of Directors Responsibilities understandable and provides the information necessary for The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Audit shareholders to assess a companys performance, business model and Remuneration Committee Reports and the financial statements in and strategy: accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
the Strategic Report on pages 4 to 44 includes a fair review of the development and performance of the Groups operations and the year Company Law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for end position of the Group and the Company, together with a each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors have prepared the Group description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
The and parent Company financial statements in accordance with International Strategic Report also details the Groups policies on human rights, Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European gender balance and its Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions.
By Order of the Board Under Company Law, the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for the year.
Ben Willey Company Secretary 5 March 2015 Hunting PLC 2014 Annual Report and Accounts
