STRATEGIC REPORT 34 OUTLOOK Over the last few years, a quiet revolution in North America has taken place Internationally, we expect the Middle East and Asia Pacific to remain at which has reshaped the supply of hydrocarbons.
Hydraulic fracturing activity levels seen in 2014 however, tubular margins will decline.
Canada fracking initially transformed the US natural gas market from a concerning and the North Sea has and will continue to experience contraction in rig deficit to an exportable abundance.
Further advances in fracking and counts and activity at varying levels dependent upon the individual horizontal drilling have now made a positive impact on US oil production operators cost points.
and coupled with global supplies, have created a temporary imbalance to the worlds supply demand curve.
Despite the subdued consensus for the short term oil market, Hunting remains confident in the long term fundamentals for oil and gas demand.
Accordingly, oil prices have declined dramatically, and the global oil and gas Our capital investment programme for additional and more efficient industry is quickly resetting its expenditure and profitability expectations.
capacity will be completed throughout 2015 with a strong belief in Rig counts continue to decline each week with varying estimates of future preparedness for the eventual recovery.
Our balance sheet remains solid levels.
Operators initially set modest targets of contraction, but have with modest levels of net debt.
Our unique products, global footprint, escalated those reductions depending on their geographic focus, debt flexible manufacturing capacity and experienced personnel will enable us position and cost structure.
to manage the downturn yet capture opportunities which often appear in cyclical environments.
This rapid decline in industry expenditure and activity will inevitably feed through to our revenue and profitability levels for 2015.
Depending on the We do not know the length or depth of the industry contraction.
We geographic location and product description, profit levels will vary.
North will however endeavour to provide updates more often than required America onshore activity will be the most affected and will be the target regarding the activity and developments we see in the markets and region for most of Huntings initial cost actions including, headcount clients we serve.
Your Company has an excellent team of experienced reduction, hiring and salary freezes and capital investment constraints.
managers to respond quickly during this period and react to the changing Since year end, approximately 500 employees or 13% of the Groups global developments of individual clients, commodity prices, geopolitical workforce have been affected.
The offshore Gulf of Mexico, primarily influences and financial requirements.
They remain committed to deep water drilling and production, will have modest changes in rig improving further the Companys Health, Safety and Environment record.
They will introduce new products that will aid in reducing customer costs for oil and gas extraction.
And finally, they will be mindful of shareholder value and the need to operate as if Hunting were their personal company.
Hunting PLC 2014 Annual Report and Accounts STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT 35 HUNTING DEARBORN IS EXPANDING ITS OPERATING FOOTPRINT BY 65,000 SQUARE FEET A 44% INCREASE.
A TYPICAL MWD LWD TOOL TAKES BETWEEN 250 TO 300 HOURS OF MACHINING, UTILISING AS MANY AS 35 DIFFERENT MACHINING OPERATIONS.
THE QUALITY OF THE FINISHED PART IS ASSURED BY MORE THAN 1,200 DATA POINT MEASUREMENTS PER PIECE.
Hunting PLC 2014 Annual Report and Accounts
