Directors report This Directors report for the year ended 30 April 2014 is made in compliance with Companies Act 2006, the Disclosures and Transparency Rules and the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 and 2012.
Principal activities and operations The principal activities and operations of the Group are to create and license market-leading processor solutions for graphics, video, display, embedded processing, multi-standard communications and connectivity, and cross-platform video and voice over intellectual property.
These silicon and software intellectual property IP solutions for system-on-chip SoC are complemented by an extensive portfolio of software drivers, developer tools and extensive market and technology-focused ecosystems.
The target markets include mobile phone, handheld multimedia devices, connected home consumer, mobile and tablet computing, in-car electronics, telecoms, health, smart energy and connected sensors and controllers.
The Groups licensees include many of the worlds leading semiconductor, network operator and electronics original equipment manufacturer and original design manufacturer companies.
The Group has two divisions.
The Technology division is a semiconductor, software and cloud IP licensing business which provides market-leading multimedia and communications capabilities for complex SoC devices.
The Pure division designs and manufactures innovative consumer products, using Imaginations technologies as a key differentiator alongside high quality product design.
Business review The purpose of the business review is to inform shareholders of the Group and help them assess how the directors have performed their duties under sections 171-177 of the Companies Act 2006, in particular section 172 a duty to promote the success of the Company.
More detailed information on the business, its activities and operations along with key performance indicators are set out in the CEOs strategic report on pages 23 to 29.
The Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 44 to 49 forms part of this report.
There have been no significant events since the balance sheet date to disclose.
An indication of likely future developments in the business of the Group and details of research and development activities are included in the strategic report.
Further Information about the use of financial instruments by the Group and its subsidiaries is given in note 19 to the financial statements.
Future developments The Group intends to continue to develop its range of graphics, video, display, processor, communication and connectivity technologies for use in SoC devices.
The Group will market these products to existing and new customers with a view to entering into commercial agreements for customers to incorporate the Groups technologies in their SoC devices.
The customer base has grown significantly and provides a strong broad base for future unit and revenue growth.
We have developed, and plan to continue developing, a platform strategy which is already appealing to giant global enterprises who are, and will be, the major and dominant players in high technology driven markets in the future.
The Pure business will continue to develop and market consumer products to showcase the technologies of the Group and develop new and emerging markets for such technologies.
Dividends The directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend.
Share capital Details of the authorized and issued share capital, together with details of the movements in the Groups issued share capital during the year are shown in note 16, which is incorporated and deemed to be part of this report.
The Group has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Group.
No person has any special rights of control over the Groups share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provision of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
The directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Groups shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
With regard to the appointment and replacement of directors, the Group is governed by its Articles of Association, the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Companies Act and related legislation.
The Articles themselves may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
The powers of directors are described in the main Boards Terms of Reference, copies of which are available on request.
40 Authority to allot At the Annual General Meeting AGM in 2013, shareholders approved a resolution to give directors the authority to allot ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 8,857,329.
In addition, shareholders provided approval to directors to allot up to an aggregate nominal amount of 17,714,658 in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue in accordance with Association of British Insurers ABI guidance.
The directors have no present intention to make use of the authority sought under this resolution except to satisfy share awards under employee share schemes.
The authority will expire on the earlier of the 31 October 2014 or at the conclusion of the AGM in 2014 and will be proposed for renewal again at this years AGM.
Purchase of own shares At the AGM in 2013, authority was granted to the Company to purchase its own shares in the market up to a maximum aggregate number of 26,571,988 shares, being approximately 10% of the issued share capital.
The directors authorized the purchase of 312,006 shares to put in Trust to satisfy future share awards under the new Long-Term Incentive Plan.
The current authority will expire the earlier of the 31 October 2014 or at the conclusion of the AGM in 2014.
The Group would like to retain the flexibility offered by this resolution and it will therefore be proposed again at this years AGM.
Research and development The Group spent 114,835,000 2013: 83,956,000 on research and development and advanced technology projects.
Directors The following served as directors of the Group during the year ended 30 April 2014: Geoff Shingles Chairman Sir Hossein Yassaie Chief Executive Officer Richard Smith Chief Financial Officer David Anderson Senior Independent Director SID Gilles Delfassy independent non-executive director Andrew Heath independent non-executive director David Hurst-Brown non-executive director Ian Pearson non-executive director Full biographical details for the above are set out on pages 38 to 39.
Re-election of directors In July 2014 our Chairman Geoff Shingles announced his intention to step down as Chairman of the Group as and when a new Chairman has been selected.
David Hurst-Brown will be retiring from the Board at the AGM in 2014.
All other directors will be standing for re-election at the AGM in 2014 and will present themselves for re-election annually if eligible unless the directors have agreed otherwise in accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 and 2012.
Appointment of directors The directors may appoint another director to hold office until the next AGM, who shall then be eligible for election.
Directors indemnities Article 130 of the Groups Articles of Association provides for the indemnification of directors of the Group against liability incurred by them in certain situations, and is a qualifying indemnity provision within the meaning of section 236 of the Companies Act 2006.
The qualifying indemnity was in force during the financial year and up to the date of signing the annual report.
Change of control The Groups share based incentive plans contain provisions relating to a change of control.
The Long-Term Incentive Plans, share awards and performance share award for the CEO and CFO would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control of the Group, subject to the satisfaction of the performance conditions.
There are no significant agreements to which the Group is a party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control.
Strategic report Directors report Financial report 41 Substantial shareholdings As at 5 June 2014, the Group has been notified, in accordance with chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following voting rights as a shareholder of the Company.
Ordinary Shares of 10p Percentage of issued ordinary share capital % Intel Capital Corporation 38,396,664 14.34 Baillie Gifford & Co Ltd 34,938,616 13.05 M&G Investment Management Ltd 27,542,580 10.29 Apple Inc. 23,047,770 8.61 AXA Investment Management 20,490,000 7.65 Newton Investment Management Ltd 17,386,815 6.49 Save for the above, the Group has not been notified, as at 24 June 2014, of any interest exceeding 5% of the issued share capital of the Company.
Directors interests Interests of the directors in Group shares and share options are set out in the Directors remuneration report on pages 55 to 71, together with details of directors remuneration and service contracts.
Financial instruments The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies are set out within note 19 to the financial statements along with details of the Groups exposure to market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
Disabled employees Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
In the event a member of staff becomes disabled every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the Group continues and that appropriate training is arranged.
It is the policy of the Group that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
Employee involvement The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its employees and has continued to keep them informed on matters affecting them as employees and on the various factors affecting the performance of the Group.
This is achieved through formal and informal meetings and an international Group magazine.
Employee representatives are consulted regularly on a wide range of matters affecting their current and future interests.
Employee share schemes The Group currently has an employee share scheme which has been running successfully since its inception in 2006.
All employees worldwide receive shares on a bi-annual basis and the shares normally vest three years after grant.
There is not a qualifying period to receive share awards.
In the UK we offer a SAYE scheme.
Essential contracts There are a large number of agreements in place with the Groups customers and partners.
There are no parties with whom the Group has contractual or other arrangements which are essential to the business of the Group.
Annual General Meeting The 2014 AGM of the Group will be held at Imagination House, Home Park Estate, Kings Langley, Hertfordshire WD4 8LZ commencing at 11am on 19 September 2014.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting with full description of the business to be conducted is set out at www.
42 Auditors Each of the persons who are directors at the date of approval of this annual report confirms that: so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Groups auditor is unaware: and the direct or has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
KPMG Audit Plc KPMG have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
The business of KPMG Audit Plc is in the process of being transitioned to KPMG LLP.
KPMG has been the Groups external auditor since 1994.
Whilst the Group has not formally tendered the audit since then, the Audit Committee undertakes an annual review of the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the audit firm in considering whether to recommend the reappointment of the external auditors at the AGM, further details are provided on page 53.
The current partner at KPMG was appointed as Group Audit Partner in 2010, and under the requirement to rotate this position every 5 years, is due to rotate off the Groups audit after completing the 30 April 2015 financial year audit engagement.
Further information on the Groups approach to audit tendering can be found in the Audit Committee report on page 53.
Directors Statement of Responsibility The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The directors consider the report and accounts, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable and that it provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair balanced and understanding view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic report, Directors report, Directors remuneration report and Corporate governance statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
By order of the Board Anthony Llewellyn Company Secretary 24 June 2014 Company number: 2920061 Strategic report Directors report Financial report 43
