Directors Sir Hossein Yassaie Geoff Shingles Chairman Chief Executive Officer Geoff was the Executive Chairman of Digital Equipment Co. After attaining his PhD.
Hossein was a research fellow at the Limited, for 29 years.
While at Digital, he worked in both the US University of Birmingham.
He then joined STMicroelectronics and Continental Europe.
He joined Imagination Technologies in Inmos, where he spent eight years, ultimately becoming 1994 and was appointed Chairman of the Board in 1996.
He is responsible for the system divisions, including research and also Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Geoff is due to retire development, manufacturing and marketing.
After joining from the Board as announced on 10 July 2014, once a suitable Imagination Technologies in 1992 as Technical Director, Hossein successor has been appointed.
He is Executive Chairman and refocused the business on advanced technology development Chief Executive at Speed-Trap Holdings Limited.
and created Imaginations successful silicon IP business model.
He became Chief Executive Officer in June 1998.
He is a nonexecutive of Toumaz Holdings Limited and 7digital Group plc.
Hossein is a member of the Nomination Committee.
Richard Smith David Anderson Chief Financial Officer Non-executive director Richard holds an MBA from Henley Business School, is a David has over 30 years investment banking experience including Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and 17 years at Lazard and six years at JP Morgan Cazenove.
He Wales and has an MA in Economics from Cambridge University.
joined the Imagination Technologies Board in November 2010.
His early career included positions with Porsche Cars and He is the Senior Independent Director, Chairman of the Audit .
Richard has worked in a number of Committee and a member of both the Remuneration Committee privately held technology businesses as CFO, and prior to that and Nomination Committee.
held senior financial roles at Vodafone.
He joined Imagination Technologies in May 2011 and was appointed to the Board as Chief Financial Officer in July 2011.
38 Gilles Delfassy Andrew Heath Non-executive director Non-executive director Gilles has worked in the semiconductor and mobile wireless Andrew brings a wealth of international business experience industry for more than 35 years.
He is a highly experienced and gained through his executive roles at Rolls Royce, the global respected international figure and while spending 30 years at power systems company, over the past 30 years.
He joined Rolls Texas Instruments Inc. he was a key pioneer and driving force Royce as an undergraduate trainee in 1982 and progressed to behind mobile and wireless initiatives, which helped shape the Managing Director, Control Systems Operating Unit in 2001.
He joined the Imagination Technologies Board in June currently holds the position of President, Energy at Rolls Royce.
2012 and is a member of the Remuneration Committee, the Audit He joined the Imagination Technologies Board in August 2012 and Committee and the Nomination Committee.
is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit Committee and the Nomination Committee.
David Hurst-Brown Ian Pearson Non-executive director Non-executive director David has worked for most of his career in the securities industry.
Ian has over 30 years experience with companies specializing In 2002 he left UBS where, for more than 10 years, he worked in in semiconductor design, manufacturing and management, with Corporate Finance as an advisor to a wide range of companies.
These companies include Inmos and He joined the Imagination Technologies Board in September SGS Thompson.
He joined the Imagination Technologies Board in 2000.
David is no longer a member of any Board sub-committees 1998 and has subsequently held positions of Senior Independent but does on request attend sub-committee meetings.
David is a Director and also Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Ian non-executive director of Anite plc.
is no longer a member of any Board sub-committees but does on request attend sub-committee meetings.
Strategic report Directors report Financial report 39
