Inside Imaginations technologies Each of our core technologies is built on innovation, whether it be innovative architecture, algorithms, programmability or simply great implementation.
Open Source We are known for our smart solutions to difficult challenges.
prpl pronounced Purple is an open-source, communityThese include the tile-based deferred rendering TBDR of driven, collaborative, non-profit foundation targeting and PowerVR graphics: the efficient combination of fixed and supporting the MIPS architecture and open to others with reconfigurable elements in PowerVR video: the fully programmable a focus on enabling next-generation data center to device heart of our Ensigma connectivity and communications core: the portable software and virtualized architectures.
efficiency and multi-threading of our MIPS processors: and the Initial members include: Broadcom, Cavium, Ikanos, disruptive approach of our PowerVR ray tracing IP.
Imagination, Ineda Systems, Ingenic Semiconductor, Lantiq, All of our IP core families are designed to maximize opportunities for Nevales Networks, PMC, and Qualcomm Incorporated.
our customers to differentiate their products.
For example: by using We are excited to provide value to the prpl foundation, some of our extensions to APIs: selecting from our wide range of IP based on our rich experience and large footprint in the cores optimized for different power, performance and cost metrics: broadband communications industry.
We believe that with combining different MCU and CPU cores in a scalable, powerthe prpl open source initiative Imagination Technologies smart SoC: or designing in to customers unique SoC architectures.
enters the next step in enabling their customers to offer With Imagination, every customer can be unique.
highly competitive and leading edge networking solutions Our business is fundamentally driven by our ability to create a vision based on MIPS Cores.
Dan Artusi, CEO of Lantiq of future technologies that accurately anticipates the requirements of tomorrows consumers.
Our compelling IP roadmaps are the prpl represents leaders in the technology industry investing to cornerstone of Imaginations on-going leadership.
deliver innovation in efficiency, portability and compatibility for the good of a broad community of developers, businesses System on Chip IP and consumers.
The SoCs that power just about everything electronic can be For Imagination, this is an important new initiative in the constructed from combinations of our unique portfolio of IP cores.
further development of the MIPS ecosystem.
prpl will focus With our software and solutions we enable those SoCs to deliver and develop a valuable strand of that ecosystem to deliver the key multimedia, communications, connectivity and telecoms outstanding benefits for users, and compelling ROI for features customers require.
By providing the base onto which our customers can add their Imagination intends to leverage prpl to bring together under own unique value, whether in IP, software or business model, we one roof open source projects based on the MIPS processor enable them to deliver differentiated and innovative SoCs.
We enable heterogeneous SoCs where multiple processors, each This builds on Imaginations long history in Open Source with domain-optimized architectures, can each perform highly where for years we have been an active supplier into open optimized tasks in a complementary, efficient and flexible way.
communities, for example making the kernel of our GPU drivers available.
P M C - S I E R R A 12 Connected Connected Internet Mobile Wearables Enterprise Infrastructure Car Home of Things Customer technologies and Customer Solutions know-how Ecosystems software, tools, apps, Enabling IP platforms middleware, hardware Innovation in SoCs: IP platforms Imagination is a founder member of the HSA Foundation, which is PowerVR multimedia creating new APIs and tools for the SoCs of the future.
The leader in visual IP Consisting of a comprehensive range of multimedia IP, from In designing its leading-edge technology for wearables and GPUs for graphics and GPU compute, to video, imaging and other emerging portable applications, Inedas key focus is on vision, PowerVR is the technology that goes from sensor or CPU combining the right mix of technically superior technologies.
to screen, delivering stunning images for entertainment and Imaginations IP cores provide the ideal combination of features user interfaces.
and performance, and importantly, industry-leading power and energy efficiency.
Dasaradha Gude, CEO, Ineda These cores combine perfectly to create uniquely optimizable IP platforms that can incorporate customer IP to create highly We deliver the highest performance at lowest power consumption differentiated, state of the art solutions for all forms of visual and silicon area by making full use of our advanced, patented challenges from the latest games to smart security cameras.
low-level design features alongside system-level philosophies such as hardware multi-threading, system latency tolerance and PowerVR graphics GPU reconfigurable multi-standard solutions.
The worlds most popular mobile and At the heart of our approach we have a simple design philosophy: embedded GPU deliver the maximum performance per mW of power consumed, The PowerVR graphics processor GPU family leads the market while taking up the minimum silicon area possible.
in technological capability, roadmap breadth and ecosystem, and is by far the most adopted and shipped technology of its kind.
PowerVR graphics IP consists of a broad portfolio of the industrys leading graphics processors, supporting a broad range of applications.
Strategic report Directors report Financial report 13 Were pleased with the superior technological capability PowerVR video VPU of PowerVR, as well as the great support we receive from Making better pixels Imagination.
Dr. Zhenyu Zhou, CEO, Actions Semiconductor PowerVR video IP addresses video codec needs for customers in a diverse range of applications.
PowerVR enables a powerful, power-efficient and flexible solution The high performance, low power consumption and advanced for all forms of graphics processing, including 3D and 2D graphics feature set of the PowerVR decode and encode IP cores lead to as well as high-performance GPU compute, all in the same competitive advantage for our customers.
By using PowerVR video technologies, our customers are able to Imaginations PowerVR graphics technologies are licensed by build the efficient decoding required for 4K broadcasts into their world-leading companies to power iconic products delivering the silicon today.
They can also deliver better image quality using the best in smartphone, tablet, TV and console apps, including the industrys first complete IP cores with 10-bit colour depth support most advanced user interfaces and highest performance gaming.
Thanks to industry-leading features including its advanced Multi-standard and multi-stream capabilities are standard across PowerVR Series6 64-core GPU, the UltraOcta A80 gives OEMs the range.
the highest performance, most power-efficient and cost-effective Our differentiated, multi-standard approach has made PowerVR solution for a range of devices.
Mike Zhang, CEO, video the most deployed mobile video technology.
Allwinner Technology PowerVR vision PowerVR is the leading graphics technology because it uses The evolution of camera vision a superior approach.
PowerVRs efficiency through tile-based PowerVR vision is a complete solution for camera processing, deferred rendering TBDR ensures the lowest possible bandwidth targeting the highest quality imaging for mobile and handheld usage and the lowest amount of processing cycles per frame, devices.
and all of this leads to high performance efficiency and the lowest power consumption per frame, outperforming other solutions.
It all starts with our innovative PowerVR Raptor imaging processor architecture which takes image processing to the next level for next generation applications.
14 Raptor cores are unique in that they are designed to work with transparencies, previously unachievable in a mobile form factor.
Imaginations other PowerVR graphics and video cores, as PowerVR Wizard ray tracing IP is highly scalable, making it well as still image encoders and decoders, to form a complete, disruptive to many other markets beyond mobile.
integrated vision platform that saves power and bandwidth for todays camera applications, and can provide the basis for nextgeneration context-aware applications such as facial and gesture recognition, augmented reality and more.
With its Raptor ISP, which has features such as simultaneous multi-sensor support, 16-bit capability, and a path to 4K, Imagination is demonstrating that it knows what is needed for next generation imaging.
This is how you leap the crowd.
Jon Peddie, President, Jon Peddie Research PowerVR ray tracing Transforming the state-of-the-art in Model, surfacing and lighting created by Justin Schubert using mobile graphics the Visualizer for Maya plug-in Imaginations PowerVR ray tracing technology represents the next step in graphics technology evolution.
PowerVR Wizard is a revolutionary new family of graphics IP cores that We will continue to work with Imagination to fully utilize raises the bar for ray traced graphics to a dramatic new level, delivering the PowerVR ray tracing GPU IP within the Unity game astonishing realism and performance at mobile power budgets.
engine to further enhance the in-game experience and Wizard cores will enable more immersive games and apps with simplify content creation for our developers.
real-life dynamic lighting models that enable advanced lighting David Helgason, CEO, Unity Technologies effects, dynamic soft shadows, and lifelike reflections and Performance PowerVR Wizard ray tracing GPU For each generation: wider performance envelope increased efficiency lower power for better performance smaller area for better performance PowerVR shorter cadences to next generation Series7XT PowerVR PowerVR Series6XT Series8 PowerVR Series6 Rogue PowerVR PowerVR Series7XE Series6XE PowerVR PowerVR Series5XT SGX Series5 SGX Cadence PowerVR Series4 MBX PowerVR wearables Time Keeping PowerVR GPUs ahead of the pack Strategic report Directors report Financial report 15 Performance envelope The newest MIPS Warrior family of CPUs includes 32-bit and 64- MIPS processors CPU bit variants with a focus on superior performance efficiency across The most efficient IP processor architecture the range.
Building on the true 32-bit and 64-bit instruction set The MIPS family of CPU IP is a comprehensive portfolio of lowcompatibility of MIPS, Warrior cores provide binary compatibility power, high-performance 32 64-bit processor architectures and from the entry-level to the high-end.
The cores come in three cores, ranging from the ultimate high-performance cores for highclasses of performance and features: end applications processors down to extremely small cores for Warrior M-class: entry-level MIPS cores for embedded and deeply embedded microcontrollers.
microcontroller applications The MIPSr5 architecture enhancements from Imagination Warrior I-class: mid-range, feature-rich MIPS CPUs combined with Caviums in-house design expertise will help Warrior P-class: high-performance MIPS processors create the most advanced MIPS 64-bit processor in the industry.
M. Raghib Hussain, Corporate VP GM and CTO, Cavium Imagination is making MIPS a serious contender.
Linley Gwennap, principal analyst, The Linley Group With a strong position in home entertainment and networking products and a growing position in mobile devices, MIPS CPUs With more than four billion MIPS-based products already shipped, power billions of products around the globe, and are supported and many universities and schools around the world teaching by a broad ecosystem of commercial and open source software, CPU architecture using MIPS as their preferred platform, MIPS operating systems and tools.
is truly the ideal CPU for tomorrows SoCs, from the highestBased on a heritage built and continuously innovated over performance mobile applications processors to the lowest power more than three decades, Imaginations MIPS architecture is connected sensor processors.
the industrys most efficient RISC architecture, delivering the best performance and lowest power consumption in a given The power and cost efficiencies embodied in Imaginations multi-threaded MIPS CPUs help us to create high-performance silicon area.
LTE solutions that deliver high throughput, low power SoC designers can use this efficiency advantage for significant consumption and high reliability in a small form factor at a cost and power savings, or to implement additional cores to competitive price.
Craig Miller, VP Marketing, Sequans deliver a performance advantage in the same power, thermal and area budget.
32-bit embedded and everything 64-bit advanced microcontrollers in-between networking processors 24c The most scalable processor architecture 16 Traditionally, radio, TV, Wi-Fi and Bluetooth used to have their Ensigma communications own chipsets but, as the number of standards to be supported Delivering on-chip efficiency in a continues to increase, this approach becomes less cost-effective connected world and more power hungry.
Ensigma connectivity, communications and networking IP can, Ensigma Series4 RPU is the worlds most comprehensive small singly or in combination, solve the fundamental problems that silicon footprint, ultra low power software-defined radio solution, plague connected devices.
delivering a fully-programmable engine supporting all forms of How do I deal with the proliferation of standards for radio and Wi-Fi and Bluetooth connectivity, as well as global DTV, digital TV broadcast?
radio, and FM receiver capabilities.
Ensigma RPUs can deliver a How do I deliver the range of connectivity standards required by wide portfolio of Wi-Fi solutions up to 802.11ac as well as the almost all devices today and tomorrow?
new ultra low-power interfaces which are ideal for IoT sensors.
How do I ensure robust networks with the high levels of multiCustomers will benefit from Imaginations industry-leading domain security that modern users expect?
PowerVR graphics and video, as well as its Ensigma processors Ensigma blends programmable and fixed function blocks to that provide the high-speed Wi-Fi that is a hallmark of [TZ5000] deliver flexible connectivity platforms that offer outstanding ROI processors.
Toshiya Matsui, General Manager, compared to single-standard devices as well as exceptional Logic LSI Marketing & Engineering Department, Toshiba performance.
Ensigma radio processor RPU Ensigma network and security processor NPU Uniquely flexible communications processor Ensigma programmable radio processing units RPUs address Delivering secure and programmable networking the ever-growing challenge of proliferating broadcast and from the home to the enterprise connectivity standards by supporting them all on a single engine, The latest Ensigma IP from Imagination extends our reach into and enabling them to be integrated onto SoCs for the lowest networking and security.
On-chip SoC communications have needed to evolve to deliver even higher performance and intelligence for managing the large Scalability amount and diverse types of network traffic.
Wi-Fi As a leading licensor of processor IP for networking, Imagination Bluetooth can deliver data path solutions for high-performance, smart Classic Ensigma Explorer SoCs for applications ranging from home equipment all the way TV RPU up to carrier, enterprise networking and LTE infrastructures.
Radio Ensigma solutions are designed for optimal power, performance Bluetooth LE and area, and are used at the heart of the network, to protect GPS Whisper Zigbee data from attack, provide multi-domain security, and enable RPU NFC secure communication.
Data throughput HelloSoft VolP and VoLTE Carrier grade resilient VoIP Our experience in the demanding automotive environment Imaginations HelloSoft range of licensable IP includes and our extensive receiver know-how combined with comprehensive software SDKs delivering everything needed Imaginations Ensigma communications processor technology to implement high-quality, power-efficient enhanced WebRTC, will allow us to create robust solutions to manage all the Voice over IP and LTE VoIP, VoLTE, Voice plus Video over digital standards and create a more enjoyable listening IP VoIP and Rich Communications Suite RCS 5.0 for multiexperience.
Marco M. Monti, EVP and General Manager, mode wireless and wireline devices.
HelloSoft IP products and Automotive Product Group, STMicroelectronics technologies are carrier-grade cross-platform solutions, already deployed in millions of devices.
Built on years of engineering Strategic report Directors report Financial report 17 experience to ensure that they are ready for the most extensive With our advanced algorithms encapsulated in an off-the-shelf 3G, 4G and enterprise network deployments, all SDKs and product, we are enabling our customers to dramatically improve platforms are available for Android, iPhone, Windows and the WebRTC user experience.
Were seeing adoption of WebRTC particularly growing in mobile devices.
Often overlooked are issues such as acoustic echo cancellation and media performance, in a wide range Media Voice PreUI Stacks of physical operating conditions for devices.
Its good to see Engine processing innovation and focus in that domain.
Dean Bubley, Director of Disruptive Analysis FlowCloud platform Device to cloud connectivity FlowCloud is a portfolio of cloud connectivity technologies that enable consumer, industrial and embedded products powering the Internet of Things to be fully cloud-connected.
FlowCloud works brilliantly with our Ensigma RPU and MIPS CPU cores to deliver connected platforms for IoT.
The newest addition to the HelloSoft IP portfolio is the WebRTC With FlowCloud, users can construct solutions for a wide range media engine, which promises to deliver a new level of quality to of applications, including security, personal and professional companies building native or browser-based voice and video health monitoring, energy management, cloud-based systems for conferencing services based on WebRTC.
The open WebRTC content delivery and much more.
initiative, supported by Google, Mozilla, Opera and others, FlowCloud technology minimizes the resources required to make enables development of rich, web-based real-time a product fully connected, bringing together people, devices and communications RTC multimedia applications such as video services in a platform for easily building connected applications chat, file screen-sharing and other two-way communications.
18 Flow Consumer cloud experiences based on FlowCloud Flow is a consumer experience based on Imaginations chipKIT WiFire FlowCloud technology.
Flow makes it as easy as possible for our Imagination is rolling out a range of FlowCloud development partners to deliver a complete solution to their OEM customers, platforms.
The first of these is the chipKIT WiFire from Digilent and ultimately, to consumers.
Using branded Flow products, Inc. with Microchips PIC32MZ processor.
com music and radio-streaming portal, our customers have a ready to go, high quality solution to some of the The growing chipKIT ecosystem has achieved a new more challenging requirements of the consumer cloud.
level of innovation with the most advanced 32-bit, MIPSbased MCUs from Microchip, together with the groundCaskeid breaking FlowCloud technology from Imagination.
It will be very exciting to see what developers can do with the new The wireless hi-fi experience thats as good chipKIT WiFire platform.
Clint Cole, President, Digilent as wired Caskeid is a family of technologies developed by Imagination to deliver efficient and accurate wireless multiroom audio.
Caskeid is the worlds most accurately synchronized wireless multiroom Business-to-Consumer brands audio experience.
The unique technology within Caskeid enabled Unlike other IP companies we think about the solutions consumer devices delivers outstanding audiophile-quality stereo playback markets require, and find ways to help our customers leverage throughout the home to satisfy even the most demanding listener.
our technologies to differentiate consumer products.
Caskeid works seamlessly with all music-streaming services to deliver any audio app content to multiple Caskeid-enabled By developing technology B2C brands, like Caskeid and Flow, speakers through a unique combination of Bluetooth and Wi-Fi.
and consumer product brands, like Pure and Visualizer, we promote the benefits of our technology to consumers and help By working with Imagination and its partners we will our OEM partners clearly articulate the unique value of their aggressively expand wireless audio music streaming and High Imagination IP enabled products.
Quality Audio out of Japan to the rest of the world.
Munenori Otsuki, President and CEO, Onkyo Corporation Strategic report Directors report Financial report 19 Visualizer Pure Delivering ray tracing to people who make Where innovation and consumers meet Visualizer is a new B2C product brand from Imagination.
Its core Pure is Imaginations consumer electronics CE division, creating product is Visualizer for SketchUp, a revolutionary new app which products built on the technologies created by our technology allows anybody to take virtual photos of their 3D designs with a division.
real life look in SketchUp with only one click.
At its core, Visualizer Pure uses chips and technologies from Imaginations partners, for SketchUp relies on Imaginations highly optimized PowerVR pathfinding in new markets, promoting the capabilities of our IP ray tracing software to produce photorealistic pictures in realand allowing us to experience market and technology conditions time.
Visualizer is not only delivering a compelling product to the as OEMs and consumers do, which helps keep us grounded and SketchUp community but also helping drive our efforts in creating solutions focused.
an ecosystem around our ray tracing technologies.
Pure helps to drive our technology business acting as a showcase for our IP.
It has been key to raising the profile and interest in our I can think of a few million SketchUp users who are going to Wi-Fi, Caskeid, processor and cloud connectivity technologies.
smile the first time they try Visualizer.
John Bacus, Director of SketchUp Product Management, Trimble Pure digital radios showcase our Ensigma receiver technology.
Jongo wireless speakers showcase both Ensigma and FlowCloud technology, as well as Flow and Caskeid consumer experiences.
Pure is a vehicle to spearhead our strategic partnerships in the worlds of entertainment and content with companies such as Onkyo, Media-Saturn, 7digital and Universal Music Group.
Pure has developed an incredibly accessible and flexible way to take multiroom audio into the mainstream and we are extremely excited to be working with such an innovative company to bring Jongo and the range of services available through Pure Connect to music fans around the world.
Stephen Partridge, Head of e-commerce, Universal Music UK Thanks to Pure, Imagination is a world leading supplier of DAB and FM radio technologies and a key player in the ongoing transformation of music listening with the Jongo wireless multiroom systems and Caskeid technology.
Pure also enables Imagination to engage with OEMs and other ecosystem partners.
Pure has significantly broadened its market reach to now include: broadcast radio: in-car radio and audio: cloud-based services: andmultiroomand internet connected audio.
20 Evoke D2 features Rob Ryans intricate papercut style design Pure Connect is a brilliant extension to your own music.
The Sunday Times, November 2013 Pure raises Imaginations engagement and profile with consumers, helping us to understand deeply every aspect of how to get technology to consumers, including the retail supply chain dynamics, the latest consumer product trends, and how to communicate effectively with consumers and retailers.
This experience is a significant part of what sets Imagination apart from other IP suppliers.
Strategic report Directors report Financial report 21 Conclusion Imagination is now a technology leader in the three most important elements of modern heterogeneous processing: multimedia, CPU and communications, as well as cloud technologies.
Through these we have a wide market reach, and our target markets continue to develop, evolve and grow.
There have been some significant transitions in the industry over the last two years with consolidation in the mobile market, the emergence of the connected everything era, and the rise of automation in home and car.
Imaginations focus on delivering key building blocks and platforms has seen us broaden our partnerships with companies focusing on each of those areas.
With the strong strategic direction of the business and the excellent partnerships in which we are engaged we expect Imaginations technologies to go forward to further success, enabling even more significant products across a broad range of mass volume markets.
