40 IMI plc Operational Review IMI Hydronic Engineering IMI Hydronic Engineering is the leading global provider and Revenue recognised expert in hydronic distribution systems and room temperature control, with experience in more than 100,000 284m Down 7% construction projects world-wide.
We help clients optimise their heating, ventilation and air Operating profit conditioning HVAC systems by providing products and 51.9m Down 19% knowledge to deliver perfect indoor climate at minimum energy use and at the right energy cost.
Our team of just under 2,000 people operate around the world, and we have design and manufacturing facilities in six countries.
Engineering Performance GREAT Solutions After adjusting for the impact of adverse exchange rate movements of 19m, revenues were 1% lower on an organic basis.
Revenues on a reported basis of 284m 2013: 305m were down 7%.
Second half activity in many of our core European markets was impacted by abnormally high autumn temperatures and weak construction activity.
Following our decision in early 2014 to scale back our interests in less profitable countries and focus on those offering the best growth prospects, we delivered good growth in the emerging markets which were up 10%.
Our North American business was down 4% reflecting a poor, weather related, first half performance.
Segmental operating profit at 52m 2013: 64m was 19% lower on a reported basis and, after adjusting for 3m of exchange rate impact, 15% lower on an organic basis.
This reflected the additional investment in new product development and the costs associated with the withdrawal from a number of less profitable emerging markets.
While operating margins showed their normal second half seasonal improvement to 19.7% 2014 H1: 16.8%, full year margins at 18.3% were lower compared to last year 2013: 21.1%.
Balancing and Control Thermostatic Control Pressurisation Water quality Hydronic balancing is about controlling With an unparalleled history of success Changes in temperature result in Our wide range of separators and water flow, which ensures that a waterowing to our dedication to precision changing water volume, which have degassers protect the installation based heating or cooling system and control, IMI Hydronic Engineerings to be dealt with immediately to avoid and maintain system performance by performs to its full potential.
Today thermostatic control systems guarantee damage and system breakdown.
Our keeping water free of micro-bubbles and unbalanced systems are the cause of reliability in room temperature reliable pressure control systems with sludge in heating, solar and chilled water two thirds of all indoor climate problems.
All our thermostatic control compressors or pumps, together with systems.
Our latest cyclonic technology As the balancing experts IMI Hydronic bodies and housings are made from our robust range of static expansion has been proven to be up to 9 times Engineering enable customers to gunmetal.
Resistant to corrosion and vessels and water-make up devices, more efficient at removing dirt from HVAC maintain comfort at the right level and dezincification, this tough material is make sure there is the right amount of systems ensuring a longer life of the increase HVAC efficiency by up to 30%.
shaped using our own casting process.
water, at the right pressure in the system installation, lower maintenance costs Our expertise covers all types of The result is unmatched temperature at all times.
as well as lower energy costs.
hydronic systems constant flow control and thermostatic valve quality.
and variable flow, static balancing and dynamic balancing.
Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 41 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 2014 represented a year of significant development for the Hydronic division.
We put in place a new management structure, launched a number of great new products and introduced operational improvements.
All of these initiatives will drive significant future growth.
Peter Spencer Divisional Managing Director During the year we continued to invest in new product While building construction in our core European markets has development and successfully launched 14 new products remained subdued in 2014, the global ambition to improve which delivered annualised revenues of around 13m.
A good energy efficiency will continue to drive demand for the divisions pipeline of additional launches is scheduled for 2015 and is new and world leading products.
expected to underpin our growth ambitions for the division.
During the second half of the year good progress was also Outlook made on a number of other key strategic initiatives including While European construction markets are expected to remain the implementation of lean and the commencement of a at the subdued levels experienced in the second half of 2014, project to replace the ERP systems within the division.
the new products which were launched in 2014 are expected to compensate and result in organic revenues being broadly Key Achievements flat in the first half on a constant currency basis.
In the second Launched 14 new products including the TA Compact, half we expect to deliver good organic revenue growth as we a pressure independent balancing and control valve range benefit from a number of exciting new products which will be launched at the ISH trade show in Germany at the end Completed withdrawal from 20 low margin emerging markets of March.
Operating margins, while expected to show their to focus on those offering stronger growth prospects normal seasonal improvement in the second half, are likely to be slightly below last year reflecting the ongoing investment Good progress on lean implementation resulting in an in additional new products for long-term growth.
improved lean assessment score of 59%, a 10% reduction in inventory levels and over 90% on time deliveries.
Market Review Improving energy efficiency in buildings is an on-going global trend and in November 2014, the US and China announced an agreement to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and increase energy efficiency over the next 20 years.
This agreement builds on similar international initiatives, such as the Kyoto protocol, and will be a key driver for IMI Hydronic Engineering.
Automatic hydronic CASE STUDY Pre-setting balancing directly A-exact the latest product with Automatic Flow Control AFC at the valve technology has been independently tested and proven to save energy.
Time saving The challenge: The new A-exact which provides energy savings in mounting in heating systems was put to the test on a housing complex in the and balancing Netherlands where the homes were heated using geothermal energy.
Geothermal energy requires a low return water temperature in order to be efficient.
Solution: The results of the test were two fold.
Firstly no complex measurements were required before installing the new valves making the balancing of the installation easier and quicker.
Secondly the return water temperature was controlled very effectively and generated up to 50% savings on pump energy.
A-exact: Thermostatic radiator Optimal valve with automatic flow limitation for renovation Case studies online www.
