14 IMI plc Strategy in action 1.
Capitalising on significant organic growth opportunities The Group currently operates in a number of attractive end markets and to achieve our ambitions we must focus on those that offer the greatest potential in terms of delivering top and bottom line growth.
Our priority is to capitalise on those end markets where we already are, or have the potential to be, in a leading position markets where we can grow share and markets where there are significant higher margin aftermarket opportunities.
Market and positioning Power Oil & Gas Petrochemical & Metals Actuation We are the world We supply anti-surge We design and We focus on the design leading supplier of valve and actuator manufacture integrated and production of Almost 7bn addressable market engineered to order systems to the worlds flow control systems complete actuation Attractive growth markets turbine bypass valves largest LNG compression for critical applications systems to operate Leadership position in power for critical applications in facilities.
Our systems in Fluid Catalytic industrial valves for and potential to achieve in other conventional and nuclear are capable of ultra-fast Cracking.
We also supply the most demanding key sectors power plants helping to response to maximise bespoke valves into the applications and provide the safest, most LNG production ethylene, polypropylene processes in terms Barriers to entry provide excellent reliable and efficient power while protecting the and delayed coking of forces, speed opportunity in high margin generation.
aftermarket 2014 Revenue: 248m 2014 Revenue: 200m 2014 Revenue: 144m 2014 Revenue: 36m In 2014, IMI Critical Engineering had 64m of other revenue.
Industrial Automation Commercial Vehicle Oil & Gas Life Sciences We supply high We design and We offer a comprehensive We supply precision performance products manufacture a range range of products which flow control solutions 14bn addressable market opportunity including valves, valve of cab, chassis and deliver precision control used in medical devices, Challenging competitive environment islands, proportional powertrain solutions in even the harshest diagnostic equipment Best in class returns but falling and pressure monitoring which deliver fuel environments, including and biotech and analytical market shares controls and air efficiency, emissions stainless steel valves and instruments.
Our products preparation products, as reduction and faster regulators, nuclear class help to reduce the size Significant potential in Industrial well as a comprehensive assembly times for valves and emergency of equipment, while Automation range of pneumatic the worlds leading shutdown controls.
enhancing accuracy, Ieading brand actuators.
commercial vehicle throughput and fluid 2014 Revenue: 74m high margins from aftermarket manufacturers.
2014 Revenue: 426m 2014 Revenue: 163m 2014 Revenue: 47m Balancing & Control Thermostatic Control Pressurisation Water Quality Our hydronic balancing We design and Reliable pressurisation is The single most 2bn addressable market opportunity and control solutions manufacture thermostatic a basic requirement for important component in enable buildings to keep control systems which a trouble-free operation any hydronic system is Low cyclicality due to resilience of comfort at the right level guarantee direct or of heating, cooling and always water itself.
When refurbishment markets and lift HVAC efficiency automatic control of solar systems.
Our compromised, the effects Leadership position in core North by up to 30%.
Our radiators and underfloor robust range of pressure can be felt throughout the European markets expertise covers constant heating systems to maintenance systems system.
Our dirt and air Best in class returns but falling and variable flow and perfectly control individual with compressors or separators and pressuremarket shares both static and dynamic room temperatures.
pumps and expansion step degassers protect balancing.
vessels maintains the right the installation by keeping 2014 Revenue: 94m pressure in the system at water free of micro- 2014 Revenue: 148m all times.
