10 IMI plc Strategic growth priorities Our strategic plan to accelerate growth is focused on the following key growth priorities: 1 2 3 4 Capitalising on Improving operational Increased investment Expand addressable significant organic performance in product markets through growth opportunities development targeted acquisitions We already operate in a The benefits of moving We will increase our We will supplement our number of attractive end towards and achieving best in investment in product organic growth opportunities markets and we intend to class operational performance development, a key enabler with targeted acquisitions focus on those that offer the are significant.
As we improve of our growth plan, which is to capable of producing greatest potential in terms how our businesses operate build sustainable competitive returns in excess of the of delivering top and bottom we will better utilise capacity, advantage.
Progressively Groups weighted average line growth.
These end enhance our competitiveness, we will increase R&D spend cost of capital within three markets include those where reduce working capital and from around 3% of revenues years.
Beyond our existing we already are, or have the generate cost savings by in 2014 to 5% over the next business portfolio, our potential to be, in a leading operating more efficiently.
To ensure review has identified the position, markets where we Our ambition is to that we maximise to the full potential to double the can grow share and markets progressively self-fund our the benefits of this increased Groups addressable market where there are significant organic growth initiatives investment, we are improving by making acquisitions in higher margin aftermarket using the benefits generated our product development adjacent non-valve product opportunities.
Our current from our operational processes and systems and markets.
Further details market positioning and the improvements.
Details further detail is contained of our acquisition strategy growth targets we have set are about how we are improving on pages 20 and 21. are detailed on page 22. detailed on pages 14 and 15. operational performance are set out on pages 16 to 19.
Strategic timeline 2014 2015 2016 Year 0: Year 1: Year 2: The hard work Increased Benefits starting begins investment to show Organic initiatives Assess our markets and drivers Invest in products and capital for growth Accelerated growth evident in results for growth Foundations established and early Working capital benefits visible in results Benchmark performance and benchmark improvements evident Emerging markets ready for local full develop plans for improvement Sorting the basics in Precision Engineering technology supply complexities and structure Supported by value enhancing acquisitions Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 11 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic enablers To deliver our strategic growth priorities we have outlined the following key strategic enablers: Maintain financial Invest in Group-wide IT Work together as one discipline and infrastructure simplified IMI As we execute our strategy to deliver Because of the historically diverse To harness the Groups full potential we accelerated growth we will continue to make-up of the Group, and the are determined to channel and maximise maintain financial discipline.
Capital will autonomous nature of the businesses our scale to act as one IMI.
The new brand be allocated to drive organic growth, there is a need to invest in Group-wide IT co-ordinates and creates a single focus maintain a progressive dividend policy in systems and facilities.
Each division is for everything we do.
Our core processes line with earnings and fund acquisitions.
now implementing new ERP systems to provide a strong platform and underpin a Whilst retaining flexibility to develop support their long-term growth ambitions.
framework for creating consistent Group IMIs full potential, we will continue to The implementations are being phased on wide standards and behaviours.
To enable focus on maintaining an efficient balance a site by site basis to minimise risk and to us to operate as one IMI on a day-tosheet and, in the event of us having deliver an optimal solution.
The Group is day basis we have put in place a global cash in excess of the Groups current also investing in its sites, alongside the intranet that all employees, regardless of needs, we will return this excess capital lean manufacturing initiatives, to ensure location, are able to access.
Through the life of our that we have best in class facilities.
practice is now an important part of life at five year plan we will target net debt to Overall capital spending is progressively IMI and having a single place to manage EBITDA of two times through the cycle.
increasing to around two times our processes and record our progress depreciation where it will remain for will be essential to improving our overall the first few years of the plan.
Net debt to adjusted EBITDA 0.6 0.4 0.2 2013 2014 Financial discipline will support our strategy In October 2014, we launched the IMI Eye, Our global intranet is available to for accelerated growth over the life of our a Group-wide newsletter, written by 9,000 employees five year plan employees for employees 2017 2018 2019 Year 3: Year 4: Year 5: Nearly firing on Up to full Double all cylinders speed operating profits Growth outruns peers in every division Ambitions for growth fully realised All divisions in attractive, high growth markets Benchmark performance nearing Achievement of world-class world-class standards performance evident in results Precision supply chain and capacity issues resolved
