Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 59 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors Remuneration Report Directors Remuneration Policy Introduction The Committee believes it is important to maintain the flexibility to respond to individual The Remuneration Committee presents the circumstances.
However, its normal approach Directors Remuneration Policy Report, which has been to pay salaries within appropriate will be put to shareholders for a binding vote market competitive ranges, combined with at the Annual General Meeting to be held on realistic potential for above-market total 7 May 2015.
Subject to shareholder approval, compensation if performance is outstanding.
the effective date of this policy will be 8 May 2015.
The intention of the Committee is that The policy of the Committee is to set performance the policy will remain in place for three years.
conditions for incentives which are both stretching but also reasonably attainable in the environment The remuneration policy comprises a number in which the Company is then operating.
of sections: an illustration of the sensitivity of pay outcomes Changes in the remuneration policy relative to IMIs performance: In submitting a revised policy to shareholders a future policy table for executive directors, the only substantive changes, are as follows: which sets out the components of annual the Share Matching Plan SMP and remuneration: Performance Share Plan PSP will not be policies relating to other elements of executive operating again and will be allowed to expire director remuneration, including recruitment, without renewal, which was due in May 2015: service contracts, appointments and the introduction of performance share awards terminations: under a new plan, the IMI Incentive Plan IIP, remuneration policies that relate solely to the subject to approval at the 2015 AGM: Chairman and non-executive directors: and adopting performance measures designed the contextual information considered by the to align with our strategy: and Committee when making decisions on increases to the Share Ownership Guidelines executive directors remuneration.
from 125% to 150% - 250% of salary and mandated investment of 50% of net bonus IMIs remuneration philosophy into shares and retention of half of vested The Committee aims to ensure that remuneration share awards until share ownership guidelines generally, and incentives in particular, provide have been met.
strong alignment between individual performance, business performance and shareholder interests.
Details of decisions implemented in line with The remuneration policy also recognises that IMI both the 2014 and 2015 Remuneration Policies, operates in global and highly competitive markets such as salary increases and changes to bonus with the vast majority of its activities outside the UK.
opportunity and the incentive plan performance measures, are included in the Directors The policy is to provide competitive remuneration Remuneration Report.
packages to attract, motivate, reward and retain executives of the calibre required, and to align their interests with those of shareholders by relating a significant component of the remuneration package to performance.
