141 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 DIRECTORS REPORT The directors present their report, together with the audited financial statements, for the year ended 31 December 2014.
The Strategic Report is on pages 6 to 23.
Results and dividend There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than: The Group consolidated income statement is shown on page 84.
Segmental operating profit amounted to 298m 2013: 322m and profit before taxation certain restrictions as may from time to time be imposed by laws and and discontinued operations amounted to 246m 2013: 249m.
regulations for example insider trading laws : and pursuant to the Companys share dealing code whereby the directors The directors recommend a final dividend of 24.0p per share 2013: 22.5p per and certain employees of the Company require approval to deal in the share on the ordinary share capital payable, subject to shareholder approval, Companys shares.
at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 7 May 2015 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 10 April 2015.
Together with the interim The Company is not aware of any arrangements between shareholders that dividend of 13.6p per share paid on 19 September 2014, this final dividend will may result in restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares or on voting rights.
bring the total distribution for the year to 37.6p per share 2013: 35.3p per share.
None of the ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard to control of the Company.
The only restrictions on voting rights are those that apply to the Research and development ordinary shares held in treasury.
Electronic and paper proxy appointments and The continuing cost of research and development expenditure charged directly voting instructions must be received by the Companys registrars not later than to the income statement was 45m 2013: 50m.
In addition, amortisation of 48 hours excluding any non-working days before a general meeting, or subject capitalised intangible development costs amounted to 2m 2013: 2m and to the Companys articles of association any adjournment thereof.
across the Group a further 6m 2013: 3m was capitalised.
Return of cash and share capital consolidation Shareholders funds On 21 January 2014, the Company announced the terms of a return of cash to Shareholders funds decreased from 601m at the end of 2013 to 509m at shareholders of 200p per existing ordinary share of 25p each and a share capital 31 December 2014. consolidation of every 8 existing ordinary shares of 25p each into 7 new ordinary shares of 28 4 7p each.
Share capital The return of cash was structured as a B and C share scheme.
Under its As at 31 December 2014, the Companys share capital comprised a single terms, shareholders subject to restrictions in respect of US shareholders and class of share capital which was divided into ordinary shares of 28 4 7p each.
certain other overseas shareholders, were able to elect whether to receive their Details of the share capital of the Company are set out in section 4.6 to the cash proceeds as: i an immediate income payment the Income Option : ii financial statements on pages 129 and 130.
The Companys ordinary shares an immediate capital payment the Immediate Capital Option : iii a capital are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
payment deferred until after 6 April 2014 the Deferred Capital Option : or iv any combination of the above.
The Company has a Level 1 American Depositary Receipt ADR programme for which Citibank, N. A. acts as depositary.
The ADRs are traded on the US The resolutions required for the return of cash and share capital consolidation over-the-counter market under the symbol IMIAY, where each ADR represents including to amend the articles of association of the Company were approved two ordinary shares.
by shareholders at a general meeting of the Company held on 13 February 2014.
As at 31 December 2014, 1,725,101 shares were held in an employee trust for The new ordinary shares of 28 4 7p were admitted to the Official List and to trading on the London Stock Exchanges main market for listed securities on use in relation to certain executive incentive plans representing 0.6% of the issued share capital excluding treasury shares at that time.
The independent trustee 17 February 2014. of the trust has the same rights as any other shareholder.
Participants in option On 17 February 2014, the Company issued a total of: i 228,744,051 C shares schemes do not hold any voting rights on the shares until the date of exercise.
to satisfy elections or deemed elections for the Income Option: ii 75,928,619 redeemable B shares to satisfy elections for the Immediate Capital Option: and During the year, 463,694 new ordinary shares were issued under employee share iii 5,475,074 redeemable B shares to satisfy elections for the Deferred Capital schemes: 416,194 under save as you earn plans and 47,500 under executive Option.
On 18 February 2014, a dividend of 200p was declared on each C share share plans.
Shares acquired through Company share schemes and plans rank issued to satisfy an election or deemed election for the Income Option and all equally with the shares in issue and have no special rights.
such shares were then automatically reclassified as deferred shares which were The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares are set later purchased by the Company, for an aggregate consideration of 1p.
On the out in the Companys articles of association, copies of which can be obtained same date, each B share issued to satisfy an election for the Immediate Capital from Companies House in the UK, from the Companys website or by writing Option was redeemed by the Company for 200p per share.
Each B share issued to the Company Secretary.
Changes to the articles of association must be to satisfy an election for the Deferred Capital election were redeemed for 200p approved by a special resolution of the shareholders 75% majority required per share between 7 and 14 April 2014. in accordance with the legislation in force at the time.
Subject to applicable statutes, shares may be issued with such rights and restrictions as the Company Further details can be found in the circular dated 21 January 2014, available on the Companys website.
may by ordinary resolution decide or if there is no such resolution or so far as it does not make specific provision as the Board may decide.
Own shares acquired by the Company Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys report and In 2014 the Company did not make market purchases of its own ordinary shares.
accounts, to attend, speak and vote at general meetings of the Company, and to appoint proxies to exercise their rights.
Holders of ordinary shares may The Company was granted authority at the Annual General Meeting held on 8 receive a dividend and on a liquidation may share in the assets of the Company.
May 2014 to purchase up to 40,708,000 of its ordinary shares of 28 4 7p each.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting Subject to meeting certain thresholds, holders of ordinary shares may requisition to be held on 7 May 2015 where shareholders will be asked to give a similar a general meeting of the Company or propose resolutions at Annual General authority, details of which are contained in the separate Notice of Annual Meetings.
Voting rights for ordinary shares held in treasury are suspended and the General Meeting.
treasury shares carry no rights to receive dividends or other distributions of assets.
142 IMI plc As at 31 December 2014, 14,248,836 ordinary shares nominal value Our policy on employee diversity and inclusion is to comply with relevant 4,071,096 were held in treasury representing 5.24% of the issued share capital legislation in the countries in which we operate and to actively promote our excluding treasury shares at that time.
The maximum number of shares held diversity goal to recruit the very best people to execute our strategic priorities in treasury during the year ended 31 December 2014 was 30,883,095.
On 16 and to reflect the diverse nature of our global business.
Further details of our January 2014, the Company cancelled 14,598,706 ordinary shares of 25p each approach to diversity and inclusion are set out in pages 26 and 27 and are held in treasury and on 13 February 2014 the Company cancelled 5 ordinary incorporated into this report by reference.
shares of 25p each held in treasury.
At all levels we are focused on increasing our diversity as reflected in the composition of our Board: further details of the Board composition along Substantial shareholdings with biographies are set out in pages 44 and 45.
Information provided to the Company pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules is published on a regulatory information service and on the Every effort is made to ensure that applications for employment from disabled Companys website.
As at 31 December 2014, the following voting interests in employees are fully and fairly considered and that disabled employees have the ordinary share capital of the Company, disclosable under the Disclosure and equal opportunity in training, succession planning and promotion.
Transparency Rules, had been notified to the Company: Health, safety and the environment 1 % Held It is Group policy to maintain healthy and safe working conditions and to operate in a responsible manner with regard to the environment.
Standard Life Investments Limited 7.01% Ameriprise Financial, Inc. 5.01% The key statistics for our carbon reporting indicate that our recent performance in gross tonnes of CO e has been: 2012-71,000, 2013-69,000, 2014-62,500 2 BlackRock Inc 5.01% We previously reported CO e intensity by normalising against hours worked.
2 Legal & General Group plc 3.03% However, in light of other production efficiency measures, this is no longer 1 considered to be the most appropriate measure.
Therefore, we are now As of the date in the notification to the Company reporting CO e intensity relative to million sales.
2 Subsequent to 31 December 2014 and up to the date of this Report, the These carbon intensity figures tonnes m sales have improved equally well: Company was notified that the interests of Standard Life Investments Limited 2012-41.9, 2013-39.6, 2014-37.4 were 8.00%.
Our 2014 performance is 11% better than 2012.
As our 2015 year-end target is As far as the Company is aware, there are no persons with substantial holdings 7.5% below 2012, we plan to ensure that our 2014 performance is maintained for 2015. in the Company other than those noted above.
Our CO e accounting methodology follows DEFRA guidelines and includes all 2 Statement on corporate governance material emissions across IMI.
The required disclosures are contained in the Corporate Governance Report Further information is also available on our website www.
on pages 42 to 51 and are incorporated into this report by reference.
Donations Employment policies No political donations were made during the year.
The Group continues to support employee involvement at all levels in the organisation and strongly encourages each of its businesses to keep its Directors employees informed on Group and individual business developments and to make its employees aware of the financial and economic factors affecting The membership of the Board and biographical details of the directors are given the performance of the business in which they work, using their own on pages 44 and 45 and are incorporated into this report by reference.
Douglas consultation and communication methods.
During the year, we put in place Hurt and Anita Frew will retire from the Board at the end of the Annual General a global intranet that all employees are able to access.
We also introduced a Meeting to be held on 7 May 2015.
Daniel Shook became Finance Director cross-divisional newsletter that is produced bi-anually and features success Designate on 1 January 2015 and becomes Finance Director from 1 March 2015. stories and news from around the globe.
A European Works Council has Phil Bentley stepped down as chair of the Audit Committee and retired from the been in operation since 2003 and meets at least once a year to exchange Board on 31 December 2014.
Ross McInnes was appointed to the Board on views on pan-European issues facing the Group.
At the date of this Annual 1 October 2014 and assumed the chair of the Audit Committee from 1 January Report, there are 17 members of the European Works Council comprising 15 2015.
Both Daniel Shook and Ross McInnes will seek election to the Board for employee representatives nominated from among employees from each of our the first time at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 7 May 2015.
European businesses, covering 11 countries, with the balance being Company The rules for the appointment and replacement of directors are set out in appointees.
The Groups financial results and important initiatives such as the Companys articles of association.
Each new appointee to the Board is health and safety, training and development, and employee engagement are required to stand for election at the next Annual General Meeting following their communicated through a number of mechanisms including the Works Council, appointment.
In addition, the Companys articles of association require each newsletters and intranets for the individual businesses and the Companys director to stand for re-election at least once every three years.
However, in website and town hall meetings.
accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, all directors Share schemes are a long established and successful part of our total reward wishing to serve again will submit themselves for re-election at the next Annual package, encouraging and supporting employee share ownership.
Further details General Meeting and are recommended for re-election.
of employee share schemes are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance and all 73 to 75 and in section 4.7 of the financial statements on pages 131 to 133. directors of the Company benefit from qualifying third party indemnity provisions A number of people recruitment and development initiatives are co-ordinated which were in place during the financial year.
At the date of this Annual Report across the Group.
These initiatives and the Companys approach to employee there are such indemnity arrangements with each director in respect of the costs investment, talent recruitment and development are explained on pages 26 of defending civil, criminal and regulatory proceedings brought against them, and 27. in their capacity as a director, where not covered by insurance and subject always to the limitations set by the Companies Act 2006.
143 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Role of the Directors Chief Executive: The role of the Board is: leadership of the executive management team to promote the success of the Company: formulating strategy, business plans and budgets be guardians of stakeholders interests: ensuring the highest compliance and internal control standards are maintained to set monitor leadership behaviour and culture: developing organisation structure to select and appoint the executive management team: resourcing, talent development and succession plans to provide supportive challenge to the executive management team: Directors powers to approve business plans and strategy: The powers of the directors are determined by UK legislation and the articles to oversee governance, risk and the control environment: and of association of the Company in force from time to time.
The directors were to monitor and oversee the businesses and management.
authorised to allot and issue ordinary shares and to make market purchases of the Companys ordinary shares by resolutions of the Company passed at its The Board provides leadership, direction and governance for the Company and general meeting held on 13 February 2014.
These authorities were replaced oversees business and management performance.
The Board has adopted a at the Annual General Meeting held on 8 May 2014 by the passing of new corporate governance framework which defines Board roles and includes the list resolutions, in respect of the new ordinary shares of 28 4 7p each.
The current of matters reserved to it and written delegations of authority for its committees authorities will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting to and the executive management.
Board reserved matters include strategy and be held on 7 May 2015, at which new authorities will be sought.
key areas of policy, major operational and strategic risks, significant investment decisions and material changes in the organisation of the Group.
Further details of authorities the Company is seeking for the allotment, issue and purchase of its ordinary shares are set out in the separate Notice of the Annual In the IMI Corporate Governance Framework the Board has clearly defined in General Meeting.
writing those matters which are reserved to it and the respective delegated authorities of its committees and it has also set written limits of authority for Directors interests the Chief Executive.
The Group has a clear organisational structure and wellThe interests of the persons including the interests of any connected persons established reporting and control disciplines.
Managers of operating units who were directors at the end of the year, in the share capital of the Company, assume responsibility for and exercise a high degree of autonomy in running and their interests under share option and incentive schemes, are shown on day-to-day trading activities.
They do this within a framework of clear rules, pages 73 to 79. policies and delegated authorities regarding business conduct, approval of proposals for investment and material changes in operations and are subject Management of conflicts of interest to regular senior management reviews of performance.
The Companys articles of association include certain provisions relevant to the The Group has a clear organisational structure and well-established reporting activity of the Board and its committees and can be viewed on the IMI website.
Managers of operating units assume responsibility for and These provisions include requirements for disclosure and approval by the Board exercise a high degree of autonomy in running day-to-day trading activities.
They do of potential conflicts of interest.
These procedures apply, inter alia, to external this within a framework of clear rules, policies and delegated authorities regarding directorships and it is the Boards view that they operated effectively during 2014. business conduct, approval of proposals for investment and material changes in Each director has a duty under the Companies Act 2006 to avoid a situation in operations and are subject to regular senior management reviews of performance.
which they have or may have a direct or indirect interest that conflicts or possibly may conflict with the interests of the Company.
This duty is in addition to the Division of responsibilities amongst Directors duty that they owe to the Company to disclose to the Board any interest in any Chairman: transaction or arrangement under consideration by the Company.
If any director building a well-balanced Board becomes aware of any situation which may give rise to a conflict of interest, that chairing meetings, setting the agenda and ensuring the best use of time director informs the rest of the Board and the Board is then permitted under the articles of association to decide to authorise such conflict.
The information is ensuring effectiveness of the Board including the quality of debate and decisions recorded in the Companys register of conflicts and a conflicts authorisation promoting the right environment and relations for effective engagement and letter is issued to the relevant director.
challenge around the boardroom table setting the tone and high standards of governance practice Change of control getting the right executive leadership and succession plans in place The Company and its subsidiaries are party to a number of agreements that may allow the counterparties to alter or terminate the arrangements on a change of There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman and Chief control of the Company following a takeover bid, such as commercial contracts Executive, which is reflected in the written corporate governance framework and employee share plans.
Other than as referred to in the next paragraph, none approved by the Board.
In summary, the Chairman is responsible for the of these is considered by the Company to be significant in terms of its likely leadership and effectiveness of the Board but does not have any executive impact on the Group as a whole.
The Chief Executive leads the executive management team in running the businesses and implementing operational and strategic plans In the event of a change of control of the Company, the Groups main funding under authority delegated by the Board.
agreements allow the lenders to renegotiate terms or give notice of repayment for all outstanding amounts under the relevant facilities.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the Board meetings operate to an appropriate agenda, and that adequate information is provided sufficiently The Company does not have agreements with any director or employee that in advance of meetings to allow proper consideration.
He is supported by the would provide compensation for loss of office or employment specifically Company Secretary, who also assists in ensuring that the Board operates in resulting from a takeover, although the provisions of the Companys share accordance with good corporate governance under the Code and relevant schemes include a discretion to allow awards granted to directors and regulatory requirements.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to all of the employees under such schemes to vest in those circumstances.
standing committees of the Board.
The Board has a recognised procedure for any director to obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense and all directors have access to the Company Secretary who is a solicitor.
144 IMI plc DIRECTORS REPORT Continued Information included in the Strategic Report Going concern Important events since the year-end are described on page 23 of the Strategic The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future Report.
All disclosures concerning greenhouse gas emissions as required to development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic Report be disclosed by the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors on pages 6 to 41.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity Report Regulations 2013 are contained on the previous page.
Likely future position and borrowing facilities are described in the financial statements.
In developments are also covered in the Strategic Report on pages 6 to 41. addition, section 4.4 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management Internal control objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Section 4.5 to the financial statements The Board has responsibility for oversight of the Groups system of internal addresses the management of the funding risks of the Groups employee control and confirms that the system of internal control takes into account the benefit obligations.
Code and relevant best practice guidance including the Financial Reporting Councils publication, Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the The Group has considerable financial resources together with long-standing Combined Code.
relationships with a number of customers, suppliers and funding providers across different geographic areas and industries.
The Groups forecasts and projections, All operating units prepare forward plans and forecasts which are reviewed in taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show detail by the Executive Committee and consolidated for review by the Board.
that the Group is able to operate within the level of facilities either in place on Performance against forecast is continuously monitored at monthly meetings 31 December 2014, or renewed since, without the need to renew any further of the Executive Committee and, on a quarterly basis, by the Board.
As a consequence, the directors believe that standards for accounting systems and controls, which are documented and the Group is well-placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the monitored, are promulgated throughout the Group.
Certified bi-annual reports uncertainties inherent in the current economic outlook.
are required from senior executives of operating units, confirming compliance with Group financial reporting requirements.
The internal audit function, Group After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Assurance, operates a rolling programme of internal assurance on site reviews Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational at selected operating units.
Additionally, visits to operations are carried out existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the by senior Group finance personnel.
These internal assurance processes going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
are co-ordinated with the activity of the Companys external auditor.
Disclosure of information to the auditor Capital investments are subject to a clear process for investment appraisal, authorisation and post-investment review, with major investment proposals Each director confirms that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant referred for consideration by the Executive Committee and, according to their audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and each director materiality, to the Board.
In addition, the Executive Committee and the Board has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director to make regularly review the operation of corporate policies and controls including those himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the relating to ethics and compliance matters, treasury activities, environmental Companys auditor is aware of that information.
issues, health and safety, human resources, taxation, insurance and pensions.
Compliance and internal Audit Reports are made to the Board, the Audit Annual General Meeting Committee and the Executive Committee, to enable control issues and The Annual General Meeting will be held at the Hilton Birmingham Metropole developments to be monitored.
Hotel, National Exhibition Centre, Birmingham on Thursday 7 May 2015 at 10am.
Notice of the meeting will be published on the Companys website.
Control processes are dynamic and continuous improvements are made to adapt them to the changing risk profile of operations and to implement Auditor proportionate measures to address any identified weakness in the internal control system.
In the year we made further improvements to our control environment Resolutions for the re-appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as auditor of the including the introduction of a new internal controls declaration process with Company and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration will appropriate assurance and follow up action plans.
We are committed to further be proposed at the next Annual General Meeting.
strengthen the key financial control processes.
More information in relation to risk is given on page 30 under the heading Principal Risks and Uncertainties.
By order of the Board Through the procedures outlined here, the Board has considered the John OShea effectiveness of all significant aspects of internal control for the year 2014 and up Company Secretary to the date of this Annual Report.
The Board believes that the Groups system of internal control, which is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk, provides 26 February 2015 reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
IMI plc is registered in England No.
714275 Financial reporting processes The use of the Groups accounting manual and prescribed reporting requirements by finance teams throughout the Group are important in ensuring that the Groups accounting policies are clearly established and that information is appropriately reviewed and reconciled as part of the reporting process.
The use of a standard reporting package by all entities in the Group ensures that information is presented in a consistent way that facilitates the production of the consolidated financial statements.
