38 IMI plc Operational Review IMI Precision Engineering IMI Precision Engineering is a world leader in motion and fluid Revenue control technologies wherever precision, speed and reliability are essential.
We deliver integrated solutions which improve 710m Down 2% the productivity and efficiency of customers equipment.
We operate sales and service networks in 75 countries and Operating profit have manufacturing facilities in the US, Germany, China, UK, 126.4m Down 10% Switzerland, Czech Republic, Mexico and Brazil.
Product support is provided through global centres of technical excellence, and facilities for computational fluid dynamics CFD design and research & development testing.
We also employ a dedicated team of field engineers, sector specialists and key account managers Engineering all committed to providing excellent service to customers.
GREAT Solutions Performance After adjusting for the impact of adverse exchange rate movements of 40m and for acquisitions and disposals, revenues increased 4% on an organic basis.
Revenues of 710m 2013: 723m were down 2% on a reported basis.
Industrial automation revenues were up 5% on an organic basis, driven by increased activity levels in North America up 4% and the Asia Pacific region up 22% but partially offset by weaker second half European markets, most notably in Germany.
Commercial vehicles sales increased 4% in the year with 17% growth in Europe and a strong North American market which was impacted to some degree by the conclusion of a large contract during 2013 and lower truck production in Brazil.
On an organic basis, Food & Beverage was up 5%, Rail was up 28%, while Oil & Gas reduced 6% and Life Sciences was down 1%.
Segmental operating profit at 126m 2013: 141m was 10% lower on a reported basis and, after adjusting for the impact of adverse exchange rate movements of 8m, 3% lower on an organic basis.
Operating margins improved in the second half H1 2014: 17.7% v H2 2014: 17.9% while in the full year operating margins at 17.8% were lower reflecting an adverse sales mix and the increased investment to support long-term growth.
Industrial Automation Commercial Vehicle Oil & Gas Life Sciences Delivering benefits to global customers An extensive range of cab, chassis IMI Precision Engineerings extensive IMI Precision Engineering has a including auto in-plant, machine tools and powertrain solutions deliver range of products and expertise is proven track-record of supporting the and general industry IMI Precision fuel efficiency, emissions reduction acknowledged widely throughout development of advances in medical Engineerings high performance and faster assembly times for the the Oil & Gas industry.
In addition to devices, diagnostic equipment and products include valves, valve islands, worlds leading commercial vehicle IMIs customised solutions, Precision biotech and analytical instruments.
proportional and pressure monitoring manufacturers.
Acknowledged for their Engineering produce a comprehensive In particular, the divisions products controls and air preparation products, safe and reliable operation, Precision range of certified, world-class products and expertise have helped reduce the as well as a comprehensive selection Engineerings products have been which deliver precision control in even size of equipment, while enhancing of pneumatic actuators rodless, proven in the harshest environments the harshest environments, including accuracy, throughput and fluid control compact, roundline and rotary.
These and over millions of miles of reliable stainless steel valves and regulators, performance.
The division is recognised are quickly and easily selected and service.
We understand the market nuclear class valves and emergency for products which manage the precise ordered via our Norgren Express trends, environmental challenges, shutdown controls.
control, repeatability and safety needs activities globally and supported with emissions standards and specifications of the industry.
Our solutions are found high quality technical advice.
that matter to truck manufacturers and in equipment for anaesthetics and Tier 1 suppliers.
patient therapy through to molecular diagnostics and pathogen detection.
Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Performance Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 39 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 During the second half of the year we made good progress on a number of strategic initiatives including simplifying the organisation structure in Europe, improving operational performance through the application of lean, addressing supply chain complexities and implementing a new system of costing world-wide.
Mark Selway Chief Executive and Interim Divisional Managing Director The division focused on a number of strategic activities during Market Review the second half including simplifying the organisational The global economic outlook for 2015 remains mixed with structure, improving operational performance through the lead market indicators including the Purchasing Managers application of lean manufacturing, upgrading IT systems, Index PMI weakening in the second half of 2014 most addressing supply chain complexities, introducing standard notably in Europe.
While the division expects the general costing and increasing investment in new product development.
industrial markets in the US and Asia Pacific to remain positive, European markets are expected to remain Our review of the Industrial Automation market confirmed that challenging.
In the truck sector we expect the European we have excellent market positions, with a valuable installed market to remain stable while North America is forecast to base and access to a high margin aftermarket.
We are now deliver further growth which will more than offset continued developing detailed product roadmaps in each of the key sluggish market conditions in Brazil.
geographies which will underpin our plans for growth.
Outlook Key Achievements Based on the current market environment and lead indicators, Good growth in the European truck business following the we expect modest organic revenue growth with operating introduction of new Euro VI engines margins at similar levels to 2014.
The benefits of stronger Introduced standard costing and disciplined profit and market conditions in North America combined with an product analysis tools across all operations to improve improved performance in Europe is expected to fund the competitiveness and profit visibility divisions 2015 investments, most notably in Asia, to support the long-term development of the business.
Introduced lean manufacturing techniques and operational excellence initiatives across the global manufacturing footprint Restructured and simplified the IMI Norgren European organisation CASE STUDY Overmoulded No-fault design IMI Precision show Engineering GREAT with a cost and forward space saving solution system Problem: CAMC a manufacturer and supplier of heavy duty trucks in China needed to replace solenoid valves critical to the functions within the vehicles lift axle and braking systems.
The valves being used were leaking and were not energy efficient.
Solution: Precision Engineering supplied a customised valve package that provided enhanced reliability at a lower cost than alternative systems available in the market.
The solution reduced potential leak paths and is able to withstand high levels of vibration and extreme environmental conditions.
It is also lighter and smaller Reduces potential which reduces costs and increases space savings.
CAMC is incorporating this valve package within all their trucks for both leak paths their domestic and export market.
New manifold valve with quick twist lock assembly connection Case studies online www.
