64 IMI plc Directors Remuneration Report contd Service contract policy Other executive director remuneration policies From September 2013 Share ownership guideline Executive directors are subject to guidelines which require them Notice period 12 months notice each way to build a shareholding in IMI worth at least 250% of salary for Payment in lieu As determined by the Committee, but restricted to salary, the Chief Executive, 150% of salary for the Finance Director and of notice benefits and pension.
Directors have a duty to mitigate 200% of salary for Roy Twite.
When assessing compliance with Change of No incremental payments or protection this guideline the Committee reviews both the level of beneficial control share ownership and vested but unexercised share incentive Entitlements on No entitlement if leaving as a bad leaver as set out in awards on a post-tax basis.
termination the contract Salary, contractual benefits and pension allowance as per To the extent an individual does not meet their share ownership notice period guideline, up to half of any annual bonus is automatically Committee power to make phased payments that would be payable in shares and 50% of share awards must be retained.
reduced or stopped if alternative employment is taken up Appointments to the board Prior to September 2013 Roy Twite Base salary will be set taking into account factors including market levels, experience, internal relativities and cost.
Notice period 12 months notice each way The Committee may determine that an initial positioning Payment in lieu At the Committees discretion below market is appropriate and: in those circumstances, of notice realign base salary in the years following appointment, which Change of Bonus entitlement if a change in control has taken place may result in an exceptional rate of increase in the short-term.
control within the 24 months prior to termination Any reliance on this principle will be noted at the time of Entitlements on No entitlement if dismissed for cause or resignation appointment.
The theoretical maximum variable pay opportunity termination that can be awarded in one year will be 600% of salary: up to 200% in annual bonus and up to 400% in an IIP award.
As part of the appointments policy the Committee may also: continue with the provision of existing remuneration components relating to pension, benefits and allowances for internal appointments: provide benefits, allowances and or payments related to relocation: and or make a long-term incentive award on appointment, outside of the annual cycle, under existing shareholder approved share plans and or an individual award agreement to provide an immediate interest in company performance.
The Committee will determine the level of any award, performance conditions and time horizon informed by the business circumstances at the time.
The maximum value of such an award will be 400% of salary.
Service contracts will be entered into on terms summarised in the service contract policy see below.
As noted above, the Committee would authorise the payment of a relocation allowance as well as other associated international mobility terms in line with IMIs Global Mobility Policy.
The Committee may consider buyingout incentive awards that an individual forfeits in accepting the appointment up to an equivalent value.
To achieve this, the Committees preference has been to use the existing shareholder approved plans.
When making their decision, the Committee will be informed by the time horizons, value and performance targets associated with any forfeited awards.
