36 IMI plc Operational Review IMI Critical Engineering IMI Critical Engineering is a world-leading provider of flow Revenue control solutions that enable vital energy and process industries to operate safely, cleanly, reliably and more efficiently.
692m Down 3% We operate a global service network, with manufacturing facilities in 12 countries and employ over 4,300 talented people Operating profit across a range of disciplines, all committed to providing excellent 119.8m Up 3% service to our customers.
We design, manufacture and install customised, highly engineered solutions for new plant builds and also provide complete plant Engineering lifecycle service support.
This ensures that our customers benefit from efficient maintenance, speedy issue resolution and plant GREAT Solutions optimisation at all times.
Our products are at the heart of complex energy and production processes.
They control the flow of steam, gas and liquids in harsh environments they are designed to withstand temperature, and pressure extremes, as well as intensely abrasive or corrosive cyclical operations.
Our engineering expertise sets us apart.
We combine technical knowledge, engineering design capability, application experience and innovative custom-designed products to deliver safe, reliable and durable solutions.
Performance Full year order intake at 686m 2013: 742m was flat on an organic basis after adjusting for disposals and exchange rate movements.
In the second half order intake increased 16% on an organic basis.
The Oil & Gas sector, where we have a significant position in the LNG market, continued to be strong with orders up 3% despite order intake in the prior year including a 40m contract for a high integrity pressure protection system HIPPS.
Despite slower new order activity in China, Fossil Power orders were up 4% on the prior year.
In the Petrochemical sector, orders were down 12% mainly due to lower project activity in China.
As anticipated, Nuclear orders were down 27% reflecting ongoing weakness in the market post-Fukushima.
As previously announced, as a result of a material drop in demand in the nuclear fuel enrichment market, we took the decision to close the IMI Components manufacturing site in Birmingham, UK which supplied non-valve components.
Oil & Gas Petrochemical Power Fossil & Nuclear IMI Critical Engineering is the global market leader IMI Critical Engineering is the global leader in the design IMI Critical Engineering supplies the critical, customised in the supply of anti-surge valve and actuator and manufacture of integrated flow control systems for turbine by-pass valves to the worlds most efficient systems to the worlds largest LNG compression critical applications in Fluid Catalytic Cracking FCC.
Our valves control high pressure superfacilities, including Gorgon in Australia.
Our systems We also supply bespoke valves into the ethylene and heated steam at temperatures up to 650C, protecting operate below -160C, with ultra-fast response to polypropylene production processes, as well as for the turbine and optimising power yield.
Globally, we maximise liquid natural gas production while delayed coking at temperatures up to 1,600C.
have an installed base of over one hundred thousand protecting the compressor.
valves and are a leader in the combined cycle gas sector.
We also supply both products for new nuclear reactors and upgrades to existing facilities to improve safety levels.
To date we have supplied products to over half the worlds reactor fleet.
Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 37 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Bopp & Reuther represents an important and entirely aligned addition to Critical Engineerings portfolio of operations.
Its products, markets and customers are well understood across IMI CCI and the increased geographic sales distribution and productivity benefits we bring will help accelerate Bopp & Reuthers growth ambitions.
Roy Twite Divisional Managing Director Aftermarket orders were up 9% compared to 2013 and Market Review excluding the nuclear aftermarket were up 16%.
The recent oil price declines are causing uncertainty in the industry and investment is being postponed in the regions After adjusting for the impact of adverse exchange rate where the cost of oil and gas production is high.
In the short movements of 37m and for disposals, revenues increased 2% to medium term, the Nuclear market is expected to continue on an organic basis.
Revenues of 692m 2013: 716m were to be subdued post-Fukushima, but longer term prospects down 3% on a reported basis.
Segmental operating profit of remain good.
In the Fossil Power sector new build activity 120m 2013: 117m grew 3% on a reported basis and 10% remains concentrated in the emerging markets with the on an organic basis while margins increased to 17.3% from slowdown in China likely to continue.
This growth in profitability and margins reflects the benefits of ongoing improvements in project execution.
Outlook During the second half the division made good progress on a Based on the current order book, on an organic basis, number of its growth initiatives including the acquisition of Bopp revenues are expected to be broadly flat for the full year 2015 & Reuther, the division wide adoption of lean manufacturing and but slightly down in the first half.
While the division will continue the start of a project to introduce a new ERP system across the to improve its project execution capabilities, operating margins IMI CCI business.
are expected to be lower, impacted by the acquisition of the lower margin Bopp & Reuther business, the disposal of the Key Achievements higher margin, but non-core, Eley businesses and the ongoing investment in the divisions strategic growth initiatives.
First Delivered the HIPPS solution to the Middle East customer, half margins will be impacted further by the mix of product the largest single order in IMI Critical Engineerings history shipments, but this will correct itself in the full year.
Increased Oil & Gas orders by 3% and Power orders by 4% Increased Aftermarket orders by 9% Improved the operational effectiveness of our factories through the initial phase of lean implementation Relocated IMI Z&Js US business into new expanded facilities in Houston Relocated and expanded IMI CCI facility in South Korea Relocated the IMI STI actuator business into larger premises in Northern Italy Opened two new service centres in Beijing and Shanghai Significantly enhanced the divisions growth prospects in the power sector through the acquisition in January 2015 of Bopp & Reuther CASE STUDY High Integrity Pressure Protection System HIPPS With growing demand for oil & gas globally and because the costs of exploration and production from new fields is often high, increasing utilisation levels to extract more from existing fields is becoming ever more important.
However increasing the yield from older and more difficult fields often involves significant levels of H2S sour gas and creates significant safety issues.
Highest Sour gas is extremely dangerous and it is vital that field safety owners and operators ensure the safety of the field and the integrity Safeguards equipment from over pressure that could lead to controlled employees & releasing of sour gas, for example gas to flare.
As a result, investment investment in HIPPS is becoming a key application.
Leveraging a long history of experience, IMI CCI in Italy Case studies online designs control and hardware for the system.
