68 IMI plc Directors Remuneration Report Annual Remuneration Report Introduction The Committee presents the Annual Remuneration Report, which will be put to shareholders for an advisory non-binding vote at the AGM to be held on 7 May 2015.
The report includes details of the Committee, the pay received by our executive directors during the year in accordance with our prior remuneration policy approved on 8 May 2014 and comparative internal and external data.
The Remuneration Committee the Committee Watson are signatories to the Remuneration Consultants Code of Conduct in the UK and the terms of engagement with Towers Watson are available on request from the Company Secretary.
Composition The members of the Committee during the year were Bob An additional adviser was appointed and retained by the Stack Chairman, Carl-Peter Forster, Anita Frew, Birgit Committee during the year.
The Committee was satisfied that Nrgaard and Roberto Quarta.
In accordance with the UK all advice was objective and independent based on the terms Corporate Governance Code, all of the non-executive directors of engagement.
The additional adviser was: were regarded by the Board as independent and Roberto Quarta was considered independent on his appointment Kepler Associates completed an incentives review and their as Chairman of the Company.
Kepler Associates were appointed by management to provide support on aspects Responsibility of the communication of the new arrangements.
The Committee determines the remuneration policy and rewards A summary of the Committee activities during 2014 for the executive directors and, in his absence the Chairman.
The Committee also reviews the remuneration packages of The Committee had four formal meetings during the year and those at the next most senior level of management and has one workshop.
The principal agenda items were as follows: regard to levels of pay across the Group.
A copy of the terms of reference, which are reviewed annually, is included in the a review of total compensation packages of the executive IMI Corporate Governance Framework and available in the directors and the most senior management of the Company corporate governance section of the IMI website.
to ensure alignment with IMIs new strategic growth plan: approval of achievements and outcomes under the Internal advisors to the Committee incentive plans: During the year, the Committee consulted the Chief Executive, consideration of the Chairmans fees: regarding the remuneration policy and the packages of the other executive directors and senior managers.
It also received the setting the framework and target levels for the 2014 advice and services of the Finance Director, the Group Human incentive cycle: Resources Director, the Head of Group Reward and the Company review of the long-term incentive arrangements for 2015: Secretary, who is also secretary to the Committee.
None of these individuals was involved in determining their own remuneration.
approval of the granting of share awards to other levels of management: External advisers to the Committee a review of the UK corporate governance environment relative Independent remuneration consultant, Towers Watson, is to remuneration: formally appointed by the Committee and provided advice on directors remuneration to the Committee in 2014.
Towers a risk review of the remuneration framework: Watson notified the Committee that the firm are actuaries and review of the engagement of independent remuneration 1 administrators for the two IMI Pension Funds.
The Committee consultants and other advisers to the Committee: is comfortable that this does not represent a conflict of interest and that objective and independent advice continues to be a review of the Committees own performance, constitution received by the Committee from Towers Watson.
and terms of reference: and review and approval of the retirement terms for Douglas Hurt During 2014, Towers Watson has also supported management and the recruitment terms for Daniel Shook.
on some broader reward and human resource matters.
The fees charged by Towers Watson in respect of advice and services to the Committee totalled 108,000 and for support to management totalled 48,853 in 2014.
Towers 1 During the year the IMI Pension Fund commenced winding up procedures and has been replaced by two new funds, IMI 2014 Deferred Fund and IMI 2014 Pensioner Fund together the Funds.
