Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 67 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Future policy table Component Purpose Operation Annual opportunity Base fees To attract and retain high-calibre Fees are reviewed annually or less frequently where As of 1 January 2014, the Chairmans fee was individuals by offering marketnoted and can be paid in cash and or shares.
fixed at 300,000 and no increase for 2015 competitive fees, commensurate is proposed.
Roberto Quarta has elected to Benchmarked against companies of a similar size 1 to the time commitment and receive 25% of his fees in IMI shares although and complexity.
that is not a Company requirement and may or may not apply to a new Chairman.
When setting fees, factors considered include the level of increase for employees more generally, market data, At 31 December 2014 base fees for the business performance, external economic factors, non-executive directors were 60,000, and no the skills required, time requirements and cost.
increase for 2015 was awarded in the review In respect of the Chairman, IMI also consider the at the end of 2014. individuals profile and experience.
Additional To reflect the additional time Fees are reviewed annually and can be paid in cash Fee levels in place at 31 December 2014 and fees required when an individual chairs and or shares.
subject to review in 2015: a committee or is appointed as The Chairman is not eligible to receive additional fees.
Committee Chairman: 15,000 senior independent director.
Fees are benchmarked and set in a manner Senior independent director: 10,000 consistent with base fees see above.
Benefits To reimburse reasonable business Reimbursement in cash on production of receipts or Expenses incurred by the Chairman and expenses.
other proof of payment of business expense.
non-executive directors in undertaking their role are reimbursed as a business expense and are not a personal benefit in kind.
Typically these might include business travel, meals and entertainment.
1 25% of the Chairmans after tax fee was used to purchase shares in the market.
These shares were then transferred to the Chairman.
All dealing charges were paid for by the Chairman.
