Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 65 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Termination and loss of office The primary principle underpinning the determination of any payments on loss of office is that payments for failure will not be made.
Service contracts and plan rules have been drafted in such a way that the Committee has the necessary powers to ensure this.
On departure, the Committee will take into account factors including the reason for the executive leaving, performance during the time served in the year and contractual obligations when approving any payments.
When an executive is terminated for cause there is no entitlement to salary, pension, benefits or an annual bonus and unvested share awards lapse.
The following table provides a summary of the treatment of each component of pay applicable for the current executive directors.
It should be noted that the Committee applies judgement in determining whether an individual is classed as a good leaver or otherwise under the share plans and is authorised to reach compromise agreements with departing executives.
Agreed departure can include death, ill health, redundancy or retirement.
Payment Agreed departure Differences in a change in control situation Salary, pension The Committee may make payment in lieu of notice.
and benefits Annual bonus Individuals can be considered for a bonus: factors such as time Performance to the date of the event taking place will be considered in served during the performance period and performance can be determining whether any bonus should be payable, subject to the overall taken into account.
maximum applicable to the relevant individual.
For directors appointed prior to September 2013, there remains a bonus entitlement if a change in control has taken place within the 24 months prior to termination.
In this scenario, the director is entitled to bonus, or compensation in lieu of bonus, in respect of the relevant calendar year.
IIP Performance measured at the end of the performance period, Similar to agreed departure.
performance or at the date of cessation of employment.
A reduction in the exercise period for vested but unexercised awards.
share awards Pro-rating for time elapsed at cessation of employment will be and legacy PSP Performance and time elapsed will be taken into account, but the considered by the Committee.
Committee may enable awards to vest in full.
The Committee can reduce or increase the exercise period for In certain situations as defined in the plan rules rollover awards of unvested and vested but unexercised awards legacy PSP only.
a broadly equivalent nature can be offered.
Legacy Share Invested shares are transferred back on cessation or at the end Similar to agreed departure.
Matching Plan of the investment period.
no awards Matching shares: Performance measured at the end of the from 2015 Performance and time elapsed will be taken into account, but the performance period, or at the date of cessation of employment.
Pro-rating for time elapsed at cessation of employment will be In certain situations as defined in the plan rules rollover awards can considered by the Committee.
be offered, taking into account performance and time elapsed, although The Committee can reduce or increase the exercise period for these can be disapplied by the grantor.
unvested and vested but unexercised awards.
Other The Committee may approve other limited payments which may Similar to agreed departure.
include legal fees connected to the departure, untaken holiday, out-placement and repatriation.
