Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 61 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Future policy table executive directors Component & purpose Operation Annual opportunity Fixed elements of executive remuneration Salary Reviewed annually with change normally effective from January.
Normally any salary increase for an executive director will be in line with those of the wider workforce.
Increases Reflects individual When setting salary, the Committee takes into account the level beyond this may be awarded in certain circumstances, performance and of increase for a reference group of comparable employees in the such as a change in responsibility after taking into account personal contribution leadership group, market data, business performance, external the factors noted.
to delivering the Group economic factors, the complexity of the business and the role, strategy.
They are set cost, and the incumbents experience and performance.
in the context of total pay levels.
Pension A cash allowance in lieu of pension is paid monthly.
To the extent Up to 30% of salary required by law, part of this allowance will be paid into a defined Provides for retirement Legacy obligations of 35% of salary for appointments to the contribution pension arrangement.
With the Committees approval and supports succession Board before October 2013 will continue to be honoured.
the executive directors may redirect all or part of the balance of this planning.
allowance into a defined contribution pension arrangement.
Benefits The policy provides a normal range of benefits to executive The values of benefits vary significantly year-on-year directors.
These include but are not limited to: depending on the age and health of the individual, the cost Protects the wellof providing them and the geography in which the executive being of executives Non-cash: private healthcare for themselves and their family, is based.
However, the range of the benefits is not expected and to provide fair and life insurance, and other minor ancillary benefits.
to change from year to year.
reasonable market Cash and taxable allowances: car and fuel allowance, personal tax competitive benefits.
Should it be appropriate to relocate an executive director advice and two annual round trips for the Chief Executive and his or to recruit an executive director from overseas, flexibility spouse between work and home locations.
is reserved to provide benefits that ensure that the individual and IMI can both achieve this commercial purpose.
Where it is in IMIs interests to request that executives work in a different country or region then we will pay relocation and provide benefits and allowances in line with IMIs Global Mobility Policy.
Expenses that are incurred by an executive director in undertaking their role are reimbursed.
All-employee share plans all-employee share plans do not have an associated performance framework All-Employee UK Plans Share Plans UK SAYE: an HMRC approved Savings Related Share Option In line with the statutorily defined limits with respect Encourages share Scheme which is open to all of the Groups UK employees, including to investments, awards and discounts on the price of ownership amongst the UK-based executive directors.
the broader employee Employee Share Ownership Plan: an HMRC approved Share population and Incentive Plan which is open to all of the Groups UK employees, aligns interests of IMI including the UK-based executive directors.
employees with those of shareholders.
In addition Global Plans: All-employee share purchase plans operate in Eligible employees including executives can invest subject provides a tax efficient geographies outside the UK.
The vehicle and manner of award to the plan limits that apply to all participants, which vary by investment vehicle for varies by geography depending on local market restrictions and local market and plan.
the plan operated in the region.
62 IMI plc Directors Remuneration Report contd Future policy table executive directors contd Component Purpose Operation Variable components of executive remuneration Annual Incentive Bonus Drives and rewards performance against annual financial, strategic Payment of awards is determined by the Committee based on and operational goals, which are consistent with the medium to annual performance relative to set targets which are reviewed long-term strategic goals of IMI, also taking into account individual at the end of the year.
If the executive has not achieved their share ownership guideline, up to half of any bonus is mandated to be invested into IMI shares for at least three years.
Otherwise, the executive can elect whether to receive their bonus in cash and or shares.
Dividends or equivalent value payments accrue and are payable in cash or shares when shares are released.
Malus and clawback are included in the plan rules.
IMI Incentive Plan IIP Incentivises long-term value creation, aligning the interests of The Committee can make annual share-based awards.
executives and shareholders through the delivery of awards in Dividends or equivalent value payments accrue and are shares.
The selected performance metrics support the long-term payable in cash or shares in respect of vested awards.
strategy of IMI and the plan and time horizon serves as a retention Malus and clawback are included in the plan rules.
Additional notes to the future policy table Recovery provisions The Committee has the power to operate malus and or clawback provisions in Legacy plans the event that the Company misstated financial results and if there was an error Awards made under the SMP and PSP prior to the approval of this Remuneration or miscalculation in determining the size of the award and or gross misconduct.
Policy will be permitted to vest in accordance with the terms approved in the prior The provisions enable the Committee to reduce future annual bonus payments, Remuneration Policy.
The final awards under these plans were made in 2014. reduce the number of shares under any form of share award, and or require an individual to make a payment to the Company on terms deemed to be fair and reasonable by the Committee.
Setting of performance measures and targets The Committee reviews and selects performance measures annually, taking Differences in the remuneration policy for executives relative to the broader employee population account of the economic conditions and IMIs priorities at the time.
In particular, the Committee considers the strategic plan and the key performance indicators The remuneration framework in place for the executive directors is informed by the associated with it.
Details of the performance measures are included in the structure that sits beneath it for the broader employee population.
While absolute Annual Report each year.
At the time of selecting performance measures, the levels and the provision of certain components, benefits and allowances vary by Committee determines the performance targets that will apply in respect of each geography and level, the overarching themes are: measure.
Factors that the Committee may consider include the strategic plan, the annual budget, analysts forecasts, economic conditions, individuals areas salaries are reviewed annually with any increases made on a discretionary basis of responsibilities and the Committees expectations over the relevant period.
and informed by factors such as those set out in the policy table: Depending on the nature of the measure e. g. health and safety, the Committee may consistent with executive directors, the leadership group participates in exercise judgement in assessing performance and determining the level of vesting.
annual bonus plans with measures linked to corporate, divisional and or local performance depending on their level: Principles for the impact of corporate transactions the leadership group can be considered for awards under the IIP.
At lower The Committee has established principles that determine the way in which levels, employees can also be considered for discretionary share awards with corporate transactions will impact remuneration.
It is clear that any corporate a pre-grant performance test.
IMIs share plans are intended to encourage share transaction, which is in the best interests of IMI and its shareholders, should not ownership at all levels of the Group.
The all-employee plans described in the have an adverse impact on remuneration.
The principles include the need for policy table are offered on consistent terms to all employees in the geographies management to be treated in a manner consistent with shareholders in respect to where the plans operate: and the rights to equity, that performance should be measured on a like-for-like basis, that there should be no compensation for adverse or favourable tax consequences eligibility for and provision of benefits and allowances varies by level and local and that any changes to performance computations will be reviewed by the market practice.
For senior managers, it is standard to receive a company car Companys auditors.
Pension contributions below the Board are set at a lower rate, and can take the form of a cash allowance.
Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 63 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Annual opportunity Performance Up to a maximum of 200% of salary.
In 2015 the performance measures will be Group PBT 40%, Group organic revenue growth 20%, cash conversion 20%, strategic and As a percentage of maximum the following amounts are potentially personal objectives 20% and a health and safety underpin.
Divisional payable for the corresponding levels of performance straight-line operating profit and organic revenue growth will replace Group organic between points : revenue for Divisional roles with weightings adjusted accordingly.
Threshold minimum : 0% Payment depends on performance relative to pre-determined measures and targets over the course of a financial year.
Target: 50% The Committee determines the measures and targets annually to Maximum: 100% ensure alignment with strategy.
Normally these will be a combination of measures linked to the financial and non-financial performance of IMI.
Normal award: Up to 250% of salary In 2015 the performance measures will be Group PBT growth 50%, ROCE 25% and relative TSR 25%.
Maximum award: 400% of salary to be used in exceptional circumstances only e. g. upon recruitment The release of shares will depend on performance relative to pre-determined measures and targets over three consecutive If an award above the normal maximum is made, full details will be provided financial years.
in the following years Annual Remuneration Report.
The Committee will determine targets and ranges in respect of As a percentage of the award the following amounts are payable for the each award when made.
corresponding levels of performance straight-line between points : Threshold minimum : 25% Maximum: 100%
