STRENGTHENING OUR BUSINESS Were optimising our portfolio to focus on Stronger Brands our Growth and Specialist Brands, which generate more than half our tobacco net revenue.
Portfolio Brands either add to our revenue generation or will be migrated into Growth Brands.
Growth Brands Specialist Brands Our Growth Brands have broad appeal and several have been Our Specialist Brands are enjoyed by speci c consumer developed into total tobacco offerings, providing consumers groups and represent a dynamic range of cigarette, ne with both cigarette and ne cut tobacco smoking experiences.
cut tobacco, paper, cigar and smokeless tobacco brands.
We manage our Growth Brands to drive quality sustainable These brands have a track record of generating strong returns growth and they account for 45 per cent of our total volumes and account for 12 per cent of our tobacco net revenue.
and 42 per cent of our tobacco net revenue.
Tobacco net revenue by brand Growth Brands Portfolio 42% Brands Our 46% Brands 12% Specialist Brands 4 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS We manage our markets on the strategic Stronger Markets role they play, not by geographic location.
Our markets prioritise Growth or Returns, driving more effective resource allocation and greater collaboration.
Growth Markets Returns Markets Our Growth Markets include selected markets in the EU, Returns Markets are split into North and South and include Eastern Europe, Asia, the Middle East and the USA.
The Australia and markets in the EU, Eastern Europe and Africa: key territories are listed below.
There are considerable the key ones are listed below.
In Returns Markets we prioritise opportunities for us to build our presence in Growth Markets, sustainable pro t performance, while actively managing our where our priority is to drive long-term share and pro t growth.
Cambodia Sweden Algeria Morocco Greece Taiwan Australia Senegal Italy Turkey France Spain Russia USA Germany Ukraine Saudi Arabia Vietnam Hungary United Kingdom Tobacco net revenue by market Growth Markets 32% Returns Markets North 43% Our Markets 25% Returns Markets South Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 5
