s r e HOW WE CREATE VALUE Our Strategy and Business Model Strategy Our strategy enables us to deliver sustainable growth and sustainable returns to shareholders.
We use consumer insights and selected sales growth drivers to build sales of our Growth and Specialist Brands across our markets.
We cluster these markets to generate either Growth or Returns.
We target long-term share and profit growth in Growth Markets and prioritise sustainable profit performance, while actively managing our strong share positions, in Returns Markets.
Effective cost and cash management supports our sales ambitions.
Portfolio Management Innovation Sales Growth Pricing Customer Engagement Sales Growth Drivers We focus on portfolio management, innovation, customer engagement and pricing to maximise opportunities for quality sustainable growth.
These four sales growth drivers are used to drive the performance of our Growth and Specialist Brands in all our markets.
2 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 v i r D h t w o r G s e l a S OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Business Model Our business model shows how we create value.
Our focus on quality sustainable sales growth, combined with the efficient way we manage costs, delivers high operating margins.
This generates the strong cash flows that are a hallmark of our business.
We use this cash to reinvest in the business, pay down debt or return to shareholders.
High Margin profits Maximising Strong Shareholder Sales Cash Returns Flow Reinvest How we Support Growth Strong Governance Acting Responsibly Managing Risk Rewarding Success High standards Operating We actively identify, Our people are of governance responsibly is manage and mitigate rewarded fairly and are critical to our integral to the way the risks facing incentivised to deliver sustainability.
Find out more on page 27 Find out more on page 17 Find out more on page 21 Find out more on page 46 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 3
