PAGE TITLE THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES Board Focus for 2015 integration of our enlarged US business : investment prioritisation in our market and brand portfolios: continuing to support our standalone subsidiary Fontem Ventures including the integration of the acquired e-cigarette brand blu : implement new ways of working to simplify the business and improve our effectiveness and agility: continuation of our cost optimisation programme: focus on capital discipline to enhance cash conversion: ensuring regulatory engagement and preparedness: and maintaining focus on our people agenda including building capabilities and succession.
Subject to the completion of the acquisition noted above.
Mark Williamson Chairman Overview The Directors are collectively responsible and accountable to our Our continued focus on our sales shareholders for the long-term sustainable success of the Group.
growth strategy creates sustainable The Boards role is to provide leadership to the Group, set its strategy and oversee its implementation.
The Board has a key role in ensuring that in achieving our strategy Members management operates responsibly within our governance framework Mark Williamson Chairman Susan Murray whilst clearly demonstrating our values and high ethical standards.
from 5 February 2014 to 30 September 2014 The Directors are also mindful of their legal duties to act in the way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Iain Napier Matthew Phillips success of the Company for its shareholders whilst having regard to 5 February 2014 Berge Setrakian to the interests of other stakeholders.
Alison Cooper to 5 February 2014 Ken Burnett Oliver Tant As part of the governance framework, the Board has adopted a Robert Dyrbus Karen Witts schedule of matters on which it must make the final decision.
These to 5 November 2013 from 6 February 2014 include approving the Groups strategy, business plans, dividends David Haines Malcolm Wyman and major financial announcements.
The Board is also responsible for approving the acquisition or disposal of assets exceeding Michael Herlihy defined thresholds.
John Downing Secretary Within this framework the Board delegates responsibility for developing and implementing the Groups strategy and for day-toFocus in 2014 day management to our Chief Executive, Alison Cooper, who is purchase agreement with Reynolds American Inc for the supported by the Operating Executive OPEX, which she chairs.
The acquisition of assets, including a portfolio of US cigarette brands Board also delegates matters to Board committees.
Clearly defined and the e-cigarette brand blu: terms of reference and written limits support these delegations.
flotation of approximately 30 per cent of Compaa fide Distribucin The OPEX consists of senior executives from across the business.
Integral Logista Holdings SA: It oversees operational execution and delivers our strategic and continued focus on leadership and Board succession with the financial plans.
The OPEX also ensures that appropriate internal appointment of Mark Williamson to the position of Chairman and controls are in place and are functioning effectively, and that there the appointment of Karen Witts as a NED: is an effective risk management process in operation throughout the Group.
optimising our brand and market portfolios focusing on Growth and Specialist Brands: resource allocation between Growth and Returns Markets: completion of our stock optimisation programme: and realigning our cost base through our cost optimisation programme.
30 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Matters Considered by the Board in 2014 Five principal scheduled and three unscheduled Board meetings were held during the year 2013 October Annual Report and Accounts Business planning Dividend Corporate development Business performance November Unscheduled meeting to consider Chairmans and NEDs succession December 2014 January February First quarter results Corporate development including Business performance Logista partial otation AGM March April May Half Year Report Employee engagement Dividend Corporate development Business performance June Strategy meeting US brands acquisition Business performance Financing July Two unscheduled meetings to consider US brands acquisition August September Business performance Board evaluation Business plan NEDs fees Corporate development Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 31 PAGE TITLE THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES Nominations Committee Overview Role The Committee keeps under review and evaluates the composition of the Board and its Committees to maintain the appropriate balance of skills, knowledge, experience and independence to enable them to function effectively.
Succession plans for the NEDs, Executive Directors and the Groups senior management are also kept under review.
The Committees terms of reference are available within the investor relations corporate governance section of our website.
Composition The Committee comprises all the NEDs and is chaired by the Group Chairman unless it is dealing with the succession to the Chairman.
Executive Directors are invited to attend when appropriate.
Boardroom Diversity To maintain the appropriate balance of skills, diversity of knowledge, Mark Williamson Chairman professional and geographic backgrounds and experience, we look ahead to upcoming retirements to identify potential gaps and appoint individuals who are best suited to fill any vacancy.
Appointing the We seek to ensure that we have the best people to our Board is critical to the success of the Company: right people in place to build on our the search for candidates and any subsequent appointments are, therefore, made purely on merit regardless of gender, race, religion, strategy and continue to deliver age or disability.
Given our commitment to appointing the best significant returns to our shareholders.
people and ensuring that all employees have an equal chance of developing their careers within the Group, we do not think it is Members appropriate to set targets for Board appointments.
Mark Williamson Chairman Susan Murray Women, including our Chief Executive, made up 30 per cent of our from 5 February 2014 to 30 September 2014 Board at the end of the financial year.
On the retirement of Susan Iain Napier Berge Setrakian Murray, this decreased to 22 per cent.
We also have 22 per cent to 5 February 2014 to 5 February 2014 women on our OPEX.
Further details on our workforce diversity are Ken Burnett Karen Witts set out on page 17. from 6 February 2014 David Haines Malcolm Wyman Michael Herlihy As announced on 5 November 2013, Iain Napier and Berge Setrakian retired at the conclusion of our AGM in 2014 and Susan Murray retired on 30 September 2014.
In addition we welcomed John Downing Karen Witts to the Board in February 2014.
Secretary Achievements for 2014 in line with the Groups ongoing succession plans Oliver Tant was identified as an appropriate successor to the Finance Director and was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2013: Mark Williamson was appointed to the position of Chairman: and appointment of Karen Witts as a NED.
2015 objectives maintain ongoing succession plans, especially in respect of NEDs approaching retirement by virtue of their length of service: ongoing review of skill set and composition of the Board: evaluation of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors: and NEDs continuing business update and education.
32 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Election and re-election of Directors Board succession All Directors are appointed by the Board following a rigorous During the year, the Committee identified the profile and skill set selection process and subsequent recommendation by required for a NED and instructed Korn Ferry Whitehead Mann to the Committee.
Having reviewed the list of potential candidates, and subsequent to meetings with shortlisted candidates, The performance of each Director is considered as part of the annual the Committee recommended to the Board the appointment of Board evaluation process.
Following the 2014 evaluation, a review of Karen Witts who was subsequently appointed to the Board on the independence of each NED, particularly in respect of those who 6 February 2014.
The Board recommends her election at our have served six years or more, and consideration of attendance, the 2015 AGM.
Board recommends the election or re-election of all Directors at our 2015 AGM.
Meetings of the Board, Board Committees and AGM Annual Nominations Audit Remuneration General Board Committee Committee Committee Meeting Total number of meetings in Financial Year 8 34 61 Number of meetings attended in Financial Year Executive Directors Alison Cooper 8 8 1 1 1 Robert Dyrbus 2 2 Oliver Tant 8 8 1 1 Matthew Phillips 8 8 1 1 Non-Executive Directors Mark Williamson 8 8 3 3 2 2 1 1 1 1 2 Iain Napier 3 3 2 2 1 1 Ken Burnett 8 8 3 3 4 4 6 6 1 1 3 David Haines 7 83 34 4 6 61 1 Michael Herlihy 8 8 3 3 4 4 6 6 1 1 3,4 Susan Murray 7 83 32 2 2 21 1 2 3 Berge Setrakian, 2 32 2 2 21 1 5 Karen Witts 5 51 12 2 5 5 3 Malcolm Wyman 7 8 2 3 4 4 5 6 1 1 1 Robert Dyrbus retired from the Board on 5 November 2013.
2 Iain Napier and Berge Setrakian retired on 5 February 2014.
3 Berge Setrakian and David Haines were unable to attend one telephone Board meeting, Susan Murray was unable to attend one Board meeting and Malcolm Wyman was unable to attend one Board meeting, a Remuneration Committee meeting and a Nominations Committee meeting held on the same day.
They did, however, fully consider the papers before the meeting and provided their thoughts and recommendations to the relevant Chairmen.
4 Susan Murray stepped down from both the Audit and Remuneration Committees on 5 February 2014, the ninth anniversary of her election.
5 Karen Witts was appointed on 6 February 2014.
The maximum number of meetings for each individual Director is the number they were eligible to attend.
Tenure of Non-Executive Directors 8 years and over 1 5 to 7 years 2 3 to 5 years 1 1 to 2 years 2 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 33 PAGE TITLE THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES Audit Committee Members Malcolm Wyman Susan Murray Chairman to 5 February 2014 Ken Burnett Mark Williamson to 5 February 2014 David Haines Karen Witts Michael Herlihy from 6 February 2014 John Downing Secretary Committee Composition The Committee comprises five Independent Non-Executive Directors and is chaired by Malcolm Wyman.
Both Malcolm Wyman and Karen Witts meet the requirements of the Code and the Committees terms of reference that at least one of its members has recent and relevant financial experience.
Malcolm Wyman Chairman The Board Chairman, Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Director of Finance and Planning, Group Financial Controller, Director of Corporate Assurance, Deputy Company Secretary, Our Audit Committee has a key role in appropriate financial managers and PwC are invited to attend protecting the interests of shareholders Committee meetings.
At each meeting both the Director of Corporate Assurance and PwC have the opportunity to meet by ensuring the integrity of our financial separately with the Committee without management being present.
statements and the effectiveness of Role our risk management processes and The responsibilities of the Committee include: internal controls.
assessing the integrity of our financial reporting, including ensuring that, taken as a whole, including the use of non-GAAP measures, I would like to give you an overview of the operation of the Audit our Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and Committee and the work it has undertaken.
provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess We have set out on page 36 the key matters that we have the Companys performance, business model and strategy: considered during the year and the conclusions drawn.
We meet overseeing and evaluating the effectiveness of our risk formally at key times within our reporting calendar as set out on management, internal control and speaking-up processes: page 35.
The agendas for our meetings are designed to cover all significant areas of risk over the course of a year and to provide assessing the effectiveness of the Internal Audit department: and oversight and challenge to the key financial controls and processes scrutinising the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of that operate throughout the Group.
PwC, including reviewing and approving the annual audit plan, Our internal auditors and our external auditors, PwC, attend all reviewing the audit findings, monitoring compliance with ethical Committee meetings and provide detailed reports on their audit work and professional guidance and approving PwCs terms to the Committee.
The Committee reviews and discusses these of engagement.
reports with both management and auditors and holds meetings The Committees full terms of reference can be found within the without management being present.
I also meet with the Head of Investor Relations Corporate Governance section of our website.
Internal Audit and the Lead Audit Partner of PwC on a regular basis between meetings.
We invite management to prepare and present a wide range of papers to the Audit Committee and I am satisfied that these enable effective discussion of the issues.
On an ad-hoc basis I meet with members of management below Board level to better understand the challenges that the business faces.
I am able to use this understanding to manage the Audit Committee review process effectively.
During the year, we also spent time to build on our understanding of the Groups risk management processes, reviewing the risks that face the business and challenging management concerning the mitigating controls in place.
Overall, I am satisfied these activities have enabled the Audit Committee to gain a good understanding of the key matters impacting the Group during the year along with oversight of the culture, governance and operation of its significant controls and processes and ultimately to draw the conclusions we set out on page 37.
Malcolm Wyman Chairman of the Audit Committee 34 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Audit Committee Meetings in 2014 Four Committee meetings were held in the financial year, at key times within our reporting and audit calendar, and included the following key matters on the agenda.
2013 October Annual Report and Accounts Auditors report FX management Internal audit report Impairment review Internal control Going concern Auditors fees and independence November December 2014 January February Audit planning Treasury update Risk management Auditors effectiveness March April Half Year Report Tax Impairment review Auditors fees and independence Auditors review of Half Year Report May June July August September Annual Report and Accounts preparation Auditors report and independence Adjusted measures review Risk management Tax Stock optimisation significant and complex accounting transactions Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 35 THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES Audit Committee continued Key Matters Considered During the Year Significant Financial Judgements and Financial Reporting for 2014 How the Committee Addressed these Judgements Goodwill and intangible asset Detailed reports from management were considered by the Committee.
Judgements management on the methodology applied, the assumptions used and the achievability of the largely related to the assumptions underlying business forecasts.
For the individual operating segments Drive Growth Division and underlying the calculations used Premium Cigars with the lowest headroom, we considered different scenarios and sensitivities to value the businesses being to assess whether managements conclusions were fair and balanced.
These assumptions considered detailed reporting from, and held discussions with, PwC.
We concluded that included long-term business and managements assertion that goodwill and intangible assets were not impaired was reasonable.
We also approved the disclosures in our financial statements.
Further information on the Groups goodwill and intangible assets is provided in Note 11 to the financial statements.
The treatment of restructuring We periodically reviewed papers from management on actual and forecast levels of restructuring costs and their presentation within costs.
The restructuring costs disclosure for inclusion within the Groups full year and half year the Groups financial statements.
results were also reviewed and discussed with management.
Following these detailed reviews and discussions, we concluded that restructuring costs were exceptional in nature and disclosed appropriately.
In order to satisfy itself that the Group has adequate resources to support the going concern assumption, the Committee examined the Groups existing committed funding, its ability to generate cash and its ability to raise further external funding.
We challenged managements cash projections and sensitivity analysis including mitigating actions.
We also considered detailed reporting from, and held discussions with, PwC.
This enabled us to conclude that the Group has adequate resources and we subsequently recommended to the Board the adoption of the going concern statement for inclusion in the Annual Report and Accounts.
Deferred tax reporting and the We received and discussed reports from management in respect of the adequacy of tax loss resulting reported tax charge.
We also considered whether a provision for deferred taxation in respect of tax allowances on an overseas investment was still required given the significantly reduced probability that the related temporary difference would reverse.
We also considered detailed reports from, and had discussions with, PwC in respect of this.
Following consideration of such reports and discussions, we concluded that the deferred tax calculation and recognition is appropriate.
The Committee reviewed papers prepared by management considering the purpose and practice of our use of adjusted, or non-GAAP, measures in our external reporting.
The Committee challenged management on its proposals and held discussions with PwC.
Following these considerations the Committee concluded that the Groups use of adjusted measures, including the adjustments for stock optimisation, was fair and balanced.
Revenue recognition as with most We challenged management in respect of revenue recognition and controls over stock in trade.
companies, there is a risk that, in This primarily involved considering the amount of inventory held by distributors in key markets and order to boost revenue in the the impact of the stock optimisation project.
We reviewed reports from PwC and Internal Audit current year, arrangements could on the measurement of stock in trade.
The Committee also noted that no material instances be made to facilitate sales that do of inappropriate revenue recognition arose during the external audit.
These reviews enabled not meet the Groups criteria for the Committee to satisfy itself that the Groups criteria for revenue recognition were met.
Tobacco-related litigation the Internal litigation reports were regularly reviewed by the Committee.
We also considered reports Group is exposed to litigation from the Groups external lawyers which confirmed that the Group continues to have meritorious arising from claimants alleging defences to the actual and threatened legal proceedings detailed on page 44 and concluded smoking-related health effects.
that risks in respect of tobacco-related litigation are appropriately disclosed in the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Groups foreign exchange We regularly considered reports from management covering foreign exchange exposures and the management.
level of net investment hedging.
Following consideration of these reports and discussions with management, we concluded that the accounting treatment of foreign exchange and the Groups exposure to exchange risks were appropriate.
36 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Key Matters Considered During the Year continued Significant Financial Judgements and Financial Reporting for 2014 How the Committee Addressed these Judgements Retirement benefits.
The costs, assets and liabilities of the Groups defined benefit retirement schemes were regularly reviewed by us.
Advice was taken from independent actuaries on the appropriateness of the assumptions used and we held discussions with management and PwC.
Taking into consideration the portfolio optimisation strategy and focus on growth and specialist brands, management have reviewed brand lives during the year.
We have considered managements reasoning in determining the useful lives and conclude that the resulting estimations in this respect are reasonable.
Other accounting matters We examined papers prepared by management considering the accounting treatment of requiring judgement.
significant and or unusual transactions, including, inter alia, certain provisions, credits due under the Master Settlement Agreement, settlement and curtailments of certain post-retirement benefits, and fees related to certain transactions.
We also discussed these matters with PwC.
Our examination of managements papers and discussions with PwC supported managements treatment of these items and their disclosure in the Annual Report and Accounts.
Risk Management and Internal Control Group Internal Audit Department During the year, the Group refined its risk management processes A light-touch effectiveness review of the Group Internal Audit to further formalise the evaluation of risks across the business.
Department was carried out during the year, co-ordinated by the This approach is designed to provide greater consistency in the Company Secretary.
The review was questionnaire-based and identification and assessment of risks, at both a Group and local invited responses from members of senior management, the level.
To assist the Committee with its oversight of the risk chairman of the Committee and the Chairman of the Board.
management process and internal controls, Group Internal Audit Responses were then forwarded to the Chartered Institute of has performed a review of the Groups risk management approach Internal Auditors which, based on its experience, compiled the and provided a report on its effectiveness.
The Committee also results and provided an external perspective.
received detailed risk management updates during the year.
Responses were generally positive, recognising that the department Additionally, this work provides further evidence to support the still needs to evolve further.
Actions have been taken to address Committees recommendation to the Board to accept the opinion comments made and the recruitment of a new Head of Group of the annual Internal Control Statement.
Internal Audit has helped strengthen the management team within We are aware of the risks to our information technology systems.
Satisfaction surveys completed by operational To manage these risks, our Group Internal Audit plan includes management after each audit continue to show positive results.
specific reviews to assess compliance with our relevant information During the year, a number of individuals were recruited into the technology standards and policies.
In line with the reporting of all Group Internal Audit Department which enhanced its ability to extend internal audit issues, any significant matters are reported to the its coverage across key risks to the Group, including carrying out Committee and their resolution monitored.
reviews of various aspects of the strategic change programme and In addition, during the year we formed an Information Security providing assurance regarding the stock optimisation initiative.
Working Group to review the Groups approach to the wider information security topic, as a result of which improvements have Independence of our External Auditors been made in our approach with further ongoing assessment of In order to ensure the independence and objectivity of PwC, initiatives being reported on an ongoing basis.
the Committee maintains and regularly reviews our Auditor The above processes and those described in the Risk Management Independence Policy.
This policy provides clear definitions of section on pages 21 to 26 enable the Board, either directly or services that our external Auditors may and may not provide and through the Audit Committee, to review regularly the effectiveness of can be found within the Investor Relations Corporate Governance the key procedures which have been established in order to provide section of our website.
They also enable the Board to confirm PwC, and its predecessor firms, has been the Companys Auditors that an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the since its demerger in 1996.
In line with our Auditor Independence Groups significant risks has operated throughout the year and up Policy, the Group Audit partner is required to rotate after a maximum to the date of the approval of this Annual Report and Accounts in of five years seven years for subsidiary companies.
John Maitland, accordance with the requirements of the Code.
our Audit Partner, has been in post since 2013.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 37 THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES Audit Committee continued PwC may only provide non-audit services where those services do Audit Quality and Approach to not conflict with its independence, for example tax compliance work.
Audit Tender The policy also establishes a formal authorisation process, including We place great importance on ensuring that we receive a high the tendering for non-audit services expected to generate fees in standard and effective external audit.
Therefore, we formally review excess of 250,000, and pre-approval by the Committee for the performance of our external auditor annually.
During the year, allowable non-audit work that PwC may perform.
Our policy also audit effectiveness questionnaires were completed by members of establishes guidelines for the recruitment of employees or former the Committee and senior managers and finance employees from employees of PwC and for the recruitment of our employees by it.
These questionnaires covered the audit scope and During the year, the only non-audit fee in excess of 250,000 was in planning, quality and delivery, challenge and communication and relation to work undertaken in connection with the proposed US independence.
The responses to the questionnaires indicated that cigarette brand and e-cigarette acquisition which was considered there was a consistently high perception of auditor effectiveness, and approved by the Committee chairman.
with no pervasive Group-wide concerns identified.
During the year, PwC, due to its knowledge of the Group and where Based on its consideration of the responses, together with its own it was deemed that it was best placed to provide effectively the ongoing assessment, for example through the quality of PwCs services required, also undertook non-audit work, none of which reports to the Committee and its interaction with the audit partner, exceeded the above threshold.
In our judgement we do not believe the Committee remains satisfied with the efficiency and effectiveness that the objectivity of the external audit has been impaired as a result of the audit.
Following the introduction of the audit tendering of this work.
The non-audit work included: provisions in the Code, the Committee will annually consider if the regulatory assurance work pursuant to the proposed US cigarette audit should be put out to tender.
The result of this years review was brand and e-cigarette acquisition: not to put the audit out to tender.
The Committee considers that for a major international group the tendering of external audit must be advice in relation to project governance over core systems well planned to ensure that the Group complies with best practice development: corporate governance as well as ensuring the Group receives a hightax advisory and tax compliance work: quality, efficient and effective external audit service.
In compliance with the transitional rules of the Competition and Markets Authority verification of our corporate social responsibility reporting and and the EU, the Committee plans to put the external audit out to underlying processes: and tender in time for the 2018 year end.
agreed upon processes in respect of the performance criteria of There are no contractual or similar obligations restricting the Groups our employee share plans.
In the current year non-audit fees were 66 per cent of total audit fees see Note 4.
This ratio is significantly impacted in the current year by the work undertaken in connection with the proposed US cigarette Statement of Auditors Responsibilities brand and e-cigarette acquisition.
In our view, the level of non-audit PwC is responsible for forming an independent opinion on the fees is not out of line with those disclosed by similar companies with financial statements of the Group as a whole and on the financial international activities and in our judgement we do not believe that statements of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC as presented by the the objectivity of the external audit has been impaired as a result of Directors.
In addition, it also reports on other elements of the Annual this work.
Report and Accounts as required by legislation or regulation and reports its opinion to members.
PwCs opinions are included on To ensure compliance with this policy, during the year the pages 66 and 115.
Committee carried out two reviews of the remuneration received by PwC for audit services, audit-related services and non-audit work.
The Committee also considered reports by both management Auditors and Disclosure of Information and PwC which did not raise any concerns in respect of PwCs to Auditors independence and confirmed that PwC maintains appropriate Each of the Directors in office at the date of approval of this Annual internal safeguards to ensure its independence and objectivity.
Report and Accounts confirms that: The outcome of these reviews was that performance of the relevant non-audit work by PwC, as detailed in Note 4, was in compliance so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information that with the policy and was the most cost-effective way of conducting is, information needed by PwC in connection with preparing its our business.
No conflicts of interest were found to exist between report of which PwC is unaware: and such audit and non-audit work.
each has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a The Committee confirms that the Company continues to receive an Director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant independent audit service.
audit information and to establish PwC is aware of that information.
The Board accepted at its October 2014 meeting the Committees recommendation to put to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM a resolution to reappoint PwC as Auditors to the Company.
38 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS and independence to review critically and, where appropriate, Application of the UK Corporate challenge constructively strategies proposed by management.
Governance Code This ensures the further development of our business, effective use We are pleased to confirm that the Company has complied in full of our resources and maintenance of our high standards of conduct.
with the Code throughout this financial year.
The Company has Matters Reserved for the Board not, however, tendered for audit services in the last ten years.
In order to retain control of key decisions, the Board has adopted We detail below how, in practice, the Company has applied the a schedule of matters on which it must make the final decision, Codes principles and complied with its detailed provisions.
including approval of the Group and parent company financial statements, the Groups business strategy, the annual capital Board and its Committees expenditure plan, major capital projects, major changes to the Each of our Board Committees has specific written terms of Groups management and control structure, material investments reference issued by the Board and adopted by the relevant or disposals, risk management strategy, sustainability and Committee.
These are available on our website www.
 policies, the appointment or removal of Directors and tobacco.
All Committee chairmen report on the proceedings the Company Secretary, and treasury policies.
Key decisions by the of their Committees at the next meeting of the Board and, where Board during the financial year included the proposed cigarette brand appropriate, make recommendations to the Board.
In addition, and the e-cigarette brand acquisition in the US, the partial listing on minutes of Committee meetings are circulated to Board members.
the Spanish stock exchanges of Logista and the appointment of Karen Witts as a NED.
To ensure Directors are kept up to date on developing issues and to enhance the overall effectiveness of the Board and its Committees, Division of Responsibilities of our Chairman and Chief Executive our Chairman and Committee chairmen communicate regularly with Whilst retaining a close working relationship, our Chairman and Chief the Chief Executive and other Executive Directors.
Executive have clearly defined and separate responsibilities divided between running the Board and the business.
They meet regularly Our NEDs play a key role in corporate accountability and between Board meetings to ensure a full understanding of evolving governance through their membership of the Boards Committees.
issues and to facilitate swift decision making.
They are responsible The membership and remit of each Committee is considered on to our shareholders for the successful delivery of our strategy.
The open atmosphere at our Committee meetings enables our NEDs to use their judgement, experience Board Composition and Roles Chairman Mark Williamson Leads the Board and creates an environment that ensures there are strong links between the Board and our shareholders and management.
Mark met the independence criteria of the Code on appointment and there were no significant changes to his external commitments subsequent to his appointment.
Chief Executive Alison Cooper Supported by the Executive Directors and the OPEX, has day-to-day management responsibility for the Group, for recommending the Groups strategy to the Board and, once agreed, its implementation.
Alison promotes the Groups values, culture and high standards of conduct and behaviour which underpins our reputation and supports the delivery of our sustainable sales growth.
Executive Directors Oliver Tant Support the Chief Executive in devising and implementing our strategy and overseeing the operations of the entire Group, in addition to specific responsibility for managing Matthew Phillips their own areas of the business.
Senior Independent Michael Herlihy Responsible for assisting the Chairman with effective shareholder communication and is Director available to them should they have any concerns which have not been resolved through the normal channels or if these channels are not appropriate.
No such concerns were raised during the year.
Michael is available to our NEDs should they have any concerns which are not appropriate to raise with the Chairman or which have not been satisfactorily resolved by the Chairman.
He also acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and carries out the Chairmans performance evaluation.
Non-Executive Ken Burnett Evaluate information provided and challenge constructively managements viewpoints, Directors assumptions and performance.
They bring to the Board a diverse range of business David Haines and financial expertise which complements and supplements the experiences of the Susan Murray Executive Directors.
to 30 September 2014 Karen Witts from 6 February 2014 Malcolm Wyman Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 39 THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES Audit Committee continued Conflicts of Interest and Independence The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board, Directors are required to avoid situations where they have, or could through the Chairman, on matters of corporate governance.
have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may The Board and its Committees are supplied with full and timely conflict, with the Companys interests.
In accordance with the information, including detailed financial information, to enable them Companies Act 2006 the Act, our Articles of Association allow the to discharge their responsibilities.
Board to authorise potential conflicts of interest that may arise and All Directors have access to the advice of the Company Secretary to impose such limits or conditions as it thinks fit.
and, where appropriate, the services of other employees for all Directors are required to give notice of any potential situational governance and regulatory matters.
Independent professional advice and or transactional conflicts, which are considered at the following is also available to Directors, in appropriate circumstances, at the Board meeting and, if considered appropriate, situational conflicts Companys expense.
We do not allow any Director to participate in such Following their appointment to the Board, Directors are briefed considerations or to vote regarding his or her own conflicts.
on the legal and other duties they owe to the Company.
Tailored The Board has considered and authorised a number of situations induction programmes are arranged which include industry-specific all of which relate to the holding of external directorships and have training, visits to the Groups businesses and meetings with senior been entered in our Conflicts Register.
No actual conflicts have management.
They are also briefed on internal controls at both been identified.
The Board considers that these procedures head office and business unit level and provided with information operate effectively.
on relevant Company policies and governance-related matters.
As part of our annual review process, during the Board meeting Members of our Audit and Remuneration Committees received in September 2014 we reviewed and reconsidered all situations briefings from PwC and New Bridge Street respectively to ensure entered in the Conflicts Register and the Board is satisfied that the they remain up to date with current regulations and developments.
independence of those Directors who have other external board No other training needs were identified in 2014, although ongoing appointments or relationships has not been compromised.
At this training is available to all Directors to meet their individual needs.
We meeting, and taking into account the annual Board performance provide regular briefings to Directors on matters such as legislation evaluation, the Board concluded that all our NEDs continue and regulation changes and corporate governance developments.
to contribute effectively and constructively to Board debate, Performance Evaluation demonstrate commitment to their role, challenge objectively During the year, the Board reviewed, with the assistance of and question management robustly and at all times have the Independent Audit Limited, its performance, that of its Committees best interests of our shareholders in mind.
and individual Directors with the aim of improving effectiveness.
We confirm, therefore, that, with the exception of our Chairman who This review considered the overall functioning of the Board and its met the independence criteria of the Code on appointment and Committees, the balance and range of Directors skills, diversity, Susan Murray who had served more than nine years on our Board, succession, how the Board works as a unit and risk oversight.
our NEDs remained independent throughout the year as defined in the Code.
As part of the evaluation, our Chairman held meetings with the Non-Executive Directors to consider, amongst other things, the External Appointments performance of the Executive Directors.
NEDs may serve on a number of other boards provided they continue to demonstrate the requisite commitment to discharge Our Senior Independent Director also met with the Non-Executive effectively their duties.
The Chairman and the Nominations Directors and the Board, without the Chairman present, to consider Committee review the extent of NEDs other interests throughout the the performance of the Chairman.
The Board is satisfied that the Chairman and each of the NEDs The feedback obtained was collated into a report which was commit sufficient time to their duties in relation to the Company, and presented to the Board at its September 2014 meeting and used the NEDs have also confirmed they have sufficient time to fulfil their as the basis for one-to-one development discussions between the respective obligations to the Company.
The Board is supportive of Executive Directors and members of the The evaluation showed that the Board and its Committees continue OPEX accepting non-executive directorships of other companies to operate effectively and no significant areas for concern were in order to widen their experience and knowledge for the benefit of identified nor any requirement to provide extra training for our the Company.
Accordingly, subject to the agreement of the Board, Directors.
Consequently, the Board and its Committees are satisfied Executive Directors and members of the OPEX are permitted to they are operating and performing effectively.
The evaluation accept one external non-executive board appointment and to retain confirmed that all our Directors have sufficient time, knowledge any fees received from such appointment.
and commitment to contribute effectively to our Board and its Information and Training Committees and that it remains appropriately constituted.
The Company is committed to the continuing development of Directors in order that they may build on their expertise and develop an ever more detailed understanding of the business and the markets in which Group companies operate.
40 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Areas identified for further consideration were, following the Insurance and Indemnities recent changes to Board membership, continuing to develop the We have purchased and maintain appropriate insurance cover in cohesiveness of the team and that our NEDs would benefit from respect of Directors and Officers liabilities.
The Company has also an increased knowledge and understanding of the wider business, entered into qualifying third-party indemnity arrangements for the for example through site visits and presentations from our wider benefit of all its Directors in a form and scope which comply with the management team.
These indemnities were in force throughout the year and up to the date of this Annual Report.
We have addressed the issues identified in the 2013 Board evaluation and, in line with the Boards succession plans, we announced in November 2013 the appointment of Mark Williamson to succeed Iain Napier as Chairman.
We have also continued to enhance our risk management and internal control processes as discussed on pages 21 and 37.
Dialogue with our Investors Geographical Analysis of Shareholders Shareholder Composition as at 30 September 2014 as at 30 September 2014 UK 56% Institutional 90% United States 32% Non-institutional 5% Rest of Europe 10% Retail 2% Rest of the World 2% Employees 1% Miscellaneous 2% We aim to provide balanced, clear and transparent communications To ensure our shareholders have time to consider our Annual Report which allow shareholders to understand how we see our prospects and Accounts and Notice of the AGM and lodge their proxy votes, and the market environments in which we operate.
the documents are made available to them at least 20 working days prior to the meeting.
We maintain an active engagement with our key financial audiences including institutional shareholders and sell side analysts as well We offer all our shareholders the choice of submitting proxy votes, as potential shareholders.
During the year, there were regular including abstentions, either electronically or in paper format.
presentations to, and meetings with, institutional investors in the At the AGM our Chairman and Chief Executive give presentations UK, Europe, Canada and the USA to communicate our sales growth on our performance and current business activities and all Directors strategy and answer questions from our investors.
Throughout the make themselves available to meet shareholders after the conclusion year our senior management team presented at industry conferences of the formal business of the AGM.
organised by investor bodies and investment banks for their institutional investor bases.
Our Investor Relations team managed To ensure compliance with the Code, at all general meetings the interaction with these audiences and provided additional separate resolutions are proposed on each subject and all regular presentations during the year.
We also consulted with our resolutions are put to a poll.
At the AGM the number of proxy largest shareholders and their representative bodies in respect votes for, against and abstentions for each resolution are provided.
of the proposed changes to our remuneration policy detailed on Votes received at the AGM are added to the proxy votes and the final pages 48 to 52. results published through a Regulatory Information Service, on our website and via OTCQX.
The primary means of communication with the majority of our shareholders is via our Annual Report and Accounts, Half Year At our 2014 AGM we received votes representing approximately Report and website on which we publish Interim Management 79 per cent of our issued share capital excluding shares held in Statements.
These are supported by a combination of presentations, treasury at the date of the AGM.
conference calls, one-to-one meetings and investor meetings in the Our next AGM will be held on Wednesday 28 January 2015, full UK, Europe, Canada and the US.
details of which are contained in the Notice of Meeting available on NEDs, including our Senior Independent Director, were available our website and, where applicable, posted with this Annual Report.
throughout the year to meet with major shareholders if requested and are kept up to date with investor opinion including via our annual survey of investor opinions.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 41
