BOARD OF DIRECTORS 2 1 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 28 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Appointment Appointed Non-Executive Director in 1.
Ken Burnett, MA, MBA, PhD, February 2014.
Chairman of the Board M Inst M Skills and experience Mark is a qualified Non-Executive Director External appointments Group Finance Director and accountant, who brings considerable financial Skills and experience Ken, an independent Executive Director of Kingfisher plc.
and general managerial experience to our Board.
management consultant, brings significant D A N R Mark was Chief Financial Officer of International experience of the consumer goods sector in the Power plc until 2012 and is experienced in Asia Pacific region.
He was President, Asia Pacific managing relationships with the investor and 9.
Malcolm Wyman, CA SA of Allied Domecq from 1996 until its acquisition by financial communities.
Prior to joining International Pernod Ricard in 2005.
Non-Executive Director Power plc, Mark was Group Financial Controller Skills and experience As a qualified accountant Prior to joining Allied Domecq, he held senior and Group Chief Accountant of Simon Group.
and former Chief Financial Officer of SAB Miller management positions in the Asia Pacific region plc, with responsibility for the groups financial Appointment Mark joined the Board in July 2007 with Seagram, Interbrew and International Distillers operations, corporate finance and development and was appointed Senior Independent Non- & Vintners Ltd now part of Diageo plc.
and group strategy, Malcolm brings not only a Executive Director in February 2012.
He was Appointment Appointed Non-Executive Director in wealth of financial expertise but also considerable subsequently appointed Deputy Chairman of April 2006. general management experience to the Board.
the Board in January 2013 before being made He also meets the recent and relevant financial Chairman in February 2014.
External appointments Non-Executive Chairman of experience requirements of the UK Corporate Elemental Energy Technologies Limited.
Director of External appointments Senior Independent NonGovernance Code.
Elemental Energy Technologies Asia Pte Limited.
Executive Director and chairman of the Audit Appointment Appointed Non-Executive Director Committees of National Grid plc and of Alent plc.
D A N R in October 2011 and chairman of the Audit D N Chairman Committee in February 2012.
David Haines External appointments Senior Independent NonNon-Executive Director 2.
Alison Cooper, BSC, ACA Executive Director and chairman of the Audit Skills and experience David brings considerable Chief Executive Committee of Nedbank Group Limited listed senior level board experience and is currently Skills and experience Since being appointed as on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange and a Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Grohe Chief Executive, Alison has led the development Non-Executive Director and chairman of the Group Srl.
He joined Grohe in 2004 from and implementation of the Groups sustainable Audit Committee of Serco Group plc.
Vodafone Group PLC where he was Global sales growth strategy.
Alison joined the Group Marketing Director.
He is also a former Chairman D A Chairman N R in 1999 and, through a number of senior roles, of Vimpelcom A O. has contributed significantly to the international expansion of the Group.
David gained extensive general management 10.
John Downing, MA, Solicitor experience with Vodafone Group PLC and Company Secretary Appointment Appointed Director in July 2007.
Mars inc earlier in his career.
Skills and experience John joined Imperial in 2005 Appointed Chief Executive in May 2010. having worked for the law firm Linklaters.
Appointment Appointed Non-Executive Director External appointments Non-Executive Director, in February 2012.
He has had a number of senior legal roles in Inchcape plc since July 2009.
Imperial and was appointed Head of Group Legal External appointments Chairman and Chief E in 2010 and played a leading role in the Altadis Executive Officer of Grohe Group Srl, Director acquisition.
He has considerable experience in of Joyou AG.
managing key corporate projects related to 3.
Oliver Tant, BSc, CA Scotland D A N R Chairman financing, business development and other Chief Financial Officer commercial matters.
Skills and experience Oliver held a number of senior positions in a 32-year career at KPMG, 7.
Michael Herlihy, MA Oxon, Appointment Appointed Company Secretary in including Global Managing Director Financial Solicitor June 2012.
Advisory and Private Equity Division and Head Senior Independent Non-Executive Director S of UK Audit.
Skills and experience Michael is General Counsel for Smiths Group plc.
He was formerly General He was also a member of both the UK and Key Counsel and Head of Mergers and Acquisitions German boards of KPMG.
He brings to Imperial E Executive Director for ICI PLC with overall responsibility for international experience in change management, D Non-Executive Director corporate acquisitions and divestments and has organisational restructuring, corporate finance and S Company Secretary extensive experience of both private and public mergers and acquisitions.
Appointment Appointed to the Board of Directors A Audit Committee Appointment Appointed Non-Executive Director in October 2013 and became Chief Financial R Remuneration Committee in July 2007.
In February 2014 he was appointed Officer in November 2013. as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
External appointments No external Director External appointments Serves on the board of appointments.
Skills and experience of Compass Partners International LLP and is E our Board currently General Counsel of Smiths Group plc.
The diverse global experience of our NEDs, D A N R which includes FMCG, finance, mergers 4.
Matthew Phillips, LLB and acquisitions, and sales and marketing, Corporate Affairs Director 8.
Karen Witts, FCA supports the in-depth tobacco experience Skills and experience Matthew has held a number of our Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Director of senior roles including General Counsel and Skills and experience Karen brings significant Group Corporate and Legal Affairs Director prior to financial and management expertise to the Board.
his appointment to the Board as Corporate Affairs She is currently Group Finance Director and Director and has been integral to the development Executive Director of Kingfisher plc and was and implementation of our strategy.
previously Chief Financial Officer of the Africa, Appointment Appointed Corporate Affairs Director Middle East, Asia and Asia Pacific Region, at in June 2012.
Prior to that, Karen held a number of senior positions at BT, including Chief Financial External appointments No external Director Officer of BT Retail and Managing Director appointments.
E Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 29
