DIRECTORS REPORT Introduction We have not received notification that any other person holds One of the Boards primary responsibilities is to ensure that the 3 per cent or more of our shares.
Company is run in the best long-term interests of our shareholders The share interests of the Directors, their families and any connected and wider stakeholders.
We believe this can only be achieved if the persons are shown on page 58.
Other than as disclosed on page 51, activities of the Group are supported by appropriate governance there are no agreements between the Company and its Directors processes applied across the Group.
or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or These processes are illustrated below and in the individual employment due to a takeover.
Information concerning employees and their remuneration is In accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006 the Act, the given in Note 6 to the Financial Statements and in the Directors following items have been included in other sections of this Remuneration Report.
Annual Report: a fair review of the business, as required by the Act, is included in Financial Results and Dividends the Strategic Report.
The information in our Governance Report is We include a review of our operational and financial performance, included in this Directors Report by reference: current position and future developments in our Strategic Report: Strategy, Risks, Performance and Governance sections.
future developments in the business are included in the Chief Executives Review: The profit attributable to equity holders of the Company for the financial year was 1,422 million, as shown in our consolidated information relating to our people can be found in the Rewarding income statement.
Note 3 to the Financial Statements gives an Workplace section: analysis of revenue and operating profit.
our principal risks can be found in the Principal Risks and An analysis of net assets is provided in the Consolidated Balance Uncertainties section: and Sheet and the related Notes to the Financial Statements.
the Directors of the Company during the financial year can be The Directors have declared and proposed dividends as follows: found in the Governance report.
million 2014 2013 Share Capital Ordinary Shares Details of our share capital are shown in Note 24 to the Financial Interim paid, 38.8p per share Statements.
All shares other than those held in treasury are freely 2013: 35.2p 370 341 transferable and rank pari passu for voting and dividend rights.
Proposed final, 89.3p per share 2013: 81.2p 851 783 At our AGM on 5 February 2014 shareholder authority for the buyback of up to 106,794,000 shares was obtained.
Total ordinary dividends, 128.1p per share 2013: 116.4p 1,221 1,124 As at 30 September 2014 we held 78,909,137 shares in treasury, which represented 7.62 per cent of issued share capital and had an The final dividend, if approved, will be paid on 17 February 2015 aggregate nominal value of 7,890,914. to our shareholders on the Register of Members at the close of business on 16 January 2015.
The associated ex-dividend date will We have not cancelled these shares but hold them in a treasury be 15 January 2015.
We paid an interim dividend on 19 August 2014 shares reserve within our profit and loss account reserve and they to shareholders on the Register of Members at the close of business represent a deduction from equity shareholders funds.
As announced at our Half Year results on 7 May shares do not carry any voting or dividend rights.
2014, we are moving to quarterly dividend payments with effect from At 30 September 2014 we had been notified of the following interests financial year 2015.
The first and second dividends for financial year in 3 per cent or more of our shares and there have been no changes 2015 will be announced with our half year results on 7 May 2015 to this information up to the date of this Annual Report.
and will be paid in June 2015 and September 2015.
The third and fourth dividends will be announced with the full year results on Number of Percentage ordinary shares of issued 10 November 2015 and paid in December 2015 and, subject to millions share capital AGM approval, in March 2016.
2 BlackRock Inc 53 5.51 2 Capital Group Companies Inc 48 4.99 1 Invesco Limited 47 4.94 Morgan Stanley Investment 1 Management Limited 42 4.44 2 Franklin Resources Inc 41 4.30 1 Direct holding.
42 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS The nine credit agreements are: Relations With Other Stakeholders Charitable and Political Donations a credit facilities agreement dated 15 July 2014 under which As part of our responsible approach and our commitment to certain banks and financial institutions make available to Imperial reinvesting in society, we continue to support the communities in Tobacco Finance PLC and Imperial Tobacco Enterprise Finance which we operate by choosing to allocate some 3.28 million 2013: Limited a committed acquisition credit facilities across three 3.20million to partnership and community investment.
Through the tranches of $4,100 million, $1,500 million and $1,500 million, for UK Charities Aid Foundation we apportion some 1.72 million to a maximum period of up to three years, four years and six years registered charities.
This funds our support of the Eliminating Child respectively: b committed credit facilities of 1,000 million for a Labour in Tobacco Growing Foundation, our own Altadis Foundation period of up to three years: and c committed credit facilities in and a small number of UK charities connected with our Global Head two tranches of 2,835 million and 500 million for a period of Office.
The remaining amount of some 1.53 million is allocated to five years: and our leaf sustainability partnerships which seek to help rural tobacco eight deeds of counter-indemnity each dated 3 June 2014 made growing communities, predominantly in sub-Saharan Africa.
Our leaf on substantially the same terms under which certain insurance partnership projects are mainly enabled directly with suppliers under companies and financial institutions each make available to contract, rather than with registered charities.
Some 0.03 million Imperial Tobacco Limited a surety bond, in each case issued was also used to support some ad hoc employee fundraising on a standalone basis but in aggregate forming an amount of activities mainly in response to humanitarian needs in the Balkans 400 million, until 3 December 2019. and Ukraine.
The 3.28 million only reflects a centralised budget.
We do not currently account for additional activities including In the event that any of the listed credit facility agreements are management time, volunteering, gifts in-kind and localised activities.
subject to any such repayment and cancellation, we would expect More detailed information on our approach to supporting community the Group to replace these agreements with similar arrangements in livelihoods can be found in the Corporate Responsibility section of order to satisfy its existing funding commitments, ongoing working our website www.
All charitable donations capital and similar requirements, as well as its long-term and and partnership investments are subject to the requirements of our strategic plans.
In particular, the committed acquisition credit facilities Code of Conduct.
under the credit facilities agreement dated 15 July 2014 are intended to be utilised in due course to satisfy the funding and payment No political donations were made to EU political parties, obligations of the Group under the asset purchase agreement that organisations or candidates 2013: nil.
was entered into with Reynolds American Inc. on the same date.
Pension Fund Under this asset purchase agreement, the Group has agreed to Our main pension fund, the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund, is not acquire a number of brands and assets from Reynolds American Inc. controlled by the Board but by a trustee company, the board of currently owned by Reynolds American Inc. and Lorillard Inc. for a which consists of five directors nominated by the Company, one consideration of $7.1 billion, following the proposed acquisition of director chosen by employees and two by current and deferred Lorillard Inc. by Reynolds American Inc.
The transaction is expected pensioners.
This trustee company looks after the assets of the to complete in the spring of 2015 and, in the event of any such pension fund, which are held separately from those of the Group repayment and cancellation of the committed acquisition credit and are managed by independent fund managers.
The pension fund facilities, we would expect the Group to replace these credit assets can only be used in accordance with the funds rules and for facilities with similar or other arrangements in order to enable it no other purpose.
Further details are contained in our Remuneration to satisfy its funding and payment obligations under the asset Report on pages 56 and 57. purchase agreement.
Articles of Association Imperial Tobacco Finance PLC the Issuer has issued bonds under The Companys Articles of Association do not contain any a Euro Medium Term Notes EMTN Debt Issuance Programme entrenchment provisions and, therefore, may be altered or added to as noted below.
The Company acted as guarantor.
or completely new articles may be adopted by special resolution The final terms of this series of notes contain change of control subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. provisions under which the holder of each note will, subject to any Significant Agreements That Take Effect, Alter or Terminate on earlier exercise by the Issuer of a tax call, have the option to require Change of Control the Issuer to redeem or, at the Issuers option, purchase that note The agreements summarised below are those we consider to be at its nominal value if: a any person, or persons acting in concert significant to the Group as a whole and which contain provisions or on behalf of any such person s becomes interested in: i more giving the other party a specific right to terminate them if we are than 50 per cent of the issued or allotted ordinary share capital of subject to a change of control following a takeover bid.
the Company: or ii such number of shares in the capital of the Company carrying more than 50 per cent of the voting rights The Group has nine credit facility agreements that provide that, normally exercisable at a general meeting of the Company: and b unless the lenders otherwise agree, if any person or group of as a result of the change of control, there is either: i a reduction to a associated persons acquires the right to exercise more than non-investment grade rating or withdrawal of the investment grade 50 per cent of the votes at a general meeting of the Company, rating of the notes which is not raised again, reinstated to or replaced the respective borrowers must repay any outstanding utilisation by an investment grade rating during the change of control period made by them under the respective facility agreement and the specified in the final terms: or ii to the extent that the notes are not total commitments under that facility agreement will be cancelled.
rated at the time of the change of control, the Issuer fails to obtain an investment grade credit rating of the notes within the change of control period as a result of the change of control.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 43 DIRECTORS REPORT continued The bonds issued in such manner are as follows: Spain Following our acquisition of Altadis in January 2008, we were 15 September 2008 600,000,000 8.125 per cent guaranteed involved in a claim in Spain brought in the Administrative Court the notes due 2024: CADAN on behalf of the Regional Government of Andalucia the 17 February 2009 1,000,000,000 9 per cent guaranteed notes Junta.
The claim was brought against Altadis and a number of other due 2022: tobacco companies, as well as the State.
On 23 December 2013, the CADAN dismissed the Junta's claim on procedural grounds.
17 February 2009 1,500,000,000 8.375 per cent guaranteed The Junta did not register an intention to appeal.
Since all deadlines notes due 2016: for appeal have now expired, the case is closed.
24 June 2009 500,000,000 7.75 per cent guaranteed notes Italy due 2019: We are currently facing two claims in Italy.
The first is against Logista, 5 July 2011 850,000,000 4.5 per cent guaranteed notes which is the subject of a challenge on grounds of jurisdiction and due 2018: the admission of evidence.
This challenge was heard in 2006 but judgment is still awaited.
26 September 2011 500,000,000 5.5 per cent guaranteed notes due 2026: The second claim has been brought in the Court of Messina by two individuals claiming 800,000 in total.
2 December 2011 750,000,000 5 per cent guaranteed notes The first hearing took place on 17 September 2014 and the next due 2019: hearing has been scheduled for 24 June 2015.
28 February 2014 1,000,000,000 2.25 per cent guaranteed To date, no action has been successful or settled in favour of any notes due 2021: claimant in any tobacco-related litigation against Imperial Tobacco 28 February 2014 650,000,000 3.375 per cent guaranteed or any of its subsidiaries.
Imperial Tobacco has been advised by its notes due 2026: and lawyers that it has meritorious defences to the legal proceedings set out above.
We will continue vigorously to contest all such litigation 28 February 2014 500,000,000 4.875 per cent guaranteed against us.
Imperial Tobacco Finance PLC has also issued bonds in the Statement of the Directors in United States of America under the provisions of section 144a and Regulation S respectively of the US Securities Act 1933.
The Respect of the Annual Report and Company acted as guarantor.
The final terms of this series of notes Financial Statements contain change of control provisions under which the holder of each As required by the Code, the Directors confirm that they consider note will, subject to any earlier exercise by the Issuer of a tax call, the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and have the option to require the Issuer to redeem or, at the Issuers understandable and provides the information necessary for option, purchase that note at 101% of its nominal value if a i any shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business person as such term is used in the US Securities Exchange Act of model and strategy.
When arriving at this position the Board was 1934 the Exchange Act becomes the beneficial owner of more than assisted by considering the output and reports from a number of 50 per cent of the Companys voting stock: or ii there is a transfer long-established and embedded processes including the following: other than by merger, consolidation or amalgamation of all or substantially all of the Companys assets and those of its subsidiaries the Audit Committee reviewed the use of adjusted measures and to any person as such term is used in the Exchange Act : or iii a their appropriateness in aiding users of our financial statements to majority of the members of the Companys Board of Directors is better understand our performance: not continuing in such capacity: and b as a result of the change the Annual Report is drafted by appropriate senior management of control, there is either: i a reduction to a non-investment grade with overall co-ordination by the Director of Group rating or withdrawal of the investment grade rating of the notes which Communications to ensure consistency across sections: is not raised again, reinstated to or replaced by an investment grade rating during the change of control period specified in the final terms: an extensive verification process is undertaken to ensure or ii to the extent that the notes are not rated at the time of the factual accuracy: change of control, the Issuer fails to obtain an investment grade comprehensive reviews of drafts of the Annual Report are credit rating of the notes within the change of control period as a undertaken by members of the OPEX and other senior result of the change of control.
management: The bonds issued in such manner are as follows: an advanced draft is considered and reviewed by our internal 11 February 2013 $1,250,000 2.05 per cent guaranteed notes Audit Department, our Disclosure Committee, legal advisers due 2018: and and brokers: 11 February 2013 $1,000,000 3.50 per cent guaranteed notes the final draft is reviewed by the Audit Committee prior to due 2023. consideration by the Board: Update on Tobacco-Related Litigation our Board members also receive drafts of the Annual Report and Ireland Accounts in sufficient time to facilitate their review and input: and In the Republic of Ireland, the number of tobacco-related claims has discussing the draft Annual Report with both management and fallen to only five.
In four of these cases, the claimants are deceased PwC and where appropriate challenging the content and any and their solicitors have been unsuccessful in their efforts to contact judgement and assumptions used.
The fifth case has been inactive since 2003 and can be assumed to have been abandoned.
Even if it reactivates, it is very likely that it would be struck out on grounds of delay.
44 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the Group and the parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors have elected to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and the parent Company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom GAAP United Kingdom Accounting Standards and Applicable Law.
Under company law, the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the parent Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and parent Company financial statements respectively: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Act and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on page 29, confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
The Strategic Report and the Directors Report were approved and signed by order of the Board.
John Downing 4 November 2014 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales No: 3236483 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 45
