Board of Directors 1 2 3 4 5 1 Ken Hanna 3 John McConnell 5 Simon Borrows Chairman Group Finance Director Senior Independent Director Appointment to Board: Appointment to Board: Appointment to Board: September 2001 October 2009 October 2010 Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Ken is Chairman of Aggreko plc and John was appointed as Group Simon was appointed as Chief Executive a Non-Executive Director of Tesco plc.
Finance Director in October 2009, Officer of 3i Group plc in May 2012. having worked with the Group since He is also a Non-Executive Director of Prior to becoming Chairman, Ken was 1999.
John joined Inchcape Australasia The British Land Company PLC.
an Executive Director and Chief Financial as Chief Financial Officer before Officer of Cadbury plc.
He was previously Previously, Simon was the Co-Chief moving to the role of Chief Executive a Partner of Compass Partners International Executive of Greenhill & Co International LLP Officer of Australasia.
and Group Finance Director and Chief and was a founding partner of Greenhills Executive of Dalgety plc.
He has previous Prior to joining the Group, John worked European business.
Before starting experience with Guinness plc now Diageo with Reckitt and Colman now Reckitt Greenhill he was the Managing Director plc, Avis Europe and Black & Decker.
Benckiser for 13 years in a variety of of Baring Brothers International Limited.
senior finance roles in the UK, Germany Committee membership: Committee membership: and Australia.
Ken is Chairman of the Nominations Simon is a member of the Audit and Committee and a member of the John was appointed as a Non-Executive Nominations Committees.
Director of UBM plc in January 2014.
2 Andr Lacroix 4 Vicky Bindra Group Chief Executive Non-Executive Director Appointment to Board: Appointment to Board: September 2005 July 2011 Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Andr is the Senior Independent Vicky is President of Asia Pacific & Global Director of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc Accounts for MasterCard Worldwide.
Prior and Chairman of Good Restaurants AG.
to joining MasterCard in June 2009, Vicky worked with Bain & Company, Citi and He was previously Chairman and Chief GE Capital.
He was a member of the Executive Officer of Euro Disney S. C. A.
Prior Citi Management Committee and held to this he was the President of Burger King various senior roles within the company International, previously part of Diageo.
including head of SME Business for Committee membership: International, Sales & Marketing for Andr is a member of the CR Committee.
He was a financial services partner for Bain & Company Andr Lacroix leaves the Board in in the New York office.
Committee membership: Vicky is Chairman of the CR Committee and a member of the Audit and Nominations Committees.
42 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6 7 8 9 10 Committee membership: Nigel spent 32 years with Gallaher 6 Alison Cooper John is Chairman of the Audit Group plc in sales and marketing Non-Executive Director Committee and a member of the roles, becoming the Group Chief Appointment to Board: Nominations Committee.
He was previously July 2009 a Non-Executive Director of Thomas Skills and experience: Cook plc and the Senior Independent 8 Coline McConville Alison is Chief Executive of Imperial Director of Aggreko plc.
Non-Executive Director Tobacco Group PLC.
Appointment to Board: Committee membership: June 2014 Alison joined Imperial Tobacco in 1999 Nigel is Chairman of the Remuneration and through a number of senior roles has Committee and a member of the Skills and experience: contributed significantly to the international Nominations Committee.
Coline was the Chair of the Remuneration expansion.
She was appointed as Chief Committee of TUI Travel plc for three years Executive in May 2010 and since her before its merger with TUI AG in December 10 Till Vestring appointment she has led the development 2014 and she is now a member of the Non-Executive Director and implementation of Imperial Tobaccos German supervisory Board of TUI AG.
Appointment to Board: sustainable growth strategy.
She is also a Non-Executive Director of September 2011 UTV Media plc, Fevertree Drinks plc, Alison is a Chartered Accountant and was Skills and experience: Travis Perkins plc and a board member previously with  LLP.
Till is Senior Partner of Bain & Company of Wembley Stadium.
Till has a 23 year career Committee membership: Coline spent 10 years with Clear at Bain & Company of which the last Alison is a member of the Audit and Channel International Limited where 18 were spent in Asia with postings in Nominations Committees.
she was Chief Executive Officer Europe, Sydney, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Singapore.
from 2003 to 2006, having previously been 7 John Langston He has served as head of Bains Group Development Director and Chief Non-Executive Director Automotive & Industrial Practice in Operating Officer.
Coline began her Appointment to Board: Asia, Managing Partner for South East career in management consultancy, August 2013 Asia, as well as on Bains global Partner working with both McKinsey & Co and Nomination & Compensation Committee.
Skills and experience: LEK Partnership.
John is a Non-Executive Director and He has extensive experience advising Committee membership: Chairman of the Audit Committee of multinationals on growth strategy Coline is a member of the Remuneration, Rexam PLC.
He was formerly Finance across Asia as well as advising leading CR and Nominations Committees.
Director of Smiths Group plc, having Asian companies on strategy, M&A been a member of the Board since 2000. and organisation.
9 Nigel Northridge John held a number of senior commercial Till was appointed as a Non-Executive Non-Executive Director positions at Smiths Group including Group Director of Keppel Corporation in Appointment to Board: Managing Director of the Speciality February 2015.
July 2009 Engineering division and the Detection Committee membership: and Sealing Solutions divisions.
From 1993, Skills and experience: Till is a member of the Remuneration John held senior positions at TI Group plc, Nigel is Chairman of Paddy Power plc and Nominations Committees.
joining the Board of TI Group in 1998 until and Debenhams plc.
He was appointed the merger with Smiths and was also on as a Non-Executive Director of Aer Lingus the Board of Crossmatch, a US security plc in January 2014. company from 2007 until 2011 when it was sold.
