Our Role in the Value Chain OUR ROLE AS DISTRIBUTOR AND RETAILER IN THE AUTOMOTIVE VALUE CHAIN WE OPERATE ACROSS EACH STAGE OF THE VALUE CHAIN, PROVIDING A WELL-FINANCED AND PROFESSIONAL ROUTE TO MARKET FOR OUR BRAND PARTNERS.
Product Appoint & Manage Wholesale of Vehicles Parts Specification Import & Logistics the Dealer Network to Dealer Network We apply our local expertise We handle the distribution We appoint, manage, train We support the infrastructure of and unrivalled market process from factory gate and support franchised our franchised dealer networks understanding to specify to retail centre dealer networks models and volumes DISTRIBUTION AUSTRALIA RETAIL AUSTRALIA Inchcape is the exclusive Distributor for Subaru cars and parts In addition to our 14 Inchcape-owned Subaru in Australia and the custodian of the Subaru brand in this centres, our Retail operations in Australia include geographically massive market: indeed, we are responsible 26 sites for other brand partners.
Our Retail footprint for ensuring success across the breadth of the value chain expanded significantly in 2013 with the acquisition see above.
We appoint, train, develop and manage a network of Trivett, focused in Sydney, and includes a number of 86 independently owned Subaru dealers and additionally of the worlds leading premium brands: BMW, directly operate 14 Subaru sites ourselves.
Directly managing part Volkswagen, Jaguar and Land Rover as well highly of the network informs our understanding of consumer trends aspirational super-luxury brands such as Rolls-Royce, and Retail operations, enhancing our Distribution performance.
Bentley, Aston Martin and McLaren.
Our Customer 1st Strategy ensures a resolute focus across our Retail In the past 22 years we have taken the Subaru market share in operations to deliver the highest levels of customer Australia from close to 1% to just under 4% in 2014 when we sold service through a dedicated, knowledgeable and over 40,000 New Vehicles, setting a new record for the business.
Australia is the Retail Australia 2014 trading margin TH largest Subaru 4 20 BPS YOY market in the world 8 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS National Marketing Customer Vehicle Finance & Price Positioning Engagement Vehicle Sales & Insurance Aftersales Our deep market Our Customer 1st strategy, We provide high Our F&I specialists help Our trained technicians insight enables us to enabled by Inchcape quality brand customers find the most and hi-tech facilities build strong pricing Advantage, ensures we representation and efficient way to finance give us a unique power into our brands gain unique customer outstanding customer their vehicles and competitive advantage and grow market share insight so we consistently service through state provide customers the deliver superior customer of the art retail centres opportunity to purchase service in every market ancillary products More on Inchcape Advantage on page 14 DISTRIBUTION SINGAPORE Inchcape has operated in Singapore for nearly 40 years and is the market leader.
We operate as Borneo Motors representing Toyota, Lexus and Hino, and as Champion Motors representing Suzuki.
Singapore is a geographically compact city state, making it logical that as exclusive Distributor we also run all of the Retail operations: this means we are able to leverage 100% of the local value chain.
Five principal Sales sites, complemented by nine Aftersales sites, cover the entire territory for all our brands.
This model of distributing and running all retail sites is typical across many of our small markets.
The economics of our model are particularly strong in Singapore thanks to our long-established leading market share position, which drives high levels of throughput across all value drivers within a highly efficient footprint.
