Formula Inchcape Processes EXECUTING OUR OPERATIONAL PRIORITIES THROUGH OUR FORMULA INCHCAPE PROCESSES 12 PROPRIETARY PROCESSES ENSURE OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE IN EVERY MARKET 1 3 5 Market intelligence Marketing and innovation World-class retail standards We have unparalleled insight into the We invest continually in the worlds and forecasting best positioning and promotion of our most advanced retail technologies, We grow our understanding and partners brands and models in our infrastructure and our people to ensure knowledge of our markets by using 26 local markets.
Our StarPlus marketing all our customers in every market enjoy powerful retail indicators and leading model provides process discipline to an outstanding experience every time technologies.
Enabling accurate sales drive growth in revenue and market they interact with us.
forecasts and the identification of share and further strengthen the new trends before they emerge, they equity and image of our brands.
bring us strong competitive advantage in all economic cycles.
6 Customer service 2 Our unique Inchcape Advantage programme underpins our commitment to delivering consistently superior Supply and working customer service in every outlet.
It also capital management drives market share growth, protects the Integrating our management pricing power of our brands and creates processes, market measures and sustainable Aftersales retention forecasting enables us to synchronise everywhere we operate.
This not only enables us to control MEASURING CUSTOMER costs, it gives a real competitive 4 advantage in terms of satisfying SERVICE customers availability requirements.
Across our 26 markets, each month Dealer network development we conduct over 16,000 customer In our Distribution markets, our route to interviews covering Vehicle Sales and market is often largely fulfilled by thirdAftersales.
This rigorous process feeds party dealers.
Our network development into our Net Promoter Score NPS, teams provide their expertise in network a fair and consistent measure for expansion, retail standards, operational customer service that is linked to training and IT support.
This is how we remuneration across all our markets.
ensure world-class representation for Group our brands.
NPS % 28since 2009 14 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 11 7 9 Investing in people Performance management Global IT infrastructure Our winning people in winning teams We carefully balance strong central Our proprietary Distribution and Retail enable us to consistently outperform our governance with empowered local information technologies enhance competition across the world.
It is our management who have the expertise Group wide productivity.
Our global centralised and local focus on ensuring to make decisions based on in-depth iPower programme reduces complexity we have the right people, the right market knowledge.
As a result, we respond and provides the business with learning opportunities, the right reward rapidly and effectively to changing enhanced management information systems and the right culture that market conditions at every level.
iPOWERSAP CDK 8 Inchcape is rolling out our best-in-class SAP and CDK formerly ADP integrated solutions, known as our iPower Capex and investment programme, to support our Customer While the strength of our balance sheet 1st strategy and business model.
The and brand partner relationships gives programme has been designed to us access to investment opportunities, our hardwire our Inchcape Advantage highly disciplined and selective approach standards to ensure performance to investment targets only high-growth and consistency, strengthen our controls high-margin opportunities.
and minimise risk, improve efficiency across both our front and back offices and underpin the Groups SINGAPORE THE SALE OF growth agenda.
Key iPower market 24 LENG KEE ROAD completions made in 2014 included In 2014, our Singapore business Hong Kong, Singapore and Peru.
disposed of a property at 24 Leng 12 Kee Road to realise significant cash proceeds of 21.6m.
The existing body Rewarding performance and paint facilities on this site are 10 Our culture recognises individual being relocated as part of a new contributions to our collective multi-storey facility in Pandan.
Recognition and Organising our property portfolio The Groups risk appetite is determined acclaim are as important as in such a way ensures the efficiency by the Board, while the Group iPOM compensation in maintaining our of our invested capital for the benefit Inchcape Peace of Mind Committee engaged workforce of committed, of our shareholders.
In our energetic and enthusiastic people.
decentralised structure, oversight of risk management is the responsibility of senior management in local markets.
