Directors Report to each of the Directors of the Company.
Under the provisions Directors of the QTPI the Company undertakes to indemnify each Director The Directors of the Company who were in office during the against liability to third parties excluding criminal and regulatory year were: penalties and to pay Directors costs as incurred, provided that they are reimbursed to the Company if the Director is found guilty Chairman or, in an action brought by the Company, judgment is given Ken Hanna against the Director.
The indemnity has been in force for the financial year ended 31 December 2014 and until the date Executive Directors of approval of this Report.
Andr Lacroix John McConnell Going concern A full description of the Groups business activities, financial Non-Executive Directors position, cash flows, liquidity position, committed facilities and Vicky Bindra borrowing position, together with the factors likely to affect its Simon Borrows future development and performance, is set out in the Strategic Alison Cooper Report on pages 2 to 41 and in the notes to the accounts on John Langston pages 90 to 135.
Coline McConville The Group has significant financial resources and the Directors, Nigel Northridge having reviewed the Groups operating budgets, investment Till Vestring plans and financing arrangements, have assessed the future funding requirements of the Group and compared this with Each Director held office throughout the year except the level of committed facilities and cash resources.
Coline McConville who was appointed on 1 June 2014.
There have been no appointments between 1 January 2015 and The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company 9 March 2015. and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the Directors The biographical details for each Director are given on pages are satisfied that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern 42 and 43. basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
In accordance with the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code Directors responsibilities all of the Directors will stand for election or re-election at the The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Annual General Meeting AGM on 21 May 2015 except for the Directors Report on Remuneration and the financial Andr Lacroix who leaves the Group in March 2015 and Simon statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Borrows who will not be seeking re-election.
Stefan Bomhard, the new Group Chief Executive who joins on 1 April 2015, will stand for Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial election at the AGM.
statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the Group financial statements in accordance Results and dividends with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as The Groups audited consolidated financial statements for the adopted by the European Union, and the parent Company year ended 31 December 2014 are shown on pages 78 to 82. financial statements in accordance with applicable law and The Board recommends a final ordinary dividend of 13.8p per United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom ordinary share.
If approved at the 2015 AGM, the final ordinary dividend will be Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial paid on 25 June 2015 to shareholders registered in the books statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and of the Company at the close of business on 29 May 2015. fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company Together with the interim dividend of 6.3p per ordinary share and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing paid on 5 September 2014, this makes a total ordinary dividend these financial statements, the Directors are required to: for the year of 20.1p per ordinary share 2013 17.4p.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply Auditors and disclosure of information to auditors them consistently: So far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: The Directors have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as Directors in order to make themselves aware of any state whether IFRS, as adopted by the European Union relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys and applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards, auditors are aware of that information.
have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and parent Company Directors indemnity financial statements respectively: and A qualifying third party indemnity QTPI, as permitted by the prepare the financial statements on the going concern Companys Articles of Association and sections 232 and 234 basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company of the Companies Act 2006, has been granted by the Company will continue in business.
74 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Significant shareholders records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys As at 9 March 2015, the Company had been notified of the transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any following significant shareholders: time the financial position of the Company and the Group and Shareholder Percentage notified enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Mr George Horesh 7.99% Directors Report on Remuneration comply with the Companies Standard Life 7.95% Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding Capital Group of Companies Inc 6.99% the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for Schroders plc 5.80% taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of Aberdeen Asset Managers 5.02% fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible Source TR-1 notifications.
These are updated on the Companys website.
for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation Share capital and dissemination of financial statements may differ from As at 31 December 2014, the Companys issued share capital legislation in other jurisdictions.
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys Each of the Directors who were in office at the date of this report Report and Accounts, to attend and speak at General Meetings whose names and responsibilities are listed on pages 42 to 43. and to appoint proxies and exercise voting rights.
The shares confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: do not carry any special rights with regard to control of the the Group financial statements, which have been prepared Company.
The rights are set out in the Articles of Association in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true of the Company.
and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and There are no restrictions or limitations on the holding of ordinary shares and no requirements for prior approval of any transfers.
the Operating Review contained on pages 26 to 34 includes There are no known arrangements under which financial rights a fair review of the development and performance of are held by a person other than the holder of the shares.
Shares the business and the position of the Group, together acquired through the Company share schemes rank pari passu with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties with the shares in issue and have no special rights.
Authority to purchase shares The Board has reviewed the content of the Annual Report At the Companys AGM on 16 May 2014, the Company was and Accounts and considers when taken as a whole that authorised to make market purchases of up to 45,671,674 it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the ordinary shares representing approximately 10.0% of its issued information necessary for shareholders to assess the share capital.
Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Articles of association Directors interests The appointment and replacement of Directors is governed The table showing the beneficial interests, other than share by the Companys Articles of Association.
Any changes to the options, including family interests, in the ordinary shares of the Articles of Association must be approved by the shareholders Company of the persons who were Directors at 31 December in accordance with the legislation in force from time to time.
2014 is shown in the Directors Report on Remuneration on The Directors have authority to issue and allot ordinary shares page 73. pursuant to article 10 of the Articles of Association and There have been no changes to the number of shares held shareholder authority is requested at each AGM.
The Directors by Directors between 31 December 2014 and 9 March 2015. have authority to make market purchases for ordinary shares and this authority is also renewed annually at the AGM.
Employee benefit trust The Executive Directors of the Company, together with other Conflicts of interest employees of the Group, are potential beneficiaries of the The Articles of Association permit the Board to authorise any Inchcape Employee Trust Trust and, as such, are deemed matter which would otherwise involve a Director breaching his to be interested in any ordinary shares held by the Trust.
duty under the Companies Act 2006 to avoid conflicts of interest.
When authorising a conflict of interest the Board must do so At 31 December 2014, the Trusts shareholding totalled without the conflicting Director counting as part of the quorum.
Between 1 January 2015 and In the event that the Board considers it appropriate, the 9 March 2015 the Trust transferred 174,387 ordinary shares to conflicted Director may be permitted to participate in the debate, satisfy the exercise of awards under employee share plans.
but will be permitted neither to vote nor count in the quorum when the decision is being agreed.
The Directors are aware that it is their responsibility to inform the Board of any potential conflicts as soon as possible and procedures are in place to facilitate disclosure.
com 75 Directors Report continued Change of control Employees The Company is not party to any significant agreements that The Company is committed to a policy of treating all its would take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control colleagues and job applicants equally.
We are committed to of the Company following a takeover bid.
However, certain of the employment of people with disabilities and will interview the Groups third party funding arrangements would terminate those candidates who meet the minimum selection criteria.
upon a change of control of the Company.
The Groups We provide training and career development for our employees, relationships with its brand partners are managed at Group level, tailored where appropriate to their specific needs, to ensure they but the relevant contracts are entered into at a local level with achieve their potential.
If an individual becomes disabled while day-to-day management being led by each operating business.
in our employment, we will do our best to ensure continued Certain of the contracts may terminate on a change of control development in their role, including consulting them about their of the local contracting company.
The Company does not requirements, making appropriate adjustments and providing have agreements with any Director or employee providing suitable alternative positions.
compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs Corporate governance statement because of a takeover bid, except for provisions in the rules The information required under DTR7 is given in the Corporate of the Companys share schemes which may result in options Governance Report on pages 46 to 57. or awards granted to employees to vest on a takeover.
Annual general meeting Transactions with directors The AGM will be held at 11.00 a. m. on Thursday, 21 May 2015 at No transaction, arrangement or agreement, other than Deutsche Bank AG, Winchester House, 1 Great Winchester Street.
remuneration, required to be disclosed in terms of the London EC2N 2DB.
The notice convening the meeting and the Companies Act 2006 and IAS 24, Related Parties was resolutions to be put to the meeting, together with the outstanding at 31 December 2014, or was entered into explanatory notes, are given in the Circular to all shareholders.
during the year for any Director and or connected person 2013 none.
The auditors,  LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in office.
A resolution to reappoint them Greenhouse gas emissions as auditors will be proposed at the AGM.
The information required under Schedule 7 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports The Directors Report and the Strategic Report were approved Regulations 2008 in respect of greenhouse gas emissions is given by the Board and have been signed by the Company Secretary in the Environment section of the Corporate Responsibility Report on its behalf.
Employee involvement The information required under Schedule 7 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 in respect of employee involvement is given in the People section of the Corporate Responsibility Report Tamsin Waterhouse on page 40.
Group Company Secretary Gender diversity The breakdown showing the number of female and male employees who were i Directors of the Company ii senior managers and iii employees of the Company as at 31 December 2014 is given in the Corporate Responsibility Report on page 40.
Financial instruments The information required under Schedule 7 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 in respect of financial instruments is given in note 23 to the financial statements on page 122 to 128.
Principal financial risk factors These risks are shown on pages 36 and 37.
Events after the reporting period In the year ended 31 December 2014, the Company purchased, for cancellation, 15,344,110 ordinary shares of 10.0p each at a cost of 100.0m including costs representing 3.41% of the issued share capital at that date.
In the period from 1 January to 9 March 2015, the Company purchased, for cancellation, a further 3,316,668 ordinary shares of 10.0p each at a cost of 23.9m including costs.
The Company is committed to completing the share buy back programme by 30 June 2015.
76 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 78 Consolidated income statement 79 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 80 Consolidated statement of financial position 81 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 82 Consolidated statement of cash flows 83 Accounting policies 90 Notes to the financial statements 136 Five year record 137 Report of the auditors Group 142 Company balance sheet 143 Accounting policies 144 Notes to the financial statements 149 Report of the auditors Company 151 Shareholder information 152 Company details www.
