Executive committee 1 2 3 4 5 6 Director of Implementation, Inchcape 1 Andr Lacroix 6 Stphane Chatal Advantage.
In this role George led the Group Chief Executive Group Chief Information Officer implementation of a Group-wide strategic Appointment to Executive Committee: Appointment to Executive Committee: programme putting the customer at the February 2006 November 2011 heart of the Groups service initiatives.
In Please see page 42 for full biography.
October 2006, George was appointed Skills and experience: Managing Director, European Retail where he Stphane was appointed as Chief led the implementation of world-class retail 2 John McConnell Information Officer in 2008 and is responsible operation programmes across the European for the Groups Information Systems IS Group Finance Director retail network.
He was also responsible for the strategy, its implementation and the IS Appointment to Executive Committee: integration of businesses acquired in the function.
Before joining the Group, Stphane February 2006 Baltics and the construction and opening of spent over four years with Reckitt Benckiser Please see page 42 for full biography.
four greenfield operations in eastern Europe.
in senior IT roles, most recently as Global George was Chief Executive Officer, Toyota Solutions Director.
3 Aris Aravanis Belgium from July 2009 to December 2011.
Prior to Reckitt Benckiser, Stphane Managing Director, Greece and George joined the Group from Yum worked for Procter & Gamble for 12 years, the Balkans Restaurants International previously where he was responsible for the global Appointment to Executive Committee: Pepsi Restaurants International, where implementation of multi-country, singleJuly 2009 he spent 10 years holding several senior instance SAP systems and centralised Skills and experience: management positions.
In July 2013, Aris was promoted to Managing Director, Greece and the Balkans and is 5 Koh Ching Hong 7 Louis Fallenstein responsible for Greece, Bulgaria, Romania Managing Director, Inchcape South Asia Chief Executive Officer, Emerging Markets and Macedonia.
Aris joined the Group in Appointment to Executive Committee: Appointment to Executive Committee: 1991 and during his tenure has led the August 2009 January 2012 establishment and development of Tefin, Skills and experience: Skills and experience: a finance company that was constituted by Ching Hong joined Borneo Motors in January Louis was appointed Managing Director, Toyota Hellas and EFG Eurobank, to the top of 2008.
He was appointed as Managing Emerging Markets in January 2012 and was the automotive financing market in Greece.
Director, Inchcape South Asia in August 2009 promoted to Chief Executive Officer in July In February 2000, Aris assumed the position and is responsible for Borneo Motors and 2013.
He is responsible for retail and of General Manager of Toyota Hellas and Champion Motors in Singapore and NBT distribution activities in Poland, the Nordics, then became Deputy Managing Director in Brunei.
Prior to joining the Group, Ching South America, Africa and Russia.
He and a member of the Board of Directors.
Hong was Managing Director of Fuji Xerox oversees both current operations and our Before joining Toyota Hellas, Aris had extensive Singapore and an Executive member of future expansion plans in these markets.
experience in the finance field, working in Fuji Xerox Asia Pacific Senior Management Prior to this, Louis was Franchise Director BMW various sectors including the food industry, from 1996 to 2008.
In these roles he led the for our UK business.
Louis has been with the electric cabling and banking.
transformation and restructuring of its Group since the acquisition of European business model and business approach, Motor Holdings plc and was a major force in 4 George Ashford thereby increasing market share, doubling the integration of the Lind Automotive Group Chief Executive Officer, revenue and leading the organisation into and European Motor Holdings with the UK Inchcape Australasia the prestigious Singapore Quality Class, retail businesses.
Appointment to Executive Committee: achieving a high customer satisfaction index.
October 2006 Skills and experience: George was appointed as Chief Executive Officer, Inchcape Australasia in January 2012.
George joined the Group in March 2006 as 44 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7 8 9 10 11 12 In August 2013, Kens role was extended 8 Tony George 11 Bertrand Mallet to include leadership of the Group-wide Group HR and Business Chief Executive Officer, Toyota Belgium Marketing community.
Development Director Appointment to Executive Committee: Prior to joining the Group, Ken held the Appointment to Executive Committee: July 2008 position of Group Marketing Director at February 2007 Skills and experience: the RAC from 1999 to 2003, having been Bertrand was appointed as Chief Executive Skills and experience: part of the team that acquired and then led In addition to his role as Group HR Officer, Toyota Belgium in January 2012. the business post demutualisation.
During Prior to this appointment he was Managing Director, Tony took over responsibility for his tenure the company moved from a car strategy and business development in Director of the Emerging Markets and the breakdown organisation to a customer Group Strategy Director.
He has over 25 years focused motoring services group.
Before experience in Human Resources and joining the RAC, Ken worked for Lex Before joining the Group in 2008, Bertrand General Management in International Service plc, where as Marketing Director spent over six years with Euro Disney in both FMCG, chemicals, telecommunications and he successfully established the Hyundai strategy and sales roles, including as the customer service oriented retail companies.
Managing Director for the French market.
In his previous role he was HR Director, During his tenure, a new sales and marketing Corporate Functions for Vodafone plc 10 Patrick S Lee approach was defined and implemented.
and, prior to that, SVP International Partner Chief Executive Officer, Prior to Euro Disney, he spent five years as a Resources for Starbucks Coffee Company Inchcape North Asia and China senior consultant with Bain & Company, both based in the US.
Tony has also worked with Appointment to Executive Committee: in France and in the USA.
His main areas of ICI in India, Diageo plc where he was the first focus were around retail and distribution.
November 2006 Global Management Development Director Bertrand began his career in Sales and Skills and experience: UDV in the UK and Burger King, where he was Marketing with Automobiles Peugeot Patrick is in charge of our VIR operations the SVP International HR.
in Hong Kong, Macau and Guam.
In Tony has lived and worked in India, the UK, all three markets, Toyota has maintained USA and Australia.
He is Chief Executive Officer, Inchcape UK also responsible for the Groups operations 9 Ken Lee Appointment to Executive Committee: in China.
Group Marketing and November 2009 Prior to this, Patrick was the Group General Communications Director Skills and experience: Manager, Sales and Marketing of Kerry Appointment to Executive Committee: Connor has been with the Group since Beverages Ltd from 1998 to 2006.
Kerry November 2006 July 2005, having initially joined as Finance Beverages owned and operated 11 Skills and experience: Director, UK Retail and was appointed Coca-Cola bottling plants in China.
Patricks Ken joined the Group in September 2003 Chief Executive Officer of the UK business in experience in auto retailing came from a as Marketing Director for the UK businesses, November 2009.
Toronto Honda dealership where he worked where he led the development of online for three years and was awarded the highest Connor has led the business through car retailing and a pioneering customer honour of Sales Master by Honda Canada the acquisitions and integrations of the experience programme.
In early 2006 he was for two consecutive years.
Patrick started Lind Automotive Group and European Motor appointed Customer Strategy Director to lead his career in brand marketing with Procter Holdings, as well as playing an instrumental the Group-wide identification of customer & Gamble and has worked in various part in the right sizing of the UK business.
insights to drive the Companys pioneering locations including Canada, Switzerland, Prior to joining the Group Connor held senior Inchcape Advantage programme.
In late Thailand and Hong Kong.
Patrick holds positions with B&Q plc, Kingfisher plc, the 2006 he was appointed to the Executive a BBA and an MBA from the Chinese LOral Group and the Gillette Company.
Committee as Group Communications University of Hong Kong.
Director with global responsibility for internal and .
