Strategic Report Our fourth objective Grow our business through targeted acquisitions that align to our vision Expanding by license and acquisition Conclusion We are clear that our core business is addiction Indivior has a long-term, sustainable business Our priorities for 2015 and that will remain our main focus.
We continue built on a unique patient-focused model.
Build resilience of our to search for products and technologies that will We are the leading opioid addiction treatment franchise help us improve the delivery of buprenorphine company in the world.
We have a sustainable in opioid addiction treatment.
franchise in opioid addiction, built on the strength Preserve leadership position of our existing marketed products, sustained in US against four generic and Even within broader addiction, we will continue relationships we have across stakeholders and two branded competitors to look for medical compounds that have our intimate understanding of the patient journey.
demonstrated potential for treatment in areas 2.
Develop our pipeline We are actively pursuing future growth platforms, where we are not present today, such as cannabis, with an exciting pipeline of new opportunities Lifecycle products for cocaine, methamphetamine and alcohol.
We have a highly committed Suboxone and experienced management team.
Treatments for other addictions We believe that being an independent company, and overdose rescue with a sole focus on our core business, we are 2015 will be a year of transition for Indivior.
much more strongly positioned to attract partners Suboxone Film will be affected by pressure on 3.
Expand global treatment in the field of addiction.
We can also look at market share and pricing in the US with greater Expand access to treatment in US expanding our business into areas of co-morbidity competition from four generic and two branded Expand treatment for opioid where we can leverage our existing strengths and entrants.
In Europe, government austerity painkiller dependence in Europe business model.
measures continue to put pressure on pricing.
Expand to underserved countries However, we believe the business will prove outside our footprint to be resilient and will continue to outperform industry norms.
The promise of our exceptional 4. Business development organization and our exciting pipeline give me Expand business and diversify great confidence in our long-term future.
business risk through targeted business development Case study 5 Karries story Patient, US At 18, I was all ready for college.
In fact, it was My boyfriend struggled with the same addiction the start of a decade-long addiction that changed and decided to seek help.
I began taking prescription painkillers working with his doctor, I noticed positive to fit in with my peers and soon developed an changes in him and wanted to improve too.
My only priority was I recognized that, as an addict, I would never to feed that dependence.
achieve what I wanted in life.
Through support groups and daily treatment Through the next ten years of addiction, I still managed to hold a steady job.
But when I was with Suboxone Film, I began to turn my life around, so I could be the person I wanted to be.
asked to relocate, I decided Id rather lose my job than move away from my drug connections.
Now, I feel I have healthy relationships and a purpose in life.
Unemployed, and estranged from my family and friends, I spent two months living in my car.
My friends and family tried to help, but I was afraid of withdrawal and giving up the person I had become under the influence of drugs.
18 Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic Report I began to turn my life around, so I could be the person I wanted to be Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 19
