Strategic Report Operational detail Manufacturing Employees Active pharmaceutical ingredients As of December 31, 2014, Indivior employed 728 people worldwide.
The active pharmaceutical ingredients used in Indiviors products Of these, 442 were located in North America and 286 were located are manufactured at the Fine Chemical Plant FCP located in Hull, in the rest of the world.
Of Indiviors 728 employees, approximately UK.
The FCP is owned by Reckitt Benckiser Healthcare UK Limited 389 were employed in commercial sales and marketing positions: RBH.
The process of transferring ownership of the equipment 126 were employed full time in research and development, clinical within the FCP to Indivior is underway and is scheduled to complete and regulatory positions: 106 were employed in general management between Q2 2015 and Q2 2016.
The FCP has the capacity to produce and other support positions: 77 were employed in medical affairs all Indiviors current buprenorphine HCl requirements with positions: and 30 were employed in supply and quality assurance approximately 35% available capacity remaining.
The senior managers identified below for the purposes of of FCP control, Indivior will produce buprenorphine hydrochloride s414 C 8 of the Companies Act 2006 are members of the Executive HCl for use in the manufacture of Subutex Tablet, Suboxone Committee and the Directors of the Companys subsidiaries.
Tablet, Suboxone Film, Temgesic and Buprenex.
Indivior is currently Number of women Number of men engaged in validating an alternate source of buprenorphine HCl supply for Suboxone Film.
The naloxone HCl active pharmaceutical Board of Directors 2 9 ingredient is procured mainly from two suppliers for both Senior Managers 8 13 Suboxone Tablet and Suboxone Film.
Buprenorphine HCl and products containing buprenorphine HCl are classified as controlled Total Employees 403 325 narcotics and require permits for import and export.
An annual importation assessment value for buprenorphine HCl and products containing buprenorphine HCl is set by each importing country through the International Narcotics Control Board INCB.
While this process has not impacted product supply to Indiviors patients in the past, it presents a manufacturing and product supply risk that must be monitored closely.
Tablet and injection products Indivior has entered into a seven-year supply agreement with RBH, whereby RBH will assume responsibility for the formulation, compressing, and finished goods packaging of Subutex Tablet and Suboxone Tablet, as well as the formulation, filling, and terminal sterilization of Temgesic and Buprenex.
Suboxone Film Suboxone Film is manufactured under an exclusive license and supply agreement with MonoSol Rx MSRX signed in August 2008.
Under the terms of the agreement, MSRX is the global exclusive manufacturer and primary packager of Suboxone Film and is prohibited from developing any other film product containing buprenorphine without Indiviors written consent.
The agreement terminates upon expiry of the last MSRX patent.
Both buprenorphine HCl and the naloxone HCl are supplied free of charge by Indivior to MSRX to be used in the manufacture of Suboxone Film.
MSRX has two manufacturing facilities located in Portage, Indiana.
Manufacture and primary packaging of all Suboxone Film output is currently approved at one facility and Indivior is executing a project plan to enable both manufacture and primary packaging at the second facility.
The second facility is currently approved for primary packaging of the majority of US Suboxone Film volume.
Serialization and secondary packaging of global Suboxone Film output is performed by Sharp Packaging Solutions, located in Allentown, Pennsylvania, under a supply agreement that expires in December 2016.
All finished Suboxone Film product from Sharp is shipped to Indiviors US third-party distribution service provider, Integrated Commercialization Solutions, located in Brooks, Kentucky, and either distributed for sale within the US or exported to other markets where it is approved for sale.
Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 23
