Strategic Report Chairmans Statement The addiction treatment revolution has only just started and that is why the future for Indivior is so exciting In the US where an office-based treatment On behalf of the Board and Shareholders, model has been adopted for treating opioid I thank them for their efforts so far, addiction, only a minority of people with particularly all the extra work required addiction are currently in treatment.
to make the demerger happen.
We must widen awareness and acceptance Finally, I welcome all our Shareholders of treatment to help improve access.
I hope the future Indivior is a Company with a unique business excites you as much as it does your Board model which is focused on empowering and management team.
We will work to patients and striving to improve their make it a rewarding future for Shareholders.
quality of life by pioneering innovative, We have a clear dividend policy, adopted high-quality, accessible and cost-effective at the demerger, to pay out 40% of earnings treatment.
Indiviors people have a passion in 2015: following which the Board will to help addicted patients, and to enable review the dividend policy in the light of the those who can treat them.
Companys financial position and strategy.
I am delighted that we have appointed Please join me, the Board and the Welcome to Indivior PLCs a powerful Board of Directors with a wealth management in this exciting future.
This remarkable of relevant experience.
I welcome all my Company was listed on December 23, Howard Pien Board colleagues and thank them for the 2014 following the Reckitt Benckiser hard work in getting Indivior launched Chairman into independent life.
I know the Company Group plc RB demerger of its will benefit enormously from their advice pharmaceutical business.
grateful to RB, its Board and The Board, together with a Science and management team for their Policy Committee which the Board considers Opioid dependence and stewardship for the past 30 years, as essential for a pharmaceutical company, Suboxone Treatment and for the foresight that now was has adopted best practice UK corporate Opioid dependence is a complex, long the right time for independence.
governance models: Nomination and term medical condition, where regular Governance, Audit and Remuneration use of opioids e. g prescription painkillers Indivior PLC Indivior or the Company Committees of the Board are in place.
and heroin causes changes to the brain is a world leader in the treatment of opioid chemistry, which leads to dependence.
That simple statement, however, Indivior is also fortunate in the quality, passion and commitment of its management With physical and behavioral components, does not give credit for the fact that this Company has helped to create the team led by Shaun Thaxter, CEO, who was it resembles other chronic medical one of the pioneers of the business in the conditions or diseases such as diabetes recognition of opioid addiction as a medical condition rather than a criminal activity, US in 2003.
Indivior people are remarkable and hypertension and, like them, for their passion, their can-do attitude, it can be treated.
expanding the availability of treatment options beyond the clinical setting in the their innovative approach, and their Suboxone contains buprenorphine and entrepreneurial mindset.
US and permitting patients more flexibility naloxone.
Buprenorphine is the primary to receive treatment in the privacy of a Our management team is incentivized active ingredient.
By attaching to the same physicians office.
It is a remarkable story receptors as other opioids, it can help to to grow Indivior through the next phase that is told throughout this annual report.
of its life, to build on the resilience of the suppress withdrawal symptoms and reduce However, the addiction treatment revolution existing business, to develop the exciting cravings.
Naloxone is included to help pipeline of new products, to expand the prevent misuse.
If an opioid-dependent has only just started and that is why the future for Indivior is so exciting.
geographic reach of the treatment model person attempts to take Suboxone other to new countries, and to deliver the than as prescribed, the naloxone is likely resulting value to Shareholders.
to produce withdrawal signs and symptoms.
Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 1
