Corporate Governance and Remuneration Directors Report Directors Report Director indemnities and insurance cover The Directors present their Annual Report and In accordance with the provisions of its Articles, the Company has audited Financial Statements for the period ended executed a deed poll of indemnity for the benefit of its Directors December 31, 2014 for Indivior PLC and its subsidiaries and officers which is effective at any time on or after November 5, the Group as required by section 415 of the 2014.
The indemnity is granted by the Company to all officers of the Companies Act 2006.
Company and its subsidiaries on their appointment and covers, to the extent permitted by law, any third-party liabilities which they may Indivior PLC Indivior or the Company is a company incorporated incur as a result of their service to any Group company.
The Company in England and Wales and domiciled in the UK with registered number has arranged Directors and Officers liability insurance to cover certain 9237894.
The Company was incorporated as a public limited company liabilities and defense costs which the Companys indemnity does not on September 26, 2014. meet.
Neither the indemnity nor the insurance provides any protection in the event of a Director or officer being found to have acted On December 11, 2014, the Shareholders of Reckitt Benckiser fraudulently or dishonestly in respect of the Company.
Group plc RB approved a resolution to effect a demerger of its pharmaceuticals business.
The demerger was effective on Tuesday, Shares December 23, 2014 and Indivior was included in the Official List of the Share capital United Kingdom Listing Authority UKLA and its shares were admitted As at December 31, 2014, the Companys issued share capital to trading on the London Stock Exchange on the same day.
consisted of 718,577,618 ordinary shares of US$2.00.
On January 21, 2015, the High Court of Justice made an Order confirming the Directors reduction of the Companys share capital which was referred to in The Directors appointed on November 4, 2014 unless otherwise the prospectus published by the Company on November 17, 2014. stated who held office during the reporting period and serving Following registration of the Order of the High Court with Companies at the date of this report are: House, the capital reduction became effective on January 21, 2015.
Rupert Bondy The nominal value of each ordinary share in the Company accordingly reduced from $2.00 to $0.10.
Details of changes to the ordinary shares Cary J. Claiborne appointed November 10, 2014 issued and of options and awards granted during the period are set Patrick Clements appointed September 26, 2014 out in Note 22 to the financial statements.
and resigned November 4, 2014 The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary Dr Yvonne Greenstreet shares are set out in the Articles.
There are no restrictions on the Adrian Hennah voting rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares or the transfer of securities in the Company except, in the case of transfers Dr A. Thomas McLellan of securities: William Mordan appointed September 26, 2014 and resigned November 4, 2014 That certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws : and Lorna Parker Daniel J. Phelan Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the UKLA whereby certain employees of the Company require the approval of the Company Howard Pien to deal in the Companys ordinary shares.
Christian Schade No person holds securities in the Company which carry special voting Daniel Tass rights with regard to control of the Company.
The Company is not Shaun Thaxter aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
A summary of the current Directors biographical details is set out on page 33.
Fuller details are available at www.
com about Allotment of shares the-board.
At the Companys first AGM on May 13, 2015, Shareholders will be asked to grant an authority to make such allotments up to a nominal All of the Directors will seek election at the Companys first Annual amount representing approximately one-third of the Companys General Meeting AGM on May 13, 2015, in accordance with the issued share capital as at the latest practicable date prior to the Companys Articles of Association Articles, which requires newly publication of the Notice of AGM.
In line with guidance issued by appointed directors to stand for election at the next AGM.
the Investment Association, Shareholders will also be asked to grant an authority to allot shares in connection with a rights issue in favor Directors interests in shares of Shareholders up to an aggregate nominal amount representing The beneficial interests of the Directors in the ordinary issued share approximately two-thirds of the issued ordinary share capital of capital of the Company are set out in the table at the end of this the Company as at the latest practicable date prior to publication report.
Details of Directors remuneration and service agreements of the Notice of AGM.
The authorities sought would, if granted, expire and the Executive Directors options to subscribe for shares in at the earlier of July 31, 2016 or at the conclusion of the AGM of the the Company are included on pages 48 to 61 of the Directors Company held in 2016.
A special resolution will also be proposed to grant the Directors No Director had a material interest at any time during the year in any power to make non-pre-emptive issues for cash up to a nominal derivative or financial instrument relating to the Companys shares.
amount representing less than 10% of the Companys issued share capital as at the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the Notice of AGM.
36 Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Corporate Governance and Remuneration Directors Report Authority to purchase own shares Political donations Shareholders will be asked to approve a resolution for the Company Under s. 366 and s. 367 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company is to make purchases of its own shares at this years AGM in May 2015. required to disclose political donations made to a political party, This is to ensure that the Directors retain the flexibility to start political organization, an independent election candidate or any other a buy-back program should they so decide at a later date.
In accordance with the Companys This authority will be limited to a maximum of 71,857,761 ordinary requirements under the Code, the Company has published a Schedule shares and set the minimum and maximum prices which may of Matters Reserved for the Board which states that no political be paid.
The Companys present intention is to hold any shares donations will be made directly by the Company or its UK subsidiary acquired under such authority in Treasury to satisfy outstanding companies.
awards under employee share incentive plans.
It is worth noting, however, that the Companys US subsidiaries Substantial shareholdings do make political donations as defined under UK law but are not As at March 20, 2015, the following voting interests in the ordinary subject to that law.
Donations by its US subsidiaries will not exceed share capital of the Company disclosable under the FCAs Disclosure US$500,000.
and Transparency Rules have been notified to the Company: Auditor Percentage of As recommended by the Audit Committee, and having indicated their Number of ordinary issued share Shareholding entity shares held capital held willingness to act, the appointment of  LLP as Auditor of the Company will be proposed by ordinary resolution at the JAB Holdings B. V. 76,659,342 10.67% first AGM on May 13, 2015.
Janus Capital Management LLP 59,027,378 8.21% GHG emissions reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic and Directors Report Harbor International Fund 48,650,545 6.77% Regulations 2013, quoted companies are required to report their annual carbon emissions.
For the period January 1, 2014 to December Takeover Directive 31, 2014 the Groups emissions in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalents The Company is required to disclose certain additional information tCO e from: 2 required by s. 992 of the Companies Act 2006, which implemented the Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities Scope 1 EU Takeover Directive.
The following sets out disclosures not covered were 87 tCO e. elsewhere in this annual report.
2 Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use Scope 2 The Articles contain specific provisions and restrictions regarding the were 275 tCO e. Companys power to borrow money.
Powers relating to the alteration 2 of share capital are also included in the Articles and Shareholders Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions were 362 tCO e. 2 are asked to renew such authorities each year at the AGM.
A copy of the Articles is available from the corporate website www.
com The Groups intensity measurement for the same period was or on written request from the Company Secretary or from the UK 12.08 tCO e per employee.
data externally assured as part of RBs environmental data Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the Articles, the assurance process.
Companys Articles may be amended by a special resolution of Methodology for calculating the annual carbon emissions the Companys Shareholders.
CO e emissions were calculated using internationally recognized 2 There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate methodologies from the WRI WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol and upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover, International Energy Authority IEA.
The scope of the Groups reporting such as commercial contracts, bank agreements, property lease includes GHG emissions from facilities covered by the consolidated arrangements and employee share plans.
None of these are deemed financial statements for which we have operational control.
The data to be significant in terms of their potential impact on the business above are for our Fort Collins facility in the US and exclude emissions of the Group as a whole.
The data from other facilities have not been included as it was not practical to obtain these figures.
Data collection There are no significant agreements between the Company and its systems are in the process of being established following the creation Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office of the Group on December 23, 2014.
We will endeavor to include these or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid, except that data in our next report.
provisions of the Companys share plans may cause options and awards granted under such plans to vest on a takeover.
There is no Corporate Governance Statement information that the Company would be required to disclose about The Companys Corporate Governance Report is set out on pages persons with whom it has contractual or other arrangements which 41 to 46. are essential to the business of the Company.
In compliance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 7.2.
1, The Companys employee share incentive schemes contain the disclosures required by DTR 7.2.
7 are set out in this Report provisions whereby, upon a change of control of the Company, of the Directors and in the Corporate Governance Report on pages outstanding options and awards would vest and become exercisable, 41 to 46, which together with the Statement of Directors Responsibilities subject in the case of certain schemes only to the satisfaction are incorporated by reference into this Report of the Directors.
of performance conditions at that time and at any time pro-rating of options and awards.
Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 37 Corporate Governance and Remuneration Directors Report Annual General Meeting For the purposes of LR 9.8.
4C R, the information required to be disclosed by LR 9.8.
4 R can be found in the following locations: The Companys first AGM will be held on Wednesday, May 13, 2015 at 3.00 p. m at the London Marriott Hotel Grosvenor Section Topic Location Square, Grosvenor Square, London.
The notice convening this first Shareholders meeting is contained in a separate circular 1 Interest capitalized N A for Shareholders.
2 Publication of unaudited N A Further disclosures financial information Information fulfilling the further disclosure requirements contained in the Companies Act 2006, Schedule 7 of the Large 4 Details of long-term incentive N A and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports schemes Regulations 2008 and the FCAs Listing Rules and Disclosure and 5 Waiver of emoluments N A Transparency Rules can be found in the following sections of the by a director annual report for the period ended December 31, 2014 which are incorporated into the Directors Report by reference: 6 Waiver of future emoluments N A Pages by a director Future developments in the business 15 7 Non pre-emptive issues N A of equity for cash Research and development activities 15 Dividend 1 8 Item 7 in relation to N A Employment policy and employee involvement 26 major subsidiary undertakings Financial risk management and financial instruments 87 9 Parent participation in a N A Corporate governance report including internal control placing by a listed subsidiary and risk management statements 41 10 Contracts of significance N A Post balance sheet events 92 Directors responsibility statements including disclosure 11 Provision of services N A of information to the Auditors 47 by a controlling shareholder 12 Shareholder waivers of dividends N A 13 Shareholder waivers N A of future dividends 14 Agreements with N A controlling Shareholders All the information cross-referenced above is hereby incorporated by reference into this Directors Report.
References in this document to other documents on the Companys website, such as the Prospectus issued in November 2014, are included as an aid to their location and are not incorporated by reference into any section of the annual report.
By Order of the Board Lola Emetulu Company Secretary Indivior PLC 103-105 Bath Road Slough Berkshire SL1 3UH Company registration number: 9237894 March 27, 2015 38 Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
