Corporate Governance and Remuneration Directors Remuneration Report Notes to the policy table Payments outside policy The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out in this report where the terms of the payment were agreed 1 before the policy came into effect or 2 at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration of the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these purposes payments include the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration, and an award over shares is agreed at the time of award.
Clawback and malus The Committee has the discretion to scale back LTIP awards prior to the satisfaction of awards in the event that results are materially misstated or an individuals conduct has amounted to gross misconduct.
Where LTIP awards have vested the Committee has the discretion to claw back awards up to the fifth anniversary of the grant of the awards in the circumstances described above.
Performance measure selection and approach to target setting Annual bonus The annual bonus performance measures are selected to provide an appropriate balance between incentivizing Executive Directors to meet financial targets for the year and incentivizing them to achieve specific strategic objectives and milestones.
The particular measures each year are selected to ensure focus on the key objectives for that particular financial year.
LTIP In respect of the LTIP, the Committee regularly reviews performance to ensure that it is aligned with the Companys strategy and with our Shareholders interests over the longer term.
Targets for both the annual bonus and LTIP are reviewed annually against a number of internal and external reference points.
Targets are set on a sliding scale at levels the Committee considers to be appropriately stretching for the level of award delivered.
Remuneration policy for other employees The remuneration policy for Executive Directors in general is more heavily weighted towards variable pay than for other employees.
The majority of employees participate in an annual bonus plan, but LTIP awards are only made to the most senior c. 65 individuals in the Group.
The Companys approach to annual salary reviews is consistent across the Group, with consideration given to the level of experience, responsibility, individual performance and salary levels for comparable roles in comparable companies.
All UK employees are eligible to participate in the Companys SAYE plan on identical terms and those outside of the UK in the GSPP.
Shareholder alignment The Committee recognizes the importance of aligning Executive Directors and Shareholder interests through executives building up significant shareholdings in the Company.
Executive Directors are expected to acquire a significant number of shares over a period of five years and retain these until retirement from the Board of Directors.
The shareholding requirement is 5x of salary for both the CEO and CFO.
Details of the Executive Directors current personal shareholdings are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 61.
Scenario analysis The charts below provide an estimate of the potential future reward opportunities for the Executive Directors, and the potential split between the different elements of remuneration under three different performance scenarios: Minimum, On-target and Maximum.
Performance scenario Basis of valuation Minimum performance below threshold F ixed pay only base salary, benefits and pension On-target performance Fixed pay plus bonus at target performance and threshold vesting under the LTIP Maximum performance Fixed pay plus maximum bonus and full vesting under the LTIP all performance conditions met The charts are based on the face value of awards and do not include any share price growth or the value of any dividends.
Target performance under the bonus assumes payment of 50% of the maximum.
Threshold performance under the LTIP assumes 10% of maximum vesting for the TSR portion of the award and 12.5% of maximum in respect of the strategic milestones.
Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 53
