Corporate Governance and Remuneration Directors Remuneration Report FY 2015 pay structure Prior to demerger the remuneration of the CEO and CFO was reviewed to ensure that the arrangements in place were appropriate in the context of their roles going forward.
The proposed arrangements were also discussed with a number of our largest Shareholders following the demerger.
Following feedback provided by our Shareholders a number of changes were made to the remuneration arrangements to take account of various points raised.
A simple remuneration structure is proposed comprising the following elements: Fixed pay base salary, benefits and pension Annual cash bonus Performance Share Plan Annual cash bonus The annual bonus plan is focused on the main financial and operational drivers of the business.
For FY2015 performance will be equally weighted between net revenue, EBIT and achieving key pipeline goals.
These measures provide individuals with a strong line of sight and are aligned to delivering the key strategic objective of the business: long-term sustainable growth.
Performance Share Plan The long-term incentive arrangements for the Executive Directors will be entirely performance based, aligned with best practice for UK-listed companies.
It is recognized that the size of the proposed awards is large in comparison to UK companies of a similar size.
However, awards have been positioned around the median in comparison to our transatlantic peer group of pharmaceutical companies of a similar size to ensure that the overall remuneration package remains competitive in comparison to those companies with whom we are directly competing for talent.
In recognition of the size of the awards, the performance targets are set at stretching levels to ensure that management are only rewarded if significant value is delivered to Shareholders.
Half of the award is to be based on absolute TSR targets which will require the business to broadly double in size over the three-year performance period for awards to vest in full.
The remaining half of the award is subject to the achievement of key pipeline milestones.
Our pipeline is fundamental to the success of our business going forward and therefore the achievement of these goals is essential to creating a successful and sustainable business.
Shareholding guidelines It is considered vital that our executives are truly aligned with our Shareholders and therefore substantial shareholding guidelines of 5x salary, which are significantly above typical UK practice and our peer companies are in place for our two Executive Directors.
Clawback and malus In line with the recent guidance in the UK Corporate Governance Code, all of our incentive plans will include malus and clawback provisions.
Shareholder engagement We discussed our proposed remuneration structure with Shareholders shortly after the demerger and we intend to continue to consult with our Shareholders as we value your feedback.
We hope to receive your support for our Policy Report and our Annual Report on Remuneration at our AGM on May 13, 2015 Daniel J. Phelan Chairman of the Remuneration Committee March 2015 Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 49
