Strategic Report Our second objective Expand our innovative pipeline to improve patient and physician outcomes Develop our pipeline In addition to expanding the range of treatment options for opioid addiction, our research and Indivior is not a discovery house, we have neither development efforts are focused on opening the capability nor the resource for fundamental access to rescue medications, addressing unmet research or molecular discovery.
We do, however, medical needs in the treatment of alcohol use have a leading understanding of addiction and disorders, and treating psychiatric co-morbidities have identified more than 75 compounds that of addiction.
could have potential uses in addiction treatment.
These compounds exist outside Indivior and we will In 2014, we further increased our investment to continue to track them closely.
If an appropriate $115m to support the development of this pipeline.
opportunity to license or acquire these compounds We are moving towards qualification of Suboxone should arise we will evaluate it as part of our Film for launch in Europe.
In 2015 we will again increase our investment in Our preferred approach is to leverage the known R&D, not least with a number of critical Phase 3 by taking existing compounds and or technologies, studies being run for buprenorphine depot, nasal and combining them in ways that could produce naloxone and risperidone depot.
This is a critical better treatments.
We believe this may lead to investment in our future.
lower upfront costs, faster development times, and more certain delivery.
Some of our pipeline We continue to look for further opportunities already shows the benefits of this approach.
to expand our pipeline, by acquiring new compounds of interest and by licensing in The pipeline features new generations of opioid compounds or technology.
There may also be dependence treatments, including a monthly opportunities to acquire companies that bring Buprenorphine Depot injection and the first suitable products to our pipeline.
swallowable capsule form of buprenorphine hemiadipate with abuse deterrent potential.
While we endeavour to optimize the probability of success, the regulatory approval and commercial returns cannot be guaranteed.
Clinical product development involves inherent risks.
14 Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic Report Expanding the range of treatment options for opioid dependence Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Regulatory Filings Opioid Dependence RBP-6000 Buprenorphine monthly depot injection Estimated approval: 2017 Opioid Dependence RBP-6300 Buprenorphine oral swallowable tablet Estimated approval: 2018 Opening access to rescue medications Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Regulatory Filings Opioid Overdose Naloxone Nasal Spray Nasal naloxone Nasal naloxone is in accelerated development with Fast Track Designation from the Food and Drug Administration FDA granted in 2014.
Estimated approval: 2016 Cocaine Overdose RBP-8000 Cocaine esterase The FDA recognized the potential of Cocaine esterase by granting its Breakthrough Therapy Designation in October 2014.
Estimated approval: 2019 Addressing unmet needs in the treatment of Alcohol Use Disorders Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Regulatory Filings Alchohol Use Disorders Arbaclofen Placarbil Estimated approval: 2020 Focusing on the psychiatric co-morbidities of addiction Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Regulatory Filings Schizophrenia RBP-7000 Risperidone Estimated approval: 2017 Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 15 Strategic Report These people were no different from the patients I already had 16 Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
