Strategic Report We are ready to help patients take the first step As the information on pages 6 to 7 shows, addiction Since the passing of the DATA 2000 Act in the is an epidemic not just in the US but globally.
US, which first allowed the treatment of opioid Governmental statistics suggest there are at least addiction with schedule III, IV and V narcotics 145.3 million people today who are dependent on in a physician office-based practice, over 27,000 opioids or alcohol, and the numbers are likely to physicians have completed the training necessary Over be significantly under-reported.
The case studies to become certified to treat opioid addiction.
in the next few pages of this report show why we We have supported these physicians through, 27000 the initial challenges of integrating opioid believe that proper treatment transforms lives.
physicians have been DATA 2000 dependence treatment into their practice.
waivered in US The growth of Indiviors business so far has been since 2000 the result of the mindset shift in countries where Since the launch of Suboxone Tablet in 2003 authorities, treatment communities, and societies in the US, we have enabled the treatment of have moved treatment of opioid dependence over five million patients with Suboxone Tablet beyond special clinics expanding access to and Suboxone Film.
medicalized treatment in physicians consulting Having said that, addiction still carries a stigma rooms.
With a comprehensive treatment plan and we understand the challenges that patients including counseling, medical intervention and face when they seek treatment.
With a medical Suboxone, many opioid-addicted patients can condition like addiction, the constant need to 5m be stabilized and returned towards normal life patients received satisfy cravings, or avoid withdrawal symptoms, while they pursue their treatment goals required treatment with can be so intense that even when people want Suboxone Film to address the fundamental issues of which or Tablet in US to stop, they generally only have a small window addiction is often the symptom.
since 2003 of time to pursue treatment.
We are ready to help We still need to change attitudes in many other patients take that first step, empowering them countries where treatment has not yet been to act before that moment of readiness is gone.
normalized into mainstream medical practice, but Our objective has always been to secure better often retains the stigma associated with supervised outcomes for patient and physician and it dosing at clinics and pharmacies.
Some countries continues to be.
That is why we have worked still criminalize addiction, thus preventing, or very so hard to improve our product portfolio.
tightly controlling, the distribution and delivery of treatment.
Case study 1 Dr Ed Johnsons story VP Treatment and Health Policy, Indivior Its not laws that shift deep-seated prejudice and providing education on our website and its education.
We have to demonstrate that through our medical affairs staff, but this is a addiction is a chronic medical condition affecting sensitive disease space, so we work closely with the brain, but with the positive message that the addiction societies and opinion formers.
Its a message we must We offer educational and grant support as well personalize because, until you believe that as try to ensure that everyone in the treatment addiction is a medical condition that could community pharmacists and counselors as well happen to you, its someone elses problem.
as physicians tries to be a resource for patients.
But once you understand that it could be your We understand that this is not a disease space child that overdoses, you are more willing to where you succeed merely by selling products.
listen to the science on how treatment can We have a medical, ethical and moral help.
responsibility to improve the safety profile of addiction medication and treatment and As a patient-focused addictions company, we take the lead in promoting the understanding to do things that can help improve patients of patients and addiction, raising awareness lives and access to treatment.
Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 9
