Strategic Report Our first objective Expand access to treatment and strengthen our leadership position Building resilience of our existing franchise We know the very clear economic argument for treatment: it is estimated that every We will do this mainly by expanding the treatment $1 spent on a patient in treatment may save of opioid addiction to more patients, and by up to $12 in healthcare and other societal costs.
continuing to educate patients, physicians and payors on the chronic disease of addiction, the role By continuing to expand access to treatment, Suboxone plays in treatment and the importance and working with physicians and payors to improve of expanding treatment access.
The population the patient outcome, we expect to continue of patients in treatment is growing and we believe to help even more patients by addressing the that there are strong grounds this will continue.
In the US, there are estimated to be at least We will continue to work to demonstrate to 2.4 million opioid-dependent people today, payors, commercial or governmental, the real of whom more than half are not in treatment value that Suboxone delivers.
We have a growing of any kind.
patent portfolio to support our existing business.
Suboxone Film in the US is covered by three In Europe there are estimated to be 1.3 million Orange Book-listed formulation patents, and by heroin users, of whom perhaps 0.7 million are six process patents providing protection to 2022, in treatment.
There is an emerging patient with further protection pending.
population of opioid analgesic dependent patients who are currently under-diagnosed.
We have a further 11 patent applications pending.
Conservative estimates suggest that there We will defend our intellectual property, which are over 300,000 of these individuals in we have worked so hard to establish and grow, the UK, France, Germany, Spain, Italy and on behalf of Shareholders.
While the IP of the the Nordic countries.
Suboxone Film is being challenged, we have a plan in place to defend it vigorously.
Case study 3 Marks story Patient, US I was an avid racketball player.
I needed surgery I remember the day I said this has got to stop on a shoulder injury and was given opioids.
Thats when I started my recovery.
I took them as directed, but then started to look Its vital that you find the right physician and forward to them.
It started to preoccupy me.
realize what took you down this path.
Ive been on Suboxone Film for two years.
Id go through a monthly prescription in two days and needed several doctors to keep me in supply.
Ive not relapsed once, even when my son was It became a full-time job.
I was moody, distant given opioids for a broken arm.
I poured them into and demanding.
I didnt even my hand and sat and looked at them.
Two years ago, Id have taken the whole bottle.
I wasnt eating or sleeping days just blended in.
It was all about the pills.
Id probably be dead, but The morning is my time now.
I get up real early, everything came to a head: divorce, the thought make coffee, read the paper and I love it.
Its one of losing my kids and my job.
Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 13
