Corporate Governance and Remuneration Corporate Governance Report Activities of Board Committees to December 31, 2014 Remuneration Committee The Audit Committee and the Science and Policy Committee did not meet Members throughout the relevant period due to the proximity of the Companys Daniel J. Phelan Chair incorporation and demerger from RB to the end of the period.
Rupert Bondy Lorna Parker There was one meeting of the Nomination and Governance Committee prior to the end of the period to approve Indiviors listed company Daniel Tass policies, the Groups Code of Conduct and other key group-wide policies.
Key objective The Remuneration Committee met twice before the end of the period To make recommendations to the Board on the policies for and a detailed report to Shareholders from the Committee on behalf executive remuneration and packages for the individual of the Board, which includes a description of the Committees Executive Directors activities during the period, is contained in the Directors Main responsibilities Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 61.
Recommend the principles and structure of the executive remuneration policy for the Boards approval Accountability Recommend the quantum of the variable compensation pool Financial and business reporting for the Boards approval The Board is responsible for the integrity of Indiviors consolidated Recommend the annual objectives and compensation for and the Companys financial statements and recognizes its individual Executive Directors for the Boards approval responsibility to present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
The Board Approve the compensation for Executive Committee members is satisfied that the financial statements, reports to various regulators Determine the contractual termination terms for Executive and price-sensitive reports issued from the period after demerger Directors and any severance payments.
to date, present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of Indiviors position and prospects.
To assist with financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated Science and Policy Committee financial statements, the finance function has started to put in place Members a series of accounting and Treasury policies, practices and controls Yvonne Greenstreet Chair which are designed to ensure the identification and communication A. Thomas McLellan of changes in accounting standards.
Indivior has designed processes Christian Schade for evaluating the financial reporting process and the preparation of consolidated accounts.
The basis for the preparation of consolidated Key objective accounts is as set out on pages 71 to 73 under Accounting Policies.
To provide assurance to the Board regarding the quality, The Board has agreed an engagement letter with the Auditors in competitiveness and integrity of the Groups R&D activities respect of the full results and the Auditors statement on their work by way of meetings and dialog with our R&D leaders and and reporting responsibilities is set out on pages 62 to 66. other scientist employees and visits to our R&D sites Information on Indiviors business model and strategy for generating Main responsibilities and preserving longer-term growth and delivering on the Companys Review the approaches adopted in respect of Indiviors stated objectives is set out in the CEOs Statement and the Strategic chosen therapy area of addiction and its co-morbidities Report on pages 1 to 31. Review the scientific technology and R&D capabilities deployed The Directors Statement of Responsibilities on page 47 details the within the business Directors responsibility for the financial statements, for disclosing Assess the decision-making processes for R&D projects and relevant audit information to the Auditors and for ensuring that the programs Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
Review benchmarking against industry and scientific best The going concern statement required by the Listing Rules and the Code practice, where appropriate is set out in the Directors Statement of Responsibilities on page 47. Review relevant important bioethical issues and assist in the The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the full-year results formulation of, and agree on behalf of the Board, appropriate and the presentation of the financial statements prior to issuing policies in relation to such issues.
a recommendation for approval by the full Board.
As part of the process leading up to its recommendation of the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014, the Committee considered all relevant Full terms of reference for each of the Boards Committees areas of significant judgment and complexity including the significant risks and other issues identified by the external Auditors together as approved by the Board can be found at www.
with managements response to those issues.
The Committee notes that trade spend comprising sales accruals, customer discounts and rebates was an area of focus for the external Auditors.
It acknowledges that this is an area of significant activity requiring judgment, but is confident that management operates an appropriate control environment which minimizes the risks in this area.
Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 45
