Corporate Governance and Remuneration Directors Remuneration Report Internal promotion When appointing a new Executive Director by way of internal promotion, the policy will be consistent with that for external appointees, as detailed above.
Where an individual has contractual commitments made prior to their promotion to Executive Director level, the Company will continue to honor these arrangements even in instances where they would not otherwise be consistent with the prevailing Executive Director remuneration policy at the time of appointment.
Non-Executive Directors In recruiting a new Non-Executive Director, the Remuneration Committee will use the policy as set out in the table on page 54.
A base fee in line with the prevailing fee schedule would be payable for membership of the Board of Directors, with additional fees payable for acting as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, as Chairman of the Audit, Remuneration, Science and Policy and Nomination and Governance Committees, and for being a member of the Audit, Remuneration, Science and Policy and Nomination and Governance Committees.
Fees will be delivered partly in cash and partly in Indivior shares to be held until no longer on the Board.
Service contracts and exit payment policy Executive Director service contracts, including arrangements for termination, are carefully considered by the Committee.
In accordance with general market practice, each of the Executive Directors has a rolling service contract which is terminable on 12 months notice and this practice will also apply for any new Executive Directors.
In such an event, the compensation commitments in respect of their contracts could amount to one years remuneration based on base salary and benefits in kind and pension rights during the notice period.
Termination payments may take the form of payments in lieu of notice.
Copies of Executive Director service contracts are available to view at the Companys registered office.
The Companys policy on any termination payments is to consider the circumstances on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the relevant contractual terms in the executives service contract and the circumstances of the termination.
The table below summarizes how awards under the annual bonus and LTIP are typically treated in specific circumstances, with the final treatment remaining subject to the Committees discretion as provided under the rules of the plan: Reason for cessation Timing of vesting payment Calculation of vesting payment Annual bonus Voluntary resignation or Not applicable.
No bonus to be paid for the financial year.
Following the end of the financial year Bonuses will be paid only to the extent that objectives at the usual bonus payment date.
set at the beginning of the plan year have been met.
Any such bonus will be paid on a pro-rata basis up to the termination date.
LTIP Voluntary resignation or Not applicable.
Ill-health, injury, permanent After the end of the financial year in which The Committee determines whether and to what extent disability, retirement with the the cessation of employment occurs: or at outstanding awards vest based on the extent to which agreement of the Company, the discretion of the Committee, after the performance conditions have been achieved either redundancy or any other end of the relevant performance period.
to the end of the financial year in which cessation of reason that the Committee employment occurs, or over the full performance period determines in its absolute and the proportion of the performance period worked.
As soon as possible after date of death.
The Committee may disapply performance conditions but will reduce awards to reflect the proportion of the performance period worked.
Awards will vest to the extent that any performance conditions have been satisfied unless the Committee determines that the performance conditions should not apply.
Awards will also be reduced pro-rata to take into account the proportion of the performance period not completed, unless the Committee decides otherwise.
Awards may alternatively be exchanged for new equivalent awards in the acquirer, where appropriate.
Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 55
