Corporate Governance and Remuneration Corporate Governance Report Company Secretary Effectiveness The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that the Board The role of the Board operates in accordance with the governance framework it has The Board is responsible for the overall conduct of the Groups adopted and all Directors have access to the advice and services of business and has the powers, authorities and duties vested in it to the Company Secretary.
Her key responsibilities are set out below.
conduct its business in accordance with the relevant laws of England and Wales and the Companys Articles of Association.
The Board is: Company Secretary Lola Emetulu responsible for setting the Group strategy and for managing the direction and performance of Indiviors business Suppor ts the Chairman and the Board in the execution of their duties accountable to Shareholders for the proper conduct of the business A dvises on Board matters, corporate governance, LSE responsible for the long-term success of the Company, having requirements and best practice regard to the interests of all stakeholders A dvises the Chairman, CEO and senior management on responsible for ensuring the effectiveness of, and reporting on, significant governance and regulatory issues and ensures the Groups internal control and corporate governance system.
Indiviors legal position is optimized protected maintained, as appropriate The Board is able to delegate and confer on an Executive Director any of its powers, authorities and discretions including the power A cts as a member of Indiviors senior management team, with to sub-delegate for such time and on such terms as it thinks fit.
a focus on governance and compliance: maintains registers The Board delegates the day-to-day management of the business and communications to ensure up-to-date compliance to the CEO but has reserved certain key decisions to itself for the approval of the Board.
The Schedule of the Reserved Matters for The appointment and resignation of the Company Secretary the Boards decision includes: is a matter for consideration by the Board as a whole.
Group strategy and long-term plans The appointment, election and re-election of Directors Takeover offers and the response to any takeover approach As Indivior is a recently incorporated and listed company, all Indivior Directors will retire at the first AGM of the Company in May 2015 and, Major capital projects, acquisitions or divestments being eligible, will submit themselves for re-election in accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company.
Final approval of budgets and corporate plans The Board may at any time appoint any person who is willing to act Group financial structure including significant changes to borrowing as a Director and any Director so appointed will retire at the AGM facilities and tax and Treasury policies following his or her appointment and will be eligible for election Approval of financial statements and risk management.
but would not be taken into account in determining the number of Directors who are to retire by rotation at such meeting in accordance The full Schedule of the Reserved Matters for the Board is available with the Companys Articles of Association.
The Board may appoint on the Companys website www.
any Director to hold any employment or executive office and may revoke or terminate any such appointment.
Shareholders may, Board and Committee meetings by ordinary resolution, appoint a person as Director or remove The Company was incorporated on September 26, 2014.
The two any Director before the expiration of his period of office.
Directors on incorporation were William Mordan and Patrick Clements, who are members of the Reckitt Benckiser Group plc On the recommendation of the Nomination and Governance management team and worked on the eventual demerger of Indivior Committee and in compliance with the Code, the Board has agreed from RB.
There were three Board meetings during their tenure until that all Directors would be subject to annual re-election their retirement on November 4, 2014.
The majority of the current by Shareholders at future AGMs.
Board were appointed on November 4, 2014 and they subsequently held two Board meetings prior to the end of 2014.
The Board met A summary of the biographies of the Board is set out on a total of five times from incorporation until December 31, 2014, page 33 and further details of these biographies can be found the Remuneration Committee met twice and the Nomination and at www.
The Audit Committee and the Science and Policy Committee did not meet during the period.
42 Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Corporate Governance and Remuneration Corporate Governance Report The Board has scheduled five Board meetings, including one two-day Board balance and independence strategy session, for the financial year commencing January 1, 2015.
The Board comprises a majority of independent Non-Executive As a recently constituted Board, we expect that some of our Directors Directors to ensure that no individual or small group can dominate may be unavoidably absent from one or two Board meetings during its decision-making.
The size of the Board is considered to be 2015.
These absences are due to engagements in existence prior to appropriate given the complexity and nature of Indiviors business their appointment to the Indivior Board.
Directors unable to attend and the time required for the Directors to fulfil their duties.
a Board meeting because of another engagement will be provided The Nomination and Governance Committee is responsible with the briefing materials and given an opportunity to discuss issues for reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board arising in the meeting with the Chairman or the CEO.
In addition to including skills, knowledge, experience, independence and race scheduled Board meetings, there may be a number of other meetings and gender diversity and making recommendations to the Board to deal with specific matters.
Each scheduled Board meeting includes with regard to any changes.
With the exception of Adrian Hennah, a session of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors without the the Board considers all of its Non-Executive Directors to be Executive Directors present.
The table below sets out the attendance by each of the Directors at Induction and training the Board and Committee meetings held: The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that each Director receives an induction on joining the Board and receives any specific training Attendance at Board and Committee meetings for the period required.
The Company Secretary is responsible for organizing the September 26 to December 31, 2014 induction programs.
A comprehensive and tailored induction program Nomination Remuneration and Governance which will provide an introduction to Indiviors business and its Director Board Committee Committee executive management is being designed for each Non-Executive Director.
The program will be supported by pre-meeting briefing 1 Rupert Bondy 2 of 2 2 of 2 1 of 1 materials and follow-up sessions where requested.
As part of the 2 Cary J. Claiborne 1 of 1 n a n a induction process, the first Board meeting of the current Board was 3 Patrick Clements 3 of 3 n a n a held at the Groups operational headquarters in Richmond, Virginia, 1 US and that meeting was used as an opportunity for the Board to Yvonne Greenstreet 2 of 2 n a n a meet the Executive Committee members, other members of senior 1 Adrian Hennah 2 of 2 n a n a management and to view the operation of the Medical Information 1 A. Thomas McLellan 2 of 2 n a 1 of 1 Unit.
Non-Executive Directors will be invited to spend time with 3 William Mordan 3 of 3 n a n a our Clinical Liaisons in the field to enable them to gain a greater 1 understanding of the Groups business.
We will seek regular feedback Lorna Parker 2 of 2 2 of 2 1 of 1 from our newly appointed Non-Executive Directors on the quality 1 Daniel J. Phelan 2 of 2 2 of 2 1 of 1 and scope of this program to ensure it stays refreshed and effective.
1 Howard Pien 2 of 2 n a n a Directors are also encouraged to take individual responsibility for 1 Christian Schade 2 of 2 n a n a identifying their needs and are expected to take the necessary steps 1 Daniel Tass 2 of 2 2 of 2 n a to ensure that they are adequately informed about Indivior and their 1 Shaun Thaxter 2 of 2 n a n a responsibilities as Directors.
Non-Executive Directors will be provided with briefings and updates either in writing or through meetings with Notes senior executives and, where appropriate, external sources to assist 1.
Appointed on November 4, 2014 and attended the two Board meetings them in performing their duties.
Formally appointed on November 10, 2014, but was in attendance Information and support at the Board meeting held on November 5, 2014.
Keeping up-to-date with key business developments is essential for 3.
Appointed on Incorporation and attended the three Board meetings Directors to maintain and enhance their effectiveness.
All members held prior to retiring on November 4, 2014 following the appointment of the Board receive timely reports on items arising at meetings of the current Board.
of the Board and its Committees to enable due consideration of 4.
There were no meetings of the Audit and Science and Policy Committees the items in advance of meetings.
The information is supplied in in this period.
a form and of a quality that enables the Directors to take informed decisions and to discharge their duties.
Directors are encouraged to make further enquiries as they consider appropriate of the Executive Directors or management.
Each Director has access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
The Board also recognizes that there may be occasions when one or more of its Directors feels it is necessary to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense in furtherance of their duties and there is a procedure in place to enable them to do so.
The Board is confident that all its members have the knowledge, ability and experience to perform the functions required of a director of a listed company.
Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 43 Corporate Governance and Remuneration Corporate Governance Report Performance evaluation Audit Committee The Board, and indeed the Company, have been in existence for Members less than six months as at the date of this Annual Report and, Christian Schade Chair consequently, an evaluation of the performance of the Board or its Yvonne Greenstreet Committees has not yet been undertaken.
The Board aims to comply Adrian Hennah with the Code recommendation to conduct an externally facilitated Daniel Tass performance evaluation of its effectiveness at least once every three years.
The Board maintains an on-going review of its procedures and Key objective effectiveness thereof and will consider the form of evaluation that To provide effective governance over the Groups financial is appropriate for its first performance evaluation later in the year, reporting process including the internal audit function and when Board members have worked together for almost one year.
external Auditors and to maintain oversight of the Groups system of internal control and risk management activities Conflicts of interest, Directors insurance and indemnity and contracts of significance Main responsibilities The Board has adopted a policy and procedures relating to Directors Review the integrity of the Companys financial reports and conflicts and potential conflicts of interest and can determine statements prior to approval by the Board the terms of authorization for such situations.
The Board has the Review and report to the Board on the effectiveness of power to authorize conflicts and appropriate procedures have been Indiviors risk management and internal controls framework implemented.
A review of situational conflicts which have been authorized from time to time and the terms of those authorizations Make recommendations to the Board on the appointment and will be undertaken by the Board annually.
The Nomination and fees of the external Auditors: review the scope of their work Governance Committee is responsible for the Companys procedures and their effectiveness for dealing with conflicts of interest notified by the Directors and for making recommendations to authorize conflicts or implement other Approve the internal audit plan: review the effectiveness of measures to the Board.
internal audit: and management response to their findings.
The Companies Act 2006 and the Articles of Association provide that Directors are entitled to be indemnified out of the assets Nomination and Governance Committee of the Company against claims from third parties in respect of Members certain liabilities.
Each individual, who is an officer of the Company Rupert Bondy Chair and or of any company within the Group at any time on or after A. Thomas McLellan November 5, 2014, benefits from a deed poll of indemnity in respect Lorna Parker of the costs of defending claims against him or her and third-party Daniel J. Phelan liabilities.
Key objective All Directors have the benefit of Directors and Officers liability To ensure the Board has the skills, knowledge and experience insurance which is maintained at the Companys expense.
to be effective in discharging its responsibilities and to have None of the Directors had, during the period from incorporation oversight of all governance matters until the end of the year, a material interest, directly or indirectly, in any contract of significance with any Indivior entity.
Main responsibilities Keep the Boards skill and experience base under regular review in light of business changes and agree with the Board Board Committee structure the role specification for any proposed new appointments Certain of the Boards governance functions are delegated to and Conduct the search and selection process for new Directors supported by four dedicated Board Committees with the mandates and recommend proposed appointees to the Board summarized below.
The Committees are provided with all necessary resources to enable them to undertake their duties in an effective Review senior executive development and succession manner.
The Company Secretary or her delegate acts as Secretary to plans to ensure continuity of resource at, and just the Committees.
The communication and co-ordination of the work below, Board level of these Committees is achieved through regular reporting to the Board by the Committee Chairman and the circulation of minutes Review and recommend the renewal of Non-Executive and relevant papers.
44 Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
