Strategic Report Operational detail Suboxone Tablets grew total volume in Europe, with particular Our performance in 2014 progress across Western Europe, Spain and Greece, offset by Operating review austerity-driven switching to generic buprenorphine in Italy.
Net revenue declined 10% to $855m 2013: $950m This growth was further offset by a decline in Subutex Tablets reflecting some loss of market share and lower net pricing in an due to switching to generics in UK and Germany and by continuing increasingly competitive environment.
Australia delivered strong growth in net revenue, continuing its successful switch to Suboxone Film.
The market for buprenorphine has continued to grow strongly in 2014 with volume growth, on a milligram equivalent basis, Profitability.
Gross margin remained consistent at 91%.
The slight dilution from the switch to Suboxone Film seen in 2012 and 2013 of approximately 13%, driven by growing numbers of qualified physicians and the Medicaid expansion which has led to increased has now worked through the system.
Suboxone Film continued to show Operating margins were 53% 2013: 57% on an adjusted basis resilience in customer loyalty in the face of competition from before exceptions and 50% 2013: 57% as reported.
The reduction generic buprenorphine naloxone tablets and the launch of branded in margins arose from lower net revenues and higher operating tablet competition.
Suboxone Film exited 2014 with a 58% share costs plus exceptional costs arising from the demerger on a reported of the buprenorphine market in the US, compared to a 67% share basis.
Operating costs increased due to a significant increase in R&D at year-end 2013.
Generic buprenorphine naloxone tablets have expenses as the Company accelerated development of its pipeline.
increased market share only modestly, while a branded tablet competitor has made limited impact.
In an environment where Operating profit, on an adjusted basis, was 16% lower at $586m formulary access can be denied if we cannot agree on reasonable 2013: $695m due to lower net revenue and higher R&D costs.
terms, Suboxone Film has maintained a very solid market share.
On a reported basis, operating profit was $562m 2013: $695m.
Towards the end of 2014, two additional generic tablet competitors Exceptional costs of $24m were incurred during the year relating were approved making four in total, and both newcomers have to one-off costs arising from the demerger of Indivior from RB.
A further branded competitor, a buccal film, also was Net interest of $1m arose from interest payable on the Companys approved and launched towards the end of the year.
So far borrowings of $750m between the taking on of its borrowing facility discounting appears not to have increased significantly but is on December 19, 2014 and the close of the financial year on likely to reach the commodity price floor of maximum discount December 31, 2014. levels relatively quickly in the year ahead.
This is expected to put significant pressure on Suboxone Films market share in its Pre-tax profit, on an adjusted basis, was $585m 2013: $695m for the most price-sensitive sectors of the market, the cash payors and year: on a reported basis, pre-tax profit was $561m 2013: $695m.
managed Medicaid, which combined represent approximately 25% to 30% of the US business.
The value of Suboxone Film to Effective tax rate was 28.2%.
The 2014 rate is slightly lower than 2013, patients, physicians and payors is expected to ensure resilience in due to a corporate tax rate decrease in the UK from 23% in 2013 other market segments and enable Indivior to continue to pursue to 21% in 2014 and the different mix of taxable profits in overseas premium pricing, while providing market-level rebates.
Net income on an adjusted basis was $420m 2013: $489m.
On a reported basis net income was $403m.
In Europe, net revenue was lower due to government austeritymandating pricing reductions and forced switching to generics.
Pricing Earnings per share EPS adjusted was 58 cents 2013: 68 cents.
was particularly influenced by generic price referencing in Germany.
On a reported basis, earnings per share for full year 2014 was Volume was affected by switching to generics in the UK and Italy.
Key Performance Indicators The key measures of Indiviors performance are set out in the table below.
Measure Explanation 2014 Data Net revenue Measures sales of the Company $1,115m -8% Market share in US buprenorphine market Market share in the Companys key 58% market on an exit basis at year-end -9% Operating margin Measures profitability of the Company 50% -7% EPS Measures profitability attributable to each share 56 cents -18% Number of pipeline products projects Measures number of future potential product launches 6 Phase 3: investigational products 3 R&D investment Measures the Companys investment in key future $115m pipeline development 51% 24 Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic Report Operational detail Cash flow Net working capital excluding cash and cash equivalents, tax liabilities and short-term borrowings was [$149m] [2013: $213m], Cash flow generated from operating activities was $523m 2013: representing a ratio of minus 13.4% of net revenues minus 17.5% $894m.
The reduction arose from lower operating profits a reduction in 2013.
This reflects the Companys continuing success in its of $133m and changes in net working capital at the year-end, on-going program to manage net working capital.
principally driven by lower levels of trade payables $113m net change and trade receivables $107m net change.
Borrowings at December 31 were $736m, of which $17m is included in current liabilities, and $719m in non-current liabilities.
Tax paid in the year was $59m, representing taxes paid in the US.
The remainder of the taxes paid in respect of the taxable profits At December 31, the Group had a $750m debt facility fully of Indivior was borne by RB as part of its global tax payments.
underwritten and funded by Morgan Stanley and Deutsche Bank.
Interest paid of $24m principally consisted of the debt issue costs.
Syndication of this debt was finalized on March 16, 2015.
The maturity date of the term loan was reduced from seven to five years, and the Indivior acquired two intangible assets during the year at a cash interest margin increased from 4.5% to 6% over a minimum LIBOR cost of $26m, one being the acquisition of a license for intranasal rate of 1%.
Further details on the new terms of the loan are set out naloxone technology from AntiOp Inc. and the other an acquisition in Note 25 to the Financial Statements on page 92. of a license from XenoPort Inc. for Arbaclofen Placarbil for alcohol use disorders.
Total assets employed were therefore $747m, consisting of non-current assets of $182m and current assets, including cash, of $565m.
Indivior took out a borrowing facility of $750m in December 2014 in Total liabilities were $1,222m, consisting of $462m of current connection with the demerger from RB.
The net proceeds of this were liabilities and $760m of non-current liabilities, including borrowings.
Indivior paid a pre-demerger dividend of $500m to RB as part of the demerger arrangements: in addition, Indivior remitted $349m The net liabilities of the business were therefore $475m.
of cash to its then parent company, RB, in accordance with historical practice during the course of financial year 2014.
Total net transfers Principal investments to RB during the year, therefore, were $849m 2013: $806m.
In 2014, Indivior made the following initial licensing payments in line with its strategy to populate its pipeline with new, innovative Indivior had cash and cash equivalents of $7m at the beginning treatments for addiction and related morbidities: of 2014.
Remaining proceeds of the borrowing facility, $227m, and cash generated by the business, $97m, resulted in net cash $22m upfront payment and $3m for existing inventory, in relation and cash equivalents at the year-end of $331m.
to the exclusive worldwide licensing agreement with XenoPort, Inc. for the development and commercialization of Arbaclofen Placarbil, Balance sheet a product candidate for the treatment of alcohol use disorder: At December 31, the non-current assets of the Group were $182m 2013: $198m principally consisting of intangible assets acquired $4m upfront payment in relation to the agreement with AntiOp Inc. or licensed technologies and compounds and deferred tax assets.
to co-develop a naloxone nasal spray to aid in the reversal of opioid overdose.
These consisted of inventories and trade receivables of $234m 2013: $221m, Each licensing arrangement has further gated payments based and cash and cash equivalents of $331m arising from the remaining on research and development and commercial success criteria portion of the new borrowing facility of $227m, and cash generated in keeping with industry practice.
Our sustainability strategy Current liabilities included $17m 2013: Nil of short-term borrowings: Since Indivior was only demerged from its former parent company, and trade payables and accruals of $383m 2013: $434m, the RB, on December 23, 2014, it has not yet developed its own reduction in accruals and receivables reflecting lower levels of independent sustainability strategy.
For 2014, it was captured sales compared to the previous year.
Current tax liabilities on by the sustainability strategy and reporting of RB including the the balance sheet increased to $62m 2013: $17m as Indivior now reporting of data on environmental, health and safety, social takes responsibility for all future tax payments for the Group.
Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 25 Strategic Report Operational detail ESG matters Human Rights There are a range of sustainability and associated reputational risks Whilst Indivior does not have a specific human rights policy affecting the Group, which are outlined below: at present, it does have policies that adhere to internationally Climate change The effects of climate change could disrupt the proclaimed human rights principles some of which are summarized Groups supply chain by affecting the Groups ability to source raw below.
Indivior will give careful consideration as to whether a specific materials, manufacture products and distribute products.
human rights policy is needed in the future over and above our existing policies.
Water scarcity Water is vital for the making of raw and packaging materials and manufacturing of our products.
While water is Equality plentiful in some regions, it is increasingly scarce in others.
Similar Indivior is an equal opportunities employer and actively seeks to to the effects of climate change, which are interconnected with protect the right of all individuals to be free from discrimination water availability, water scarcity could affect the Groups ability or harassment.
To support this, fair, objective and innovative to source materials, make and deliver relevant products for our employment practices are used to ensure that all employees are consumers.
protected from discrimination and harassment and have an equal chance to contribute and to achieve their potential.
Indivior is Restricted substances As ingredients regulations, safety committed to the equal treatment of all patients.
The Companys and sustainability requirements evolve it is vital that product Vision is that all patients around the world will have unrestricted ingredients are monitored to ensure continued compliance.
access to quality treatment services for the chronic relapsing conditions and co-morbidities of addiction.
Supply chain responsibility and human rights Most product, component and raw material supply chains present a number of Freedom of association potential reputational risks relating to: labor standards: health, Indivior recognizes the right of all employees to freedom of safety and environmental standards: raw material sourcing: and association and collective bargaining.
The Company seeks to promote the social, ethical and environmental performance of third-party a spirit of co-operation between all employees, the management manufacturers and other suppliers.
NB: Indiviors third-party team, recognized trade unions and representative bodies in order manufacturers were included in RBs responsible sourcing program to promote the success of the business.
Unions or works councils in 2014.
RBs responsible sourcing program includes requirement represent certain Indivior employees.
The Board believes that Indivior for suppliers to comply with minimum labor, health, safety and has a good relationship with employees and with the unions and environmental standards and a risk-based compliance monitoring works councils that represent certain employees.
program consisting of compliance self-assessment, audit and corrective action.
Trade union membership and representation is entirely voluntary and, in recognition of this, Indivior ensures that no employee is at a Health and Safety Accidents caused through a failure of the disadvantage by not being a trade union member.
Indivior ensures Groups safety management systems could potentially lead to loss this by providing other avenues for employee representation through of life for one or more of the Groups employees.
In 2014, facilities the relevant consultative or collective bargaining bodies.
within the Groups operational control were included within RBs Health and Safety program.
Bribery and corruption Indivior has a group-wide Anti-Bribery Policy that sets out the Access to medicines Ensuring equitable access to medicines is an responsibility each individual has to comply with anti-bribery or important topic for the pharmaceuticals industry.
anti-corruption laws around the world and to ensure that any third Following establishment of the Group on December 23, 2014, we are parties that we engage to act on our behalf, do the same.
Training is reviewing policies, programs and governance structures to ensure an important part of the implementation of the Groups Anti-Bribery these risks are effectively managed.
Online training is provided to all employees with computer access and more detailed face-to-face training is provided to certain groups of employees.
26 Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
