Strategic Report Operational detail Global leaders in the treatment of opioid dependence 1.
Build resilience of our franchise Indivior is a global specialty pharmaceutical Continue to expand patient access to treatment and maintain business and the global leader in the treatment a leadership position of opioid dependence, with 30 years experience Indivior has a track record of pioneering and expanding access to in that field.
By driving increased awareness of the disease space, Indivior has encouraged an expansion in the The business number of physicians certified under DATA 2000 to treat opioid Indiviors core products, which are currently sold in over dependence from just over 3,600 in 2003 to over 27,000 at the end 40 countries, comprise Suboxone Film buprenorphine and of 2014, driving the delivery of treatment to millions of patients and naloxone, Suboxone Tablet buprenorphine and naloxone, contributing to double-digit market growth over the past ten years.
and Subutex buprenorphine sublingual tablet, all of which Indivior will seek to further build on this approach to increase are treatments for opioid dependence.
market penetration in the US beyond the estimated 20% of the US opioid-dependent population being treated with buprenorphine, Suboxone Film, initially launched in the US in 2010 as the in order to reduce the estimated $55bn societal cost associated worlds first approved pharmaceutical prescription sublingual with opioid misuse.
The introduction of Suboxone Film in the US film product, had an exit share of 58% in 2014 in the US market is an example of the Indivior Groups ability to extend a franchise for buprenorphine-based opioid dependence treatment based on through innovation.
Since it was launched, Suboxone Film has equivalent volume of prescribed milligrams, despite market entry attracted a high level of patient and physician satisfaction, along of generic tablets and branded competitors.
with differentiated value that is recognized by payors.
Indivior is committed to delivering innovative, quality treatments The Indivior Group has a robust pipeline of life cycle products which for the chronic relapsing conditions and co-morbidities of addiction, are fully supported by line-extension strategies and development and plans to expand its range of products beyond its core opioid programs designed to optimize the opioid dependence treatment dependence treatment business.
In addition to extension candidates franchise.
These programs include developing i a monthly depot for its opioid dependence treatments, Indivior has a pipeline of buprenorphine product that releases buprenorphine over a new drug candidates for the treatment of alcohol dependence, minimum of 28 days by diffusion, ii a swallowable capsule with cocaine overdose, opioid overdose and schizophrenia.
We believe abuse deterrent potential, and iii a higher dose Suboxone Tablet that the development of these product candidates capitalizes on for distribution in the EU.
Indiviors expertise in neurological science, clinical development and experience within the highly regulated and technical nature of pharmaceutical industry drug development and commercialization.
Develop our pipeline Expand into adjacencies aligned with the Indiviors core Indiviors main geographic market based on the country where the competencies sale originates is the US, which accounted for 77% of net revenues Indivior will seek to capitalize on its existing expertise in in 2014 2013: 78%.
neuroscience to realize its mission of ensuring that all patients in its target markets have unrestricted access to quality treatments Strategy for delivery of Shareholder value for the chronic relapsing conditions and co-morbidities of addiction.
Indiviors primary strategy to deliver Shareholder value is to continue Indivior seeks to do so by extending its business to new indications to develop the international market for treatment of the chronic in addiction and immediately adjacent central nervous system relapsing conditions of addiction, improving access to normalized therapeutic areas.
In addition to extension candidates for its opioid medical treatment and launching new products for the treatment dependence treatments, the current pipeline includes expansion of addiction.
The Companys strategy is covered in more detail on into the treatment of alcohol addiction, opioid overdose, cocaine pages 13 to 18. overdose and the co-morbidity of schizophrenia.
These adjacencies represent a global growth opportunity to help more patients access treatment, based on managements significant experience in identifying areas of unmet medical need and expertise in developing appropriate therapies.
Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 21
