Strategic Report Our third objective Expand access to addiction treatment for patients around the world Capitalise on international growth opportunities There are an estimated ten million opioid-dependent individuals in the countries in which Indivior has a commercial presence, Activating only 30% of whom are currently receiving global and treatment.
Geographic expansion of our footprint community-based to countries currently underserved by existing partnerships so all patients therapies and treatment options brings a have access to further ten million opioid-dependent individuals treatment within our commercial reach.
Expansion of our business to the treatment of alcohol addiction in all markets offers an opportunity to access an estimated total of 145.3 million potential patients, illustrating significant international growth opportunities for us.
Case study 4 Dr Rubinsteins story Medical Director and Treatment Advocate, US When the American Psychiatric Association first They werent bad people whod disrupt my invited me to get waivered to start prescribing practice: in my waiting room, you cant tell who Suboxone Tablet, I declined.
I had an Internal is there for addiction to pain pills and whoever Medicine practice in an upper middle class suburb else is there.
I realized that patients with of Chicago and thought that having addicts in addictions are everywhere in every medical the waiting room would make my patients practice and Emergency Department.
I cant usually say I made a difference to After the third invitation, I thought Id just go and someones life today, but treating these patients, I really can.
Not only am I helping them, but their see what it was about.
At the training, something in me lit up.
I thought I can do this and I loved families and employers.
the idea of helping people in ways I couldnt I say to doctors that, if they want to get the spark before.
back, and the satisfaction that made them get Quickly, my thinking shifted: these people were into healthcare, get waivered.
no different from the patients I already had.
Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 17
