Corporate Governance and Remuneration Directors Remuneration Report Directors Remuneration Report This Directors Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
The report meets the requirements of the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
In this report we describe how the principles of good governance relating to directors remuneration, as set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code September 2012 the Code, are applied in practice.
The Remuneration Committee confirms that the Company has complied with these governance rules and best practice provisions since December 23, 2014 when it was admitted to the premium listing segment of the Official List of the UKLA and admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchanges main market for listed securities.
Dear Shareholder, on behalf of the Board I am pleased to present our first Remuneration Report as a listed company for the financial period ending December 31, 2014.
The report has been prepared in line with the new UK reporting regulations that came into effect on October 1, 2013 and as such consists of three sections: This Annual Statement Our Policy Report which sets out the Directors Remuneration Policy for all Directors of Indivior which will be subject to a binding Shareholder vote at our 2015 AGM.
Our Annual Report on Remuneration which sets out details of how our Directors were paid during financial year 2014 and how our Policy will be implemented in financial year 2015.
This part of the report is subject to an advisory Shareholder vote at our 2015 AGM.
My colleagues and I on the Remuneration Committee hope that you find the report clear, transparent and informative, and that we can count on your support for our Remuneration Policy and its implementation during the year.
Context for remuneration at Indivior Indivior is a world-leading addiction treatment company with enormous future potential as it begins its journey as a publicly listed Company.
One of the key drivers of the Companys success to date and for the future is the strong, experienced, long-serving management team.
It is therefore important that our remuneration philosophy incentivizes our senior executives in a manner which is aligned to our strategy and the five value drivers of the business that have been identified: Sustainability versus current competition Sustainability versus future competition Pipeline Opportunities to grow the market Inorganic opportunities As Indivior has demerged from Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB it shares many of the strengths associated with RBs culture, such as entrepreneurship and a highly motivated and committed management team with skin in the game who operate within a business mindset of strong financial discipline.
Indiviors history of strong revenue and profit growth has contributed to delivering significant value to RB Shareholders in the past.
This performance was supported by a remuneration framework with a strong emphasis on pay for performance.
On a standalone basis, Indivior will continue to apply a remuneration philosophy which is simple, focused on delivering exceptional performance and aligned with Shareholders interests.
The majority of our revenues are from our US operations and the majority of our management team are based in the US.
We therefore compete for talent against global pharmaceutical companies predominately based in the US whose pay model is very different to typical UK market practice.
Our approach to remuneration has therefore been to carefully balance what is considered to be best practice for remuneration in the UK-listed environment with the need to ensure that the arrangements in place are competitive in comparison to our peers operating within the transatlantic biopharmaceutical sector.
This results in a remuneration structure which is different in some respects to a typical UK PLC package, but the Committee considers is required to be able to retain and incentivize our strong management team to continue to deliver long-term value creation for our Shareholders.
This has resulted in a model where the majority of the remuneration package is focused on the long-term performance of the Company to be aligned with the long-term focus of the business where the majority of future value will be delivered though the success of our pipeline.
Fixed pay is set at or below market median levels in comparison to both the US and UK.
However, the incentive opportunities which are positioned around the median, in comparison to our transatlantic peers, provide the potential for significant reward in comparison to typical UK market practice, but only if superior performance is delivered.
48 Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
