Corporate Governance and Remuneration Directors Statement of Responsibilities Directors Statement of Responsibilities Going concern The Directors are responsible for preparing the The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report affect its future development, performance and position are set out and the financial statements in accordance with in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 31.
The financial position of the applicable law and regulations.
Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities, as well as the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing Directors its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements financial instruments: and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors have prepared are described in the Strategic Report on page 25 and in note 15 to the the Group financial statements in accordance with International Group Financial Statements.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and the Parent Company financial statements in accordance The Group has one business segment, being the manufacture and with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK Accounting distribution of products for the treatment of opioid dependence.
Under company law the Directors Substantially all the Groups net revenues are derived from sales of must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied Suboxone Film, Suboxone Tablet and Subutex Tablet.
The Group that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group expects the rate of growth in the US opioid addiction treatment and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company and market in the short term to be low double-digit.
It anticipates that Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the the recent entry of two additional generics and an additional branded Directors are required to: competitor in the US market creates downward pressure on the Groups market share and pricing, although the outlook for 2015 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them is very uncertain as to the timing, extent and impact of tablet price consistently: erosion.
The Board believes, however, that the Groups value to patients, physicians and payors will help to ensure stronger make judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable resilience in less price-sensitive distribution channels.
and prudent: state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject Company have adequate resources to continue in operational to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the and Parent Company financial statements respectively: going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements in accordance with the FRCs Going Concern and Liquidity prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless Risk: Guidance For Directors of UK Companies 2009.
This statement it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in is also made to fulfil the requirements of Listing Rules 9.8.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Disclosure of information to Auditors records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys The Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, state that: transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable 1.
So far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors information of which the Companys Auditors are unaware: and Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, 2.
Each Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps are aware of that information.
for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
By Order of the Board The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable Lola Emetulu and provides the information necessary for Shareholders to assess Company Secretary the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Indivior PLC 103-105 Bath Road Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed Slough Berkshire SL1 3UH on page 33 confirms that, to the best of his her knowledge: Company registration number: 9237894 The Group Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true March 27, 2015 and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group.
The Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 47
