Corporate Governance and Remuneration Corporate Governance Report Furthermore, management has confirmed that there were no significant Following a recommendation by the Audit Committee and in items or issues which arose during the year in relation to trade spend accordance with section s. 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a which needed to be brought to the attention of the Audit Committee.
resolution proposing the appointment of PwC as the Companys Accordingly, the Audit Committee does not consider this a significant Auditors will be put to the Shareholders at the AGM.
does not plan to indemnify its external Auditors.
Risk management and Internal control Indivior has a formal policy in place to safeguard auditor independence.
The Audit Committee and the CFO will keep the The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control.
independence and objectivity of the external Auditors under review.
This is being designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of The Audit Committee will review the nature and level of non-audit any failure to meet business objectives.
It can only provide reasonable services undertaken by the external Auditors during the year to assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Boards satisfy itself that there is no effect on their independence.
approach to risk management will be supported by an oversight structure which includes the Audit Committee.
The Groups risk The Board recognizes that in certain circumstances the nature management process will be embedded throughout the organization.
of the advice required may make it more timely and cost-effective to appoint the external Auditors who already have a good The aim of our internal control and risk management systems is understanding of the business.
to help us understand the risks to which we are exposed.
Indiviors systems will aim to comply with the Guidance on Risk Management, The external Auditors report to the Audit Committee on the actions Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting issued they take to comply with professional and regulatory requirements and by the FRC in September 2014, which provides reasonable, but not with best practice designed to ensure their independence from Indivior, absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
including periodic rotation of the lead audit engagement partner.
Details of any non-audit services are set out in Note 5 on page 76.
The Audit Committee is responsible for assessing the scope and effectiveness of the systems established by management to identify, assess, manage and monitor internal financial controls, non-financial Relations with Shareholders controls and risks.
The Audit Committee is also responsible for reviewing and approving the role and effectiveness of our internal The Board understands the importance of effective communication audit function in the overall context of our risk management system.
with all the Companys stakeholders including Shareholders, particularly with regard to business developments and financial Indiviors control environment is supported by a Code of Business results.
The CEO, CFO and the Director of Investor Relations have Conduct, upon which employees receive training annually, and met regularly with institutional Shareholders and financial analysts a range of policies on corporate responsibility including a set to discuss matters relating to the Companys business strategy and of Guiding Principles.
Other key elements within the internal current performance.
The Chairman presented to investors at investor control structure include: the Board and executive management: days held in November and December 2014 and met with a number of organizational structure: budgets and financial plans: management prospective Shareholders on roadshows in June and September 2014. reporting: risk management: Operating Unit controls: compliance controls and monitoring.
The Board intends to communicate with Shareholders on a regular basis and currently utilizes news releases, investor presentations and The Board confirms that reviews of the appropriateness and Company publications to do this.
In the future Indivior will expand effectiveness of the system of internal control and risk management communication channels where necessary.
Regular updates are given throughout the period from demerger and up to the date of to the Board by the Director of Investor Relations, who also provides approval of the Annual Report have been satisfactorily completed an immediate point of contact for the Non-Executive Directors.
in compliance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code.
The AGM will provide Shareholders with an opportunity to meet and The Company is compliant with DTR 7.2.
6 and the information pose any questions to the Chairman, the Chairs of Board Committees is included in the section on Takeover Directive on page 37. and the Board as a whole.
Auditors and Auditor independence In line with the Code, the Board has appointed Rupert Bondy as  LLP PwC were appointed as the Senior Independent Director, who is available to contact throughout Companys Auditors on demerger.
PwC are the current Auditors the year by Shareholders should they have concerns, and for such of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc, Indiviors pre-demerger parent matters which have not been successfully resolved through the company.
Time constraints were a factor leading to PwCs normal channels of the Chairman or the Executive Directors, or appointment because of the short period between the demerger if such channels of communication are inappropriate.
on December 23, 2014 and the end of Indiviors financial year of December 31, 2014.
Additionally, Indivior operated as a business Annual General Meeting unit of RB for almost all of 2014 and its financial results for the The AGM provides all Shareholders with an opportunity to vote on period were consequently included in RBs results announcement.
the resolutions put to them.
The AGM will be used as a main Therefore, the Audit Committee considers it entirely appropriate opportunity for the Directors to meet directly with private investors.
for PwC to be appointed as the Companys Auditors for the period.
The AGM is attended by the Directors, and all Shareholders present The Audit Committee believes the relationship with the Auditors are given the opportunity to ask questions of the Chairman, the works well and it is satisfied with their independence and Chairs of Board Committees and the Board as a whole.
The Audit Committee will continue to consider All resolutions will be voted on by way of poll so that each share whether it is necessary to require the firm to tender for the audit has one vote.
The results of the poll will be released to the Stock work.
The audit partner currently responsible for Indiviors audit Exchange and published on Indiviors website shortly after the AGM.
has not worked on the RB account and is, in any case, subject to rotation every five years.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Companys choice of external Auditors.
46 Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
