Strategic Report Operational Detail Research and Development The mission of R&D is to discover and develop innovative medications that help transform patients lives through world-class science and the pursuit of a culture of collaboration.
The strategy, consistent with Indiviors focus on putting the patient first, is to focus on patients unmet needs to drive drug development decision-making: aiming for stable drug delivery, decreased frequency of dosing, increased treatment adherence and retention, decreased diversion and misuse, better management of overdose and extension into treating co-morbidities of addiction.
Christian Heidbreder Matrix teams are the vehicles that allow Indiviors R&D strategies to Chief Scientific Officer be translated into action and to provide integrated, strategic input across development stages, commercialization and product lifecycle Progress in science and technology is constantly opening new vistas to deliver differentiated products of value to patients.
of understanding, new approaches to addiction treatment and new During the later stages of development, Indivior engages methodologies to support measurement of clinical response.
contractors with relevant capabilities, because the formulation Collectively they offer the promise of novel pharmacotherapeutic of the product must be finalized and the scalability of production options that are based on a far greater understanding of proven.
During these phases, therefore, the number of participants in, and consequently the expenses related to, the project increase pathophysiology through a variety of molecular approaches aided significantly.
The increase in Indiviors R&D expenses from $76m in by advances in pharmaceutical science and targeted toward patients 2013 to $115m in 2014 is attributable to a number of projects reaching whose conditions are understood at a mechanistic level through Phase 2 and particularly Phase 3 stages of clinical development.
In order to hold this promise, Current clinical trials in progress for Indiviors pipeline include: Indiviors R&D Team actively tracks over 75 compounds around the world that have given some promising signals for addiction treatment.
RB-CN-10-0013 Clinical efficacy, safety, and tolerability of Suboxone Tablet in opioid-dependent Chinese subjects.
When we think the time is right, we seek to bring only the most promising projects in house and develop them ourselves through to RB-CN-10-0015 Multiple dose steady-state pharmacokinetics approval and launch.
That way we best leverage our industry-leading study of Suboxone Tablet in Chinese subjects who are in understanding of addiction and its co-morbidities at an acceptable recovery from opioid dependence.
Perfect examples of this approach are the licensing RB-US-14-0002 Bioequivalence of a new formulation in the last year of our Nasal Naloxone project for the treatment of of Suboxone Film.
opioid overdose, or of Arbaclofen Placarbil for alcohol use disorders.
RB-US-13-0001 Clinical efficacy, safety and tolerability of Indiviors Research and Development R&D function, headed by RBP-6000 in treatment-seeking subjects with opioid use disorder.
Christian Heidbreder, has 126 personnel, and comprises the following RB-US-13-0003 Long-term safety and tolerability study of sub-functions: RBP-6000 in treatment-seeking subjects with opioid use disorder.
Chemistry, Manufacturing and Controls, including personnel based RB-US-13-0006 Pharmacokinetics, safety and tolerability in Hull UK and in Fort Collins CO, US, ensures that the chemical of RBP-6000 using polymer of different molecular weights and physical properties of active pharmaceutical ingredients of in treatment-seeking subjects with opioid use disorder.
all pipeline drug substances and products are analyzed and monitored at all critical phases of the development pathway: RB-US-13-0007 Abuse liability study of buprenorphine hemiadipate.
Clinical is accountable for creating, maintaining and executing RB-EU-14-0001 Bioavailability of buprenorphine hemiadipate all clinical development plans in order to deliver differentiated in Abusolve abuse deterrent formulation.
target product profiles: RB-US-09-0010 Clinical efficacy, safety and tolerability Regulatory Affairs leads the development and implementation of RBP-7000 in subjects with acute schizophrenia.
of a consolidated global regulatory strategy to guide all assigned products through all development phases and post-approval RB-US-13-0005 Long-term safety and tolerability study life cycle management: of RBP-7000 in the treatment of subjects with schizophrenia.
Global Project Management manages cross-functional teams to RB-US-14-0001 Assessment of maximal tolerated dose of ensure all pipeline projects meet deadlines and deliver according Arbaclofen Placarbil in subjects with alcohol use disorder.
to budget: and Global Training establishes a culture of learning that grows talent, develops leadership and promotes organizational health.
30 Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
