Corporate Governance and Remuneration Directors Remuneration Report External appointments With the approval of the Board of Directors in each case, and subject to the overriding requirements of the Company, Executive Directors may accept one external appointment as a Non-Executive Director of another company.
Details of external appointments and the associated fees received are included in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Company The Committee does not consult with employees specifically on executive remuneration policy.
However, the Committee considers pay practices across the Company and is mindful of the salary increases applying across the rest of the business in relevant markets when considering salaries for Executive Directors.
Consideration of Shareholder views The Committee will consider Shareholder views received during the year and at the Annual General Meeting each year, as well as guidance from Shareholder representative bodies more broadly, in shaping remuneration policy.
This feedback, and any additional feedback received from time to time, will then be considered as part of the Companys annual review of remuneration.
It is the Committees intention to consult with major Shareholders in advance of making any material changes to remuneration arrangements.
The following section provides details of how our remuneration policy was implemented during the year ended December 31, 2014.
Annal Report on Remuneration Remuneration Committee membership in 2014 As of December 31, 2014 and the date of this Annual Report, the Remuneration Committee comprised four Non-Executive Directors, all of whom are considered to be independent for the purposes of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Daniel J. Phelan Chairman Rupert Bondy Lorna Parker Daniel Tass The Committees purpose is to assist the Board of Directors in fulfilling its oversight responsibility by ensuring that remuneration policy and practices reward fairly and responsibly: are linked to corporate and individual performance: and take account of the generally accepted principles of good governance.
On behalf of, and subject to approval by, the Board of Directors, the Committee primarily: Sets and regularly reviews the Companys overall remuneration strategy: Determines the general remuneration policy for senior executives: and In respect of the Chairman, the Executive Directors and members of the Executive Committee sets, reviews and approves: remuneration policies, including annual bonuses and long-term incentives: individual remuneration and compensation arrangements: individual benefits including pension arrangements: terms and conditions of employment including the Executive Directors service agreement: participation in any of the Companys bonus and long-term incentive plans: and the targets for any of the Companys performance-related bonus and long-term incentive plans.
The Chairman of the Board of Directors and the CEO are responsible for evaluating and making recommendations to the Board of Directors on the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors.
Members of the Remuneration Committee and any person attending its meetings do not participate in any discussion or decision on their own remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee held two meetings during the year, both prior to the listing of the Company, on November 13 and December 1, 2014.
Advisors Deloitte LLP has been the advisor to the Remuneration Committee from the point of listing on December 23, 2014 following a review of the advisors in advance of listing.
Deloitte LLP is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and, as such, voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
No fees were paid to Deloitte LLP for executive remuneration consulting between the date of appointment and the year end.
No other services were provided by Deloitte between listing and the year end.
Single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors audited The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Executive Director for 2014.
As the Company was only listed on December 23, 2014 no prior year figures have been shown.
The figures for Shaun Thaxter relate to the whole of 2014 including the period whilst the Company was a business unit of RB.
The values of each element of remuneration are based on the actual value delivered, where known.
56 Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
