04 72 Section four Board and governance Annual report and accounts 2014 73 04 Board of Directors Board decisions in respect of the TFCPL as Business Director in 1 business and leading the Executive September 2007 and the ICL Board As at 18 June 2014 the Board consisted of the Management Team in the day-to-day in October 2007.
Eric initially held the running of the business.
role of Development Director from independent Non-executive Chairman, four January 2008 to July 2009.
Prior to joining TFCPL, Eric held executive Appointment to the Board independent Non-executive Directors, two positions within two portfolio 2 October 2013 companies of Clayton, Dubilier & Rice, non-independent Non-executive Directors a US private equity firm, and was Committee membership Managing Director of Sirva Inc. s Eric Machiels None Continental European division from and two Executive Directors.
Their biographies Chief Executive Officer 2004 to 2007.
He worked as an External appointments Investment Director at UBS Capital are set out below.
As CEO, Eric is responsible for running the Groups business with Previous experience Qualifications the support of his fellow Executive Eric became CEO of the Group in MBA Harvard Business School Management Team.
His key August 2009, having been involved Licence in Law University of responsibilities include proposing with Infinis since January 2008 when Leuven Law Faculty Belgium Appointment to the Board Sustainable Development Advisory Group strategy and objectives to he was seconded into the business 1 November 2013 Group.
He also chaired the UK the Board, delivering the agreed from TFCPL.
He had previously joined Business Council for Sustainable strategy, effectively implementing Energy and the UK governments Committee membership Engineering Construction Forum.
Nomination Chairman and Before his appointment as CEO of Remuneration SSE, Ian was Finance Director of both SSE and one of its predecessor External appointments companies, Southern Electric.
Chairman Scotlands 2020 Appointment to the Board Prior to joining Drax, Gordon was with Ian Marchant Climate Group 2 October 2013 British Energy plc where he held a Qualifications Independent Non-executive President UKs Energy Institute number of roles including Director of BA Hons in Economics Chairman Corporate Restructuring, Generation Chairman Maggies Cancer Durham University Committee membership Finance Director and Group Treasurer.
Caring Centres Chartered accountant ACA None He also has experience of the Chairman from May 2014 Senior Fellow of the Energy Institute manufacturing and retail sectors.
As Chairman, Ian is responsible for Independent Director from May External appointments leadership of the Board and ensuring 2012 to May 2014 John Wood None its effectiveness in all aspects of its Group PLC Qualifications role, including fostering relationships Non-executive Director Gordon Boyd B. Com Hons University of between the Companys NonPrevious experience Edinburgh Aggreko plc Chief Financial Officer executive Directors and the Executive Gordon joined Infinis as CFO in March MBA Henley Directors and encouraging all 2012, having held a number of senior Previous experience FCMA Directors to use their skills, experience, Ian was previously CEO of SSE plc positions in the UK electricity sector, MCT Member of Association of As CFO, it is Gordons responsibility to knowledge and, where applicable, most recently as Finance Director of formerly Scottish & Southern Energy Corporate Treasurers ensure the financial management of independence, to best advantage.
EDF Energys upstream and plc, one of the UKs leading utility the Company is robust and delivered Advanced Management Program Ian works closely with the CEO to downstream businesses in the UK.
companies and Scotlands largest with integrity and transparency.
In Harvard Business School understand business challenges, As Finance Director of Drax Group plc, industrial company, for over 10 years.
addition to being responsible for the provide support and advice to the he led the companys successful He stepped down from that position in finance function, the investor relations executives while respecting executive restructuring and listing on the the summer of 2013.
While CEO of and information technology functions responsibility, and ensure sufficient London Stock Exchange in 2005 and SSE, Ian had a number of roles on report to him and he is responsible for challenge is applied by the Board to continued in the role of Finance industry bodies including the Energy relationships with the Groups lenders, major proposals.
Research Partnership and Ofgems noteholders and rating agencies.
1 The former Infinis governance board prior to IPO 04 74 Section four Board and governance Annual report and accounts 2014 75 04 Board of Directors continued Appointment to the Board Previous experience Appointment to the Board Previous experience 1 November 2013 Chris has over 40 years of experience 1 November 2013 Ray was Chief Executive of The British in the engineering and consulting United Provident Association Limited services fields.
He was a founder of Bupa from 2008 to 2012, after Committee membership Committee membership WSP Group plc, and led the business serving as Group Finance Director Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Audit Chairman, Nomination and through an IPO in 1987.
Before Bupa, he Chairman Remuneration developed the WSP group both held senior finance and CFO roles in organically and through acquisition to large, mainly international businesses, External appointments External appointments a global engineering and notably Diageo plc, Guinness plc, Non-executive Chairman WSP Non-executive Director Saga plc environmental consultancy business Southern Water plc and Imperial Ray King Chris Cole Global Inc. Non-executive Director with 10,000 people operating in more Chemical Industries plc.
He was a Senior Independent Non-executive Non-executive Chairman since Independent Non-executive Rothesay Holdco UK Limited than 40 countries.
Following WSPs Non-executive Director of Friends Director 2007 Non-executive Director Director Reporting Panel Member merger with GENIVAR in August 2012, Provident plc between 2004 and since 2002 Ashtead Group plc Competition and Markets Chris became Chairman, and is now 2009, where he also chaired the Audit Non-executive Chairman Authority the Non-executive Chairman of WSP Committee.
He was a member of the As the Senior Independent Director, Tracsis plc With nearly 40 years of experience Global Inc.
Audit and Assurance Association of British Insurers ABI it is Chris responsibility to provide in industry and commerce, Non-executive Chairman Council member Financial board while Chief Executive at Bupa.
support and counsel to the Board and Rays knowledge and insight Applus Reporting Council Qualifications to the Chairman in particular.
He is into a wide range of sectors Chairman Association of Chartered Engineer Qualifications also available as a point of contact for provides valuable counsel to the Consulting Engineers Degree in Applied Chemistry shareholders, where required.
Queens University Belfast Chartered accountant FCA MCT Member of the Association of Corporate Treasurers Appointment to the Board From 2003 to 2006, Alan was 1 November 2013 Managing Director of Scottish Powers Generation Business, responsible for a portfolio of coal, gas, wind and hydro Committee membership Appointment to the Board Minister for Women and Equalities.
He has Audit, Nomination and Remuneration 27 March 2014 She then returned to 10 Downing previously held positions in corporate Street as Director of Government strategy, regulation and planning.
External appointments Relations until the General Election Alan is an advisor in the utilities Committee membership Non-executive Director in 2005.
Since then she has had a industry, and was previously an Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Scottish Water range of board and advisory roles Independent Director at Iberdrola Alan Bryce Chair Viking Energy including serving on the Board of USA, an electricity and gas utility in External appointments Independent Non-executive Shetland LLP the Olympic Delivery Authority from the eastern United States.
Non-executive Director Director 20062012 and as Chair of Ofsted Carphone Warehouse Group plc Previous experience until 31 August 2014.
Baroness Qualifications Member of the advisory Alan has over 30 years of experience Masters Degree in Electrical committee of Virgin Group in the electricity industry, holding a Sally Morgan Alans experience in managing Qualifications Power Engineering University Holdings Ltd number of senior executive positions transmission and distribution Independent Non-executive BA Hons in Geography of Strathclyde at Scottish Power, one of the UKs Big Active as a Trustee, Board member networks, corporate strategy, Durham University Director Fellow of the Institution of Six energy companies.
Until 2009 he or adviser to a number of charities, regulation and planning, means PGCE Kings College, Engineering & Technology was Managing Director of SP Energy especially in the educational that he has a wealth of energy University of London Networks, responsible for Scottish field, including Kings College, sector knowledge and skills to bring Sallys extensive experience in MA Education Institute of Powers transmission and distribution University of London and to the Board and its committees.
decision-making by corporates Education, University of London of electricity to 3.4 million customers.
Absolute Return for Kids and policy makers is of significant value to the Board.
She has a wealth Previous experience of knowledge of a broad range of Sally was Political Secretary to the sectors and organisations which then Prime Minister, Tony Blair, from enhances the effectiveness of the 1997 to 2001, when she became a Board and its committees.
Member of the House of Lords and
