04 112 Section four Board and governance Annual report and accounts 2014 113 04 Remuneration report continued Loss of office payments Deferred shares will ordinarily be Policy in change of control situations Shareholder views In the Executive Directors service The appointments of the nonagreements both parties are required independent Non-executive Directors, There are no pre-determined special at risk of forfeiture if an Executive The rules of the LTIP scheme provide The Committee will ensure that provisions for Directors with regard Director leaves within the deferral that, in the event of a change of shareholder views are taken into to give six months notice of Mike Kinski and Radu Gruescu, may termination of employment.
be terminated immediately by the to compensation for loss of office.
Unvested share awards lapse control, awards would vest to the account when considering future Any compensation would be if an Executive Director leaves extent that the performance changes to the Directors Company, and their appointments as For Executive Directors, if notice is Non-executive Directors will limited to what would be earned by employment in cases of termination conditions where applicable are Remuneration Policy.
The Committee way of salary, pension entitlement for cause or resignation.
satisfied at the date of such event.
will therefore consult with served by either party, the Executive automatically cease if the Relationship Director may continue to receive Agreement is terminated in respect of and other contractual benefits over Any such early vesting would shareholders prior to making any the notice period.
For share awards granted prior to generally be on a time pro-rata basis.
material change to the Directors basic salary, benefits and pension for the Principal Shareholder for whom the duration of their notice period, the relevant individual is the Admission, in the pre-IPO LTIP Remuneration Policy, e. g. the In the event that a contract is scheme, unvested share awards will The Committee may vary the level of introduction of a new LTIP, as during which time the Company may Representative Director, if the require the individual to continue to Principal Shareholder ceases to hold terminated, and a payment made in vest on the date of cessation if the vesting, if it believes that exceptional outlined earlier in the Report.
lieu of notice, payments to the participant leaves employment in circumstances warrant this, taking fulfill their current duties or may at least 10% of the aggregate voting assign a period of garden leave.
rights in the Company, if the Principal Executive Director may be staggered cases of death, ill health, injury, into account any other factors it The following section provides details over the notice period, at the same disability, redundancy, retirement believes to be relevant in deciding to of how Infinis remuneration policy Under the current service agreements Shareholder requests that nonfor the CEO and CFO, the Company independent Non-executive Directors interval as salary would have been with agreement of the Company or what extent an award will vest.
The was implemented during the financial paid.
During that period the Executive for any other good leaver reasons.
Directors may exchange their awards year ended 31 March 2014: may elect to make a payment in lieu removal by written notice to the of notice equivalent in value to six Company, if the Company is entitled Director must take all reasonable over Company shares for awards in steps to obtain alternative For share awards granted after shares of the acquiring company if Remuneration Committee months basic salary, payable in to terminate that non-independent monthly installments which would be Non-executive Directors appointment employment, and payments to the Admission, if the participant leaves the terms of the offer allow this.
membership for the year ended Executive Director by the Company employment in cases of death, ill 31 March 2014 subject to mitigation if alternative in accordance with the Relationship As of 31 March 2014, the employment is taken up during this Agreement or if that non-independent will be reduced to reflect payments health, injury, disability, redundancy, Share awards earned prior to listing received in respect of any alternative retirement with agreement of the from the pre-IPO LTIP scheme would Remuneration Committee time.
Alternatively, this payment may Non-executive Director ceases comprised five independent be paid as a lump sum.
Payments to be a Representative Director employment.
Company or for any other good vest in full upon a change of control.
leaver reasons the Committee would Similarly, any deferred shares earned Non-executive Directors: under the annual bonus scheme may for the purposes of the be made on a pro-rata basis, for the Relationship Agreement.
There is no automatic entitlement to decide that awards vest at the end of under the annual bonus scheme annual bonus, although Executive the performance period and be would vest in full upon a change Chris Cole Chairman period of time served from the start of the financial year to the date of Policy on Executive Directors Directors may receive a bonus in pro-rated for time.
respect of the financial year in which conditions would normally continue Ian Marchant termination, including for any period holding external appointments in lieu of notice.
Any bonus paid The Executive Directors service he she leaves, subject to the to apply.
However, the Committee achievement of any relevant scheme has the discretion to allow the award Alan Bryce would be conditional on achievement contracts and the Non-executive of pre-agreed bonus targets.
Directors letters of appointment performance criteria.
Where an to vest on cessation of employment Executive Director leaves by reason on a pro-rata basis or otherwise Ray King are available for inspection by The service contract for a newly shareholders at the Companys of death, disability or ill-heath, he she if, in the Committees view, the would receive a pro-rata bonus for performance conditions are met at Baroness Sally Morgan appointed Executive Director would registered office.
Subject to approval be based on similar terms, though the by the Board, Executive Directors are the year of cessation.
The Committee may also waive any pro-rating for time if it Committee may agree a longer notice allowed to accept one appointment period of up to 12 months notice.
on an external board or committee so The treatment of leavers under believes it is warranted due to our long-term incentive plans is exceptional circumstances.
Such long as this is not thought to interfere Each Non-executive Directors term or compete with the business of the determined by the rules of the exceptional circumstances could relevant plan.
The Committee will include situations when the Board of office runs for an initial one year Company.
Any fees received in period, during which period the respect of these appointments are determine when awards vest and wishes to proactively organise permitted to be retained by the the period during which awards may succession and manage an appointment may be terminated by either party giving six months relevant Executive Director.
When determining the treatment of notice.
There are no provisions for payment on early termination in outstanding awards in such cases, the Committee may take into account letters of appointment.
the executives level of performance and contribution to the transition.
