04 110 Section four Board and governance Annual report and accounts 2014 111 04 Remuneration report continued Approach to recruitment remuneration In deciding the appropriate To facilitate this, the Committee than for Executive Directors, but External appointment remuneration for a new Executive may need to avail itself of the different measures may be selected In the cases of hiring or appointing a new Executive Director from outside Director appointment, the Committee discretion provided under Listing to provide better line-of-sight.
the Company, the Remuneration Committee may make use of all the existing aims to ensure that arrangements are Rule 9.4.
The Company does components of remuneration, as follows: in the best interests of Infinis and its not intend to use Listing Rule 9.4.
2R Non-executive Directors shareholders, and seeks not to pay for any other purpose.
The annual fee for newly appointed more than is necessary.
Non-executive Directors will be Component Approach Maximum annual award Internal promotions to the Board determined in line with the In addition to the above, the In cases of appointing a new Non-executive Director policy Base salary The base salaries of new appointees will be determined by Committee may also make a one-off Executive Director by way of internal stated on page 109.
Non-executive reference to relevant market data, the experience and skills of the buy-out award to a newly appointed promotion, the remuneration policy Directors are not eligible to individual, the responsibilities of the role, internal relativities and the Executive Director in recognition used by the Remuneration participate in any incentive plan candidates current base salary.
Where new appointees have initial of any remuneration foregone on Committee will be consistent with the or receive additional benefits.
base salaries set below market, any shortfall may be managed with resigning from the previous policy for external appointees phased increases over a period of two to three years, subject to the employer.
Any such award would detailed above.
Where an individual Service contracts individuals development in the role.
have a fair value no higher than the has contractual commitments made Details of the service contracts and remuneration foregone and, where prior to their promotion to Executive letters of appointment for Directors relevant, the amount would be Director level, the Company will are as follows: Pension New appointees will be eligible to participate in the Companys DC calculated on a like-for-like basis continue to honour these scheme, receive an equivalent payment into an HMRC approved taking into account performance arrangements.
Incentive pension plan or, at the discretion of the Committee, receive a cash conditions, time horizon, award opportunities for below Board supplement in lieu.
vehicle e. g. cash or shares, etc.
employees are typically no higher Benefits New appointees will be eligible to receive benefits which may include but are not limited to car allowance, private medical Date of current service contract Unexpired term at 31 March 2014 insurance, income protection cover, life assurance and any or letter of appointment necessary relocation expenses.
New appointees will also be eligible SAYE to participate in all-employee share schemes.
Eric Machiels 14 November 2013 Annual bonus The structure described in the policy table will apply to new 100% of salary Gordon Boyd 14 November 2013 appointees with the relevant maximum being pro-rated to reflect the proportion of employment over the year.
Targets for the personal performance element will be tailored to each executive.
Ian Marchant 1 November 2013 7 months LTIP New appointees will be granted awards under the LTIP on the 150% of salary Chris Cole 1 November 2013 7 months same terms as other executives, as described in the policy table.
As previously noted, the LTIP will be subject to review during the Ray King 1 November 2013 7 months forthcoming year.
Alan Bryce 1 November 2013 7 months Mike Kinski 1 November 2013 7 months Radu Gruescu 7 February 2014 10 months Baroness Sally Morgan 27 March 2014 12 months
