03 46 Section three Strategic report: corporate and social responsibility Annual report and accounts 2014 47 03 Corporate and social responsibility 1 Customers Shareholders Employees Suppliers Communities Regulators NGOs What makes Infinis unique is the way that Health and safety Environment including sustainability forms the bedrock of our business climate change and biodiversity strategy: both in the market in which we operate Employee welfare and also in the way we run our business.
Being a good neighbour Responsible supply chain The Committee is made up of stakeholder issues are identified, and that stakeholders are integrated into volunteers from across the business geographically and functionally the decision-making process.
and meets quarterly before each management review.
We are continually learning from our stakeholders.
Our consultations, About the business Value chain for new power plants Oversight of corporate responsibility The sectors we operate in are highly exchanges and collaborations help define our approach to, and and sustainability Infinis typically works through the at Infinis regulated.
Because of this, each of One of the greatest challenges of our following stages to develop and build Ultimate accountability for corporate our sites requires at least one, and development of, new technology.
Wind and hydro generation, for time is combating global climate new wind power plants: responsibility at Infinis lies with the usually more, consents or permits to change.
Our business is all about Board of Directors.
We work hard to meet all of example, bring different types of questions to energy compared to operating on the front line of the Identification of suitable sites and senior management review all areas the requirements of these consents response to that challenge, agreeing a commercial contract of corporate responsibility monthly, and permits and have built a strong LFG.
Whatever the situation, our commitment to addressing generating electricity from renewable with landowners: including key performance indicators compliance track record.
Our work, therefore, is at the and progress against targets.
The stakeholder concerns never falters.
Liaison with local stakeholders and Head of Health and Safety, Quality Integration and performance formal environmental assessment and Environment has responsibility Stakeholder engagement At Infinis, we tailor our stakeholder engagement to our different Surveys consistently show that As we expand our portfolio we are in preparation for obtaining for driving forward our sustainability A central facet of our success is increasing our electricity generation planning consent: performance and reports, through maintaining strong and mutually business operations: the majority of the UK public is supportive of wind power, and from renewable sources for the the Chief Executive, to the Board.
Our activities currently reduce Addressing local community our stakeholders.
For the development of new according to a Department of sites, major internal initiatives or Energy & Climate Change poll in UK greenhouse gas emissions by concerns before obtaining We believe that corporate the equivalent of 11 million tonnes of planning consent: responsibility achieves its maximum Having these strong relationships public policy consultations, we March 2014, 70% of people support 1 develop comprehensive and the building of additional wind CO per year.
potential when it is fully embedded with our stakeholders allows us to 2 2 Building the wind farm: within day-to-day business.
Health, better understand their needs and pro-active engagement strategies.
While These are tailored to the situation The operation of wind and hydro safety and environmental issues are expectations and puts us in a good this clear majority in favour of turbines releases almost no carbon Operating the asset in a manner the first item on meeting agendas, position to respond to their concerns, and needs of our audiences, be wind development is also reflected that local communities at new and the carbon released from LFG that protects the environment from the Board down to site team maximise our positive impacts, and in our stakeholder feedback, we engines is not derived from fossil fuel.
We train our teams across manage our risks and opportunities.
sites, our colleagues or local and work to address the concerns of national governments.
Operating our wind turbines generation: and the business and continually Sustaining these successful the minority who do not support displaces power that would otherwise encourage contributions to improve relationships therefore means we such developments.
We strive to reduce negative be generated using fossil carbonFeeding electricity into the national the responsible performance of the can boost our corporate intensive technologies.
Therefore we grid supplied to consumers.
All responsibility, and ultimately our impacts by, for example, collaboration with experts contribute to the reduction of employees are incentivised to focus whole business performance.
emissions from the entire UK power on these issues as bonuses are only to conduct comprehensive biodiversity studies, generation sector.
The embedded paid if the business meets an Our main stakeholders and the issues energy in a wind farm the carbon ambitious set of health, safety and that are most material to them are habitat management and improvement plans.
emissions associated with the environmental HS&E standards.
provided in the table above.
construction and transportation of turbines may typically be paid back To further embed our HS&E Every day our teams across the in CO savings within the first year of commitments, we created an business are in contact with 2 stakeholders.
Through regular its 25 year design life.
Employee HS&E Committee which considers relevant issues engagement we ensure that key and gives feedback to managers.
1 1 C alculated by Infinis based on the amount of methane captured then destroyed and the amount of renewable electricity generated assuming that it Non-governmental organisations 2 displaces generation of average carbon intensity from the electricity grid www.
uk government publications  03 48 Section three Strategic report: corporate and social responsibility Annual report and accounts 2014 49 03 Case study CEEQUAL In 2013 we completed the construction of five new wind farms and we continue to work on the development of others.
We are delighted that Wingates and An example of how we seek to find provided by Infinis are currently Gordonstown, the latest of our wind site specific solutions to environmental envisaged to be in the order of Awards farms to be entered into the and social challenges can be seen in 60,000 per year and it is hoped that We seek to maximise the local CEEQUAL awards, both received a the way that Infinis has worked with by teaming with a formal, trusted very good rating from CEEQUAL.
local interest groups to ensure that community partner this can be benefits and sustainability of Wingates and Gordonstown are the the community at the Wingates significantly increased through second and third of our farms to be development site is best placed to match funding.
With support from the design, construction and assessed by CEEQUAL, with benefit from hosting a renewable the college already in place, Glenkerie receiving equally high energy project.
Infinis is looking forward to operation of our wind farms.
We will continue to use securing the support of the local CEEQUAL and other third party The local area that surrounds the community for this initiative and We are delighted assessment tools as a way of ensuring development has for some time enabling this investment to take As part of our evaluation of the projects, we entered that our operations remain at the struggled with the problems of place in due course.
that Wingates and 1 leading edge of social and unemployment and worklessness, our five new wind farms into the CEEQUAL awards, Gordonstown, the environmental performance, which has been compounded by the Infinis has also worked hard to the leading sustainability assessment, ratings and latest of our wind alongside being industry leaders in difficulties local residents face in ensure that as much direct benefit awards for civil engineering.
CEEQUAL recognises renewable energy generation.
diversifying their skillsets to suit from development as possible farms to be entered current employment needs.
Through can be harnessed by the local project and contract teams in which clients, into the CEEQUAL extensive local research, Infinis community.
To that end the company designers and constructors go beyond the legal awards, both identified that a partnership with the has teamed up with the North East and environmental minimum standards to achieve local college for the investment and Chamber of Commerce to promote received a very dispersal of the community benefit the opportunities that are available distinctive environmental and social standards.
good rating fund that would be generated by the to local contractors during wind By participating in this process we can ensure that wind farm if consented could bring farm construction, and these have we are not just adopting industry best practice but a tangible change to the skillset of been showcased in Meet the the local community.
driving improvements for ourselves and the industry as a whole.
1 C EEQAL was developed by the Institution of Civil Engineers to provide a rigorous and comprehensive sustainability rating system that celebrates commitment to achieving high environmental, economic and social performance in the civil engineering industry 03 50 Section three Strategic report: corporate and social responsibility Annual report and accounts 2014 51 03 Corporate and social responsibility continued Working with partners and suppliers Health and safety management Formal training on safety Working closely with our suppliers, A top priority for our business is the management for senior staff.
contractors and business partners, health and safety of our colleagues, we aim to establish long-term and and those who may be affected by Mandatory training: two days for mutually beneficial relationships.
staff and contractors working on As the health and safety of our our sites and four days for colleagues, and those who may be Policy supervisory staff.
affected by our activity, is a top Our health and safety policy, which priority for our business we hold is communicated to all employees, Health and safety embedded within partners and suppliers to the same is available at www.
com Company culture ambitious standards of HS&E Adoption of the principle If you as we hold ourselves, and work Clear accountability and targets cant do it safely, dont do it.
with them to ensure these standards The Infinis senior management are achieved.
team regularly reviews objectives A focus on reporting and and targets.
Health, safety and environmental enforcement notices We also aim to reduce our indirect impacts, and have evaluated the level Board level responsibility for health Safe site Number of health, safety and of risk across our value chain.
All of and safety lies with the Chief Through this approach we are Year environmental enforcement notices our primary generating equipment Executive, supported by the seeking continuous progress on our 2013 14 0 e. g. engines, turbines and alternators Head of Health, Safety, Quality journey to achieve zero accidents.
is imported from Europe or North and Environment.
Little of our supply chain 2011 12 0 spend is outside of the developed Training and incentives 2010 11 0 economies of Europe and North Bonus schemes conditional on America, representing minimal levels health and safety performance.
2009 10 0 of social or environmental supply 2008 09 0 chain risk.
1 12-month rolling RIDDOR accident frequency rate We employ local technicians to Health, safety and environmental warning letters 0.6 undertake regular maintenance Number of health, safety and of the equipment on run-of-river Year environmental warning letters hydro schemes.
This promotes 0.5 2013 14 0 local employment and reduces transportation requirements.
Some 1 2012 13 1 0.4 of our sites have also implemented 2011 12 0 local sourcing programmes.
2010 11 0 0.3 2009 10 0 0.2 2008 09 0 1 In March 2013, Infinis accepted a formal caution from the Environment Agency EA in relation to a technical breach of a permit on one of our landfill gas sites.
This breach related to the removal of one or two engines on the site prior to seeking permission from the EA.
This unfortunately resulted from an administrative oversight and had no environmental impact whatsoever 1 Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations Apr 2013 May 2013 Jun 2013 Jul 2013 Aug 2013 Sep 2013 Oct 2013 Nov 2013 Dec 2013 Jan 2014 Feb 2014 Mar 2014
