04 76 Section four Board and governance Annual report and accounts 2014 77 04 Board of Directors continued Executive Management Team As at 18 June 2014 the Infinis Executive Appointment to the Board Terra Firmas cattle business in Management Team consisted of Eric Machiels, 1 November 2013 Australia and has spent a considerable amount of time Gordon Boyd, Stewart Gibbins, Paul Gregson, supporting the development of Committee membership EverPower the Terra Firma groups None wind development company in Steven Hardman, Simon Heyes and the US.
Prior to joining TFCPL in External appointments 2000, Mike was Group CEO of Samantha Calder.
Non-executive Director Stagecoach Holdings plc, CEO of RTR Capital Srl.
Power Distribution and Water Mike Kinski Operational Managing Operations for Scottish Power plc Non-executive Director Director TFCPL which included being Chairman Biographies for Eric Machiels and Gordon Boyd and Chief Executive of SP Manweb plc Previous experience and Southern Water plc and a Mike was previously a Non-executive can be found in the Board of Directors section Having been involved with the main board Director of Jaguar Cars 1 Director of ICL and Chairman of that business since 2007, and with wide Limited.
He was also a governmentcompany from June 2010 to experience in many other sectors, of this report.
appointed Non-executive Director of November 2013.
Until recently Mike Mike is well placed to use his extensive the UK Post Office.
was Non-executive Chairman and skills and knowledge to make a key Non-executive Director of Odeon & contribution to the Board on behalf of Qualifications UCI Cinemas Holdings Limited, a Terra Firma.
MBA with distinction Non-executive Director of Lake Warwick University Woods Holdings Pty Limited, the Appointment to the Executive Qualifications HNC in Electrical Engineering governance company for Management Team HND in Electrical & Coventry University Consolidated Pastoral Company 21 April 2009 Electronic Engineering Senior management courses BC Vache College Previous experience Stewart joined the Waste Recycling Short specialist training courses: Group, from which Infinis was Project Management at Cranfield: demerged in 2006, in May 2005, as Engineering & Marketing at Operations Director of the Waste to Durham University: Consultancy Appointment to the Board Centrica plc, the FTSE 100 integrated Stewart Gibbins Energy division.
He has been Infinis and Analysis training, A T Kearney 7 February 2014 energy company.
Before that Operations Director since May 2006.
Operations Director he worked in the energy private Stewart has extensive senior equity group of Och-Ziff Capital Committee membership management experience in Management.
He started his career None engineering, project management and as an investment banker advising As Operations Director, Stewart is operations with Marconi, British Coal, utilities, energy companies and responsible for Infinis LFG, wind and External appointments Babcock Group and Rolls-Royce.
other corporates in the natural hydro operations, comprising: Director TFCPL During his time with Rolls-Royce, resources sector.
compliance with HSQE Stewart managed a fleet of 50 MW Radu Gruescu requirements: gas fired power stations within the UK, Previous experience Qualifications 1 Europe and North America and has Non-executive Director delivering budgeted electricity Radu was previously a director of ICL Degree in Electrical Engineering generation: over 15 years experience in the power and has been closely involved with with Business Administration generation sector.
driving operational excellence: Infinis since 2012 on a number of Darmstadt University of Radus focus on energy and strategic initiatives covering Infinis balancing cost versus quality: and Technology Germany infrastructure investments at Terra development, financing and growth maintaining a well qualified and Firma and previous energy and agenda.
Prior to joining TFCPL, Radu motivated workforce of circa 300 investment banking experience is a held power business development and engineers and technicians across valuable asset to the Board.
mergers & acquisitions roles at multiple disciplines.
1 The former Infinis governance company prior to IPO 04 78 Section four Board and governance Annual report and accounts 2014 79 04 Executive Management Team continued Appointment to the Executive Qualifications Appointment to the Executive Qualifications Management Team Chartered MCIPD Leeds Management Team Degree in Aeronautical Metropolitan University Engineering City University 4 October 2010 17 June 2013 BA Hons Lancaster University Chartered Engineer IMechE Previous experience Previous experience Paul has been Infinis Human Simon has held the position of Head of Resources Director since October Wind Development at Infinis since 2010, having held the position of Head November 2010 and joined the of Human Resources since November Executive Management Team in June 2006.
Paul qualified as a member of 2013.
Since Simon joined Infinis, his Paul Gregson Simon Heyes the Chartered Institute of Personnel & team has achieved planning consent Human Resources Director Wind Development & Development in 1988 whilst employed for seven onshore wind farms, Construction Director at the Central Electricity Generating totalling almost 150 MW in installed Board.
Following a period in a senior capacity.
He had previously spent As Human Resources Director, Paul HR role within General Electric 13 years in a number of roles with is responsible for all people-related In his role as Wind Development & GE Capital UK, Paul joined Scottish and Southern Energy plc, activities for the Group.
This includes Construction Director, Simon oversees Saint-Gobain Building Distribution in culminating with the position of recruitment & attraction, reward and the wind development pipeline and 2000, where he occupied a role as General Manager for SSE Renewables recognition, internal communications, the construction of new onshore wind Head of Human Resources for the in Great Britain.
In this role, he led performance management and farms.
His role also includes leading Jewson group until joining Infinis.
the team responsible for obtaining learning and development.
the technical services function which consent and constructing major supports the development and onshore wind farms, including construction of Infinis wind farms.
involvement in the development and construction of Clyde, Griffin Gordonbush and the Viking Energy JV on Shetland.
Qualifications Appointment to the Executive Management Team BA Hons French, Russian and Business Studies 27 May 2008 Swansea University Solicitor Previous experience Steven joined Infinis in May 2008 as Appointment to the Executive Qualifications Commercial Director, leading its Management Team LLB University of Nottingham commercial and legal activities.
He 27 August 2006 Solicitor expanded his role in April 2009 when Fellow of the ICSA he assumed responsibility for Infinis Steven Hardman Previous experience wind and major projects function.
Samantha worked in private practice Commercial Director Steven handed over responsibility for and in legal publishing following wind development and construction in qualification as a solicitor, specialising 2012 to focus more on Infinis key in corporate and company secretarial As Commercial Director, it is Stevens commercial and legal activities and its matters.
She was admitted as an Samantha Calder responsibility to lead the Companys acquisitions and other business Associate of the Institute of Chartered key commercial, legal, acquisition and Group Company Secretary development opportunities.
He was Secretaries and Administrators ICSA other business development activities.
previously Group Legal Director for in April 2002 and was elected to Waste Recycling Group, also a former Fellowship in December 2010.
As Group Company Secretary, Terra Firma owned company.
A Samantha joined Waste Recycling Samantha oversees the Company qualified solicitor, Stevens early career Group as Assistant Company Secretarial function for the Group.
was as a corporate lawyer in the City Secretary in December 2004 and Samanthas responsibilities include of London before taking up an moved to Infinis as Company legal and regulatory compliance, in-house legal role in the aggregates Secretary in August 2006. corporate governance and supporting sector with Hanson plc where he the Board and the Executive oversaw the divestment of Hansons Management Team.
waste business to Waste Recycling Group before joining WRG as Group Legal Director.
