04 122 Section four Board and governance Annual report and accounts 2014 123 04 Directors report The Directors present their report and the audited consolidated General information Corporate governance report projects.
Treasury is responsible for The Company was incorporated on 2 The DTR require certain information managing the banking and liquidity financial statements for the year October 2013, under the name Infinis to be included in a corporate requirements of the Group, risk Listco Limited, as a direct subsidiary governance statement in the management relating to interest rate of Monterey Capital II S.. r. l. and Directors report.
Information that risk, and managing the credit risk ended 31 March 2014. subsequently changed its name to fulfils the requirements of the relating to the banking counterparties Infinis Energy Limited on 4 October corporate governance statement can with which it transacts including 2013.
On 22 October 2013 the be found in the corporate governance ensuring compliance with any Company acquired all of the share report on pages 8091 and is banking covenants.
Short-term capital of Infinis Holdings.
On 28 incorporated into the Directors liquidity is reviewed daily by Treasury, October 2013 the Company was report by reference.
while the longer-term liquidity re-registered as a public limited position is reviewed on a regular basis company from a private company Management report by the Board.
limited by shares and changed its For the purposes of compliance with name to Infinis Energy plc.
8R the In relation to the Groups liquidity risk, required content of the management the Groups policy is to ensure, as far On 20 November 2013, the report can be found in the strategic as possible, that it will always have Companys ordinary shares were report and this Directors report, sufficient liquidity to meet its admitted to the premium listing including the sections of the annual liabilities when due, under both segment of the Official List of the report incorporated by reference.
normal and stressed conditions, UK Financial Conduct Authority without incurring unacceptable losses and to trading on the London Going concern or risking damage to the Companys Stock Exchanges main market Having made enquiries, the Directors reputation.
The Group finances for listed securities.
consider that the Company and its activities with a combination of subsidiaries have adequate resources external bank loans and cash from Strategic report to continue in operation for the operating activities.
During the year The Companies Act 2006 requires foreseeable future, and that it is ended 31 March 2013 the Group us to present a fair, balanced and therefore appropriate to adopt the issued a high yield bond of 350m understandable perspective of the going concern basis in preparing the maturing in February 2019 and during Companys business during the year consolidated and individual financial the year ended 31 March 2014 the ended 31 March 2014 and of the statements of the Company.
The Group entered into a new finance position of the Group at the end of Directors consider that a robust facility comprising a seven year term the financial period along with a going concern assessment process loan facility of 291.6 million, ancillary description of the principal risks and was undertaken and the results were facilities of 33.3 million and uncertainties facing the Company.
discussed and challenged by the renegotiated a new Revolving Credit The strategic report can be found on Audit Committee.
Based on pages 269. management forecasts, the Group Liquidity risk, the risk that the Group has adequate headroom and will will have insufficient funds to meet its continue to meet liabilities as they liabilities, is managed by the Groups fall due.
The Group can have significant movements in its liquidity position due to movements in price, working capital requirements and phasing of the future wind development and construction 04 124 Section four Board and governance Annual report and accounts 2014 125 04 Directors report continued subject to applicable restrictions on Directors Results and dividends First AGM for the reappointment of Disclosure of information to auditor aware of any relevant audit The Directors during the year ended The results for the year are set out on the withholding thereof.
KPMG LLP as the auditor of the Each of the Directors who held office information and to establish that 31 March 2014 and at the date of this page 132.
The Directors recommend a Group, to hold office from the at the date of approval of this the Companys auditor is aware of report are as follows: final dividend of 6.63p per share, Compensation for loss of office conclusion of the First AGM until the Directors report confirms that, so far that information.
There are no agreements between being a pro rata dividend of 18.47p conclusion of the next meeting at as each Director is aware, there is no Executive per share for a full year for the period the Group and its Directors or which accounts are laid before the relevant audit information of which Other information employees providing for Gordon Boyd from 20 November 2013 to 31 March Company.
A resolution will also be the Companys auditor is unaware Other information relevant to the appointed 2 October 2013 2014.
Subject to approval at the First compensation for loss of office or proposed authorising the Directors to and each Director has taken all the Directors report can be found employment that occurs because AGM, the dividend will be paid on determine the auditors remuneration.
steps that they ought to have taken in the following sections of the Eric Machiels 28 August 2014 to shareholders on of a takeover bid.
as a Director to make themselves annual report: appointed 2 October 2013 the register at 6pm on 1 August 2014.
Directors indemnities The Company maintains, at its Non-executive Employees Information Location in annual report Ian Marchant Details in relation to the Companys expense, a Directors & Officers Amendment of articles of association Additional information for shareholders Articles of association liability insurance policy to provide appointed 1 November 2013 policies on employment, training, Chairman career development and promotion of cover in certain circumstances Directors appointment, replacement Additional information for shareholders Articles of association against legal action for the benefit disabled persons, and a statement on and powers Alan Bryce employee involvement in the financial of Group personnel including, as recommended by the Code, the appointed 1 November 2013 period, are set out pages 6469.
Directors interests Remuneration Committee report Directors.
This insurance does Financial risk management Risk management and the significant accounting policies sections not provide cover where the Chris Cole Political donations appointed 1 November 2013 No political donations were made Director or officer has acted 1 Future developments Strategic report fraudulently or dishonestly.
Senior Independent Director during the year year ended 31 March Greenhouse gas emissions CSR report 2013: nil.
Each Director has the benefit of a Damian Darragh Major shareholdings Additional information for shareholders Major shareholdings appointed 1 November 2013, Significant agreements deed of indemnity from the Company under which the Company will resigned 7 February 2014 The following significant agreements Post balance sheet events Note 27 to which the Company is a party take indemnify them, subject to the terms Principal activities of the Company Note 28 of the deed of indemnity, in respect Ray King effect, alter or terminate upon a and its subsidiary undertakings in the appointed 1 November 2013 change of control of the Company of claims made and liabilities incurred course of the year by them in the performance of their following a takeover bid: Mike Kinski duties.
These indemnities were in Purchase of own shares Additional information for shareholders Authority to purchase own shares force during the financial year and appointed 1 November 2013 The Company is party to a Related party transactions Note 25 relationship agreement with remain in force at the date of this report.
These are qualifying third Radu Gruescu Monterey Capital II S.. r. l. details of Share capital structure, voting, Additional information for shareholders Articles of association appointed 7 February 2014 which can be found in note 25 to the party indemnity provisions as restrictions and other rights defined in the Companies Act 2006. accounts, and which may terminate if 1 The Board has taken advantage of section 414C 11 of the Companies Act 2006 to include disclosures in the strategic report on these items Baroness Sally Morgan the counterparty and its concert First AGM appointed 27 March 2014 parties cease to hold a controlling interest in the Company.
The Groups The First AGM of the Company will be held at the Northampton Marriott facilities and high yield bond indenture, details of which can be Hotel, Eagle Drive, Northampton NN4 7HW on Thursday, 7 August 2014 at The Directors report of the The Directors report was approved found in notes 18 and 22 to the accounts, contain provisions which 12 noon.
Accompanying this report is Company for the year ended by the Board on 18 June 2014. may require prepayment of such the notice of the First AGM which 31 March 2014 comprises the pages indebtedness in the event of a sets out the resolutions for the and the sections of the annual By order of the Board change of control of the Company.
meeting, together with an report referred to under the explanation of them.
corporate governance report and Samantha Calder The Group is party to a number of other information above which are Group Company Secretary operational agreements for the Auditors incorporated into the Directors management of gas at specific KPMG LLP was appointed by report by reference.
landfill sites, none of which are the Board at a meeting held on considered individually to be 1 November 2013 to hold office significant, but which may be until the next period for appointing terminated in the event of a change auditors.
In accordance with section of control of the Company without 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a the consent of the counterparties resolution is to be proposed at the
