04 108 Section four Board and governance Annual report and accounts 2014 109 04 Remuneration report continued Selection of performance Alignment of executive pay policy The potential reward opportunities Non-executive Director remuneration policy measures and targets with the broader workforce shown are based on Infinis The remuneration policy for Non-executive Directors is set out in the table below: The short-term and long-term Remuneration for Executive Directors remuneration policy applied to 2014 performance measures in our and other senior executives is base salaries.
Note that the LTIP Element and link Operation Opportunity Performance incentives were selected based on structured similarly to that for other awards granted in a year do not to strategy measures our near-term focus on profitability employees, although it is more normally vest until the third and revenue growth, and our heavily weighted towards variable anniversary of the date of grant, and The annual fee for Non-executive Annual fees may change in line None.
longer-term goal to create pay so that a greater part of senior the projected value is based on the Annual fee Directors is determined by the with the outcome of the annual face value at award rather than at sustainable shareholder value.
executive pay is conditional on the To attract and retain Board and reviewed on an annual review.
Accordingly, the LTIP criteria are successful delivery of business vesting i. e. the scenarios exclude the Non-executive basis, taking into account fee The maximum aggregate impact of any share price movement focused on shareholder return on objectives.
This helps strengthen the Directors of the levels paid at companies of a annual fee for all Nonboth an absolute and FTSE 250 link between the value created for over the performance period.
necessary calibre similar size and complexity.
executive Directors provided comparative basis, and EBITDA has shareholders and the remuneration The annual fee for the Chairman in the Companys Articles of been the key financial measure for received by these executives.
The Minimum scenario reflects base is determined by the Committee Association is 2,000,000. salary, pension and benefits i. e. fixed the annual bonus scheme.
From without the Chairman being 2014 15 the Committee has elected Pay for performance scenario charts remuneration which are the only present.
elements of the executives to replace EBITDA with adjusted A substantial proportion of the Committee Chairs and the Senior profit before tax as the key financial remuneration opportunity is linked to remuneration packages not linked to performance.
The On-Target Independent Director receive an measure in the annual bonus scheme performance.
The charts below additional annual fee to reflect as it is considered to provide a provide an illustration of the potential scenario reflects fixed remuneration as above, plus bonus payout of the increased time commitment more appropriate and complete future reward opportunities for the required for each role.
Should a measure of the Companys financial Executive Directors, and the 60% of salary including any deferred element and LTIP corporate event occur requiring performance.
As noted above, it is expected split between the different additional time commitment intended to review the LTIP over the elements of remuneration under threshold vesting at 67% of maximum award.
The Maximum from any of the Non-executive next year to ensure better alignment three different performance Directors, additional fees may with normal listed company practice.
scenarios: Minimum, On-Target scenario reflects fixed remuneration, plus full payout of all incentives i. e. be payable on a per-diem basis Incentive targets set reflect the and Maximum.
derived from their normal Companys budget and medium-term 100% of salary on bonus and 150% of salary under the LTIP excluding any annual fee.
plan, as well as its aspirations for outperformance.
Considerations in determining remuneration CEO Eric Machiels CFO Gordon Boyd In setting remuneration for the Executive Directors, the Committee 1,535k takes into consideration the overall approach to reward across the Company and basic salary 1,163k 1,134k percentage increases for Executive Directors will ordinarily be in line with 40% 859k those of the broader workforce.
The 36% 40% Committee does not formally consult 36% 503k 21% 27% directly with employees regarding 369k 21% 27% executive pay but periodically seeks such feedback via the Human Resources Director.
The Committee 100% 43% 33% 100% 43% 33% also takes into account the views Minimum On-Target Maximum Minimum On-Target Maximum expressed by shareholders and considers developments in Fixed Annual bonus LTIP institutional investors best practice guidelines.
