STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS I S N E C C A R R T U V T E O A A S L H A D E D U S G R H E E E I & P C M S R I C S A N R O P U N I T I E H E S D D T S C T N A T N I O O E O A I R M T N A C E L R E R STRATEGIC REPORT: UNDERSTANDING OUR DIVISIONS BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE SPECIALIST INSIGHT AND INTELLIGENCE The Business Intelligence Division provides specialist BUSINESS MODEL data, intelligence and insight to businesses around the world, helping customers to make better decisions faster, CORE OFFERING gain competitive advantage and enhance return on investment.
The Division has a portfolio of more than VALUE DRIVERS 400 digital subscription products, providing critical insight and intelligence into niche communities across five core industry verticals: Pharma & Healthcare, Finance, ENABLERS Maritime & Law, Telecoms Media Technology TMT, and Agriculture Food.
Our Brands and products include Lloyds List, Citeline, Datamonitor Healthcare, Scrip, Sagient, Ovum, Informa Global Markets and EPFR Global.
In total, this Division accounts for 25% of Informas revenue.
TURNING INSIGHT INTO ADVANTAGE In the digital age the volume and range of information are growing exponentially.
As this mass of information gets larger, extracting insight and intelligence becomes PROVIDE HIGHLY SPECIALISED increasingly valuable.
When insight translates into ACTIONABLE competitive advantage, it becomes indispensable.
INTELLIGENCE This is at the heart of how our business model in the Business Intelligence Division creates value.
Operating across five core industry verticals, it supplies intelligence and insight into niche communities within them.
Its insight and analysis help customers make better decisions, providing industry intelligence that enables users to pursue relevant strategies and, ultimately, to drive a higher return on investment.
Where possible, intelligence is embedded directly into customers workflow.
The aim is for the Divisions services to become an integral part of customers daily routine, whether providing specific news and critical alerts on developments in a particular market, or sensitivity analysis on market data.
The more integrated it becomes, the more efficient it is for customers and the more valuable Business Intelligence becomes to them, making it more difficult to cancel its product.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 29 P R O D A U N E D C R T U W Y T I S O C F T N E I R U A T N H R L K T E N F O C S N E L I T V A D O N R A I F W T N I I O N STRATEGIC REPORT: UNDERSTANDING OUR DIVISIONS BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE CONTINUED Its insight and analysis help customers make better decisions, providing industry intelligence that enables users to pursue relevant strategies and, ultimately, to drive a higher return on investment.
com 30 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS REVENUE 281.7m 2013: 305.9m ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT PROPORTION OF GROUP REVENUE 75.2m 25% 2013: 86.8m MARKET TRENDS OPERATING AND MARKET FOCUS Global market over $70bn a year, more than half in The Knowledge and Information Economy is growing rapidly NorthAmerica and the Business Intelligence Division operates at the heart Historical growth rates of 3%5% per annum, varying ofit.
The Group-wide strategic review undertaken in 2014 bysector confirmed the long-term attractions of these markets and Growing importance of insight and intelligence for corporate niches.
But the business has struggled to grow in recent decision making and compliance regulation years, with organic revenues contracting by 8.5% in 2014.
Large-scale platform players in major sectors: competition In part, this reflects short-term challenges in certain verticals less intense and more specialised within individual niches such as Pharma & Healthcare, but there have also been somefundamental issues with the structure and focus of STRATEGIC PRIORITIES thebusiness.
In 2014, Patrick Martell was appointed as Achieve a positive organic growth run rate by end 2016 ChiefExecutive.
Patrick was formally CEO of St Ives, the Focus on five core industry verticals printservices group, where he led its transformation from Improve customer focus and engagement atraditional printing press operation to adigital marketing Immediate focus on subscription management and services group.
reversingcustomer churn Patrick has since appointed his senior management team, Invest in product innovation and format flexibility bringing together experienced colleagues from within Informa alongside a number of external appointments, including in PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS IN 2014 salesand content.
As part of the Growth Acceleration Plan, a major reorganisation was announced in Business Intelligence.
This included: The new management team immediately set about simplifying the operating model, pulling together a disparate historical Appointment of Patrick Martell, former CEO of St Ives, structure and reorganising into market-facing units focused asDivisional Chief Executive onfive priority verticals: Finance, Pharma & Healthcare, TMT, Strengthened senior management team including key Maritime & Law and Agriculture Food.
appointments in sales and content Reflecting this increased focus, the Division announced Simplified operating structure through reorganisation into thatitisconsidering options for its Consumer information and fivemarket-facing verticals forecasting businesses which include Brands such as Verdict.
Increased focus through transfer of Medical Journals to Itis a small player in what is a broad, competitive market.
AcademicPublishing Givenits focus on speciality areas, its presence inConsumer Targeted investment programme created following information remains under review.
in-depthreview The Division also transferred the Medical Journals business to Academic Publishing.
This leaves the Division more focused on insight and intelligence products, and less on knowledge www.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 31 STRATEGIC REPORT: UNDERSTANDING OUR DIVISIONS BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE CONTINUED and information.
It also gives that business a greater chance In some sectors, such as Pharma, consolidation has ofpenetrating the academic institutional market, becoming reducedthe number of customers.
partof a much broader journal portfolio.
A number of large competitors exist within the broader Subscriptions represent the bulk of revenues in Business information market, typically offering platforms in some of the Intelligence.
Renewal rates have been under pressure and larger verticals.
They tend to compete by offering large volumes thisis an immediate focus for new management.
A key priority of content but often they lack the depth of content in niches, is to increase the focus on customers and improve engagement where Business Intelligence products are targeted.
Within levels throughout the subscription cycle.
The Division needs to these specific niches, competition tends to be less intense and be closer to its customers to understand how they are using its more specialised.
Typically the Division only competes with one products and additional benefits they could offer.
It needs to or two players and the landscape is fragmented.
toremind them how good the products are and give them The US is by far the biggest market for intelligence products, reasons to renew.
reflecting high levels of sophistication and regulation.
At the same time, the Division needs to keep its products best FUTURE PROSPECTS CONTINUING in class.
It has strong Brands but customer demands change TRANSFORMATION quickly and it needs to be responsive to this, to adapt the way The Business Intelligence Division is undergoing a period itsupplies content, to personalise its products to suit their ofchange.
It is a business that operates in attractive, growing needs.
It needs to shift the focus away from information and markets.
It has talented people, good products and established news towards intelligence and insight.
This is where the added Brands, many of which are synonymous with their target valuelies.
market, such as Lloyds List, Citeline and Ovum.
This provides This will require investment and about one third of the funds agood base on which to build.
from the 70m90m Growth Acceleration Plan programme It has simplified the operating structure of the business, areearmarked for the Business Intelligence Division.
This removing internal barriers, encouraging collaboration and willbeinvested across a range of projects and initiatives.
focusing on priority business segments.
This has reorientated MARKET TRENDS SHAPING GROWTH the business towards its customers.
The refocus has been implemented by a strengthened management team, adding The global market for business information and intelligence is expertise and experience in relevant areas.
All of this the worth around 70bn, with a historical growth rate of around Divisionpositive momentum as it exits 2014.
Growth rates vary by sector and fluctuate with the wider macro cycle.
In 2015, we will launch a programme of investment through theGrowth Acceleration Plan which will continue throughout The Divisions direct markets are a subset of this, as it 2015.
It has identified an array of different projects and operatesin specific niches.
It does not offer broad datasets or aone-stop shop for information in sectors such as Healthcare.
initiatives, all designed to improve its corecapabilities and accelerate growth over time.
These rangefrom product It offers deep and rich insight into niche verticals.
For example, enhancements and workflow integration tocustomer TrialTrove offers comprehensive, real-time intelligence on clinical engagement and sales management.
All bring the Division trials globally, covering 180 diseases across eight major therapeutic areas.
closer to its customers and more focused on its prioritymarkets.
As information and data proliferate and compliance and The subscription nature of the business means it will take time regulation grow, intelligence markets become more important.
Decisions have to be justified, investments verified.
Intelligence for the changes the Division is making to be reflected on the bottom line.
But it should see operational progress along the provides insight and potentially competitive advantage.
This will be evident in the detailed matrix of operating end of the information market, the outlook is healthy.
metrics by which the business is tracked, including improving Despite these positive long-term trends, in recent years a subscription renewals, reduced attrition and growing number of short-term factors have impacted specific verticals: annualised contract values.
It has a target to return to positive organic growth bythe end of 2016.
Given the attractive markets In verticals such as Finance and Pharma, macro and secular in which it operates and the momentum it is building, the pressures have forced companies to focus on cost-efficiency Business Intelligence Division is well placed to return to and protecting the bottom line, ahead of investment.
Procurement teams have gained influence with a remit totarget third party supplier costs.
At best, they have lengthened the lead time for subscriptions: at worst they havecancelled whole product categories without consulting internal end users.
com 32 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS TALENT I am a Senior Consultant at eBenchmarkers, part of the Business Intelligence Division of Informa.
We provide RUTH JANSSEN the UKs leading financial services providers with powerful strategic insights.
My role is very diverse SENIOR CONSULTANT, and it includes responsibilities such as: establishing strong client relationships, data analysis, writing EBENCHMARKERS, reports, delivering tailored workshops, and product and business development.
BUSINESS Informa has recently given me the opportunity to participate in the One Young World Conference, which INTELLIGENCE brings together young leaders from around the globe and empowers them to develop solutions to some of the worlds most pressing issues.
The people that I have met through this event, together with Informas Young Leaders Conference, have been very inspiring for me.
As a One Young World As a One Young World Ambassador, I want to encourage a positive impact on our community and Informas Ambassador, I want to Young Philanthropy syndicate has helped me to fulfil this ambition.
Together with my fellow syndicate members, encourage a positive we support our charity Springboard for Children not merely through our funding, but more importantly by impact on our community sharing our professional skills.
All of these experiences have enabled me to widen and Informas Young my knowledge and professional skills, ultimately Philanthropy syndicate benefiting my core work.
As a result, working for Informa has significantly supported my personal development.
has helped me to fulfil this ambition.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 33 www.
com 34 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014
