STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT: UNDERSTANDING OUR DIVISIONS GLOBAL SUPPORT THE TEAM BEHIND THE TEAMS Following the change in operating structure in 2014, SIMPLIFIED STRUCTURE, FOCUS AND EFFICIENCY One of the early tasks for Global Support in 2014 was to Informa has moved to four Operating Divisions.
Their complete the re-domicile of the Group to the UK after four years objective is to deliver the best results in their chosen in Switzerland.
This was a complicated process, pulling on markets.
Our fifth Division Global Support delivers resources across the Legal, Tax, Finance and Communications the support services to make that possible.
This was part of the strategy to simplify the executive Global Support provides functional services, acting as a management structure and business operations of the Group.
facilitator for the Operating Divisions: supplying capital, To coincide with the return, Informa launched a new Groupimproving efficiency, providing strategic advice, ensuring wide employee share scheme.
This encourages employees compliance with regulations etc.
As the Group grows in toinvest in the Group, with every two shares bought by an scale and complexity, Global Support will become more employee matched by a free one from Group.
Prior to the important in connecting different parts of the Group and launch of ShareMatch, share ownership across the Group was ensuring we run our businesses as efficiently as possible.
very low, at around 3% of employees.
ShareMatch has proved Global Support comprises a number of separate functions: popular though, with more than 10% of employees now having Strategy & Planning, Talent & Transformation, Finance, signed up in regions where it is currently available.
Tax & Treasury, Technology, Capital Allocation, Early in 2014, Informa launched a Group-wide strategic review, Communications, Legal and Intellectual Property.
assessing the attractions and opportunities of the markets where we operate, and the structure and capabilities across the Group to exploit them.
This was the first time such an in-depth STRATEGIC PRIORITIES study had been carried out and it involved detailed data Identifying, investing and nurturing internal and external talent collection and analysis from all the Operating Divisions.
This Developing, implementing and supporting Group process was co-ordinated by a small, central team within the strategicdirection Strategy function, who worked closely with teams from each Ensuring Informa meets its obligations operationally ofthe Divisions.
andlegally Providing capital for investment in projects and acquisitions The findings from the review provided the basis for the Implementing and supporting best practice in areas such development of the 20142017 Growth Acceleration Plan, ascompliance, communication, finance and Branding theGroups new all-encompassing strategy.
This was Co-ordinating business planning and performance announced in July and was fully effective from January 2015. management across the Group The development of the Growth Acceleration Plan was again Building trust in the Informa Brand led bythe Strategy function, in close collaboration with members of the Executive Management Team, functional PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS IN 2014 experts and other divisional representatives.
A small project Re-domicile of head office from Switzerland back to London management team has since been assembled to manage the Co-ordination of strategic review of Group operations implementation and support for the Growth Acceleration Plan andmarkets from 2015, with particular focus on the 70m90m investment Creation of the Executive Management Team programme, which is an important component of it.
Development of new operating model, providing clear lines We worked hard in 2014 to improve the efficiency of ourShared ofauthority between Group and Operating Divisions Service Centre SSC activities.
We consolidated the number Development of the Growth Acceleration Plan in partnership of geographic locations we now operate three hubs, in the UK, with operating Divisions Successful launch of an employee share matching the US and Singapore.
This has enabled us to service the various offices more effectively and improve our cost-efficiency.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 47 STRATEGIC REPORT: UNDERSTANDING OUR DIVISIONS GLOBAL SUPPORT CONTINUED STRATEGY, BUSINESS PLANNING Activities include standard financial support such as general AND CORPORATE FINANCE ledger, accounts payable, accounts receivable, payroll, This department is responsible for mapping out business goals budgeting, taxation, compliance and forecasting, all of which and developing Group-wide strategy.
This involves detailed feed directly into Group Finance.
It is also responsible for planning and analysis of market and business trends.
It also customer operations support ranging from purchase through includes the identification and pursuit of business development toproduct delivery.
opportunities and potential acquisitions, all in close partnership with the Operating Divisions.
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY Informa IP GmbH owns, manages and protects a central portfolio CORPORATE COMMUNICATIONS of intellectual property assets for the collective benefit of the The Corporate Communications team incorporates the internal Group.
Creative ideas whether new products, technology and external communications, investor relations, Brand and orBrands are legally protected to ensure they have the corporate responsibility functions.
The team helps manage opportunity to reap their full potential value.
The team has internal and external perception of the Group with all our expertise in finance, law, Brand management and protection.
stakeholders, by defining standards and values, creating assetsand delivering targeted messaging.
LEGAL The central Legal team provides expert advice on issues such On the investor relations side, the team is responsible for as commercial contracts, compliance and corporate transactions.
communicating with financial markets, managing shareholder At both Group and Divisional levels, the Legal team negotiates, relationships and attracting new investors to the Group.
advises and offers general legal support as required.
The Compliance function ensures we meet our legal and regulatory GROUP FINANCE, TAX AND TREASURY obligations and act ethically to accepted best practices.
The Group Finance function co-ordinates and consolidates financial and non-financial information from across the Group.
The Company Secretary also sits within this team, ensuring This is used internally by the Operating Divisions, management themaintenance of corporate governance standards.
and the Board to assess performance, and identify risks andopportunities.
TALENT, TRANSFORMATION AND TECHNOLOGY People are at the heart of everything we do at Informa.
Group Finance co-ordinates the annual budgeting process, Findingand retaining the right calibre of people who share setting targets for the year ahead and tracking performance ourvalues, spirit and ambition is a vital component of the against them.
It also acts as the steward of the Groups capital, Groups future success.
Our Human Resource teams manage this process effectively, Working alongside Group Finance, the Group Tax function working closely with management to build the most effective ensures that tax affairs are managed effectively and efficiently, teams across the Group, adding new skills and expertise where ensuring compliance with relevant legislation and payment of required, while nurturing and developing existing talent.
The Group Tax function also ensures we are not involved in, or party to, any tax practices that could harm the When we acquire companies, we take great care to ensure reputation and trust Informa has gained over many years.
asmooth integration so that the transition for new colleagues isa positive one.
We assign an Integration Officer to each This team also includes the Treasury function which manages transaction for this purpose, who acts as an interface for the Groups debt finances, ensuring we have an attractive cost communication and process management.
of capital and adequate liquidity to satisfy working capital and other investment requirements.
Technology is another core element of our strategy, both at Group and Divisional level.
From a product standpoint, we SHARED SERVICE CENTRES areessentially a digital company, with technology woven The three SSCs in the UK, the US and Singapore provide intothe fabric of most of the products and services we offer.
thepowerful back-office support that allows our Divisions the Wealso employ cutting-edge technologies such as powerful freedom to focus on their operational roles.
Bycentralising customer relationship management platforms, finance systems certain tasks, they can leverage scale todrive efficiency in and marketing tools to maximise efficiency.
com 48 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS TALENT I started working at Informas UK Shared Service Centre in April 2007 as a Finance Administrator working on LINDA CLARK the publishing royalties for Taylor & Francis.
Informa supported me through my AAT qualification by giving REPORTING me the opportunity to take on additional tasks to develop my accounting skills.
I continued my studies after AAT ACCOUNTANT, by pursuing my ACCA qualification, again supported by Informa.
UK SSC I then moved into an accounting role where I prepared the balance sheet reconciliations and the management accounts for the UK SSC and Technology departments, which progressed into the role of Assistant Business Analyst.
This gave me exposure to rolling forecasts and budgeting.
In 2014 I became ACCA qualified and stepped Informa has been into a Senior Accountant role supporting Knowledge & Networkings Technology, Media and Telecoms business, supportive and allowed where I developed my role further and gained me to progress my career understanding of another Informa business.
My most recent promotion to Reporting Accountant by providing experience continues to provide new challenges and further career development such as the responsibility for managing staff.
Informa has been supportive and allowed me to progress my career by providing experience and knowledge.
The Company is exciting and varied, which can only continue to provide opportunities in the future.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 49 50 Informa PLC STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS UNDERSTANDING 2014 PERFORMANCE SUSTAINED VALUE DURING MEASURED CHANGE... www.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 51
