STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS S E C S R E U V L O A L S L Y S E U E S F R E E P I X & P A T H H R S C N C I O P E E I I B T H D E I N S I C T N T O I O O I R T N A L E R STRATEGIC REPORT: UNDERSTANDING OUR DIVISIONS GLOBAL EXHIBITIONS INTERNATIONAL PLATFORMS FOR TRADE AND COMMERCE The Global Exhibitions Division organises Exhibitions and BUSINESS MODEL trade shows, which provide buyers and sellers across related industries and communities with a platform to meet face to CORE OFFERING face, build relationships and conduct business.
Informa has a portfolio of more than 150 Exhibitions, serving a number VALUE DRIVERS of market segments including Health & Nutrition, Beauty, Property & Construction and Pop Culture.
ENABLERS Our Exhibition Brands include Arab Health, Cityscape, China Beauty Expo, World of Concrete and Fan Expo.
This Division accounts for 17% of Informas revenue.
BUILDING PLATFORMS FOR BUYING AND SELLING The business model in the Global Exhibitions Division generates value by creating platforms for buyers and sellers to congregate, network and transact.
Identifying and attracting the right audiences for the right location is critical.
Exhibitors measure the success of an event through the number of contracts they sign and PROVIDE TRADING the quality of leads they generate.
Attracting visitors is PLATFORMS IN therefore key to the success of Exhibitions, and this often KEY VERTICALS requires strong relationships with industry associations and government bodies.
Location is critical to success and so relationships with venue owners are very important.
Well-established events become the annual destination for an industry to congregate.
Building strong Brands drives competitive advantage and barriers to entry.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 35 E E A D R N A T U N T O T T A T E C L T U E R N A C R L L D A - T E A E C O S N C E T A T E S S R G F N I STRATEGIC REPORT: UNDERSTANDING OUR DIVISIONS GLOBAL EXHIBITIONS CONTINUED Informa is a leading player in the Exhibitions industry, with revenue close to 250m annually, putting it among the top organisers globally.
com 36 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS REVENUE 200.2m 2013: 160.2m ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT PROPORTION OF GROUP REVENUE 67.4m 17% 2013: 50.0m MARKET TRENDS bodies, whose support is needed to encourage attendance.
The Exhibitions market is global and worth around 28bn For this reason, some new Exhibitions fail to gain traction.
It is highly fragmented: the largest operator only has Butthose that do can build momentum over many years to become the annual industry meeting point, a must-attend event a3%market share The market is dominated by small producers, many for meeting existing customers face to face, identifying new ofthementrepreneurs customers and promoting new products and services.
Exhibitions are well suited to emerging markets Ten years ago, Exhibitions did not feature on the corporate budget for media investment or business development.
Today, STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Exhibitions are viewed as an essential part of the marketing Deliver continued growth ahead of the Exhibitions market mixand one of the most efficient mediums.
The return on Maintain a portfolio of Exhibitions that achieves a balance investment from exhibiting at the right industry Exhibition is between fast growing emerging markets and more often extremely high.
And it is readily measurable, as both the maturemarkets costs and the return are visible, with contracts signed on-site Pursue a targeted and disciplined acquisition strategy orleads generated that subsequently result in a deal.
thatstrengthens Global Exhibitions position in priority verticals and geographies Informa is a leading player in the Exhibitions industry, with Enhance the customer experience through engagement revenue close to 250m annually, putting it among the top andthe use of technology organisers globally.
This follows a period of rapid growth, through both organic expansion and a series of targeted PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS IN 2014 acquisitions.
In 2014, the Division reported exceptional organic Strong organic revenue growth, 18.9% year-on-year growth of 18.9%, reflecting very strong performances from its Expansion into the US, the single largest Exhibition largerExhibitions, particularly in the Middle East and China.
marketglobally In 2014, Global Exhibitions set out to establish a presence in Strengthened position in Real Estate & Construction, theUSmarket, the single largest Exhibition market globally by Health& Nutrition, and Pop Culture verticals somedistance.
This was an obvious gap in its portfolio and, Annualised revenue going forward of about 250m, given the level ofinvestment and innovation, one that it needed puttingus within the top five to fill to be atrue global player.
It pursued a targeted and disciplined acquisition strategy to identify US businesses STRONG GROWTH ACROSS MAJOR REGIONS thatwould give the Division strong Brands, management Exhibitions are platforms for networking and commerce.
capability and added value toits established position in key Organisers are trusted partners who have the knowledge market segments.
andconnections to bring communities together effectively.
Identifying and attracting the relevant audience in the right This led to a number of high profile acquisitions.
In August location for an Exhibition is a key skill.
Often this requires strong itacquired a portfolio of six major trade shows, including relationships with industry associations and government SupplySide West, the leading US Health & Nutrition Exhibition.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 37 STRATEGIC REPORT: UNDERSTANDING OUR DIVISIONS GLOBAL EXHIBITIONS CONTINUED Itis highly complementary to its established Vitafoods hasa 3% market share and highly entrepreneurial.
In December, it acquired a portfolio of 17 major shows launched from scratch are created by individuals Exhibitions in the Construction & Real Estate segment, whoare oftenpart of a community or industry, and see the including well-known Brands such as World of Concrete and need for ameeting point, a gathering to network.
This complements its strong position within this are successful often develop a strong following at a local or vertical outside of the US, through leading Brands such as regional level.
But often the individual operators reach a size Construct in Canada and Cityscape in the Middle East.
The where taking it to the next level requires investment or an Division recently acquired the Orlando MegaCon Consumer international capability that it doesnt have.
This is a natural Exhibition, extending its CanadianFan Expo Pop Culture point when it might look to partner or sell to a larger player franchise to theUS.
withthe resources, expertise and relationships to grow it to the next level.
The combination offragmentation, entrepreneurial Following these deals, we have an established position in ownership and underlying Exhibition market growth is driving mostof the major Exhibition markets, including North America, merger and acquisition activity in the sector.
the Middle East, Brazil, China and Europe.
This provides aframework of relationships, giving detailed insight into Individual shows generally reflect the health of the particular developments in local markets and a capability for geo-cloning sector they serve.
Immature, growth industries tend to fuel successful Exhibitions.
rapid expansion in Exhibition space as the number of industry participants proliferates and investment into the sector is high.
One of the strengths of Exhibitions is that they provide Larger and more established shows tend to be more resilient businesses with an effective entry into emerging markets.
Withrelatively little investment, a company can use a local Exhibition to promote themselves and develop contacts in FUTURE PROSPECTS GEOGRAPHIC AND anuntapped region.
Alternatively, the Exhibition might reveal VERTICAL EXPANSION that the appetite for its products and services is not sufficient Global Exhibitions continues to look for growth opportunities towarrant further investment, or the industry might not yet byexpanding the space rented at existing events, maximising havereached sufficient maturity.
yield, geo-cloning in new territories, new launches and targeted acquisitions.
Inastrong Exhibition industry, free of structural A successful Exhibition can be highly profitable.
It also creates pressures andat anattractive point in the cycle, all of these acredible Brand and a team with valuable knowledge and data channels should deliver growth.
on the industry it serves.
This can be exploited by exporting theExhibition to other regions where there may be demand, The Division will also look for incremental value opportunities.
leveraging exhibitor relationships to encourage participation, Sponsorship and promotion, digital content and conferences and then working with local associations and government to are just some of the ways it increasingly looks to generate attract relevant visitors.
We call this geo-cloning and it is a core additional revenue on top of core Exhibition income streams.
part of our Exhibition strategy.
Good examples where we have The deeper and broader its engagement with customers, geo-cloned a successful Brand to other territories include Arab themore value it should generate.
Health, Vitafoods, The Anti-Aging Medicine World Congress, The Division will continue to pursue a proactive, targeted and Cityscape and Fan Expo.
It will look to strengthen its Geo-cloning is one way to broaden and deepen the relationship geographic reach and position in core markets, and build with exhibitors.
It creates an international partnership, as the onitsleading positions in priority market segments.
At the Division provides them with platforms to do business in multiple same time, itconstantly looks to identify unexploited markets, territories around the world.
It is constantly looking for other growing industries or derivative verticals that might provide ways to extend the relationship with exhibitors beyond the major anopportunity.
Innovation and development are continuing in the Its acquisition strategy is focused on making the most of digital space, using tools such as webinars, social networking, businesses once it has bought them.
It ensures there is blogs and white papers to strengthen and deepen the relationship asmooth integration process and synergies are optimised, with exhibitors and visitors to its shows.
In the US, one of the bothon the cost side and in relation to revenue.
Divisions businesses has developed a ladder of engagement approach for customers, engaging with them on various levels The Division continues to leverage its global infrastructure to build towards the big annual event.
In some cases, this is effectively andtransfer best practice across the business.
having amarked impact on new business and retention rates.
The combination of attractive market and business dynamics MARKET TRENDS SHAPING GROWTH positions the Global Exhibitions Division well for the year The Exhibitions market is global and worth around 28bn ahead, giving it confidence it can deliver on its ambition perannum.
It is highly fragmented the biggest player only tocontinue to grow ahead of the wider Exhibition market.
com 38 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS TALENT I joined Informa in 2006 and Im currently based in our Dubai office.
Over the years I have been responsible for RICHARD BROOK marketing activity across a number of our trade and Consumer Exhibitions as well as being the Exhibition DIVISIONAL Director for PALME Middle East and the Middle East EVENT Show.
In my current role as the Divisional MARKETING Marketing Integration Director for Global Exhibitions I support each business within the portfolio in the INTEGRATION development and delivery of successful marketing strategies.
The priority for me right now is driving DIRECTOR, GLOBAL change to take advantage of the opportunities digita transformation offers nimble and forward EXHIBITIONS thinking businesses.
My job means I spend a lot of time travelling but the pay-off is meeting diverse groups of colleagues who all share the objective of delivering successful events.
Its inspiring to hear of things that have gone well and communicate this news around the business for others I spend a lot of time to benefit.
Its also motivating to join in the brainstorming sessions when unforeseen challenges get transformed travelling but the pay-off into opportunities by creative and resourceful minds.
is meeting diverse groups Informa prides itself on being a people business and with that nurtures a culture of empowerment and innovation of colleagues who all share that is rewarding to be part of.
the objective of delivering successful events.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 39 www.
com 40 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014
