STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS S L E O C D R R N U V T O T A A N S L R R N E U E O U R E O L C S I I & P T A R T S Y A O N P A T I T D C H I E I N E S L L C D N T A A I O V O U I T N Q A L E R STRATEGIC REPORT: UNDERSTANDING OUR DIVISIONS ACADEMIC PUBLISHING A GLOBAL LEADER IN EDUCATION The Academic Publishing Division publishes specialist BUSINESS MODEL books and journals.
Operating as the Taylor & Francis Group, it is recognised internationally as one of the worlds CORE OFFERING leading education publishers through its five leading imprints: Taylor & Francis, Routledge, CRC Press, Garland VALUE DRIVERS Science and Cogent OA.
Its core strengths include a catalogue of more than 100,000 book titles and 2,100 peer reviewed journals available in both print and digital ENABLERS formats, across subject areas within Humanities and Social Sciences, and Science, Technology and Medicine.
The Division provides academics, researchers and businesses with the knowledge and information to stay at the forefront of their fields of expertise, and a publishing platform to promote new theories and discoveries.
Book and journal titles include The Molecular Biology of the Cell, Journal of Natural History, Applied Economics, Journal of Modern Optics and CMRO Current Medical Research & Opinion.
This Division accounts for 36% of Informas revenue.
ENHANCE ACADEMIC WORLD-CLASS CONTENT AND DISTRIBUTION UNDERSTANDING In the Academic Publishing Division, our goal is to enhance Academic understanding, through a business model built around the quality and value of content.
For generations, we have secured loyalty with authors and customers by delivering high quality, peer reviewed content.
The operating model is differentiated by taking a longterm view to relationships with authors and institutions, building trust over many years.
The publishing strategy concentrates on being a leading player in a broad range of specialist niches.
Control of the content and pricing is key to our success.
In terms of production and distribution, we rely upon a lean and efficient infrastructure.
Where possible, Academic Publishing centralises processes and harnesses technology to drive down costs.
These processes are designed to ensure cost-effective production of content and efficient distribution to end-users.
The production process is 100% digital but the format output is flexible, enabling the Division to respond to customer requirements.
In this business, customers and their needs come first.
Whether for authors or readers, products are tailored to demand.
In print, online or on demand, content is searchable and discoverable, and can be purchased or rented in increasingly innovative ways.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 23 D N E I O R S T I U T N T T R E C T C I U T A B U R L N T E U D O S N T O T A C I R R O F P N N I STRATEGIC REPORT: UNDERSTANDING OUR DIVISIONS ACADEMIC PUBLISHING CONTINUED The publishing strategy concentrates on being a leading player in a broad range of specialist niches.
com 24 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS REVENUE 408.9m 2013: 407.8m ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT PROPORTION OF GROUP REVENUE 150.0m 36% 2013: 150.9m MARKET TRENDS RELIABLE AND CONSISTENT GROWTH The global academic publishing market is growing The Academic Publishing Division has grown consistently, 2%3%annually contributing reliable and robust income for the Group.
In 2014, Investment in higher education in emerging markets organic revenue growth was 3%.
isagrowth opportunity For the Division, the Books business represents 47% of English remains the primary language of academia revenue.
It published more than 5,000 new titles in 2014, taking Peer reviewed journals are a validation tool for the total number of books in the catalogue to over 100,000 in academicresearch multiple formats, providing customers with flexibility and choice.
The academic market is seasonal rather than cyclical In 2014, 22% of sales were ebooks, up from 20% in 2013.
Allfront-list titles are available digitally, as well as 60% of STRATEGIC PRIORITIES thebacklist.
Continue to grow at, or ahead of, the academic market Academic Publishing publishes specialist books in niche Increase revenue from developing markets subject areas.
Typically sold in relatively low volumes, our Continue to expand our content database through booksare highly valued by our customers, who rely expansionof front-list publishing and targeted acquisitions onourauthor expertise in particular subject areas.
Our core Increase content origination from developing markets audience ranges from second year undergraduates through Remain flexible on format delivery, reflecting topostgraduates and professional researchers.
customerdemand Continue to expand open access offering Many of the books are one-off studies and remain relevant for many years.
Some are repeatable, updated regularly into new PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS IN 2014 editions.
In 2014, for example, we published the 6th Edition Organic revenue growth of 3% ofone our best-selling textbooks, The Molecular Biology of More than 5,000 new books published, the highest theCell.
numberever produced by the Division The Journals business represents 53% of Academic Publishing Book catalogue passed 100,000 titles revenue.
It publishes more than 2,100 journals, mainly in the Expansion of open access offering through Cogent OA English language, and predominantly in two subject areas: Merger of Medical Journals business into Taylor & Francis Science, Technical and Medical, and Humanities andSocial Sciences, where it is the world leader.
This is a digital business, from the front end to the back end.
The journals are produced and published digitally.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 25 STRATEGIC REPORT: UNDERSTANDING OUR DIVISIONS ACADEMIC PUBLISHING CONTINUED Overall content usage is increasing, reflecting its value and For all players in the industry, growth depends partly on library international relevance, as the global number of students and education budgets, research and development trends and continues to grow.
This also highlights the flexibility of digital advances in technology.
But investment in higher education content and the impact that the ability to search, index, and professional research within developing markets provides reference and link content has on discoverability.
The majority of journals are sold through annual subscriptions.
FUTURE PROSPECTS CONTENT GROWTH However, with the recent development in open access models, AND DISCOVERABILITY Academic Publishing offers authors flexibility in how their For the Division, the US is the single largest market, accounting content is used and sold.
Through Cogent OA, a leading for almost 50% of sales in 2014.
While it is mature, growth portfolio of open access journals is being created.
Here, opportunities exist in the US in unexploited publishing niches, feesare received for accepted peer reviewed content through increased discoverability and product innovation.
whichisthen available for free at the point of use.
Developing markets have strong growth prospects.
Rising In 2014, Informa transferred its Medical Journals operation numbers of students, new universities and research and fromthe Business Intelligence Division to Academic development all provide attractive underlying expansion Publishing.
This added 181 titles to the journal portfolio, opportunities.
As these economies mature, the Division increasing the scale and relevance for some customers.
anticipates growing demand for Humanities and Social Thecombination willgenerate cost savings in 2015 but the Sciences subject areas.
Growing content creation accelerates realopportunity lies inaccelerating growth and increasing in developing regions such as India and China, and greater penetration and usage inthe academic sector.
regional emphasis onrevenue generation should follow.
The enlarged Division depends upon a robust and efficient Across the business, the core customer segment remains the infrastructure.
Processes are centralised where possible academic community with academic libraries accounting for andtechnology is deployed to improve production speed around 75% of revenue.
But, increasingly, growth opportunities andflexibility.
are emerging in business and professional markets.
MARKET TRENDS SHAPING GROWTH The Divisions performance in 2014 and the prospects for In total, the academic market is worth $16bn$17bn worldwide.
futuregrowth reinforce its view that content is central to everything Academic Publishing does.
This is the lifeblood While the market is relatively mature in the developed world, and the currency and will remain the key driver of future opportunities for sourcing content and generating revenue areincreasing in emerging markets.
In these regions English growth.
Identifying new niches, re-purposing existing continues to grow in importance, being the primary language content, developing new formats, increasing discoverability, expanding front list, building open access offerings all ofacademia.
provideopportunities to drive incremental value from content.
The structure of the market is characterised by a number of The Division is well positioned to benefit from these trends in large-scale players with global reach, including Taylor & Francis.
There is then a broad spectrum of smaller, niche suppliers, many of whom specialise in a particular subject area.
The Divisions performance in 2014 and the prospects for future growth reinforce its view that content is central to everything Academic Publishing does.
com 26 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS TALENT I joined Taylor & Francis in 2013 to create a new team and launch a new imprint focused specifically on open BRYAN VICKERY access publishing, having previously been Chief Operating Officer at a large open access publisher for six years.
OPEN ACCESS My passion is the use of technology to facilitate research communication and a publishing process that allows DIRECTOR, researchers to do what they do best carry out research.
I have been given the autonomy to set up this new unit COGENT OA based on my knowledge of how open access works and the differences to the traditional journal publishing models.
The first year disappeared in the blink of an eye setting out the strategy and business plan, creating and testing the Brand, overseeing our PDF designs which use a font designed to be accessible to those with a learning Its only with the support difficulty, building the editorial boards for our journals, developing the new functionality that drives our website of an organisation like and, of course, working with authors on their manuscripts.
Informa that we could In 2014 Cogent OA was born and now publishes 18 journals.
Starting something from scratch is daunting but having have achieved so much the chance to critically look at each part of our business is ultimately rewarding.
Im delighted that many of the things so quickly.
we do differently are already being adopted across the wider business.
Its only with the support of an organisation like Informa that we could have achieved so much so quickly the can-do approach of so many teams from across the business and around the world was remarkable.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 27 www.
com 28 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014
