STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT he Directors present their Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT and Accounts on theaffairs of Informa PLC The Strategic Report describes the strategy, business model, and its subsidiaries together, the Group, the Companys performance during the year, principal risk T together with the Consolidated Financial factors and corporate responsibility activities.
As a whole the Statements and Auditors Report, for the Annual Report and Accounts provides information about the year ended 31 December 2014.
This Groups businesses, its financial performance during the year Directors Report forms part of the Strategic and likely future developments.
Report of the Company as required by the Companies Act CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations A report on corporate governance, and the ways in which the 2013, which can be found on pages 4 to 69.
Company complies with the provisions of the UK Corporate CORPORATE STRUCTURE Governance Code the Code as published on September Informa PLC is a public company limited by shares, incorporated 2012, is set out on pages 78 to 83, and forms part of this in England and Wales.
It has a premium listing on the London reportby reference.
The Strategic Report, as set out on pages 4 to 69 of this On 30 May 2014, pursuant to a scheme of arrangement the document, forms the management report for the purposes Scheme under Article 125 of the Companies Jersey Law ofthe UK Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and 1991, Informa PLC became the new parent holding company Transparency Rule DTR 4.1.
ofthe Informa Group of companies.
The Scheme was The notice concerning forward-looking statements is set out approved by the Royal Court of Jersey on 29 May 2014 and onpage 194.
References to the Company may also include byshareholders at a general meeting of Jersey registered references to the Group.
Informaplc Old Informa held on 23 May 2014.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Informa PLC was incorporated as Informa Limited under the The Annual General Meeting AGM will be held on 22 May Companies Act 2006 on 24 January 2014 and changed its 2015, at The Mondrian London, 20 Upper Ground, London name to Informa PLC on 14 May 2014.
Pursuant to the SE19PD, at 9.00 am.
Thenotice is being dispatched as a Scheme, ordinary shares in Informa PLC were admitted to separate document to allshareholders and is also available at theUK Listing Authoritys Official List on 30 May 2014.
Thenotice sets out the resolutions to be on the London Stock Exchanges market for listed securities proposed at the AGMandan explanation on each resolution.
commenced, and the listing of Old Informas ordinary shares onthe UK Listing Authoritys Official List was cancelled, on the DIVIDENDS same date.
Under the terms of the Scheme, shareholders in The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of Old Informa received one share in Informa PLC for every share 12.9p per ordinary share.
Subject to shareholders approval held in Old Informa.
Upon the Scheme becoming effective, Old atthe 2015 AGM, the final dividend is expected to be paid on Informa changed its name to Informa Switzerland Limited and 28 May 2015 to ordinary shareholders registered as at the close became a wholly owned subsidiary of Informa PLC.
Together with the interim dividend information on the terms of the Scheme is set out in the of 6.4p per ordinary share paid on 11 September 2014, this scheme circular relating to the Scheme published by Old makes a total for the year of 19.3p per ordinary share Informa on 15 April 2014 the Scheme Circular, which can be 2013:18.9p.
viewed on the Companys website at www.
The Scheme Circular also contains a summary of the Companys Shareholders may elect to receive shares instead of cash from Articles of Association the Articles.
their dividend allocation through the Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP.
In order to give a view across the full financial year, references inthis section and in the Corporate Governance Statement, DIRECTORS AND DIRECTORS INTERESTS theAudit Committee Report, the Nomination Committee The names of Directors of the Company as at the date of this Report, the Strategic Report and the Directors Remuneration Report are set out on pages 70 and 71, which include brief Report, to Informa, Company, Group, Directors and biographical details.
theBoard refer to Old Informa up to 29 May 2014 and to Informa PLC from 30 May 2014. www.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 73 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Dr Pamela Kirby served as the Senior Independent NonCHANGES TO THE COMPANYS ARTICLES Executive Director until she stepped down from the Board on The Company may only amend its Articles by special 23 May 2014.
Gareth Wright was appointed as Group Finance resolutionpassed at a General Meeting GM.
Director with effect from 9 July 2014 and will seek election at GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS the AGM on 22 May 2015.
All other Directors served on the The Company is required to disclose the Groups GHG Board throughout the financial year and will seek re-election emissions as required by the Companies Act 2006 Strategic atthe AGM on 22 May 2015.
Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
Details The remuneration and interests of the Directors who held office oftheGroups emissions are contained in the Corporate as at 31 December 2014 in the share capital of the Company Responsibility section of the Strategic Report which can are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 90 to 107. befound on pages 66 to 69 and form part of the Directors Details of the contracts of the Executive and Non-Executive Report disclosures.
Directors with the Company can be found on page 106.
There are no agreements in place between the Company and its POLITICAL DONATIONS The Group made no political donations during the year.
Directors and employees providing for compensation for loss ofoffice of employment whether through resignation, purported FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover In relation to the use of financial instruments by the Group, a bid.
Further information on payments to Directors can be found review is included within Note 33 to the Consolidated Financial in the Remuneration Report on pages 90 to 107.
Financial risk management objectives and policies was materially interested in any contract of significance.
including a description of when hedge accounting has been DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES applied and the Groups exposure to capital risk management, market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk are explained in Note 33 Indemnities are in force under which the Company has agreed to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
to indemnify the Directors, to the extent permitted by English law and the Articles, inrespect of any liability arising out of, SHARE INFORMATION orinconnection with, theexecution of their powers, duties SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS andresponsibilities, as Directors of the Company, any of its As at 31 December 2014, the Company had been notified, subsidiaries or as a Trustee of an occupational pension scheme inaccordance with the Financial Conduct Authoritys FCA for employees of the Company.
The indemnity would not Disclosure and Transparency Rules, ofthe following substantial provide coverage where the Director is proved to have acted interests over 3% in the issued ordinary share capital of fraudulently or dishonestly.
Information on appointments to theCompany.
theBoard in 2014 can be foundin the Nomination Committee Report on pages 84 and 85.
The Company has purchased As at As at 31 December 2014 28 February 2015 andmaintains Directors and Officers insurance cover against certain legal liabilities and costs for claims in connection with Number Number any act or omission by its Directors and officers in the execution of shares % held of shares % held of their duties.
Lazard Asset Management 50,180,488 7.73 44,881,484 6.92 APPOINTMENT AND REPLACEMENT OF DIRECTORS The rules for appointment and replacement of the Directors Bestinver Asset areset out in the Articles.
Directors can be appointed by Management 36,723,975 5.66 36,898,656 5.69 theCompany by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
The Artemis Investment Company can remove a Director from office, including by Management 35,218,039 5.43 36,602,291 5.64 passing an ordinary resolution or by notice being given by NBIM 31,188,145 4.81 31,188,145 4.81 allthe other Directors.
Fidelity Management POWERS OF THE DIRECTORS & Research 26,970,331 4.16 27,120,907 4.18 The powers of the Directors are set out in the Articles and M&G Investment provide that the Board may exercise all the powers of the Management 24,789,689 3.82 24,775,590 3.82 Company, including to borrow money up to an aggregate of BlackRock 22,092,590 3.40 25,514,522 3.93 three times the adjusted capital and reserves.
The Company may by ordinary resolution authorise the Board to issue shares, Legal & General and increase, consolidate, sub-divide and cancel shares in Investment accordance with its Articles and English law.
com 74 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS SHARE CAPITAL RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER OF SECURITIES As at 31 December 2014, the Companys issued share capital IN THE COMPANY comprised 648,941,249 ordinary shares with a nominal value There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities in the Company except that: of0.1p each.
The Companys share capital was restructured in2014 as detailed in Note 34 to the Consolidated the Directors may from time to time refuse to register FinancialStatements.
atransfer of a certificated share which is not fully paid, provided it meets the requirements given under the Articles: RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS ATTACHING TO SHARES transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out using The rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, being CREST and the Directors can refuse to register a transfer of the only share class of the Company, are set out in the Articles, an uncertificated share in accordance with the regulations which can be found at www.
Subject to relevant governing the operation of CREST: legislation, any share may be issued with or have attached to it legal and regulatory restrictions may be put in place from such preferred, deferred or other special rights and restrictions time to time, for example insider trading laws: as the Company may by special resolution decide or, if no such in accordance with the Listing Rules of the FCA the Directors resolution is in effect, or so far as the resolution does not make and certain employees of the Company require approval specific provision, as the Board may decide.
No such resolution todeal in the Companys shares: is currently in effect.
Subject to the recommendation of the where a shareholder with at least a 0.25% interest in the Board, holders of ordinary shares may receive a dividend.
On Companys certificated shares has been served with a liquidation, holders of ordinary shares may share in the assets disclosure notice and has failed to provide the Company of the Company.
Holders of ordinary shares are also entitled withinformation concerning interests in those shares: or toreceive the Companys Annual Report and Accounts and, the Directors may decide to suspend the registration of subject to certain thresholds being met, may requisition the transfers, for up to 30 days a year, by closing the register of Board to convene a GM or the proposal of resolutions at AGMs.
The Directors cannot suspend the registration None of the ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard of transfers of any uncertificated shares without obtaining to control of the Company.
VOTING RIGHTS There are no agreements between holders of ordinary shares Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and speak that are known to the Company which may result in restrictions atGMs of the Company and to appoint one or more proxies on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
or, ifthe holder of shares is a corporation, a corporate representative.
On a show of hands, each holder of ordinary SHARES HELD ON TRUST shares who being an individual is present in person or being Shares are from time to time held by a Trustee in order to satisfy acorporation is present by a duly appointed corporate entitlements of employees to shares under the Groups share representative, not being himself herself a member, shall have schemes.
Usually the shares held on trust are no more than one vote and on a poll, every holder of ordinary shares present sufficient to satisfy the requirements of the Groups share in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share schemes for one year.
The shares held by these trusts do not ofwhich he she is the holder.
Electronic and paper proxy have any special rights with regard to control of the Company.
appointments and voting instructions must be received not later While these shares are held on trust their rights are not than 48 hours before a GM.
A holder of ordinary shares can exercisable directly by the relevant employees.
The current lose the entitlement to vote at GMs where that holder has been arrangements concerning these trusts and their shareholdings served with a disclosure notice and has failed to provide the are set out on page 105.
Company with information concerning interests held in those shares.
Except as set out above and as permitted under PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES applicable statutes, there are nolimitations on voting rights of At the end of the year, the Directors had authority, under a holders of a given percentage, number of votes or deadlines shareholders resolution passed on 23 May 2014, to purchase through the market up to 10% of the Companys issued forexercising voting rights.
This authority expires at the conclusion oftheAGM of the Company to be held on 22 May 2015. www.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 75 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED CHANGE OF CONTROL AUDITOR There are no significant agreements to which the Company Each person who is a Director at the date of approval of this isaparty that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of Annual Report confirms that: control following a takeover bid nor any agreements between so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit the Company and its Directors or employees providing for information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have because of a takeover bid except for the Groups private taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware placement loan notes and facilities described in Note 32 ofany relevant audit information and to establish that the totheConsolidated Financial Statements.
Companys auditor is aware of that information.
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT Deloitte LLP has expressed willingness to continue in office as The Group manages an ongoing programme to ensure staff auditor and a resolution to reappoint Deloitte will be proposed areinformed on matters affecting them and are provided with at the forthcoming AGM.
regular updates on the performance of the Group.
This is achieved by inviting staff to view the half and full year results GOING CONCERN BASIS presentations, delivering half and full year results presentations Each of the persons who is a Director noted on pages 70 and adapted for staff by webinar, and providing a Q&A facility, 71 at the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts emailupdates, and informal and formal meetings.
All material confirms that: isrecorded and available on the Intranet for staff unable to The Groups business activities, together with the principal joinatthe prescribed times.
risk factors likely to affect its future development, The Group actively seeks regular feedback from staff and performance and position are set out in the Chairmans continues to participate in the UK Top Employers ranking.
Statement and Strategic Report on pages 4 to 65.
Theranking involves questioning on many factors, including As set out on pages 62 to 65 a number of principal risk factors links to employee consultation and engagement.
could potentially affect the Groups results and financial In 2014, the Group launched ShareMatch, a global share position.
In particular the current economic climate creates incentive plan offered to the majority of staff.
Eligible employees uncertainties over the level of demand for the Groups products in the UK, US, UAE, Australia, Germany, the Netherlands, and services.
The Group adopts extensive budgeting and Singapore and Sweden are invited to purchase shares in the forecasting processes for its trading results and cash flows Company up to an annual maximum value of 1,800.
Further andupdates these forecasts to reflect current trading on information on ShareMatch can be found in the Remuneration aregular basis.
The intention of this scheme is to increase The Groups net debt and banking covenants are discussed employee engagement and align employees interests with inthe Financial Review on pages 56 to 59 and the exposure those of the Company and shareholders by increasing toliquidity risk is discussed in Note 33 to the Consolidated employee ownership of the Companys shares.
EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES The Group sensitises its projections to reflect possible Informa believes in equality of opportunity and all recruitment changesin trading performance and cash conversions, taking and promotion opportunities are based solely on merit.
No into account its substantial deferred revenues 342.9m at individual employee or potential employee will receive less 31December 2014.
These forecasts and projections for the favourable treatment on the grounds of age, gender, sexual period up to 30 June 2016 show that the Group is expected to orientation, disability, colour, race, religion, nationality be able to operate within the level of its current financing and orethnicity.
meet its covenant requirements for a period of one year from the date of the signing of the Groups financial statements for The Companys equal opportunity policy not only covers the year ended 31 December 2014. recruitment and promotion but also training and development opportunities.
The policy also acts as a guide to all staff and After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable management on acceptable behaviour at work standards.
expectation that there are no material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt about the Companys ability to continue In situations where an individual employees circumstances as a going concern.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the change, it is the Companys policy to do everything reasonably going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report possible to ensure a successful return to work is facilitated, be andAccounts.
itin the same job or a different role.
com 76 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and The Directors, whose names are set out on pages 70 and 71, dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts in other jurisdictions.
in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company In accordance with DTR 4.1.
12R, the Directors confirm that, law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for tothe best of their knowledge: each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have elected toprepare the financial statements in accordance with the Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as in accordance with the applicable set of accounting adopted by the European Union and issued by the International standards and give a true and fair view of the assets, Accounting Standards Board.
liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken International Accounting Standard IAS 1 requires that asawhole: and financial statements present fairly the Companys financial the management report, which is incorporated into the position, financial performance and cash flows for each Directors Report, includes a fair review of the development financial year.
This requires the faithful representation of and performance of the business and the position of the theeffects of transactions, other events and conditions in Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the risk factors.
International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for thepreparation and presentation of financial statements.
In addition, each of the Directors as at the date of this report considers the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
However, the Directors information for shareholders to assess the Companys are also required to: performance, business model and strategy.
properly select and apply accounting policies: Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and RUPERT HOPLEY COMPANY SECRETARY understandable information: 12 February 2015 provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue asa going concern.
The Directors are responsible for: keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the Consolidated Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: safeguarding the assets of the Company and taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraudand other irregularities: and the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financialinformation included on the Companys website.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 77
