ABOUT US WHO WE ARE WHAT WE DO Informa operates at the heart of the Knowledge Informas global portfolio of knowledge, event and and Information Economy.
It is one of the worlds information-based businesses connects people, leading business intelligence, academic publishing, providing unrivalled access to high quality, knowledge and events businesses.
With more than specialist intelligence and links across commercial, 6,500 employees globally, it has a presence in professional and academic communities.
At a all major geographies, including North America, Group level we provide the stewardship, strategy South America, Asia, Europe, the Middle East and structure that enable these businesses to and Africa.
focus on being the very best they can be.
Our ACADEMIC PUBLISHING Division In BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE we offer publishes specialist academic books expert analysis of data and information and journals.
We produce unique, that delivers unique insights to create trusted content by expert authors, competitive advantage.
Across five core spreading knowledge and promoting industry sectors, we help our customers discovery globally.
We aim to broaden identify new opportunities, understand thinking and advance understanding, and mitigate risk and make better providing academics and professionals decisions faster.
with a platform to share ideas and p. 29 realise their individual potential.
com 2 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS WHY INVEST?
OUR STRATEGY Informa has strong Brands that are well positioned The 2014-2017 Growth Acceleration Plan is in attractive markets, providing a framework for Informas strategy to accelerate growth and delivering consistent returns.
Our business model improve the returns generated across all four is robust and highly cash generative, allowing Operating Divisions.
It is referred to throughout us to balance organic investment with targeted this report and covers six key areas: acquisitions and the payment of dividends to Operating structure shareholders.
This is reflected in the commitment Management model to grow annual dividends by a minimum of 2% per Portfolio management annum throughout the period of the 2014-2017 Acquisition strategy Growth Acceleration Plan.
Investment Funding In GLOBAL EXHIBITIONS we In KNOWLEDGE & NETWORKING, we connect Groups seeking to identify nurture, build and connect communities new contacts, develop relationships, through the exchange of insights and improve and expand their business.
We create platforms We bring communities together to online and through face-to-face events share information, gain inspiration that facilitate learning and networking, and secure new business, creating helping people build knowledge, work platforms for organisations to build smarter and become leaders in their field.
profitable alliances, create value p. 41 and drive commercial success.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 3
