STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS S E C S R U V E N F O A I E A S Y L T T E U C F I R E I I W N T L & P O U I N R S R T O P E M K I A T D I H E M T I N S C E O N G T I O C O I T N A L E R STRATEGIC REPORT: UNDERSTANDING OUR DIVISIONS KNOWLEDGE & NETWORKING COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT & LEARNING PLATFORMS The Knowledge & Networking Division incorporates all to justify their presence.
It is about engagement both the Groups training, learning, conference, advisory and around an event, providing continuous community engagement and relevant content, and also at an event, congress businesses.
It organises content-driven events providing a mechanism to enable attendees to connect and programmes that provide a platform for communities with relevant people and encourage networking.
to meet, network and share knowledge.
It runs around 3,000 conferences and training events across the globe BUSINESS MODEL each year, covering a range of subject areas, but with a particular focus on Life Sciences, TMT and Finance.
CORE OFFERING Our events include Bio-Europe, SuperReturn, Funds Forum and the Broadband World Series.
VALUE DRIVERS This Division accounts for 22% of Informas revenue.
CONNECTING AND ENGAGING COMMUNITIES ENABLERS The business model in Knowledge & Networking aims to connect like-minded individuals within a community or niche and facilitate the sharing of knowledge and insight.
Value lies in content, Brands and networks.
Producing these events well requires a wide range of skills, knowledge and experience.
At one end of the spectrum, generating attractive content is critical.
This is a researchdriven operation: identifying key developments or themes within communities, attracting relevant and interesting speakers to bring them to life, and then pulling together a format and agenda that will engage the audience.
This CONNECT PEOPLE requires the Division to be an expert in its chosen verticals, AND SHARE KNOWLEDGE to live and breathe the industry, to build strong relationships with key decision makers within these communities.
The quality of its content drives its reputation.
Engaging events that attract the best speakers and become a regular fixture for a community become Brands in their own right.
Industries congregate around them to learn about the latest developments and network with peers.
At the other end of the spectrum, the Divisions business is about execution.
Co-ordinating events effectively is complex and time-consuming, with many different stakeholders to manage, often under time pressure.
Increasingly, producing effective and popular events is about innovating.
The prevalence of free content online means the attraction of individual speakers is sometimes not enough.
The Division has to add more value for attendees, providing a better return on investment www.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 41 S P E N I E R E H U S F H S T T O T C T N A R U A G B O U R L N T E I L M E S I T N S T A R S A R T H L F S N E I R STRATEGIC REPORT: UNDERSTANDING OUR DIVISIONS KNOWLEDGE & NETWORKING CONTINUED Knowledge & Networking identifies and frames the business issues of today and tomorrow, and is deeply connected with leading industry thinkers and speakers.
com 42 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS REVENUE 246.2m 2013: 256.1m ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT PROPORTION OF GROUP REVENUE 41.5m 22% 2013: 47.0m MARKET TRENDS MARKET FOCUS AND PRODUCT INNOVATION The global events market generates in excess of $200bn Knowledge & Networkings business ranges from providing one-to-one web-training programmes to high intensity small annually, dominated by small operators seminars to large sector-leading international conferences.
The market is cyclical, fluctuating with the wider economiccycle Every year Knowledge & Networking creates and runs around Market participants vary, from professional producers 3,000 events.
Approximately 80% of its revenue is derived from tocorporates and not-for-profits conference activity.
The internet and social media have lowered barriers to Conferences are a content-rich, research-based operation.
The entry, making it easier to identify and target communities Division identifies and frames the business issues of today and tomorrow, and is deeply connected with leading industry thinkers STRATEGIC PRIORITIES and speakers.
It is therefore able to marry high value content with Deliver positive organic growth run rate by the end of 2015 engaging delivery, connecting those who know withthose who Migrate from a spot transaction to a community want, or need, to know.
engagementmodel Focus and scale around three priority verticals ofFinance, These characteristics are very different from those of an Exhibition Life Sciences and TMT business, where the skill is in building platforms for commerce, Harness technology to drive differentiation in products bringing together relevant buyers and sellers to trade.
This isoneof the reasons the Group decided to split its Events andmarketing Divisionin twoin 2014, creating Global Exhibitions and Focus on large events with strong Brands, multiple Knowledge & Networking.
revenuestreams and geo-cloning potential This split also allows the Division to increase the focus on its PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS IN 2014 conference and learning activities by breaking out their financials.
Increased focus by separating Knowledge & Networking It brings thevarious individually run businesses together to be and GlobalExhibitions runas a cohesive unit, further improving focus and enabling it Appointment of Andrew Mullins as Divisional Chief Executive toleverage its scale and knowhow more effectively.
and creation of divisional senior management team In 2014, revenue in Knowledge & Networking was 246.2m, Strong performance in Life Sciences and large-scale slightly down on the previous year.
This partly reflects the Financeevents challenging conditions in markets such as Europe and Australia, US West coast TMT operations established and major but the historical lack of focus and reluctance to invest and Internet of Things event launched innovate are also factors.
Simplified operating structure and targeted investmentprogramme The Divisions businesses operate across a wide range of industries.
It has set about focusing its efforts into the three verticals where it has a particularly strong presence and wellestablished Brands.
These are Finance, Life Sciences, and TMT.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 43 STRATEGIC REPORT: UNDERSTANDING OUR DIVISIONS KNOWLEDGE & NETWORKING CONTINUED In 2014, Life Sciences performed well, withstrong growth across Thismeans profitability is sometimes not the main objective, the EBD Group series of events, as did large-scale Finance events withcompanies using conferences as a loss leader to generate such as SuperReturn.
content and fuel other areas of the business.
It is also concentrating its geographic footprint in strategic regions.
This trend is increasing the level of competition in the event It operates in around 80 countries but the reality is that it does not market.
Historically, it was more difficult for these new entrants need presence on the ground in order to exploit the market tolaunch events but the internet and the rise of social media opportunity.
The majority of its profitability is derived from content havemade iteasier, providing readily identifiable communities that is generated in the US, the UK and the Middle East.
This led andnetworks to target.
to the expansion of its US presence recently, with the opening of The conference and learning market tends to be cyclical, aWest Coast TMT operation.
By contrast, the Division believes reflecting the wider macro economy.
The majority of income is that it can become even more effective at exporting ideas and generated through corporate budgets, which mirror the cycle.
Brands into smaller markets and this led to the closure of its Hence, in tough times expenditure on conferences comes under Johannesburg office in 2014. pressure with less flexibility for spend on delegate fees and Knowledge & Networking is putting greater emphasis on larger sponsorship.
The more established an event and the more events, where the rewards are higher and there is the potential to itisviewed as a critical congregation point for a community, develop strong Brands that are recognised meeting points for a themoreresilient it is likely to be.
Examples include Bio-Science within Life Sciences This cyclical bias is reflected in the recent regional trading and the Broadband World Forum within TMT.
The top 25% backdrop, with Continental Europe proving particularly tough ofevents account for around 70% of the Divisions revenue.
andregions such as the US and the Middle East more buoyant.
Nonetheless, the thousands of smaller conferences and learning events it runs still have a place as these are where most of the FUTURE POTENTIAL CONTINUOUS large events begin.
But it can be more targeted and efficient in its COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT approach to these events, focusing on profitability and verticals The conference and training market is dynamic and fast moving.
that offer the most potential for growth.
This is illustrated by the While it is sensitive to economic conditions, innovative and ambitious launch of a major Internet of Things event by its new cutting-edge events can still perform well throughout the cycle.
Ifan event is viewed as a must attend for a community, it will always attract an audience.
In 2014, the Division appointed Andrew Mullins as Chief Executive of this newly established Division.
Andrews background is in However, competition is fiercer than ever and relevant content Brands and content, having previously been Chief Executive isincreasingly available for free online.
This puts the emphasis oftheIndependent and Evening Standard Newspaper Group.
onbeing flexible and innovative, developing alternative income streams and offering attendees added value through Following the formation of a senior management team, which newinitiatives.
includes a blend of internal transfers and external hires, a plan hasbeen developed to simplify the structure of the business In order to achieve this, the Knowledge & Networking Division andfurther increase its focus.
This includes a programme of needs to evolve its approach to markets and customers and investment in a range of organic initiatives as part of the Growth focus its efforts on attracting them.
It needs a fresh approach, Acceleration Plan.
tobreak free from the mould of the traditional conference and innovate, harnessing the power of digital technology.
MARKET TRENDS SHAPING GROWTH The global events market is very large, estimated at over $200bn Led by the new management team, this transformation is already annually including all formats and varieties.
The vision is to become an invaluable, continuous and timely originator and facilitator of knowledge exchange.
This will Market participants vary widely.
There are a number of professional be enabled via the creation of year-round, sector-leading interactive event producers similar to Informa, although none with its depth communities, generating insight, engagement and opportunities.
Some specialise in particular geographies or This shifts the relationship with customers from one of a point sectors while others are generalists, opportunistically targeting transaction to one of continuous engagement and partnership.
This includes some of the Exhibition groups, who produce ad hoc conferences to run in tandem In the year ahead, the Division will be investing to turn this vision withtrade shows.
into reality, improving its digital capabilities and leveraging its expertise in innovative areas such as Partnering.
It will also Increasingly, other corporates are also organising conferences continue to increase its focus on priority verticals and geographies and events.
Often these are non-core initiatives, designed to where the potential returns are more attractive.
It comes into the leverage a Brand or support the main focus of the business.
year with positive momentum, giving it confidence it can meet itstarget to return to a positive organic growth run rate by the endof2015.
com 44 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS TALENT I am the Managing Director of the EBD Group, and we are the leading partnering group for the Life Sciences industry.
ANNA CHRISMAN When friends and family ask what we do, the shortest answer is that we provide professional speed dating MANAGING DIRECTOR, for the biotech industry.
The slightly longer answer is that the most innovative biotech companies and large EBD GROUP pharma companies rely on our tools and events to start partnerships that will bring new medicines to patients.
My job is rewarding on many different levels: providing value to the Life Sciences industry and working closely with these incredibly smart executives and scientists is quite humbling.
There is no better reward than when a Probably the best company reports important milestones on a promising drug, and I know that the partnership was initiated at aspect of my job is one of our events.
leading the EBD team, Also, working in such an international company and in an industry that doesnt have borders is fascinating.
I am a group of people with a German living in California, and on any given day I will interact with colleagues, partners and clients from China, unmatched attention Ecuador, Turkey, France, Israel etc.
to detail and dedication But probably the best aspect of my job is leading the EBD team, a group of people with unmatched attention to the company.
to detail and dedication to the company.
We have a very dynamic team of strong individuals who are never shy to speak their mind and get engaged to improve processes and thus our products.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 45 www.
com 46 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014
