48 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED COMMUNITY Our maritime heritage plays a key reminder to us of how we have supported mariners and the wider maritime community for over 35 years and remain focused on doing so in the future.
Our key activities are: we remain the only approved provider of satellite communications services for GMDSS and we continue to invest in the development of maritime safety services: our Inmarsat C SafetyNET service continues to be used to provide vital updates on reported pirate activity.
The service enables ship masters to access reports of pirate movements, giving them information to know which regions to avoid with high pirate activity and allowing them to re-route if necessary: our safety services supported around 750 calls made from vessels with safety, distress or urgency requirements, providing a very real reminder to us of the value of what we provide to those in need: and two pre-payments represent the majority of the 2014-15 Volvo Ocean Race, where Inmarsat our charitable payments, the amount paid in is the airtime provider, relies on our safety 2014 was $53,916.
In addition, we provide satellite We continue to invest services for the crews to maintain communication telecommunications services and equipment, in at all times, wherever they are.
FleetBroadband, conjunction with support offered by our DPs and in the development of Inmarsat C and our handheld phone are all manufacturers, to service providers and customers standard equipment.
Please see page 31 for in support of disaster relief management in affected Maritime safety services.
details of how our IsatPhone 2 was used in an areas of the world.
Our subsidiary companies also emergency when one of the boats ran aground.
make contributions to local charitable causes.
In addition to maritime safety services, we also Our core charitable support remains focused on the We maintain our support for the International promote safety services to the aviation industry work carried out by TSF, the telecommunications Telecommunications Union ITU in various ways.
We remain committed to the relief aid organisation.
TSF runs programmes on During 2014, we signed an MoU with ITU-D in the provision of ICAO approved satellite safety services, disaster relief and preparedness, training other relief framework of the Smart Sustainable Development and we invested in and upgraded the ground organisations and regional and national disaster Model which aims to foster the use of satellite infrastructure that supports our Aero Classic safety response agencies about the available capabilities broadband services in remote or under-developed services and are expanding our safety offerings to for emergency telecommunications.
It promotes the use by local communities of our SwiftBroadband service.
We are supportive organisations respond to an emergency knowing satellite terminals and spare airtime that are in place of the announcement that has come following the they have the necessary training to use BGAN as a contingency for disaster relief when they are not resolution made in early 2015 by ICAO, the United terminals and IsatPhones, our handheld satellite required for relief operations.
Under the MoU, the ITU Nations aviation body tasked with monitoring the phone.
We believe the work TSF does is vital in procures terminals, we provide spare capacity and global aviation industry, to adopt a new 15-minute emergency situations and we are delighted to local communities provide suitable locations e. g. a aircraft tracking standard.
It is our desire to continue to support them.
We have committed to contribute to ICAOs work by sharing our experiences $100,000 worth of airtime over a three-year period with them.
We believe that our existing and already TSF were active in multiple countries during the which will start to be drawn against when the ITU available technology is one solution highly suitable year including: identies a project in a suitable community.
to many operational aviation circumstances today.
a UN-organised exercise in Argentina which In addition to our corporate sponsorship of TSF, During the year, we made no political donations.
In brought together members of the United Nations our Business Units identify specic charities and 2013 our contributions included a pre-payment of our Disaster Assessment and Coordination division sponsorship opportunities and details of these are 2014 commitments for the telecommunications relief and its humanitarian partners: provided on our website, inmarsat.
com, under the aid organisation, Tlcoms Sans Frontires TSF with the UN and active NGOs in the Philippines press release section.
of $200,000 and a payment of $118,000 to the before deploying to the country's most affected World Maritime University as part of our support disaster zones: Our global ofces support local causes at a for the education of maritime specialists.
As these setting up a deployment base in Nicaragua in corporate and employee level and we encourage Central America: staff to get involved in local community initiatives.
being part of the Malagasy government disaster Employees across our ofces are encouraged to simulation for the National Bureau of Risk and support individual charities of their choice, and Disaster Management of Madagascar: for employees in our principal UK ofce, this is monitoring the situation of Kurdish refugees encouraged through the UK Governments tax Our core charitable on the Turkish-Syrian border: and approved contributions scheme.
setting up a new e-learning centre in Iraq.
support remains focused on the work carried Our Universal Service Obligations seek to support the use of our services, normally payphones, in out by Tlcoms rural villages in remote regions of the world, where terrestrial voice services are poor or non-existent.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 49 Our objective is to ensure that the Group does not have any detrimental effect on the environment through our business operations.
Our mission is to adopt and support the following principles: to provide first class energy and environmental management practices: to comply with all relevant global environmental legislation and regulatory controls: to identify significant environmental and social impacts and establish objectives and targets for improvement: in our main UK site, to recycle a minimum of 90% of generated waste and to constantly to review the opportunity to use recycled products: to actively encourage the conservation of energy, water and natural resources through the increased efficiency and introduction of new and modern technology: and to encourage all employees to be proactive in their daily activities by: separating their waste into dry and wet waste ENVIRONMENT disposed of our final Inmarsat-2 satellite in 2014. receptacles currently UK and Canadian sites The activities of the Group are judged to have a low The previous three Inmarsat-2 satellites had been and we are reviewing introduction globally : environmental impact and are not expected to give deorbited in 2013, 2012 and 2007.
Their disposal ensuring that printer cartridges are recycled: rise to any significant, inherent environmental risks was undertaken in full compliance with the relevant switching off lights, computers, phone over the next 12 months.
We also decommissioned a satellite chargers and any other electrical items we operated for an Asian partner in early 2015.
There when not in use: and We are not a satellite modem manufacturer.
We are no near-term plans for decommissioning any reducing business travel and using more only type approve satellite terminals accessing our of the remaining satellites.
We operate our satellites site-based technology such as video and system by manufacturers who provide health and in geosynchronous orbit which is approximately audio conferencing.
safety guidance as to how terminals should be 36,000km 22,500 miles above the earth.
Controls are in place to ensure that has signicantly less debris than in a low earth orbit We continue to monitor our energy consumptions antennae do not radiate any power at low elevation which is approximately 700km above the earth and and comply with our social and legal responsibilities angles.
We manufacture our handheld satellite where several MSS operators have their satellite in terms of carbon emissions.
Please see our phones, IsatPhone Pro and IsatPhone 2.
We were also a founding member summary of carbon emissions within the Directors and manufacturing processes have met all the of the Space Data Association.
Along with Intelsat, Report on page 54. relevant safety standards and disposal requirements SES and Eutelsat we aim to improve the satellite are included in the packaging for each handset.
safety of ight and make operations in space safer Energy efficiency is one of the key considerations and more reliable.
when replacing obsolete and inefficient machinery.
Across our Group companies, we operate a number We continue to review new technologies and of ground earth stations, VSAT and telemetry and We have approximately 1,600 staff worldwide control building operational strategies, which may tracking facilities where there are satellite dishes represented by more than 45 different nationalities.
include using energy efficient lights to reduce which generate radiation.
Access to these sites is Due to the size and nature of these activities, we electricity consumption.
restricted and there are regular health and safety acknowledge that we have a degree of environmental checks to ensure that they are in protected areas impact on the local and global environment.
However, We continue to be committed to our waste away from access by the general public.
Personnel in terms of our size, we are low generators of carbon management and recycling scheme.
who work at these sites are provided with relevant due to the nature of our business operations.
training as to health and safety issues.
Video conferencing VC and other collaboration Some of these environmental impacts include the tools allowing visual connectivity are being used to As a satellite operator, we have adopted the use of natural resources, the consumption of energy reduce the dependency on air transport and are a highest industry standards in terms of space and water, the production of a variety of waste, in popular means of communication with staff working debris mitigation, including end-of-life graveyard addition to staff and visitors travelling for business in different locations and across different time zones.
manoeuvre plans for the disposal of satellites when purposes around the globe.
they reach the end of their commercial life.
We RUPERT PEARCE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 5 March 2015 We acknowledge that we have an impact on the The Strategic Report, as set out on pages 1 to 49, has been approved by the Board.
However, in terms of our size, we are low generators of carbon due On behalf of the Board to the nature of our business operations.
ALISON HORROCKS EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND COMPANY SECRETARY 5 March 2015 50 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 BOARD OF DIRECTORS STRONG LEADERSHIP 1.
General C. Robert Kehler Rtd
