18 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 CHIEF EXECUTIVES 2014 REVIEW CONTINUED LOOKING AHEAD TO 2015 We are moving from a year of transition in 2014 to a year of transformation this year, as we initiate Our heritage of saving lives at sea and in the air the ramp up of Global Xpress revenues following global CSI, expected in the second half of this year, is part of our ongoing public service ethos.
supported by continued growth in our legacy L-band services.
Being predominantly a wholesaler of satellite airtime, and going to market primarily PUBLIC RESPONSIBILITY admiration for the teams involved and for how indirectly, having strong relationships with our Our heritage of saving lives at sea and in the air they responded to events in a sensitive way.
partners continues to be key to our success.
is part of our ongoing public service ethos.
I provide some further information about these activities in We have thought how we could respond to help We have launched I-5 F2 and it is completing its the CSR part of this Annual Report.
Our satellite and airlines have greater information from their planes, 76-day launch mission before it will become network services have over many years consistently especially in times of trouble and have made an operational and we are planning for a launch of delivered availability exceeding 99.9%.
The fact that offer of free global tracking, enhanced tracking, I-5 F3 in the second quarter of 2015.
Apart from we are relied on and trusted to operate to this high and a revolutionary black box in the cloud these satellite launches and deployments, we level of service is something we take seriously and service.
We rmly believe that our ADS-C services, must complete the Global Xpress development operate our systems day in, day out to maintain comprising two-way broadband capabilities, can programme, widely distribute GX terminals, work this high standard.
play a vital role in situational awareness and crisis with our GX Value Added Resellers VARs to ensure response for the commercial air transport industry.
their market readiness, and crystallise GX market The tragic loss of Malaysian Airlines ight MH370 The early signs are that both international safety access such that a full service GX is delivered early has been an event that has undoubtedly dened bodies such as ICAO and IATA and the worlds in the second half of this year on a global basis.
and shaped our year, and which will perhaps continue major airlines have welcomed our initiative.
Additionally, we aim to maintain the schedule for I-5 to have a profound impact on our reputation, brand, F4 and Falcon Heavy launch vehicle readiness both prole and values.
Our CSR report will also provide you with as a back-up and for network augmentation.
additional information on our ethical processes It is very hard to reect on 2014 without revisiting for whistleblowing and similar policies and give you We will also deliver our Alphasat satellite into full that crisis and the part that we played, and indeed some further information on our involvement in service in Q1 2015 adding BGAN services over continue to play, in the search efforts for this lost social and charitable activities.
Alphasats coverage area and launch a fourth aircraft.
Looking back I have nothing but pride and ocean region later in 2015, which will improve overall L-band network capacity and efficiency, as well as support the construction and entry into operation of the new BGAN gateway in Russia which I mentioned earlier.
We intend to start to replace the Inmarsat-4 satellites gradually from the end of the decade, and therefore we are planning to complete all of the Inmarsat-6 design development, so that we are ready to initiate a development and manufacturing contract during 2015.
We are also moving forward rapidly with our European S-band initiative this year.
This includes the satellite manufacturing programme: starting the Air to Ground network design, development and deployment by the end of the year: the development and certication of on-board equipment: and the addition of launch airlines, as our plans are to be in revenue generation with airline customers and passengers with our new integrated aviation network in Europe by early 2017.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 19 In product and service terms, this year is when we plan to deliver increasing revenue contributions from the many new products launched in 2014 especially IsatPhone 2, IsatHub, FleetOne, L-TAC, BGAN HDR and Fleet Media.
2015 will also see some very important new product launches too most notably perhaps SB200 a smaller broadband terminal for aircraft, LAISR and LACE two new Government services and a new M2M device.
2015 will also see us start to galvanise our Value Added Manufacturer VAM community to innovate new products around the core module of our existing BGAN systems and terminals.
We expect this to enable us, by the second half of 2016, to launch a new wave of product and service innovation leveraged off our own significant platform investments.
This will be an exciting new opportunity for our BGAN and GSPS service platforms, allowing us to maintain our thought-leadership for highly mobile broadband satcoms.
2015 will also see us start to galvanise our Value Added Manufacturer VAM community to Finally, our geographic expansion programmes This is Inmarsats formula for success invest from innovate new products will also continue to evolve, with opportunities strength to grow profitably, take those profits and in the BRIC countries to develop local gateways, repeat the process again.
The business model shown around the core module and further significant investment by our Global on page 24 captures this ongoing cycle.
Near term Government and Enterprise teams on growing growth will drive new longer-term growth opportunities of our existing BGAN their new expanded market presence.
If we accomplish all that in 2015, this is how we can 2015 is going to be a challenging and compelling imagine the business to look as we enter 2016: year.
Inmarsats success is built upon the In the solutions development area, 2015 is the professionalism, loyalty and passion of its staff: year when we intend to focus attention on our Maritime will have grown its core mid-market the experienced distributors and wider ecosystem Certied Application Partner CAP programme, business as well as diversied into the VSAT, partners we work with and also the backing we have working closely with our channel partners and a mega-yacht, shing, leisure and coastal merchant from investors and financial institutions who support new category of CAP to bring a large number of segments to begin the process of dramatically our growth ambitions by maintaining their third-party applications, services and solutions expanding our addressable maritime markets relationships with us.
onto our new Inmarsat Gateway platform.
These and entering a new era of high growth developments will start to drive new value over our Enterprise will have increased the way we are network and to our end user communities.
This is used by our Media customers, launched into a new business opportunity for us to deliver and is the Enterprise and Energy VSAT markets, grown hugely challenging and exciting our investment market share in global M2M markets, and begun in Ciscos development of the Inmarsat Gateway the transformation of our core commercial land is now coming to fruition.
markets with exciting new products like IsatHub Aviation will have grown our leading business aviation franchise, focused on thoughtleadership in aviation safety, and successfully positioned Inmarsat as the global leader in the emerging aviation passenger connectivity sector We also intend to move Global Government will have completed the initial globalisation of its business and started to leverage forward rapidly with the benets of its enhanced footprint, and our European S-band US Government and Global Government will have used GX and numerous innovative products initiative this year.
and services, diversied their businesses and positioned themselves for growth in government markets in the future.
