IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Disciplined Execution We recognise that successful delivery of our strategy for high-quality growth requires Disciplined Execution.
We prioritise investment in our technology platforms and our people as well as delivering operational efficiencies.
Scale and efficiency Investment in developing strong technology platforms of operations Why we think it is important Improving our technology infrastructure Why we think it is important As identified on page 11, technology, as used gives us the foundation to transform Driving efficient operational processes by travellers, is playing an increasingly the guest experience and make it more and managing our costs allows us to important role in shaping the travel industry.
In 2014, contribute to hotel performance through The internet, which is now more than ever we: efficient practices, tools and systems.
accessed through mobile devices, is used increased mobile bookings by 50 per cent It also helps us strengthen our revenue extensively to research, plan and book to $900 million and downloads of the IHG delivery systems which means an increase travel.
In emerging markets, consumers are app grew by 80 per cent: in system contribution to hotel revenue, going straight to mobile devices, and there made numerous improvements to our supporting our owner proposition and are now twice as many mobile internet award-winning mobile app, including the maximising our investment in building users in China than internet users in the US.
launch of IHG translator, a learning tool preferred brands.
Careful cost management, Guests are also seeking greater levels of which engages our guests and drives leveraging our scale and focusing on personalisation, and are sharing their greater interaction: and productivity improvements also allows experiences instantly via social media.
created benefits for our IHG Rewards us to drive continued improvement in We believe that keeping abreast of the Club members, including multi-brand our margin.
evolving traveller trends and investing in campaigns that include over one million What we are doing technology systems will assist us in building automatically tailored offers generated To maximise the scale and efficiency of our brand preference, strengthen our loyalty using specific insights from each guests operations, we: programme and deliver compelling and profile and stay history $360 million in engaging digital content across the Guest revenue was generated by the 2014 Big focus on spending in a way which Journey which comprises five steps Win IHG Rewards Club promotion.
enables further investment in our Dream, Plan, Book, Stay and Share, thereby strategic priorities.
Our procurement enabling us to build lifetime relationships team has tools and processes which with our guests.
allow us to monitor and control spend and use our scale to deliver buying What we are doing advantage.
Our focus on cost efficiency To deliver the highest quality digital content and continuous improvement ensures for our guests, we are ensuring that we have we deploy our resources effectively, the right technology foundations and concentrating on the key priorities infrastructure in place.
In 2014, we: and activities that drive our business: standardised on property hardware introduced a new human resources for all IHG hotels in the US, providing system to streamline and improve the a consistent platform that allows us automation of our human resources to develop solutions such as Mobile processes in 2014 see page 32: and Check-in and Check-out now available continue to benefit from off-shoring in over 500 hotels : our Business Service Centre in Gurgaon, piloted enhanced customer relationship India.
This provides centralised management capability that allows us to accounting services for IHG corporate utilise our IHG Rewards Club members offices, and owned and managed hotels.
profiles to drive personalisation and guest recognition in our hotels: implemented new digital marketing capabilities that allow us to target potential guests more effectively through the internet: and How we measure it How we measure it announced our strategic partnership KPI Fee margins KPI System contribution to delivery with Amadeus, the leading provider of advanced technology solutions for the See page 32 for the KPI and See page 30 for the KPI and global travel industry, to explore What we have done in 2014 What we have done in 2014 technology solutions.
22 GROUP PARENT COMPANY ADDITIONAL STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION InterContinental Sydney Double Bay, Australia Our Winning Ways The set of behaviours that define how we interact with our guests and colleagues Do the Show we care Aim higher Celebrate Work better right thing difference together For further information on the below, see our Responsible Business Report.
Investment in developing great talent Who are our employees?
Why we think it is important to ensure IHG meets expectations and Having a predominantly managed and Our people bring our brands to life on delivers on its commitments this is franchised estate means that not all of a daily basis, delivering on each individual formally done twice a year through those people who work at our hotels are brand promise to enhance the guest the Employee Engagement survey, our employees.
When the Groups entire experience.
They are, therefore, a critical the results of which are a KPI.
estate is taken into account including part of our success.
Accordingly, we Room to grow: Our people are given those working in our franchised and recognise the importance of attracting, access to the required support, managed hotels, over 350,000 people retaining and developing the very best experience and training and provided worked globally across IHGs brands as talent in the industry to service our with development opportunities.
at 31 December 2014. guests and bring our brands to life.
Room for you: We recognise IHG employed the following as at achievements and communicate What we are doing 31 December 2014: these throughout our business.
To achieve this, the four pillars of our 7,797 people worldwide including people strategy have consistently been: 3.
To deliver world-class People Tools those in our corporate offices, central to our owners and hotels 1.
To develop a BrandHearted culture reservations offices and owned hotels Our People Tools are industry-leading Each of our brands delivers a differentiated excluding those in a category below, best practices tailored specifically for guest experience dependent upon the whose costs were borne by the Group: our brands, and assist hotel management brands strategy.
This is delivered by our 4,975 people who worked directly on and human resources teams to hire, train, people who place brands at the centre behalf of the System Fund and whose involve and recognise our colleagues.
By of this helping to drive guest satisfaction costs were borne by the System Fund: working to increase employee retention and brand preference, which we measure 602 General Managers who work in and performance, guest satisfaction and through Guest HeartBeat a KPI.
our managed hotels and whose costs drive efficiencies, they help increase 2.
To make IHG a great place to work were borne by those hotels: and revenue for our owners helping us with Building a strong employer brand assists our owner proposition.
11,848 other hotel workers who us in attracting the best possible talent work in our managed hotels, who 4.
Building a strong leadership to meet our strategic objectives: have contracts or letters of service and performance culture we ask our people to live our Winning with IHG and whose costs were borne We have established a winning culture Ways set out above and act in a by those hotels.
at IHG, this starts with building a strong responsible way see pages 24 and See pages 120 and 152 for more information.
leadership from the top see pages 57 25 for how acting responsibly is part to 69 for our Board and Executive of our culture: and Committee leadership.
How we measure it we offer our people our Room to be For alignment of our performance culture KPIs Employee engagement, Guest yourself commitment, which is brought with our strategic priorities and KPIs in our HeartBeat to life by four promises: corporate offices for our senior executives, See pages 31 and 32 for KPIs and Room to have a great start: This see the Directors Remuneration Report What we have done in 2014 assists us in recruiting the right on pages 76 to 91. people for each brand and role.
New recruits are offered a structured Diversity and inclusion orientation programme to provide them with an understanding of IHGs As a global organisation operating in nearly 100 countries around the world, we recognise strategy and values.
the importance and benefit of ensuring our workforce fully represents the communities Room to be involved: We communicate in which we operate and the guests who stay in our hotels.
As at 31 December 2014: with employees on matters relating 5 of the 13 Directors on the Board were female 38% : to the Groups business and 32 out of 127 of the senior managers employed by the Group including directors performance and share information of subsidiaries were female 25% : and on people, policies and news across IHG through various channels, 7,069 out of the 12,772 employed by the Group and whose costs were borne by the including conferences, team meetings Group or the System Fund were female 55%.
We encourage See page 62 for further information on our approach to diversity including our diversity employees to give regular feedback policies from the Board level and throughout the organisation.
