IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Our strategy for high-quality growth We focus on strengthening our portfolio of preferred and differentiated brands, building scale in key markets, creating a long-lasting relationship with our guests and delivering revenue to hotels through the lowest cost, direct channels.
Our proposition to owners is highly competitive and drives superior returns.
We execute our asset-light strategy in the most attractive, high-growth markets and industry segments.
We take a disciplined approach to capital allocation, investing for the future growth of our brands.
This enables us to drive sustainable growth in our profitability and deliver superior shareholder returns over the long term.
Value creation: Winning Model Winning Model Our Winning Model is our framework for delivering value for our shareholders and owners through our portfolio of preferred brands, talented people and leading revenue Superior Preferred brands delivery systems.
owner delivered through Seepages 16 and 17. proposition our people 5 1 Effective Build and 4 2 channel leverage management scale 3 Strong brand portfolio and loyalty programme Disciplined Execution Disciplined Execution We recognise that successful delivery of our strategy for high-quality growth requires Disciplined Execution.
We prioritise investment in our technology platforms Scale and Investment in and our people as well as delivering operational efficiencies.
efficiency of developing strong See pages 22 and 23. operations technology platforms Doing Business Responsibly A commitment to responsible business practices underpins Whilst doing business responsibly our entire strategy and the way we work.
We recognise the importance it has for all of our stakeholders in making IHG and its brands their preferred choice.
14 GROUP PARENT COMPANY ADDITIONAL STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION Our purpose is to create Great Hotels Guests Love Superior shareholder returns Targeted Portfolio Targeted Portfolio Our Targeted Portfolio means that we operate in the most attractive markets for IHG and in the highest opportunity segments based on guests occasion needs, with an Attractive markets asset-light business model, i. e. franchising and managing hotels rather than owning them.
Highest opportunity segments Managed and franchised model Investment in developing great talent Management of our principal risks Seepages 28 and 29 for how IHG manages its principal risks and uncertainties.
Key performance indicators KPIs Whilst doing business responsibly We measure our performance against these strategic imperatives through a set ofselected KPIs which monitor our success in achieving our strategy and measure the progress ofthe Group in delivering high-quality growth.
