IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Industry overview Where the industry is now The global hotel industry The different business models within the hotel industry The global hotel industry comprises approximately 15.5 million The global hotel industry operates under a number of different rooms and is broadly segmented into branded multiple hotels business models, depending on whether a hotel is branded or under the same brand name and independent non-branded independent.
The four models typically seen are owned, leased, hotels.
Growth in demand is driven by economic growth and an managed and franchised: increasing trend for domestic and global travel, resulting in part owned hotels are owned and operated by an owner who bears from favourable demographics and the globalisation of travel.
all the costs associated with the hotel but also benefits from Over the long term, the lodging industry has grown broadly in line all of the income: with Gross Domestic Product GDP.
In the US market which is the a leased model is similar, except that the owner-operator largest market in terms of number of rooms, growth in consumer of a hotel does not have outright ownership of the hotel but spend on lodging has exceeded GDP growth by two percentage pays rental fees to the ultimate owner of the property: points per annum over the last 50 years.
under a managed model, the owner of a hotel uses a third-party manager to operate the hotel on its behalf and pays the manager There are a number of industry metrics that are widely recognised management fees and, if the hotel is operated under a and used to track performance and we actively monitor these.
third-party brand name, brand licensing fees: and These include revenue per available room RevPAR, average daily rate and rooms supply growth.
a franchised hotel is owned and operated by an owner under a third-party brand name, and the owner pays a brand licensing Global industry RevPAR growth 2014 v 2013 fee to the brand owner.
2014 5.9% Other models, such as pay-for-performance or commissionbased, are sometimes used by independent hotels to benefit 2013 4.4% from a brands booking distribution system for example, hotel collections.
IHGs Key performance indicators KPIs are set out on pages 30 to 33.
Whilst an owner-operated hotel enables the owner to have full control over the hotel operation, it requires high capital investment.
The branded hotel market In contrast, for hotel brand owners, a managed or franchised The branded hotel market is estimated to account for 53 per cent model enables quicker rooms growth due to the lower capital of the total hotel market.
We benchmark our performance against investment, but this requires strong relationships with third-party the largest branded players that we consider to be our peer group, hotel owners.
As a franchisor and manager, we therefore recognise with a similar system size and pipeline to ours and who operate in that our owner proposition is a key part of our strategy.
similar market segments to us as explained on page 18.
Five of the leading branded hotel companies IHG, Accor, Hilton, IHGs business model, which is a predominantly managed and Marriott and Starwood account for approximately 30 per cent franchised model, is set out on pages 12 and 13. of the total branded hotel market in terms of open rooms, and 65 per cent of the development pipeline hotels in planning and under construction but not yet open.
IHGs 2015 Trends Report: Building Trust Capital: The new business imperative in the Kinship Economy In the US, around 70 per cent of the industry supply is branded.
released in January 2015 In fast developing markets, such as China and India, penetration The third in our series of of international brands is, however, lower, at around 45 to 55 per Trends Reports focused cent.
This level of international brand penetration is expected to on consumer insights increase significantly over the coming decades, as large global impacting the hospitality branded hotels gain traction due to the advantages of reliability, industry and business guest safety and security, consistency of standards and the ability in general.
to invest in customer experience and technology.
IHG has measures in place for all of these see Our Strategy and Our 2015 Report identifies Managing Risks on pages 14 to 29. the importance for companies to build brand and organisational trust.
It demonstrates how to build Trust Capital with different demographics and across different geographies, unveiling a blueprint of seven principles for making it the core driver of an organisation.
Further details about all three Trends Reports can be found at www.
com trends report Source: Smith Travel Research for all of the above industry facts.
10 GROUP PARENT COMPANY ADDITIONAL STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION Where the industry is heading Short-term drivers and global trends Short-term industry trends are shaped by differing economic, In developed markets, recent industry revenue growth has been political or physical factors impacting local geographical markets.
driven largely by an increase in the room rate as occupancy levels Since the economic crisis of 2008 09, GDP growth has returned to have returned to previous peak levels, but the growth in supply key economies, leading to an increase in disposable income and an of rooms has been below the long-term average.
In emerging increase in demand for hotel rooms.
Typically, the industry would markets, growth has been a result of both an increase in room meet this demand through an increase in the supply of rooms.
rate and the supply of rooms.
The industry is also impacted in the short term by local market economic or political factors.
Long-term drivers and global trends Technology In the long term, growth in the hotel industry is driven by a number Technology is playing an increasingly important role in of trends: both shaping the travel industry and in guests appreciation of their entire travel experience.
The internet, increasingly Economic accessed through mobile devices, has established itself as The travel and hotel industries have benefited substantially from the preferred method to research, plan and book travel.
Global GDP growth in the last emerging markets, consumers are bypassing desktop PCs and 10 years of approximately 3.6 per cent per annum has contributed going straight to mobile there are twice as many smartphone to increasing disposable income and a greater number of users in China than internet users in the US.
middle-class households, particularly in emerging markets such as Greater China, with a greater propensity to travel.
The development of social networking has changed the way in which people think about travel, with the sharing of experiences, reviews Improvements in physical infrastructure, particularly in emerging and recommendations influencing research and decision-making.
markets, have allowed hotels to meet the needs of guests more Travellers can make more informed decisions, and book their travel effectively and to open up new destinations for travel.
options with greater control and immediacy, leading to an increase in travel to a variety of destinations.
Our growth strategy focuses on 10 priority markets comprising both developed and emerging ones.
The Internet of Things is an emerging trend that offers enormous potential.
75 billion devices are forecast to be internet-enabled by Demographic 2020 offering the potential to transform the in-hotel guest Traveller demographics are continuously evolving.
travel for a variety of reasons and no longer for a singular purpose, such as only business or leisure.
Across the globe, the types We focus on delivering across the entirety of the Guest Journey of traveller can range from single people to multi-generation and invest in developing strong technology platforms.
The younger workforce is driving more diverse and informal working patterns, with an expectation that hotels can Competitors cater for flexible working arrangements.
A growing ageing These long-term drivers and global trends are changing the population with the desire, and means, to travel is also expected competitive landscape within the travel industry.
Competitors are to significantly increase travel flows and lead to an overall no longer simply branded or independent hotels, but also include increase in demand for travel services.
companies offering alternative lodging solutions and search options, providing inspiration for travel ideas and aggregating a range of travel solutions.
The consumer peer-to-peer rental Having a portfolio of distinct and complementary brands enables IHG market, which is largely unbranded, has also opened up a large to meet a range of guests needs and occasions at differing price points.
However, many of these Social businesses are not subject to regulations such as fire and life Other trends also provide new opportunities for increased travel.
safety, food safety and local industry regulations, which apply Growing competition and capacity amongst airlines, lower air to traditional hotel operators.
fares and more relaxed travel restrictions in many regions have For booking and distribution, hotel companies also compete with made international travel a viable option for an increasing number the increasingly sizeable travel intermediaries.
Worldwide, international tourist travel is expected to increase by 3.3 per cent a year from 2010 to 2030 reaching Our channel management strategic priority considers both direct and 1.8 billion by 2030, according to the UNWTO.
indirect booking and distribution channels.
Increasingly, travellers are concerned about the sustainability of hotels and their impact on the environment and local communities.
What is IHG doing in light of these trends?
We are committed to responsible business practices from See Our Strategy on pages 14 to 33 environmental sustainability to supporting our local communities.
