IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Our Winning Model and Targeted Portfolio in action TM EVEN Hotels The EVEN Hotels brand allows owners to diversify their portfolio in a unique guest occasion segment.
5 1 We announced the launch of a new hotel Strong brand portfolio Targeted Portfolio 4 2 3 brand, EVEN Hotels, in February 2012. and loyalty programme In June 2014, we opened our first hotels We have been using our loyalty Attractive markets under the brand in Norwalk, Connecticut programme, IHG Rewards Club, to The US is one of our priority markets, and and in Rockville, Maryland.
introduce our members to the EVEN we opened the first EVEN hotels in cities Hotels brand, specifically targeting where we have existing brand presence.
Winning Model our communications at those guests Highest opportunity segments who travel to, or have expressed an The EVEN Hotels brand has a strategic 5 1 Preferred brands delivered interest in, the locations of our first 4 2 fit in our brand portfolio alongside Hotel 3 through our people hotels, wellness or the brand itself.
Indigo, and now Kimpton, in the boutique As part of having a portfolio of preferred 5 1 Effective channel and lifestyle segment.
The brand is brands, we continually review our portfolio 4 2 3 management targeted at the unique segment of wellness of brands in light of the evolving needs and As with our other brands, we have leveraged and lifestyle.
As part of this, our existing booking platforms to create a EVEN Hotels was launched in 2012 Managed and franchised brand-specific webpage targeted via the as the first wellness lifestyle hotel brand.
We have used our own capital to develop app.
We have specifically customised it to We developed the brand based on a large the brand and will look to recycle this in be brand specific to EVEN Hotels, focusing and growing traveller need for maintaining the future.
We will seek to accelerate on wellness needs with relevant content wellness routines while travelling.
More growth for the brand through our and healthy lifestyle features such as than two years of research into consumer managed and franchising model.
fitness videos, ambient sounds, a diary insights showed that there are 17 million of wellness-focused events organised by wellness-minded travellers in the US the hotel, and wellness travel tips.
alone who struggle to maintain healthy 5 1 eating and exercise habits, get proper Superior owner 4 2 sleep and be productive when they are 3 proposition travelling away from home.
Therefore, The EVEN Hotels brand allows owners the brand was developed to meet a guests to diversify their portfolio with a new IHG holistic wellness needs in the areas of brand in a unique guest occasion segment.
exercise, food, work and rest.
For example, IHG, through its own capital investment, an EVEN branded hotel offers nutritious currently owns and manages the first two menus and amenities, such as guest open EVEN hotels.
Three additional hotels rooms designed for in-room workouts.
Owning 5 1 and operating our first hotels enables Build and 4 2 us to showcase the brand to other 3 leverage scale potential owners.
IHG has committed up to $150 million of its own capital to the development of the EVEN brand over the next few years.
In the future, we will look to recycle this capital, just as we did for both the Staybridge Suites and Hotel Indigo brands.
As part of matching the brand to the right location, we are looking at core urban areas, dense office parks and suburban markets as well as considering the expansion of the brand beyond the US.
As at 31 December 2014, we had three hotels 584 rooms signed into our development pipeline and two hotels 296 rooms open.
EVEN Hotel Rockville, Maryland, US 20 GROUP PARENT COMPANY ADDITIONAL STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION Acquisition of Kimpton Hotels & Restaurants We believe the Kimpton brand has enormous potential for growth.
5 1 5 1 Our acquisition of Kimpton Hotels Build and Superior owner 4 2 4 2 3 3 & Restaurants, the worlds largest leverage scale proposition independent boutique hotel operator, The boutique segment, in which Kimpton The addition of Kimpton to IHGs brand completed in January 2015.
Kimpton operates, is the fastest growing in our portfolio offers owners another attractive is a highly successful business with industry over the last five years, and there option in the boutique segment and access a US-based portfolio comprising is significant opportunity for future growth to a brand with a strong track record at 62 managed hotels 11,300 rooms based on high levels of demand growth.
the upper upscale price point.
Its presence and a further 16 hotels 3,000 rooms We also believe the brand has enormous in the most attractive markets in the US has in the pipeline as at 16 January 2015. potential for growth outside the US and delivered excellent financial performance A sophisticated food and beverage plan to capitalise on our scale, powerful for both the business and its hotel owners.
operator, Kimpton also runs 71 hoteldistribution systems and owner networks It also enables IHG to raise awareness based destination restaurants and bars.
to support its growth globally.
We did of other IHG brands among owners of this previously for our Hotel Indigo brand Kimpton branded hotels.
Kimptons strong Winning Model which started with a well-established brand, combined with our scale and booking base in the US and has now been expanded and distribution channels, will drive 5 1 Preferred brands delivered globally to 21 countries including hotels superior returns for owners.
4 2 3 through our people in the pipeline.
The Kimpton brand is renowned for having Targeted Portfolio 5 1 Strong brand portfolio distinctive and innovative hotels located 4 2 3 and loyalty programme in attractive urban and resort locations.
Attractive markets The Kimpton brand has a strong strategic Each hotel aims to deliver a deeply The US is one of our priority markets fit within our existing brand portfolio at personal, genuine and authentic service and Kimpton hotels currently have the upper upscale price point.
It is also for guests and, whilst each hotel is unique, presence in the most attractive urban highly complementary with our Hotel the brand has a number of common design and resort locations, as well as the highest Indigo and EVEN Hotels brands, creating and service principles and hallmarks.
RevPAR markets such as San Francisco a leading boutique and lifestyle hotel The Kimpton brand caters for a broad and New York.
business, with over 200 open and pipeline and varied range of guest needs.
Highest opportunity segments hotels across 21 countries.
The boutique hotel segment has been We plan to leverage Kimptons marketthe fastest growing in our industry over leading insight and strong track record in the last five years, with demand, supply operational excellence, food and beverage, and RevPAR growth in boutique hotels in and design, to add value across our brand the US each significantly outperforming portfolio.
Kimptons loyalty programme the overall industry.
Kimpton Karma members account for Managed and franchised 25 per cent of its room bookings.
Kimpton is a fully asset-light brand, 5 1 Effective channel operating hotels under management 4 2 3 management contracts.
A large proportion of Kimptons business already comes through direct channels, driven by its most loyal guests.
Each hotel has a dedicated website with engaging content, reflecting the boutique nature of the brand.
We will leverage our digital platforms to accelerate Kimptons growth, whilst maintaining the uniqueness of More information on the acquisition of Kimptons existing channels.
Kimpton Hotels & Restaurants can be found at www.
com kimpton The Lumen, A Kimpton Hotel, Dallas, Texas, US 21
