IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Winning Model Our Winning Model is our framework for delivering value for our shareholders and owners through our portfolio of preferred brands, talented people and leading revenue delivery systems.
5 1 5 1 Key performance indicators KPIs Preferred brands Build and 4 2 4 2 3 3 and What we have done in 2014 delivered through leverage scale See pages 30 to 33 our people How we manage principal risks See pages 28 to 29 Why we think this is important Why we think this is important Having a strong portfolio of preferred Scale provides significant advantages in the brands is fundamental to our success.
hotel industry at the global, national and city Our portfolio of preferred brands In a highly competitive industry, powerful level.
The size of the IHG System, and our See pages 4 and 5 well-defined, consistent and well-known concentration on priority markets and key brands assist both guests and owners in gateway cities, allows us to benefit from Where we operate and detailed global choosing an IHG brand over a competitors, economies of scale, which lead to higher and regional Performance as well as deciding which IHG brand meets margins and operating leverage.
With See pages 34 to 51 their specific needs.
Our people are critical scale, we can invest in our brands and in providing the guest experience, and the technology required to support their our winning culture encourages and continued growth, and deliver efficient empowers them to bring each of our sales and marketing and procurement differentiated brand experiences to life and practices, thereby increasing the provide high standards of guest service.
advantages an IHG brand brings to owners.
Scale also enables us to invest The value of building strong preferred in, and grow, new brands and take them brands results in increased RevPAR, as global, for example Hotel Indigo.
occupancy will be higher and guests will pay a higher rate to stay at their preferred What we are doing brand, which, in turn, delivers better IHG already benefits from substantial returns for our owners through an scale advantages.
With over 710,000 rooms increase in total gross revenue.
open at the end of 2014, we delivered our strongest net IHG System size growth What we are doing since 2009 of 3.4 per cent, opening over We build brand preference by defining 41,000 rooms.
Our brand portfolio also each of our brands so that they can provide reached some significant milestones in a differentiated experience to meet both th 2014 opening the 400 Crowne Plaza the targeted guest need and occasion and th hotel, the 200 Staybridge Suites hotel be consistent in the experience they deliver.
th and the 60 Hotel Indigo hotel in its th We have sharpened each of our brand 10 anniversary year.
Our scale has also strategies looking at a number of areas, enabled us to commit $150 million of from the brand ambition and position to the investment behind the EVEN Hotels brand, brand platform and strategic brand pillars, opening the first two properties in 2014. to ensure our portfolio meets the needs of We focus on developing our scale in 10 the evolving guest and owner.
We are also priority markets, where we currently have refreshing the brand standards for each of 85 per cent of our open rooms see page 18. our brands to ensure they are up to date Benefiting from the strong growth in these and relevant to drive consistency.
markets, Group fee margins were up 1.5 percentage points to 44.7 per cent We invest in our talented people who are in 2014 and total gross revenue was up the face of our brands and help us build 6 per cent to $23 billion.
For details on how we maximise the scale and efficiency of our operations, see page 22.
How we measure it How we measure it KPIs Guest HeartBeat, RevPAR, Employee engagement, Total gross KPIs Net rooms supply, Fee revenues, revenue Total gross revenue, Fee margin 16 GROUP PARENT COMPANY ADDITIONAL STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION 5 1 5 1 5 1 Strong brand Effective channel Superior owner 4 2 4 2 4 2 3 3 3 portfolio and loyalty management proposition programme Why we think this is important Why we think this is important Why we think this is important A portfolio of strong, complementary As a franchisor and manager of hotels, We recognise that hotel owners have brands allows us to offer solutions for each we aim to drive demand to our hotel brands a choice of brand, if any, to choose for guest need, which increases cross-selling and reduce distribution costs for our their property.
A strong owner proposition, across different brands.
Combined with owners through strong brand awareness preferred brands and effective operational a strong loyalty programme, it also and effective yield-management practices, support, play a vital part in making us the increases awareness and recognition of delivering better returns for our owners.
Relationships the IHG brand, and of each of the individual Our direct channels digital and voice with new and existing owners therefore hotel brands, helping us to drive business.
are less costly to owners than third-party have a significant impact on our ability Guests who have an increased loyalty intermediaries.
Our strong brands are to build scale.
A strong owner proposition to IHG and its portfolio have also proven a significant driver of bookings through and relationships with our owners also to have a higher spend per stay.
Both of indirect channels online travel enable us to deliver the brand promise these result in higher RevPAR premiums, intermediaries OTIs and business and for our guests and continue building thereby increasing total gross revenue leisure travel agents.
We therefore aim preferred brands.
and strengthening our owner proposition.
to drive demand for our hotels through our What we are doing direct channels and manage revenue per What we are doing We are committed to delivering a booking, thereby delivering the highest Our brands are complementary across compelling and preferred owner offer.
quality revenues to IHG hotels at the the segments in which they operate We continually review and enhance our lowest possible cost, increasing RevPAR midscale, upscale and luxury, catering owner proposition in many ways, including: and owner returns.
to different guest needs and occasions.
ensuring a profitable return on One of our newest brands, EVEN Hotels, What we are doing investment for our owners, assisting caters to an identified guest need for Our direct and indirect channels delivered them along the lifecycle of their maintaining wellness while travelling 71 per cent of total rooms revenue to our investment, from identifying the right and the acquisition of the Kimpton brand hotels in 2014.
Our digital business has site to operating a profitable business: has a strong strategic fit with our Hotel significant scale and is growing fast, providing a range of revenue-driving Indigo and EVEN Hotels brands see pages accounting for $4 billion in revenue in tools and services, including booking 20 and 21.
We continue to invest in features and distribution channels: a strong loyalty programme, we encourage that enhance the digital experience, seeking to price our fees to reflect guests to stay across the portfolio and with branded and personalised offerings our services, tools and brand value: build lifetime relationships through the to encourage guests to book via our IHG Rewards Club programme, which has direct channels.
having strong owner relationship 84 million members.
We continue to evolve management and working with the We recognise the impact of OTIs as an our loyalty programme to ensure that it IHG Owners Association which indirect booking channel, mainly used is not just the largest in the market, but represents the interests of our hotel by comparison-site shopping leisure also the most preferred refreshing owners globally to deliver joint travellers searching for a competitive deal.
and reviewing the rewards and benefits initiatives www.
com ihgowners: We have therefore leveraged our global available to increase its attractiveness to recognising the importance of footprint to secure better terms with the our guests.
We recognise our loyal guests responsible business practices to all OTIs on behalf of our owners, whilst and aim to personalise their experiences.
stakeholders, and developing tools leveraging OTIs as a complementary which support both our commitment to distribution channel.
doing business responsibly and delivering superior returns to our For details on our investment in developing owners see pages 24 and 25. strong technology platforms, see page 22.
How we measure it How we measure it How we measure it KPIs Total gross revenue, RevPAR, System contribution to revenue, KPIs System contribution to revenue, KPIs All KPIs measure the strength Guest HeartBeat RevPAR of our owner proposition 17
