IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Targeted Portfolio Our Targeted Portfolio means we operate in the most attractive markets for IHG and in the highest opportunity segments based on guests occasion needs, with an asset-light business model franchising and managing hotels rather than owning them.
Key performance indicators KPIs Attractive Highest and What we have done in 2014 markets opportunity segments See pages 30 to 33 Why we think this is important Why we think this is important How we manage principal risks Achieving scale and driving growth Typically, the traditional hotel industry See pages 28 and 29 requires us to focus on those markets is segmented according to price point, that are most attractive and where there is and IHG is focused on the three segments the best fit with our strategy and business that generate over 66 per cent of branded Where we operate and detailed global model.
These markets have large inbound hotels revenue namely, midscale, upscale and regional Performance and domestic demand for branded hotels and luxury.
We believe these segments See pages 34 to 51 or show great potential to have this in have the highest growth opportunity the future.
and strongest resilience to the industry economic cycle.
However, we also recognise What we are doing Managed and franchised model our that guests choose a hotel based on their Whilst we operate in nearly 100 countries asset-light business model needs and the occasion, resulting in the and territories and continue to expand our See pages 12 and 13 possibility of the same guest staying presence globally, we primarily focus our across multiple hotel segments.
efforts on 10 priority markets in which we either have a strong existing competitive What we are doing position or have a compelling opportunity Our portfolio of brands is targeted to build one.
These include a number of key around differing occasion segments.
emerging and more developed markets We tailor each of our brands to meet US, Middle East, Germany, UK, Canada, guests needs, looking at the differing Greater China, India, Russia and the occasion they are travelling for and Commonwealth of Independent States, their need for travelling.
These currently We used this segmentation analysis represent 85 per cent of the IHG System to develop the brand proposition for and 89 per cent of the pipeline.
We focus both the HUALUXE Hotels and Resorts our brand building efforts and prioritise and EVEN Hotels brands see page 20.
It the investment in infrastructure in these was also a consideration in the acquisition markets, for instance, by adapting our of Kimpton Hotels & Restaurants see page websites to the local language and 21. deploying dedicated sales teams.
Depending on the market, we will adapt our model and proposition to owners to take into account local market characteristics.
How we measure it The Performance section provides details KPIs Guest HeartBeat, RevPAR of how we have performed in each of our regions and priority markets.
How we measure it KPIs Net rooms supply, Total gross revenue Source: Smith Travel Research.
Holiday Inn Manhattan Financial District, New York, US 18 GROUP PARENT COMPANY ADDITIONAL STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION HUALUXE Hotels and Resorts, Peoples Republic of China Our Targeted Portfolio in action: Greater China a priority market th In 2014, IHG celebrated our 30 anniversary of operating in Greater China, one of our priority markets.
We were the first international hotel company to enter the country in 1984, and we have developed a leading business in the region with 78,194 rooms open 241 hotels and a further 54,338 rooms 189 hotels in our development pipeline.
In 2014, Greater China contributed 11 per cent of our Group operating profit before central overheads and exceptional items.
We originally developed our business in Chinas tier 1 cities and along the eastern seaboard, and have more rooms today in tier 1 cities than our major international competitors.
However, our more recent growth has focused on tier 2 and 3 cities, which are expected to generate significant long-term demand growth and, by 2022, nearly 80 per cent of the fast growing Chinese middle-class are expected to live in these cities.
We achieved several key milestones for our Greater China business in 2014, for example, we: opened Crowne Plaza Beijing Lido with the same owner as our first hotel in the region Holiday Inn Beijing Lido, demonstrating our established track record and the strength of our owner relationships in the region: opened 10,648 rooms 34 hotels, our highest number of room openings since we started our business in the region, growing the IHG System size by 14 per cent: signed 15,754 rooms 64 hotels, our best year for hotel signings since 2007: and th opened our 50 Holiday Inn Express hotel and signed our th 50 pipeline hotel, making Holiday Inn Express the largest international limited-service brand in China.
In February 2015, we opened our first hotel for the HUALUXE Hotels and Resorts brand in Yangjiang, slightly later than expected.
As at 31 December 2014, we had 24 hotels 7,551 rooms in the pipeline for the brand, which we will continue to build.
In addition to driving growth in Greater China, we are focused on establishing hotels that cater for Chinese guests in other locations outside China.
Our China-Ready programme ensures we will be able to cater for the growing number of Chinese guests around the world through cultural and food and beverage training for hotel teams.
We currently have 84 hotels in AMEA, The Americas and Europe that have signed up for the programme.
Crowne Plaza Beijing Lido, Peoples Republic of China 19
