IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Doing business responsibly A commitment to responsible business practices underpins our entire strategy and the way we work.
We recognise the importance it has for all of our stakeholders in making IHG and its brands their preferred choice.
Why we think it is important What we are doing Risk management We believe that by ensuring our business Our commitment to responsible business We have in place an effective system of is committed to responsible business is part of our culture.
Our responsible internal controls and risk management practices we will enhance and protect business practices include: to identify, assess, prioritise and mitigate the reputation of IHG and our brands.
It risks to our business, guests and Governance and leadership provides us with the opportunity to protect employees, which enables us to achieve Our Chairman, the Board and its the environment, create job opportunities, our shared objectives.
This is an essential Committees provide a strong leadership improve community resilience and make part of being a responsible business.
They promote us more innovative.
Doing the right thing responsible business behaviour by in the right way enables us to make an For information on our risk management maintaining high standards of corporate even greater contribution to the locations practices and systems of internal controls, governance, internal controls and risk see pages 26 to 29. where we operate.
It also ensures we management and compliance with act in a manner that benefits all of our relevant laws and regulations.
People stakeholders, including employees, Being a responsible business cannot be guests, corporate customers, owners and For information on our Board and governance achieved without the support and active the local community, who are increasingly processes, see pages 54 to 91. engagement of our people.
They are considering whether the businesses with fundamental to ensuring we operate an which they interact share their values.
Commitment to responsible business ethical business.
Our Winning Ways see This provides us with a competitive edge, practices page 23 are a set of behaviours that we assisting us to deliver profitable growth We have a reputation for delivering a internally promote to assist with how we and create shared value for all stakeholders consistent and superior guest experience, interact with our guests and colleagues.
we provide a safe and secure environment As part of acting responsibly and putting in and we actively engage with our How we measure it and place a responsible business ethos, we have communities.
Our brands are valuable What we have done in 2014 policies and training in place to ensure our assets and doing business responsibly KPIs Employee engagement and all people are kept aware of and understand enhances their reputation and builds those KPIs set out on page 33 the key legal and regulatory areas affecting trust and brand preference.
them in their roles, such as competition, Our commitment to responsible Responsible procurement anti-bribery and data privacy laws and business underpins our whole strategy Our Vendor Code of Conduct sets out procedures, crisis management and brand and contributes to our success across standards to which we require our safety standards.
We do this through a all areas.
supply chain partners to operate.
We are range of programmes, policies and training, committed to promoting diversity across See pages 32 and 33 for progress which we regularly keep under review and our responsible procurement agenda against our KPIs.
which are communicated via e-learning and have set targets to ensure corporate and face-to-face training modules.
Five-year corporate responsibility targets responsibility criteria are integrated into These were released in September 2013, Our Code of Conduct consolidates and the selection and evaluation process and are centred on measuring our impact clarifies expected standards of behaviour for preferred suppliers.
on the environment and community and communicates the ethical values of Health, safety and security at both global and local level and the Group.
It is applicable to all Directors, A safe and secure environment for our demonstrating our commitment to doing officers and employees and is available guests, employees and those working at business responsibly and creating shared at www.
com investors under or visiting our hotels and corporate offices value for IHG and its stakeholders: corporate governance.
IHG has therefore established some of these are KPIs: and We also have a confidential disclosure a set of policies, procedures and measures, channel to provide employees with a the progress against others and complies with relevant legislation.
We means to report any ethical concerns can be found in our Responsible ensure the protection and well-being of they may have.
those working for IHG through suitable work-based strategies, minimise the risk of injury from work activity, ensure that For information on our investment in Further information, including developing our talent and who are our sufficient information is provided and our Responsible Business Report, employees, see page 23. systems are in place to address health and can be found at safety concerns, and involve employees in www.
com responsiblebusiness the continuous improvement, reporting and review of health and safety matters.
24 GROUP PARENT COMPANY ADDITIONAL STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION IHG Academy Holiday Inn Express Stoke On Trent, UK Human rights Corporate responsibility work very closely with our owners and We focus on those areas of human rights Our global scale provides us with an colleagues to maximise the positive impact most relevant to our business, ensuring opportunity to make a positive impact of these initiatives: the rights of the local people where we on the environment and communities in TM IHG Green Engage system: Helps us operate are protected.
We are working which we operate.
Our five-year corporate minimise our impact on the environment to raise further awareness of our human responsibility targets, released in by tracking and managing the use of rights approach in our hotels through September 2013, focus on measuring energy, carbon and water and waste in embedding it as a brand standard, and will this impact.
This assists us in delivering continue to develop our training materials.
Each one of our hotels is a central part both more environmentally sustainable We are a signatory to the UN Global of its community, from creating jobs and hotels and cost efficiencies for owners.
Compact, aligning our operations and stimulating local economic opportunities, IHG Academy: A collaboration between strategies with the 10 universal principles to managing their environmental impact in our hotels and local schools, colleges that include commitments to human rights a responsible way and providing shelter in and community organisations to help and labour standards.
We are part of the times of need.
We work to develop new and people develop the skills they need to Business in the Community cross industry better ways to assist owners to build and improve their employability and secure working group on human rights as well as operate IHG branded hotels, creating a job in the hotel industry.
the International Tourism Partnerships sustainable value for our brands, business IHG Shelter in a Storm: Empowers Human Trafficking Working Group.
We and stakeholders, as well as addressing our hotels to support guests, colleagues are also working with our internal social and environmental challenges.
Our and local communities in times of procurement team to embed further our three bespoke corporate responsibility disaster with financial support, vital human rights approach into our contract s. programmes are a key part of this and we supplies and accommodation.
IHGs global greenhouse gas GHG emissions Scope We report Scope 1 and 2 emissions as By delivering more environmentally sustainable hotels, we can drive cost efficiencies defined by the GHG protocol as follows: for owners as well as meet the expectations of all our stakeholders.
We recognise the importance of reducing our global greenhouse gas emissions for corporate offices and Scope 1 Direct emissions : combustion hotels our target is to reduce our carbon footprint per occupied room by 12% across our of fuel and operation of facilities: and entire estate by 2017 against a 2012 baseline.
Scope 2 Indirect emissions : electricity, heat, steam and cooling 1 1 2014 2013 Reporting boundary Measure purchased for own use.
Global corporate Scope 1 Direct emissions 1,365,883 1,280,973 Methodology offices and managed, Scope 2 Indirect emissions 3,792,771 3,683,737 franchised, owned We have worked with external 2 and leased hotels consultants to give us an up-to-date Total GHG emissions tCO e 5,158,654 4,964,710 a KPI and part of our 2 picture of IHGs carbon footprint and five-year targets IHGs chosen intensity measurement 32.3 33.4 assess the performance over the past GHG emissions per occupied room few years.
The external consultants use a kgCO e per occupied room 2 sampling and extrapolation methodology to estimate our GHG emissions.
Global corporate Scope 1 Direct emissions 496,316 486,086 offices and managed, For 2014, in line with the methodology Scope 2 Indirect emissions 1,921,077 1,847,304 owned and leased 2 set out in the GHG Protocol Corporate hotels as required Total GHG emissions tCO e 2,417,393 2,333,390 under the Companies Standard, the sample covered 1,402 2 Act 2006 of our 4,840 hotels.
As IHG System size IHGs chosen intensity measurement 59.2 62.2 is continually changing and the hotels GHG emissions per occupied room kgCO e per occupied room reporting data to the IHG Green Engage 2 system increases annually, we are 1 Reporting period commencing on 1 October and ending on 30 September due to the delay in hotels restating the impacts for all years from receiving their energy bills it is not possible to report accurately GHG emissions from 1 January to the baseline year 2012 annually to enable 31 December.
2 Includes all of our branded hotels but does not include emissions from 88 hotels.
We do not have comparisons to be made.
sufficient data to estimate their emissions and believe them to be immaterial.
