IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Our business model We predominantly franchise our brands to, and manage hotels on behalf of, third-party owners.
Our asset-light strategy enables us to grow our business whilst generating high returns on invested capital.
We franchise and or manage hotels depending largely on market maturity, owner preference and, in certain cases, on the particular brand.
For example, in the US, a mature market, we operate a largely franchised business, working together with our owners to deliver preferred brands.
By contrast, in Greater China, an emerging market, we operate a predominantly managed business where we are responsible for operating the hotel on behalf of our owners.
We adapt this business model by market as necessary, for example, we also have managed leases properties structured for legal reasons as operating leases but with the same characteristics as management contracts, partnerships and joint ventures.
The key differences in our three main models are summarised below: Number % of our Hotel IHG capital Employees Brand ownership, of hotels portfolio ownership intensity marketing and distribution Franchised 4,096 84.6% Third party Low Third party Managed 735 15.2% Third party Low IHG and third party IHG Owned and leased 9 Less than 1% IHG High IHG For information on who are our employees and how we invest in our talent, see page 23.
We are committed to delivering a compelling and preferred offer to our hotels owners through our owner proposition see page 17.
In 2014, over 90 per cent of our operating profit was generated from our asset-light management and franchise contracts.
In addition, approximately 85 per cent of our fee-based income was derived from hotel revenues, and 15 per cent was principally from management fees linked to hotel profits.
The asset-light approach, and franchised and managed business model: is highly cash-generative, with a high return on capital employed: and means IHG benefits from the reduced volatility of fee-based income streams and allows us to focus on growing our fee revenues and fee margins with limited requirements for IHGs capital.
IHG Revenue and the System Fund Third-party hotel owners pay: i fees to IHG in relation to licensing of our brands and or our hotel management services: and ii assessments and contributions which are collected by IHG for specific use within the System Fund.
Total Gross Revenue For our: Franchised hotels Managed hotels Owned and leased hotels total rooms revenue total hotels revenue total revenue IHG revenues System Fund Franchised hotels RevPAR x rooms x royalty rate 2014: $1.5bn Managed hotels Fee % of total revenue plus % of profit Assessments and contributions paid by hotels Fee revenues 2014: 61% of our revenue comes from franchise Proceeds from the sale of IHG Rewards Club points and management fees No profit or loss for IHG managed by IHG for the benefit of Owned and leased hotels All revenue and profits hotels within the IHG System Central revenue: Principally technology fees see page 48 See page 49 for more information Fee-based margins: 2014: 44.7% Marketing IHG Rewards Global Profit from fee revenues Club loyalty reservation After allocating costs, we estimate our margins to be as follows: programme system Franchised 84.6% Fee margin 44.7% Managed 58.6% Owned and leased 18.0% Not attributable to IHG IHG revenues are as described in the Not all of our costs can be allocated directly to revenue streams IHG revenues box.
and these are shown as regional or central infrastructure costs Group revenue excluding owned and leased hotels, managed leases and significant liquidated damages.
For definitions, please refer to the Glossary on pages 184 and 185.
12 GROUP PARENT COMPANY ADDITIONAL STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION Disciplined approach to allocation of capital Our focus on an asset-light business model is supported by a disciplined, long-term approach to allocating capital and reducing the asset intensity of the business.
We seek to maintain an efficient balance sheet with an investment grade credit rating.
Our business is highly cash-generative, and we have three primary uses of the cash we generate: Invest in the business to drive growth: This includes acquisitions of businesses and our day-to-day capital expenditures see below.
Maintain sustainable growth in the ordinary dividend: Our 2014 full-year dividend will be 77 cents 48.6 pence per share subject to shareholder approval of the 2014 final dividend up 10 per cent on 2013 see page 50.
Return surplus funds to shareholders: During 2014, we announced a $750 million return to shareholders via special dividend with share consolidation, and completed our $500 million share buyback see page 50.
In support of our asset-light strategy, during 2014 we: Disposals completed the disposal of 80 per cent of our interest in InterContinental New York Barclay for $274 million: sold InterContinental Mark Hopkins San Francisco for $120 million: and announced a binding offer in respect of InterContinental Paris Le Grand for 330 million $406 million.
Acquisitions announced the acquisition of Kimpton Hotels & Restaurants for $430 million a fully asset-light business.
This acquisition completed in January 2015.
IHGs philosophy to capital expenditure Capital expenditure incurred by IHG can be summarised as follows: Capital expenditure Examples Maintenance capital expenditure Maintenance of our owned and leased hotels, which will reduce as we become increasingly asset-light.
and key money to access strategic Corporate infrastructure maintenance, for example, in respect of our offices and systems.
growth, particularly into highDeployment of key money, which is used to access strategic opportunities, particularly in high-quality quality and sought-after and sought-after locations when returns are financially and or strategically attractive.
opportunities Recyclable investments to drive Through the acquisition of real estate, investment through joint ventures or via an equity stake.
the growth of our brands and our We aim to seek to recycle this capital by selling these assets when the time is right and to reinvest expansion in priority markets elsewhere in the business and across our portfolio we are currently doing this for our EVEN Hotels brand, just as we previously did for the Staybridge Suites and Hotel Indigo brands.
System funded capital The development of tools and systems that hotels use to drive performance.
investments for strategic investment to drive growth at hotel level For definitions, please refer to the Glossary on pages 184 and 185.
