48 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS 1 NORMAN BLACKWELL ADRIAN RINGROSE TIM HAYWOOD 1 3 Chief Executive Group Finance Director LORD BLACKWELL Adrian has been Chief Executive of Tim joined Interserve as Group Chairman Interserve since 2003 during which time Finance Director in November 2010 Norman was appointed Chairman of the Group has developed significantly, and was previously Finance Director Interserve in January 2006 having from c15,000 to c80,000 people, with of St Modwen Properties.
He is also a joined the Group as a non-executive operations in over 40 countries providing non-executive director of Tarsus Group.
A services to governments and a range Earlier roles include Group Finance former partner of McKinsey & Company, of commercial and industrial clients.
Director at Hagemeyer UK and senior Norman was Head of the Prime Adrians background is in commercial finance director and financial controller Ministers Policy Unit from 1995 to 1997 management and business development.
Tim is and was appointed a life peer in 1997.
Prior to leading Interserve he spent a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered He was appointed Chairman of Lloyds time in the outsourcing and utilities Accountants in England and Wales.
Banking Group in April 2014, having sectors.
Adrian is a member of the Since 2011 he has also been Head of served as a non-executive director CBI Presidents Committee and was Sustainability, launching Interserves since June 2012.
He was also Chairman for four years chairman of the CBIs SustainAbilities Plan in March 2013. of Lloyds insurance business, Scottish Public Services Strategy Board until late He is a member of the sustainability Widows, from September 2012 to 2013.
He is also a past President of the committee of the Institute of Chartered June 2014.
Norman has held a number Business Services Association.
He is a Accountants in England and Wales and of other senior positions in banking and member of the Chartered Institute of of the Enterprise Leadership Team of insurance including Director of Group Marketing, a Fellow of the Chartered Business in the Community.
Development at NatWest and Senior Management Institute and a Fellow Independent Director at Standard of the Institute of Directors.
Other past business roles include adviser to the University of Liverpool non-executive directorships at Halma, from where he has a degree in Political SEGRO and the Dixons Group.
He has Theory and Institutions.
also served on the boards of OFCOM, the Centre for Policy Studies and the Office of Fair Trading.
Norman also chairs the Nomination Committee.
1 Member of the Nomination Committee 2 Member of the Audit Committee 3 Member of the Remuneration Committee 4 Senior Independent Director OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS 49 STEVEN DANCE BRUCE MELIZAN DOUGIE SUTHERLAND Executive Director Executive Director Executive Director Steven is Managing Director of RMD Bruce is Managing Director of Dougie is Managing Director of Kwikform, the Groups Equipment Interserves Support Services division.
Interserves Developments division and Services division.
He is the Boards lead He joined Interserve in 2003 and was responsible for UK Construction.
He was director in Health and Safety.
He was appointed to the Board in January 2008. appointed to the Board of Interserve in appointed to the Board of Interserve Bruce has been in the outsourcing January 2011.
Dougie joined Interserve in January 2008.
Steven began his industry for nearly 20 years and has in September 2006 from 3i, where he career with Schlumberger in the Middle held a wide variety of roles ranging was a partner in its infrastructure team.
East in the oilfield sector, after which from direct delivery through to sales, Previously he was a divisional managing he completed his MBA and moved marketing and general management.
director at Amey and Lend Lease, and into manufacturing.
He then served Previous organisations include Amey, also worked for HM Treasury developing 12 years with Coats Viyella where he Mowlem, Schlumberger and TYE the Private Finance Initiative.
Dougie held a variety of general management Manufacturing both in the UK and begain his career with seven years in the positions and was based in Germany, globally.
Bruce holds an MBA from Royal Engineers.
He has an MBA from Portugal, South America and the UK.
He Cranfield School of Management and Cranfield School of Management and subsequently worked for four years with a BSc in Electrical Engineering from a BSc Hons in Civil Engineering from ScottishPower, executing a number of Queens University, Canada.
M&A transactions including the disposal a member of the Business Services of utility subsidiaries in Australia and Association Council and the Chair of the UK, and the flotation of Thus.
Most the charity, Safer London.
recently he spent three years with ERICO heading divisions supplying the international construction market with couplers, fixing and fastening systems, before joining Interserve in 2004.
Steven is a Chartered Director and a member of the Board of Examiners at the Institute of Directors.
He holds an MA in Natural Sciences from Oxford University and an MBA from London Business School.
50 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS GO GOV five ER RN NA AN NCE CE DIRECTORS CONTINUED 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 1 2 3 LES CULLEN ANNE FAHY RUSSELL KING Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Les brings a wealth of experience from Anne was appointed as non-executive Russell joined Interserve as a nona number of senior financial roles in director of Interserve on 1 January 2013. executive director on 1 September 2014. the UK and internationally.
He joined She is also Chief Financial Officer of He is Non-Executive Chairman of Interserve as a non-executive director BPs Aviation Fuels business.
During Hummingbird Resources, Senior in October 2005.
He is a non-executive her 26 years at BP Anne has gained Independent Director and Remuneration director of F&C Global Smaller extensive experience of global business, Committee Chairman of both Aggreko Companies.
He has held the post of Group developing markets, risk management, and Spectris, and a non-executive Finance Director at fide La Rue, Inchcape internal control, compliance and director of Sepura.
Les became Senior strategy development in BPs aviation, Russell was Chairman of GeoProMining.
Independent Director in May 2013. petrochemicals, trading and retail Between 2007 and late 2009 he was sectors.
Anne is a Fellow of the Institute a non-executive director of Anglo of Chartered Accountants in Ireland Platinum and Chairman of Bergteamet having worked at KPMG in Ireland and between 2011 and 2012.
Russell held Australia prior to joining BP in 1988. various general management roles at Anne has chaired the Audit Committee ICI, followed by eight years at Anglo since May 2013.
American as Executive Vice President of Group Human Resources and Business Development, and from 2009 as Chief Strategy Officer.
1 Member of the Nomination Committee 2 Member of the Audit Committee 3 Member of the Remuneration Committee 4 Senior Independent Director
