52 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT TREVOR BRADBURY Company Secretary The directors present their report and the audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014.
SCOPE OF REPORTING For the purposes of compliance with paragraphs 4.1.
8R of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority the FCA, the required content of the management report can be found in the Strategic Report and this Directors Report including the sections of the Annual Report and Accounts incorporated by reference.
The directors responsibility for the preparation of the Annual Report and Financial Statements, which forms part of this report, and the statement by the auditors about their reporting responsibilities, are set out on pages 102, and 103 to 107, respectively, of this Annual Report.
A review of the development of the Group and its future prospects is included in the Chairmans Statement, which is incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
The Groups business model and strategy are summarised in the Strategic Report.
The FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules also require certain information to be included in a corporate governance statement in the Directors Report.
Information that fulfils the requirements of the corporate governance statement can be found in the Corporate Governance report and the Audit Committee Report, which are incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
For the purpose of paragraph 9.8.
4CR of the FCAs Listing Rules, the information required to be disclosed by paragraph 9.8.
4R can be found in the following locations: Section of LR 9.8.
4R Topic Location 1 Amount of interest capitalized Not applicable 2 Publication of unaudited financial information Not applicable 4 Details of long-term incentive schemes Directors Remuneration Report 5 Waiver of emoluments by a director Directors Remuneration Report 6 Waiver of future emoluments by a director Directors Remuneration Report 7 Non-pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable 8 Item 7 in relation to major subsidiary undertakings Not applicable 9 Parent participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary Not applicable 10 Contracts of significance Directors Report 11 Provision of services by a controlling shareholder Not applicable 12 Shareholder waivers of dividends Directors Report 13 Shareholder waivers of future dividends Directors Report 14 Agreements with controlling shareholders Not applicable All the information cross-referenced above is hereby incorporated by reference into this Directors Report.
Disclosure of financial risk management objectives and policies is made on page 46 of the Strategic Report.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT 53 The Companys dividend reinvestment plan continues to be THE COMPANY available to eligible shareholders.
Further details of the plan Legal form are set out in the Shareholder Information section on page 169.
Interserve Plc the Company is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom with company number 88456.
The principal Capita Trustees Limited, the trustee of the Interserve Employee subsidiaries and associated undertakings are listed on pages 161 Benefit Trust the Trust, waived its right to receive a to 165. dividend over 612,479 shares held by the Trust in the name of Capita IRG Trustees Nominees Limited in respect of the Branches dividend paid in May 2014 May 2013: 368,601 shares and The Company, through various subsidiaries, has established 513,629 shares in respect of the dividend paid in October 2014 branches in a number of different countries in which the October 2013: 647,411 shares.
DIRECTORS AND DIRECTORS INTERESTS Amendment of the Articles of Association The following have served as directors during the year: The Companys constitution, known as the Articles of Association, is essentially a contract between the Company and Lord Blackwell Group Chairman its shareholders, governing the management of the Company.
Adrian Ringrose Chief Executive A copy of the Articles can be obtained on request from the Les Cullen Senior Independent Director Company Secretary.
The Articles may only be changed by Steven Dance special resolution of shareholders which requires, on a vote on Anne Fahy a show of hands, at least three-quarters of the shareholders or Tim Haywood proxies present at the meeting to be in favour of the resolution 1 Russell King or, on a poll, at least three-quarters in nominal value of the Keith Ludeman votes cast by shareholders or their proxies to be in favour of Bruce Melizan the resolution.
2 Nick Salmon Dougie Sutherland FINANCIAL RESULTS 3 David Thorpe The Groups Consolidated Income Statement set out on Non-executive director page 108 shows Group profit before taxation of 61.9 million 1 Appointed to the Board on 1 September 2014 2013: 68.1 million.
The detailed results of the Group are given 2 Appointed to the Board on 1 August 2014 in the financial statements on pages 108 to 152 and further 3 Resigned from the Board on 31 August 2014 comments on divisional results are given in the Operational Review on pages 20 to 29.
The biographical details of the directors of the Company are given on pages 48 to 51.
There have been no post balance sheet events that require disclosure or adjustment in the financial statements.
The powers of the directors, and their service contracts and terms of appointment, are described in the Corporate DIVIDENDS Governance report.
An interim dividend of 7.5p per 10p ordinary share 2013: 6.8p was paid on 23 October 2014.
The directors recommend a The directors beneficial interests in, and options to acquire, ordinary shares in the Company, are set out in the Directors final dividend of 15.5p per 10p ordinary share, making a total distribution for the year ended 31 December 2014 of 23.0p Remuneration Report on pages 95 to 99 of this Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Subject to approval of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting AGM on The directors do not have any interest in any other Group 12 May 2015, the final dividend will be paid on 20 May 2015 company, other than as directors.
No director has, or has had, to shareholders appearing on the register at the close of a material interest, directly or indirectly, at any time during business on 7 April 2015.
The shares will be quoted the year under review in any contract significant to the ex-dividend on 2 April 2015.
54 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED On 26 September 2007 the rules of the Interserve Pension APPOINTMENT AND REPLACEMENT OF DIRECTORS Scheme were amended in order to provide the directors of The Board must comprise of not less than three and no Interserve Trustees Limited, the corporate trustee of the more than twelve directors.
Directors may be appointed by Interserve Pension Scheme, with a qualifying pension scheme shareholders by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
indemnity to the extent that insurance has not been taken out by the trustee to cover its liabilities, or such liabilities cannot Under the Companys Articles of Association, any director be paid from the proceeds of any insurance taken out by the appointed by the Board since the last AGM may only hold office trustee.
That qualifying pension scheme indemnity remains in until the date of the next AGM, at which time that director force at the date of this report and is available for inspection by must stand for election by shareholders.
Russell King and and shareholders at the Companys registered office.
Nick Salmon will therefore be standing for election at the AGM on 12 May 2015.
In January 2011 an indemnity was given to the trustees of the Douglas Group Compass Pension Plan for any claim, costs, loss, The Articles also require one-third of the directors to retire damages and expenses which may be made against them or by rotation at each AGM.
Any director who has not retired which they may pay or incur save as a consequence of breach by rotation must retire at the third AGM after his or her last of trust committed knowingly and intentionally or as a result of appointment or re-appointment.
However, in accordance with negligence in connection with the administration of the Plan the Corporate Governance Code, which requires all directors and the winding-up of the Plan.
Two of the trustees were also of FTSE 350 companies to be subject to annual re-election by directors of one or more Group subsidiary companies.
This Plan shareholders, the Board has again decided that all the directors was formally wound up on 7 January 2011 but the indemnity save for Les Cullen who will not be standing for re-election will remains in force.
be subject to election or re-election at this years AGM.
In January 2012 an indemnity was given to the trustees of No person other than a director retiring at a general meeting the Interserve Retirement Plan against all and any claims, shall, unless recommended by the directors for election, be costs, damages and expenses which may be made against eligible for election to the office of director unless, not less them or which they may pay or incur in connection with their than seven nor more than 21 days beforehand, the Company has administration of the Plan and the winding-up of the Plan other been given notice, executed by a shareholder eligible to vote at than liabilities arising as a consequence of breach of trust the meeting, of his intention to propose such person for election committed knowingly and intentionally.
One of the trustees together with a notice executed by that person of his willingness was also a director of various Group subsidiary companies.
Plan was formally wound up 31 January 2012 but the indemnity remains in force.
The Company may, by ordinary resolution, of which special notice has been given in accordance with section 312 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act, remove any director EMPLOYEES before the expiration of his period of office and may, by The average number of persons, including directors, employed ordinary resolution, appoint another person in his stead.
by the Group and their remuneration, is set out in note 6 to the financial statements.
A breakdown of employee diversity, DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES AND INSURANCE as required by the 2006 Act, can be viewed on page 40 of the Sustainability Review section of the Strategic Report.
The As permitted by the Companys Articles of Association, qualifying Groups statement with regard to its employees, including its third-party indemnities have been in place throughout the period disclosure on employee consultation, equal opportunities and under review and remain in force at the date of this report in diversity, is set out within the Sustainability Review on page 40. respect of liabilities suffered or incurred by each director.
The Company also undertakes to loan such funds to a director as it, in its reasonable discretion, considers appropriate for the GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS director to meet expenditure incurred by him in defending any In this section we report on greenhouse gas GHG emissions criminal or civil proceeding or in connection with any application in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report under section 661 3 or 1157 of the 2006 Act on terms which and Directors Report Regulations 2013. require repayment by the director of amounts so advanced upon conviction of final judgment being given against him.
The deeds A range of approaches can be taken to determine the of indemnity are available for inspection by shareholders at the boundaries of an organisation for the purposes of GHG reporting Companys registered office.
The Company also maintains an including financial control, operational control or equity appropriate level of directors and officers insurance in respect share.
We report using the financial control approach to define of legal actions against the directors.
Neither the qualifying thirdour organisational boundary.
party indemnities nor the insurance provide cover where the director has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT 55 On this basis, we are including emissions associated with our in law reform or governmental policy review or involvement owned and controlled businesses but not the emissions from our in seminars and functions that may be attended by politicians.
GHG emissions from our leased vehicles To avoid any possibility of inadvertently contravening the 2006 when used on company business are not reported.
Were we Act, the directors are again seeking shareholder authority at to have adopted the operational control approach, the GHG the AGM Resolution 17 to ensure that the Company acts within emissions associated with the use of those same vehicles for the provisions of current UK law when carrying out its normal both private and company business would have been reported.
Summary table FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT Global GHG emissions data for 1 January 2014 to The Groups exposure to and management of capital, liquidity, 31 December 2014, with comparable data for 2013, is as follows: credit, interest rate and foreign currency risk are set out within the Financial Review section of the Strategic Report Tonnes CO e 2 on page 46.
2014 2013 Emissions from: SHARE CAPITAL AND STRUCTURE Combustion of fuel and operation 39,231 36,562 General of facilities The Companys issued share capital as at 31 December 2014 Electricity, heat, steam and cooling 14,294 10,088 comprised a single class of ordinary shares.
All shares rank purchased for own use equally and are fully paid.
No person holds shares carrying Intensity measurement: special rights with regard to control of the Company.
Emissions reported above, normalised During the year 12,897,771 shares representing approximately to tonnes CO e per m revenue 18.37 21.28 2 9.99 per cent of the existing issued share capital were issued at 580.0p per share via an equity placing to partially fund We have reported on all of the emissions sources required under the acquisition of the facilities services business of Rentokil the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Initial plc Initial Facilities, raising total gross proceeds of Regulations 2013.
These sources fall within our consolidated approximately 74.8 million.
The acquisition was approved by financial statements.
shareholders at a General Meeting held on 17 March 2014.
We have used the Environmental Reporting Guidelines: A further 1,861,376 shares were issued at par fully paid to the including mandatory greenhouse gas emissions reporting nominee account of Capita Trustees Limited as trustee of the guidance June 2013 issued by DEFRA and the 2014 UK Interserve Employee Benefit Trust in order to satisfy the awards Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting granted to participants of the Performance Share Plan the to calculate our emissions based on data gathered from each PSP in April 2011, which vested in April 2014. of our business units.
A further 104,702 shares were issued fully paid to participants Further disclosures relating to the Groups GHG emissions of the 2002 Executive Share Option Scheme the 2002 ESOS and the actions being taken to reduce them are set out within at prices of 253.25p and 359.33p per share.
the Sustainability Review section of the Strategic Report on pages 38 and 39.
As a result of the foregoing allotments, the Companys issued share capital at the end of the year stood at 143,917,617 2013: 129,053,768 ordinary shares of 10p each 14,391,761.70 POLITICAL DONATIONS 2013: 12,905,376.80.
No further shares have been issued No political donations were made during the period 2013: since the year end.
The issued share capital at the date of nil.
It is not the Companys policy to make cash donations to this report therefore stands at 143,917,617 ordinary shares of political parties.
This policy is strictly adhered to and there is 10p each 14,391,761.70. no intention to change it.
However, the definitions used in the 2006 Act for political donation and political expenditure Details of outstanding awards and options over shares in the remain very broad, which may have the effect of covering Company as at 31 December 2014 are set out in notes 27 and 29 a number of normal business activities that would not be to the financial statements on pages 143 and 144 respectively.
considered political donations or political expenditure in the usual sense.
These could include support for bodies engaged 56 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Issue of shares Purchase of own shares Section 551 of the 2006 Act provides that the directors may not The Company has authority under a shareholders resolution allot shares unless empowered to do so by the shareholders.
A passed at the 2014 AGM to repurchase up to 14,200,458 of the resolution giving such authority was passed at the AGM held on Companys ordinary shares in the market.
The AGM authorities were used in 2014 in relation purchased at a price ranging between the nominal value for to the issue of shares pursuant to the acquisition of Initial each share and an amount equal to the higher of i 105 per cent Facilities and the satisfaction of awards granted to participants of the average of the middle-market price of an ordinary share of the PSP and the 2002 ESOS, as described above.
for the five business days immediately preceding the date on which the Company agrees to buy the shares concerned and ii In accordance with the Share Capital Management Guidelines the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the published in July 2014 by The Investment Association, following highest independent current bid on the London Stock Exchange its merger with ABI Investment Affairs, the directors propose at the time the purchase is carried out.
This authority expires Resolution 19 set out in the Notice of AGM to renew the at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM on 12 May 2015. authority granted to them at the 2014 AGM to allot shares up to No shares have been repurchased by the Company under the an aggregate nominal value of one-third of the Companys issued authority granted at the 2014 AGM.
share capital plus a further one-third i. e. two-thirds in all where the allotment is in connection with a rights issue.
Resolution 21 set out in the Notice of AGM will be proposed as a special resolution in order to renew this authority.
Although Under section 561 of the 2006 Act, if the directors wish to the directors have no immediate plans to do so, they believe allot unissued shares for cash other than pursuant to an it is prudent to seek general authority from shareholders to employee share scheme they must first offer them to existing be able to act if circumstances were to arise in which they shareholders in proportion to their holdings a pre-emptive considered such purchases to be desirable.
Resolution 20 set out in the Notice of AGM will be only be exercised if and when, in the light of market conditions proposed as a special resolution in order to renew the directors prevailing at that time, the directors believe that such purchases authority to allot shares for cash other than by way of rights would increase earnings per share and would be for the benefit to existing shareholders.
By restricting such authority to an of shareholders generally.
Any shares purchased under this aggregate nominal value of no more than five per cent of the authority will be cancelled unless the directors determine Companys total issued equity capital, the Company will be that they are to be held as treasury shares and the number in compliance with the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of of shares in issue will be reduced accordingly.
Whilst the Company does not presently hold shares in treasury, Shareholders should note that the Listing Rules of the FCA the Treasury Shares Regulations allow shares purchased by the do not require shareholders specific approval for each issue Company out of distributable profits to be held as treasury of shares for cash on a non-pre-emptive basis to the extent shares, which may then be cancelled, sold for cash or used that under section 570 of the 2006 Act the provisions of to meet the Companys obligations under its employee share section 561 are disapplied generally.
If given, this authority schemes.
The authority sought by this resolution is intended to will expire on the date of the next AGM of the Company.
apply equally to shares to be held by the Company as treasury The Principles also request that in any rolling three-year shares in accordance with the Treasury Shares Regulations.
period a company does not make non-pre-emptive issues for cash or of equity securities exceeding 7.5 per cent of the SHAREHOLDERS RIGHTS companys issued share capital without prior consultation General with shareholders.
The rights attaching to the ordinary shares are set out in The percentages of shares issued by the Company on a non-prethe 2006 Act and the Companys Articles of Association.
emptive basis in 2014 and in the period 2012 to 2014 pursuant A shareholder whose name appears on the register of members to employee share schemes calculated by reference to the may choose whether those shares are evidenced by share Companys closing issued share capital at 31 December 2014, certificates certificated form or held in electronic form were 1.4 per cent and 3.6 per cent respectively.
Save for issues of shares in respect of various employee share Voting schemes, the directors have no current plans to make use of the Subject to the restrictions set out below, a shareholder renewed authorities sought by Resolutions 19 and 20 although is entitled to attend or appoint another person as his they consider their renewal appropriate in order to retain representative a proxy to attend and to exercise all maximum flexibility to take advantage of business opportunities or any of his rights to speak, ask questions and vote at any as they arise.
general meeting of the Company.
A shareholder may also appoint more than one proxy, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that shareholder.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT 57 The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to a person who any such meeting of the Company and shall not be entitled to has been nominated under section 146 of the 2006 Act to exercise, either personally or by proxy, the votes attaching to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person.
He she may, such shares in respect of which the disenfranchisement notice however, have a right under an agreement with the registered has been given unless and until the information required by shareholder holding the shares on his her behalf to be appointed the section 793 notice has been provided.
or to have someone else appointed as a proxy.
Alternatively, if The Company operates a number of employee share schemes.
a Nominated Person does not have such a right, or does not wish Under some of these arrangements, shares are held by trustees to exercise it, he she may have a right under such an agreement on behalf of employees.
The employees are not entitled to to give instructions to the person holding the shares as to the exercise directly any voting or other control rights.
The trustees exercise of voting rights.
abstain from voting on these shares.
In accordance with section 327 of the 2006 Act, in order to be valid, any form of proxy sent by the Company to shareholders General meetings No business may be transacted at a general meeting unless a or any proxy registered electronically in relation to any general meeting must be delivered to the Companys registrars not later quorum is present consisting of not less than two shareholders present in person or by proxy or by two duly authorised than 48 hours before the time fixed for holding the meeting or any adjourned meeting.
In calculating the 48-hour period no representatives of a corporation.
Two proxies of the same shareholder or two duly authorised representatives of the same account shall be taken of any part of a day that is not a working day.
Full details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights in corporation will not constitute a quorum.
respect of the 2015 AGM are set out in the Notice of AGM.
An AGM must be called on at least 21 days clear notice.
All other general meetings are also required to be held on at least Subject to any rights or restrictions for the time being attached to any class or classes of shares and to any other provisions 21 days clear notice unless the Company offers shareholders an electronic voting facility and a special resolution reducing of the Articles of Association or statutes, on a vote on a resolution at a general meeting on a show of hands every the period of notice to not less than 14 days has been passed.
The directors are proposing Resolution 22 set out in the Notice shareholder present in person, every proxy present who has been duly appointed by one or more shareholders entitled to of AGM to renew the authority obtained at last years AGM to reduce the notice period for general meetings other than AGMs vote on the resolution and every authorised representative of a corporation which is a shareholder of the Company entitled to at least 14 days.
It is intended that this shorter notice period will only be used for non-routine business and where merited in to vote on the resolution, shall have one vote.
If a proxy has been duly appointed by more than one shareholder and has the interests of shareholders as a whole.
been instructed by one or more of those shareholders to vote The business of an AGM is to receive and consider the accounts for the resolution and by one or more of those shareholders to and balance sheets and the reports of the directors and vote against it, that proxy shall have one vote for and one vote auditors, to elect directors in place of those retiring, to elect against the resolution.
On a poll, every shareholder present in auditors and fix their remuneration and to declare a dividend.
person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share held.
Providing that notice is given to the Company no later than six A resolution put to the vote at a general meeting shall be weeks before an AGM or no later than the date on which the decided on a show of hands unless the notice of the meeting notice of an AGM is given, shareholders representing at least specifies that a poll will be called on such resolution or a poll five per cent of the total voting rights of all the shareholders is before the resolution is put to the vote on a show of hands who have a right to vote at the AGM or at least 100 shareholders or on the declaration of the results of the show of hands who have that right and who hold shares in the Company on directed by the Chairman or demanded in accordance with which there has been paid up an average sum per shareholder the Articles of Association.
of at least 100, may require the Company to include an item in the business to be dealt with at the AGM.
If a person fails to give the Company any information required by a notice served on him by the Company under section 793 of Dividends the 2006 Act which confers upon public companies the power Subject to the provisions of the 2006 Act, the Company may, to require information to be supplied in respect of a persons by ordinary resolution, declare a dividend to be paid to the interests in the Companys shares then the Company may, no shareholders but the amount of the dividend may not exceed sooner than 21 days later, and after warning that person, serve the amount recommended by the directors.
The directors may a disenfranchisement notice upon the shareholder registered also pay interim dividends on any class of shares on any dates as the holder of the shares in respect of which the section 793 and in any amounts and in respect of any periods as appear notice was given.
Unless the information required by the to the directors to be justified by the distributable profits of section 793 notice is given within 14 days, such holder will not the Company.
be entitled to receive notice of any general meeting or attend 58 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Transfers of uncertificated shares must be conducted through Liquidation CREST and the directors can refuse to register transfers in If the Company is wound up the liquidator may, with the accordance with the regulations governing the operation of CREST.
sanction of a special resolution of the Company, and any other sanction required by law, divide amongst the shareholders All share transfers must be registered as soon as practicable.
the whole or any part of the assets of the Company.
He may, for such purposes, set such value as he deems fair upon any SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS property to be divided and may determine how such division shall be carried out as between the shareholders or different As at 31 December 2014 the Company had been notified, classes of shareholders.
The liquidator may also transfer the pursuant to paragraph 5 of the FCAs Disclosure and whole or any part of such assets to trustees to be held in trust Transparency Rules, of the following notifiable voting rights for the benefit of the shareholders.
No shareholder can be in its ordinary share capital: compelled to accept any shares or other securities which would give him any liability.
Number of Percentage of Nature Name of holder ordinary shares total voting rights of holding Modification of rights Standard Life 14,422,796 10.0 Direct and If at any time the capital of the Company is divided into Investments Ltd indirect different classes of shares, the rights attached to any class or Old Mutual Plc 11,489,129 8.0 Indirect any of such rights may be modified, abrogated, or varied either: Mondrian Investment 7,212,846 5.0 Indirect a w ith the consent of the holders of 75 per cent of the Partners Ltd issued shares of that class: or b w ith the sanction of a special resolution passed at a Between the year end and the date of this report being a date separate general meeting of the holders of the shares not more than one month prior to the date of the AGM Notice, of the class.
the Company has been notified that the interests in the voting rights have changed as follows: The rights attached to any class of shares shall not unless otherwise provided by the terms of issue of the shares of that Standard Life Investments Ltd increase to 17,487,526 class or by the terms upon which such shares are for the time shares 12.2 per cent : and being held be deemed to be modified or varied by the creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu therewith.
Henderson Global Investors Ltd increase to 7,503,276 shares 5.2 per cent previously below 5.0 per cent The Company may, by ordinary resolution, convert any paid-up indirect holding.
shares into stock and reconvert any stock into paid-up shares of any denomination.
SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS CHANGE OF CONTROL PROVISIONS Transfer of shares There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of securities The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling in the Company, or on the size of a shareholders holding, which the counterparties to exercise termination rights in the event of are both governed by the Articles of Association and prevailing a change of control in the Company: legislation.
In accordance with the Listing, Prospectus, Under the terms of the banking facility agreements detailed and Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the FCA, certain on page 46 of the Strategic Report, if any person, or group employees are required to seek the approval of the Company of persons acting in concert, gains control of the Company, to deal in its shares.
any lender i is no longer obliged to fund any loan, save for a rollover loan: and ii may, by not less than 15 days notice, The Company is not aware of any agreements between its cancel its commitment under the facility and declare its shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer participation in all outstanding loans, together with accrued of securities or on voting rights.
interest and all other amounts payable under the facility, immediately due and repayable.
Subject to the 2006 Act, the directors may refuse to register any transfer of any share which is not fully paid whether Under the terms of the Note Purchase Agreement in relation certificated or uncertificated, provided that the refusal does to the US private placement detailed on page 46 of the not prevent dealing in shares in the Company from taking place Strategic Report, upon a change of control the Company on an open and proper basis.
is required to make an offer to all noteholders to prepay the entire unpaid principal amount of the notes, together The directors may also decline to register the transfer of any with interest.
certificated share unless the instrument of transfer is duly stamped if stampable and accompanied by the certificate The Groups share schemes also contain provisions relating of the shares to which it relates and such other evidence as to the vesting and exercising of awards options in the event the directors may reasonably require to show the right of the of a change of control of the Group.
These are set out on transferor to make the transfer.
page 84 the Directors Remuneration Report.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT 59 AUDITORS Resolutions to re-appoint Grant Thornton UK LLP as the Companys auditors and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Statement of disclosure of information to auditors The directors in office at the date of approval of this report confirm that: a s o far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and b t hey have each made such enquiries of their fellow directors and of the Companys auditors and have each taken such other steps as were required by their duty as a director of the Company to exercise due care, skill and diligence in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the 2006 Act.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The resolutions to be proposed at the AGM to be held on 12 May 2015, together with the explanatory notes, appear in the separate Notice of Annual General Meeting accompanying this Annual Report.
The Notice is also available on our website at www.
APPROVAL This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 26 February 2015 and signed on its behalf by: Trevor Bradbury Company Secretary 26 February 2015 Interserve House Ruscombe Park Twyford Reading Berkshire RG10 9JU CAUTIONARY STATEMENT The Directors Report has been prepared solely for existing members of the Company in compliance with UK company law and the Listing, Prospectus, and Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the FCA.
The Company, the directors and employees accept no responsibility to any other person for anything contained in the Directors Report.
The directors liability for the Directors Report is limited, as provided in the 2006 Act.
The Companys auditors report to the Board whether, in their opinion, the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements, but the Directors Report is not audited.
Statements made in this Directors Report reflect the knowledge and information available at the time of its preparation.
The Directors Report contains forward-looking statements in respect of the Groups operations, performance, prospects and financial condition.
By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty.
In particular, outcomes often differ from plans or expectations expressed through forwardlooking statements, and such differences may be significant.
Assurance cannot be given that any particular expectation will be met.
No responsibility is accepted to update or revise any forward-looking statement, resulting from new information, future events or otherwise.
Liability arising from anything in this Annual Report and Financial Statements shall be governed by English law.
Nothing in this Annual Report and Financial Statements should be construed as a profit forecast.
