STRATEGIC REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 CONTENTS OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 12 Strategic report INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT 13 Associated strategic priorities Principal risks and uncertainties continued L Leading positions in core industries C Customer relationships & service IP Investing in people I Industry consolidation & targeted acquisitions G Global network & service expansion P Process efficiency Operational PRINCIPAL RISK CONTEXT POSSIBLE IMPACT MITIGATION 2014 UPDATE HARM TO THE GROUPS The Group relies on its reputation Failure to meet financial Risk Management Framework and associated controls and assurance processes, This risk remains stable compared REPUTATION to maintain and grow its business.
including contractual review and liability caps where appropriate.
Adverse litigation, ethical breaches Exposure to material legal claims, Quality Management Systems: adherence to these is regularly audited and reviewed The Group continues to robustly L C and operational failures have the associated costs and wasted by external parties, including accreditation bodies.
defend claims where they are Please refer to page 8 potential to damage its reputation.
Code of Ethics which is communicated to all staff, who undergo regular training.
without merit, as well as investing There is also a risk that poor Share price may fall.
Whistle-blowing programme, monitored by the Audit & Risk Committee, where in staff development, quality performance of services leads Loss of existing or new business.
staff are encouraged to report, without risk, any fraudulent or other activity likely systems and standard processes to to a loss of confidence in the Groups to adversely affect the reputation of the Group.
standards and reputation for quality Zero-tolerance policy with regard to any inappropriate behaviour by any individual and safety service excellence.
employed by the Group, or acting on the Groups behalf.
Media comments with regard to Group activities are centrally reviewed so that senior management can, where necessary, take appropriate action on a timely basis.
Relationship management and communication with external stakeholders.
LOSS OR ABUSE OF ACCREDITATION The Group relies on being awarded Loss of business in the relevant Quality assurance procedures and controls embedded in the operations This risk remains stable compared LEADING TO LOSS OF BUSINESS and retaining appropriate industry and damage to the to ensure that the Group holds and maintains the necessary accreditations to 2013. accreditations and affiliations around Groups reputation.
and that the required operational standards are applied.
The Group regularly refines its L C the world in order to provide its Operations are regularly subjected to audit and review by external parties quality assurance procedures.
Please refer to page 8 certification services.
including accreditation bodies, governments, trade affiliations, retailers, While illegal use of Intertek marks manufacturers and clients.
is a growing problem, the Group Illegal use of Intertek marks by others Accreditation is usually held at an industry, country or site level and loss continues to work with Regulatory abuses the accreditation process and of accreditation will not mean loss of accreditation across the Group.
and Government bodies to identify risks negative perceptions of Intertek.
and take swift action where false marks are identified.
KEY STAFF RELIANCE AND DEPTH The Group operates in specialised Reduced ability to HR strategy policies and systems.
This risk remains stable compared OF MANAGEMENT sectors and needs to attract and compete effectively.
Development and reward programme to retain and motivate employees.
to 2013. retain employees with relevant Increased recruitment costs.
Succession planning to ensure effective continuation of leadership and expertise.
Further senior managers within C IP I experience and knowledge in order Loss of talent to competitors Employee surveys.
Intertek have been through the Please refer to page 8 to take advantage of all growth and lost market share.
Intertek Executive Academy to develop the next generation of global leadership.
Intertek Executive Academy in the opportunities.
last year, taking the number of participants to 71 since 2012.
OPERATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Many employees undertake work Injury to employees and others.
Quality management and associated controls.
This risk remains stable compared which could be hazardous.
Not having Loss of customers.
Avoiding fatalities, accidents and hazardous situations is paramount.
C IP a good record of safety can damage Damage to trust and reputation.
that Intertek employees will operate to the highest standards of health and safety There was one work related Please refer to page 8 trust with clients and employees.
at all times and there are controls in place to reduce incidents.
fatality in the year, compared to two in 2013.
