STRATEGIC REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 CONTENTS OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4 Strategic report INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT 5 Chief Executive Officers review OUR CUSTOMERS We are excited by the commitment that Chinas AQSIQ At Intertek we support customers ranging from small local and Premier Li have made this year to develop the countrys producers to large conglomerates across the globe within a quality testing market and believe this will be a positive Intertek continued to deliver on wide range of industries.
Our expertise and global connectivity development for the global testing industry.
Intertek is well its strategic priorities in 2014, to be able to support them in over 100 countries is increasingly positioned to support the government and industry partners in important to our global customers.
They look to us as a partner this Quality Era of Chinese economic and social development, as we aligned our businesses to who can follow them into the many different markets they having provided testing and certification services in China for operate.
It is this, our relationship and customer service over two decades.
commitment, and emphasis on adding value, that differentiates We continue to open new facilities in regions where our clients us from local testing companies.
are increasing their activities in sourcing new goods, producing new technologies or extracting and developing new resources.
Our priority to our customers is to understand and meet their evolving needs and expectations.
We support and guide our As well as investing organically, in 2014 the Group made customers across complex and ever-changing aspects of local a series of acquisitions to expand the services we can offer.
and global regulation and quality trading standards.
Wherever These comprised INSPEC, a non-destructive testing company our customers choose to do business, we are on hand with our supporting the oil and gas sector, the analytical division of QPS extensive range of services.
Whether this is a smaller company Bioserve in India and ScanBi Diagnostics, a Swedish company WOLFHART HAUSER operating in a local market with unique local needs or a large providing analysis to the agriculture, food and feed industries.
Chief Executive Officer multinational seeking support on a global basis, we are their LEADERSHIP trusted partner.
This year we announced my intended retirement as Chief Our customers increasingly want more than just delivering Executive Officer effective on 15 May 2015.
I am proud of the The demand for quality by our customers is driven by new quality standards or meeting regulatory requirements.
development of the Company over the last decade and excited Intertek continued to deliver on its strategic technologies, end user preferences, supply chain changes and They are under pressure to increase their competitive edge for Interteks future.
Andr Lacroix will join the company priorities in 2014.
Despite continuing regulations, all of which vary between industries.
Being such through increased efficiency, time to market and reducing as CEO on 16 May 2015 and brings an impressive background a diversified portfolio of businesses provides Intertek with some costs.
By leading with great quality services, we enable our headwinds in certain business areas, we and valuable skills for Intertek in its stage of development.
resilience from exposure to only one or two key growth drivers.
customers to develop and grow their businesses in smarter I wish to congratulate Edward Leigh on his promotion saw good growth in many businesses.
to our Executive Team, taking over as CFO from Lloyd Pitchford Organisationally we continue to focus our growth strategies REFLECTIONS ON THE YEAR in October after 18 months with the company and a smooth on our key global business lines, whilst delivering operational EVOLVING CAPABILITIES AND OPPORTUNITIES It has been a year of continuing headwinds in certain business transitionary period.
This ensures we are connecting As technology changes and new industries emerge, we are areas, which has offset the good growth experienced in the with our customers on a global level, while building our constantly innovating our service offering to meet the needs of I would like to thank our people for their hard work this year, majority of our businesses.
This can be seen in our divisions capabilities and network at a local level.
The scope of what our customers ask us to test and over the past decade.
In particular I am grateful for the with the combination of good growth in our product related for, and the capabilities we can deliver, are constantly evolving.
commitment and talent of our senior leadership team who OUR MISSION AND STRATEGY activities, and more challenging conditions in our minerals deliver the Companys performance day-in and day-out.
It is Our mission is to make it easier for our customers to achieve In 2014 we continued to see a trend in global markets where and oil and gas capex related businesses.
their knowledge and expertise of our key end-markets and quality across their supply chains.
Our local knowledge, our customers are shifting supply chains to new and emerging We saw very good growth rates within emerging markets, global customers that drive our strategy and how we execute combined with our global network and connected expertise, markets and countries.
Within both emerging and developed which account for 38% of the total revenue.
Revenue growth our business within our many different global operations.
makes the difference for our customers who operate markets, there is scope for Intertek to deliver a wider range of in more established markets remained solid and in-line with in an ever more competitive marketplace.
GOING FORWARD services and capabilities.
Revenue growth in some parts of Europe Reflecting back on the last 30 years in the industry, I have seen Our strategy allows us to drive long-term growth in our For example, this year in the US we have expanded our remains weak in response to more challenging economic how our activities have helped improve the health and safety business, constantly adapting to the changing marketplace capabilities in our building products business into conditions across the region.
of people, prevent accidents and support a new level of for quality solutions, and meeting the needs of our customers.
complementary new areas such as building sciences and field technology that helps improve quality of life.
Indeed the To address market weakness and align our businesses, capital testing.
Through these techniques we are helping customers Delivery of the strategy is supported by the Groups business industry plays an important social role.
Looking further ahead, and management focus to growth markets, we have continued respond to emerging trends regarding building envelope model which is detailed on pages 7 to 9. our strategic choice of portfolio positions Intertek to benefit to restructure and actively manage our diverse portfolio of commissioning, environmental, and on-site testing.
These from attractive long-term structural growth drivers.
During the year, we closed and restructured THE MARKET FOR QUALITY added capabilities allow us to go farther downstream adding middle-classes, the demand for quality in emerging markets, a number of underperforming operations.
We also exited We operate in a marketplace where companies are demanding more value to both our core business and to our core increasing regulation and product variety have been our certain low-value contracts in our Industry & Assurance division quality solutions to drive business growth, gain competitive customers.
important growth drivers for many years.
These will remain which reduced the Groups growth rate in 2014, but which edge, and deliver the highest level of safety standards across important in the future.
Our energy products and infrastructure In emerging markets, our mix of work continues to evolve will free up capital and management time that we can invest their products and processes.
businesses enable Intertek to take advantage of the long-term reflecting the new market opportunities that are unfolding in exciting growth and value enhancing areas elsewhere.
These organisations are looking for a trusted partner whom growth in energy demand.
Through these strategic choices and as their national economies develop and the increasing quality DIVERSIFIED GLOBAL PORTFOLIO they can rely upon to deliver global safety standards while long-term trends, Intertek is well placed to deliver mid-single demands from a rapidly expanding middle-class.
A decade ago Intertek operates a diversified portfolio of services with a global bringing local market knowledge and expertise.
We work with digit organic revenue growth supplemented by growth from 64% of our revenue in China was related to the Consumer platform across more than 15 different industries, each with each organisation to deliver individual quality solutions which acquisitions over the coming years.
Goods division services and two product types: Toys & Textiles.
We operate across all major industry can range from safety and performance, to integrity, desirability Today this is just 46%, and we now operate in 17 business lines sectors from consumer products to minerals, IT to chemicals, and sustainability.
The demand for quality services is also in China, from Toys to Transport, Chemicals to Clothing, energy infrastructure to food, agriculture to pharmaceuticals.
influenced by changing macro-economic trends, developments Pharmaceuticals to Petrochemicals.
Geographically we operate along the supply chain in each in new and emerging markets and customer needs for industry, which leads us to operate in over 100 countries.
We maintain a balanced regional revenue profile with around All of these factors are leading to an increased demand for our a third of our revenue generated evenly in each of Europe, services and we will continue to invest in our capabilities and WOLFHART HAUSER Middle East and Africa, Americas and Asia Pacific.
our network to help them achieve these quality standards.
