C u s t o t m n e r e STRATEGIC REPORT e m x p e p r i o e n l c e e v e d e l p o e P G h l t o w C o a b r s g h a l s g e e INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 CONTENTS OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6 Strategic report INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT 7 Our markets Our strategy and business model Intertek operates in the global Quality industry assessing the The market drivers in our customers industries create products and commodities bought or sold by our customers against opportunities for us to provide services and to grow our business.
a wide range of safety, regulatory and performance standards, to help our customers achieve their quality goals and improve their products, Our customers benefit from a business training programmes and global people assets and processes.
How we create value with global reach, but a local focus, development opportunities.
We create value in a number of ways which is continually developing Through a combination of the above, for our investors, our customers additional services and supported we drive real value for our investors by and our people as a result of our by the best people.
focusing on long-term growth through strategic priorities.
We promote opportunities for our people organic investment and acquisition through the ability to upskill through our supported by operational excellence.
The quality industry has a number of different growth drivers Composition of World GDP, 2010 Our markets 6% 4% Our customers 1% 28% 19% Emerging and developing economic Consumer quality demands and local market demands Consumers in developed economies trust l As emerging markets develop, global brands and companies that perform and brands look to enter these markets to deliver products with consistent quality.
22% achieve growth, while local brands focus Consumers in emerging markets are 3% on improving their product offering to increasingly demanding higher levels 4% compete against these new entrants.
of quality across a diverse range of 4% 9% Both these forces drive demand for criteria, creating new markets for local services within the industry.
Composition of World GDP, 2030 Increasing regulations Supply chain complexity 3% 7% Quality, safety and environmental Our customers create products and 1% regulations and industry standards infrastructure using suppliers and continue to expand and change across 11% components across multiple countries 44% companies and cultures.
as they seek to gain cost and strategic 15% advantages.
This strategy also increases Energy sector growth & development risk, with provenance across the supply Global demand for energy is driving Growth drivers chain being an area of focus.
The quality increased development and trading of industry benefits from the growth in energy resources and infrastructure.
4% global trade, with increased shipments New technologies, variety, brand & 8% of commodities, materials and products product development 3% resulting in the need for increased testing 4% Companies are constantly challenged to across the supply chain.
Africa Middle East develop new products and technologies, Developing Asia North America Evolution of outsourcing to create new markets, increase sales and Central & Eastern Europe Western Europe and consulting Commonwealth of Australia & to respond to diverse end-user demands.
Independent States New Zealand As companies have outsourced non-core Latin America Japan activities such as quality and safety Source: Citi Investment Research and Analysis.
related services, participants in the Note: GDP measured in 2009 PPP USD.
quality industry have assumed Energy Outlook 2035 responsibility for providing these services, Includes biofuels which has helped expand the size of the Oil Gas Coal Nuclear Hydro Renewables Source: BP 2015 overall market.
18.0 Brand promotion & protection 15.0 Branding is an important means 12.0 of differentiation for companies in a crowded marketplace.
The development 9.0 and promotion of these brands takes 6.0 a significant investment, and there Total Shareholder Returns is ongoing effort to protect this investment over time.
3.0 0.0 1990 2013 2035 n a n s e e r t a t e t i k o r w n a M o s r n k o i t i s i u q c a c O i p g e r e a t t i o a n r a l t Billion tonnes oil equivalent e S x c e l l e n c e INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 CONTENTS OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 8 Strategic report INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT 9 Cargo Industry services How we create value Refer to case study on Refer to case study on page 23. page 21.
Electrical Refer to divisional overview on page 26.
Building Products Refer to divisional overview on page 26.
Food & Agriculture Services Refer to divisional Transportation Technologies overview on page 20.
Softlines Refer to case study on Refer to case study on page 27. page 25.
How we run our business OUR BUSINESS OUR STRATEGIC ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2014 KPIs PLANS FOR 2015 RISKS MODEL PRIORITIES See Chairman and CEOs reports on pages 2 and See principal KPIs on page 10 See Chairman and CEOs reports See Principal risks and 4, and Operating reviews on pages 20 to 29 on pages 2 and 4 uncertainties on page 11 MARKET SALES GROWTH LEADING POSITIONS Leading positions in Softlines, Hardlines Divisional and business line growth Further geographic expansion Cyclical risk IN CORE INDUSTRIES and Transportation Technologies Key country growth in key markets Loss or abuse of accreditation Diversification into services for operating Continued portfolio development Harm to the Groups expenditure in the oil and gas industry across all business lines reputation Added incremental services to portfolio GLOBAL NETWORK GLOBAL NETWORK Additional accreditations achieved in 2014 include Divisional mix Expanding service offerings and global Political risk & SERVICE EXPANSION ISO 22301, ISO 55001 and EDGE Geographic mix reach through organic investment Financial irregularity risk New market offerings Labour and human rights Three acquisitions in Industry & Assurance CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS Superior Supplier Quality Award in the US Customer satisfaction Global Account Management Key staff reliance & SERVICE Contractor Safety Awards from a global customer Turnaround times programme development Harm to the Groups Supplier of the Year in Norway Claims value Enhancements to customer business reputation intelligence tools and technologies Loss or abuse of accreditation Major claims STRATEGIC ACQUISITIONS INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION & Acquisition of INSPEC in UAE to enhance our global Return on Invested Capital ROIC Expansion of service offerings and Financial irregularity risk TARGETED ACQUISITIONS capabilities in Non-Destructive Testing Internal rate of return global reach through acquisitions Key staff reliance Acquisition of ScanBi Diagnostics and the analytical IT systems risk division of QPS Bioserve India to enhance our capabilities in Food & Agriculture Services OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE PROCESS EFFICIENCY Continuation of global Shared Service Centre Cash flow from operations Continuation of global SSC strategy Environment and SSC strategy two new SSCs opened in Manila Revenue per employee by division Continuing roll-out of global general climate change and Johannesburg Operating profit per employee ledger and Chart of Accounts IT system risk Restructuring initiatives to streamline business by division Country operational excellence focus processes and respond quickly to declining businesses PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT INVESTING IN PEOPLE Internal development and promotion Engagement scores CEO departure successful recruitment Key staff reliance Over 250 people participated in Management Number of people per division Business ethics and bribery Development programmes or academies Male:Female mix and corruption 130,000 training courses completed by Number of training courses completed Operational Health & Safety 17,000 employees Health & Safety metrics STRATEGIC REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 CONTENTS OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 10 Strategic report INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT 11 KPIs Measuring our strategy Principal risks and uncertainties In overview for 2014, several headwinds impacted the Groups financial performance This section sets out a description of the principal risks and uncertainties including currency movements and impacts in Minerals and Industry Services.
that could have a material adverse effect on the Groups strategy, With this backdrop, the Group held operating margins relatively stable, improved performance, results, financial condition and reputation.
cashflow and increased dividend to shareholders.
The Group uses a variety of key performance indicators KPIs to monitor performance and measure the financial impact of the Groups strategy.
Non-financial KPIs are shown in the Sustainability and CSR report on pages 35 to 41.
RISK FRAMEWORK PRINCIPAL RISKS 1 The Board has overall responsibility for the establishment and The Group is affected by a number of risk factors, some of Revenue m Organic revenue at constant Adjusted operating profit m 3 oversight of the Groups risk management framework which which, including macroeconomic and industry specific cyclical exchange rates m Revenue growth measures how well Measures profitability of the Group.
is described in the Directors Report on pages 42 to 56. risks, are outside the Groups control.
Some risks are particular the Group is expanding its business.
Excluding currency movements and The decline includes negative to Interteks operations.
The principal risks of which the Group The Head of Internal Audit and the Head of Legal, who report The decline includes negative acquisitions, revenue growth was currency impact.
is aware are detailed below including a commentary on how to the Chief Financial Officer and Chief Executive Officer currency impact.
the Group mitigates these risks.
These risks and uncertainties respectively, have accountability for reporting the key risks that do not appear in any particular order of potential materiality # the Group faces, the controls and assurance processes in place 4.2 % 0.6 % 5.3 % or probability of occurrence.
and any mitigating actions or controls.
Both roles report to the 2014 2,093 2014 2,016 2014 324 Audit & Risk Committee, attend its meetings and meet with In addition, Intertek has the ambition of being good for individual members each year as required.
business, people and the planet as set out as its mission 2013 2,184 2013 2,029 2013 343 vis--vis Sustainability and CSR see pages 35 to 41.
Risks are formally identified and recorded in a risk register As a part of the process of achieving its mission, a stakeholder 2012 2,054 2012 335 for each business line and support function.
The risk register engagement exercise was undertaken to identify the most is updated at least twice each year and is used to plan the important environmental and social risks.
This involved Groups internal audit and risk strategy.
In addition to the risk collecting qualitative data of interactions with clients, investors, register, all senior executives and their direct reports are 1 1 suppliers, management, employees and other stakeholders.
Organic adjusted operating profit at Adjusted operating margin % Adjusted cashflow from operations required to complete an annual return to confirm that 1,3 Stakeholders contributing information are chosen by a constant exchange rates m m management controls have been effectively applied during Margin measures profitability as a combination of their importance to business reputation, the year.
The return covers operations, compliance, risk Measures profitability of the Group proportion of revenue.
Shows the ability of the Group to turn growth and profitability and availability of information.
After the risks were identified a materiality assessment was The Risk Control and Assurance Committee RCA, comprising completed, involving managers from around the business senior Intertek executives, complements the work of the to prioritise the topics in relation to what was most important 1.4 % 20 bps 2.4% Audit & Risk Committee.
The RCA oversees the development for the business.
Three topics emerged as the most of the internal control framework, reviews the risk matrices important to Intertek from this exercise and are included 2014 2014 2014 314 15.5% 404 and risk management procedures, monitors issues and on the following pages.
The RCA makes 2013 318 2013 15.7% 2013 394 There may be other risks that are currently unknown recommendations to the Intertek Executive Management or regarded as immaterial which could turn out to be 2012 16.3% 2012 345 Team and develops the Groups integrated responses material.
Any of these risks could have the potential to impact to changes in the regulatory environment.
the performance of the Group, its assets, liquidity, capital resources and its reputation.
1 2 Adjusted diluted earnings per share Dividend per share pence Return on invested capital % pence Dividend per share measures returns Measures how effectively the A key measure of value creation for provided to shareholders.
Group generates profit from its the Board.
Return on Invested Capital, and, when re-calculated using 2013 exchange rates, adjusted operating profit and adjusted diluted earnings per share, form the basis for Executive Director remuneration as described in more detail on pages 65 to 66.
A djusted operating profit, adjusted operating margin, adjusted cash flow from operations and adjusted diluted earnings per share are stated before Separately Disclosed Items, which are described in note 3 to the financial statements.
D ividend per share is based on the interim dividend of 16.0p 2013: 15.0p plus the proposed final dividend of 33.1p 2013: 31.0p.
G rowth at constant exchange rates compares both 2014 and 2013 at the average exchange rates for 2014.
Organic revenue excludes acquisitions and disposals in the past two years.
