Accountability continued Engagement The Companys group internal audit function, established by Relations with shareholders authority of the board, has its responsibilities defined by the The executive directors undertake an extensive programme audit committee.
The head of the function is accountable to of meetings with institutional shareholders during each year.
the Chief Executive and the audit committee, however, on Events such as results presentations and other capital market a day-to-day basis accountability is exercised by the Chief events are available on our website for those unable to attend Financial Officer.
We have carried out an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Each year, the Chairman and Senior Independent Director offer design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures to meet with all major shareholders.
Since the publication of the as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15 e and 15d-15 e under previous annual report, six such meetings have taken place.
the Exchange Act under the supervision and the participation The Chairman attends full-year results presentations.
of the Group Leadership Team, which is responsible for the management of the internal controls, and which includes Ad-hoc requests from shareholders for meetings with members the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer.
There are of the board are facilitated by the investor relations team.
inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system of The board also receives unedited feedback reports following disclosure controls and procedures, including the possibility of shareholder meetings and all material brokers research notes, human error and the circumvention or overriding of the controls together with a report at each meeting showing the companys and procedures.
Accordingly, even effective disclosure controls standing benchmark within its peer group.
and procedures can only provide reasonable assurance of achieving their control objectives.
Based upon our evaluation The company has previously appointed an independent as at 31 December 2014, the Chief Executive and Chief Financial consultant to collate the views of shareholders and produce an Officer have concluded that the disclosure controls and annual perception report.
This report was last presented to the procedures i were effective at a reasonable level of assurance board in February 2013 and it is expected that a new report will as of the end of the period covered by this annual report in be commissioned during 2015. ensuring that information required to be recorded, processed, Information regarding our forthcoming AGM can be found summarised and reported in the reports that are filed or on page 85. submitted under the Exchange Act, is recorded, processed, summarised and reported within the time periods specified in the SECs rules and forms and ii were effective at a reasonable Find out more online level of assurance as of the end of the period covered by this We publish our results and presentations on our investor website at annual report in ensuring that information to be disclosed in amecfw.
com investors the reports that are filed or submitted under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the management of the Company, including the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
This annual report does not include a report of managements assessment regarding internal control over financial reporting or an attestation report of the Companys registered public accounting firm due to a transition period established by rules of the SEC for newly public companies.
Changes in internal control over financial reporting During the period covered by this annual report, we have not made any changes to our internal control over financial reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
Amec Foster Wheeler 82 Annual report and accounts 2014
