Our business model We convert the talents of our people and their customer relationships into a low-risk, cash-generative business.
To succeed we need to deliver excellence to our customers.
Delivering excellence What this means People are our principal asset Our employees are clever people.
Their skills are a scarce Read more on page 16 resource.
Our highly skilled engineers, project managers, consultants and scientists deliver for our customers, creating long-term customer relationships and a strong reputation for excellence.
We are customer focused We have a wide range of customers around the world.
Read more on page 17 They include some of the largest international oil companies such as ExxonMobil and BP, chemical companies such as Dow, miners such as Rio Tinto, utility companies such as EDF and government bodies such as US DoD.
Customers rely on our services and solutions We provide high-value services consulting, engineering, Read more on page 18 project and construction management, and supply chain management.
These skills are critical to the successful development and operation of our customers assets right across their lifecycle.
We have a particularly strong reputation for delivering engineering solutions for complex projects.
We have a flexible and low-risk business model The majority of our contracts reimburse us for our peoples Read more on page 19 time.
We often also get additional payments by achieving pre-agreed performance measures.
Many of these are long-term contracts.
In selected circumstances we take on fixed-price work.
The breadth of our market and customer exposure gives us great growth opportunities, and reduces the impact during lower levels of activity in one market.
Amec Foster Wheeler 14 Annual report and accounts 2014 X We listen, understand and respond X We agree on clear expectations Delivering X We aspire to consistent excellence on promises X We invest in our people Developing X We embrace diversity and inclusion full potential X We connect globally as one team Doing the X We put safety first right thing X We act ethically and with integrity X We care about our communities Managing the challenges How we measure success Our future success relies on attracting, developing and We look at the utilisation rate of employees, gender diversity retaining the best people.
We need to be flexible, using our skills on those projects We measure the engagement of our people and the which bring greatest advantage.
development activity that has taken place and a number of safety measures.
We maintain the highest standards of safety and ethics.
Read more on page 16 We win business because of our reputation for delivery We track levels of customer satisfaction and look to improve and the strength of our long-term customer relationships.
Our diversified customer base limits our dependence Read more on page 17 on any one customer.
We are adaptable to ensure we offer our customers the We track our revenue growth and our margin progression.
right services when and where they need them.
We also look at the mix of services we provide and where they We must be able to deliver these services in a sit in the lifecycle of our customers assets.
Read more on page 18 We work across a range of cyclical markets, which can impact demand for our services.
Our reputation for delivery is very important to our Our profit margin and cash conversion reflect the quality continued success.
We take fixed-price work when we know the customer We also have a range of non-financial measures, including and the project well.
greenhouse gas emissions and completion of project and peer reviews.
We have a good track record predicting earnings from each project and contract.
Read more on page 19 Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 15 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report: strategic review
