Our markets Oil & Gas We operate in more than 50 countries, The combination of AMEC and Foster Wheeler transformed our market offering.
focusing on four markets We do not operate in early cycle exploration or drilling, but we X Oil & Gas are now involved in every part of the project delivery phase X Clean Energy across the oil and gas value chain.
X Mining In the upstream market, the majority of our activity is for offshore assets, where we support fixed platforms and floating X Environment & Infrastructure production units, largely above the waterline.
We are a market leader in UK North Sea brownfield services and provide integrated solutions to new entrant operators We provide similar services in each of our in the region.
We also support onshore oil and gas fields, booster stations, gathering centres, tank farms, gas-oil separation plants and pipelines.
We win work through strong customer relationships and our proven ability to 1 Oil & Gas scope revenue 41 % deliver projects successfully.
Upstream Midstream Many of our services are transferable Downstream across markets.
We have positioned our operations across four markets 7 because we believe a diversified approach minimises risk and 52 maximises opportunities over the long term.
Recent advances in the extraction of gas reserves in onshore We are always on the look-out for strategic opportunities locations around the world have made gas monetisation one to enhance our position in our chosen markets.
For example, of the fastest growing sectors in the global oil and gas industry, our January 2015 acquisition of Scopus complements our where we hope to build on extensive experience.
existing Oil & Gas position by adding further cost-effective services across the whole lifecycle of a project.
In particular, In the downstream market we work on new-builds and major the enhanced lean engineering capability will allow us to provide expansions and revamps, including clean fuels projects to meet a low-cost solution at the late-life stage of a facility prior to new legislation and residue upgrading to produce higher-value decommissioning.
Competitive environment We have more than 60 years of experience in the chemicals There is no one competitor operating in all the same markets, industry, encompassing plants producing olefins, aromatics, with the same geographic footprint and with a similar approach fertilizers and a wide range of specialty and fine chemicals.
to risk as Amec Foster Wheeler.
1 2014 scope revenue by end market 10 % 28 Oil & Gas Mining Clean Energy Environment & Infrastructure 8 54 1 Non-IFRS measure see Performance measures on pages 169 to 172 Amec Foster Wheeler 26 Annual report and accounts 2014 Environment & Infrastructure E&I Clean Energy In renewables, our focus is on delivering projects for our The environmental consulting and engineering market includes services provided to all four of our markets, with skills that are customers, most of which are local utilities.
We provide a full service engineering, procurement and construction EPC easily transferable across customers.
solution on wind, solar, biomass and biofuels projects.
This is By positioning ourselves as a trusted partner right at the mostly in North America, however we also plan to expand our beginning of a project often the early site development and positions in the Middle East.
permitting stage we can deliver comprehensive solutions Over the past three years we have seen strong growth in the across the lifecycle of our customers assets.
US for solar power, spurred on by subsidies which are due to be We are currently operating predominantly in the US, Canada reviewed in 2017. and the UK, with an emerging presence in the Middle East, Our nuclear capability has been developed over 60 years, Africa and Australasia.
positioning us to support the full lifecycle of nuclear energy, Our E&I market alone consists of four sectors: from new build and reactor support including lifetime extension Water to nuclear decommissioning and waste management.
We have experience of a wide range of nuclear technology.
Our primary areas of focus are water resource management, water policy, coastal management, asset planning and Our nuclear customers include major utilities, governments, management, and wastewater collection and treatment.
national regulators, reactor suppliers and other significant stakeholders.
We have a particularly strong presence in the Water services are also commonly provided to customers in our UK and Canada, a growing business in the US, a good presence other markets, including Mining & Metals and Oil & Gas.
in Central and Eastern Europe and South Africa, and nascent Transportation infrastructure propositions in Asia.
We provide programme management, planning and design, We also have a long-standing relationship in the UK and project and construction management, asset development a growing presence in Canada with the transmission and and long-term asset support.
Our customers include distribution system owners.
government transportation agencies, national and local customers and private developers in Canada and the US.
We offer a full range of steam generator equipment, clean We have over 50 years experience in the sector.
air technologies, aftermarket products and services to the power, industrial, and waste-to-energy sectors.
In addition to Government services engineering and procurement, we offer fabrication facilities We provide a broad range of services to various clients, located in Europe and Asia to deliver our products.
including the US Federal Government, which is the largest procurer of environmental services in the world.
Customers Our experience comes from designing, servicing and improving also include various branches of the military and state fossil generating plants that come from over 200 million hours provincial agencies.
Services range from remediation of successfully and reliably logged operation.
programmes to design and delivery of infrastructure facilities, Mining including airfield facilities, housing and site improvements We support our customers projects in a diverse range of at installations globally.
commodities, including potash, iron ore, copper and gold.
Industrial commercial We offer mining consultancy including ore resource estimation, We provide compliance and due diligence services, ranging mine planning and feasibility studies, design, project and from geotechnical and environmental to materials and water construction management services and have whole-life service resources consulting.
We are a leading international consultancy, with a leading position in the North and South American engineering, procurement and construction management EPCM markets.
In addition to our established position in Australia, we are growing our African business.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 27 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report: strategic review Connected excellence through customer insight Previously capable of tracking approximately 23,000 basketball-sized objects in space, the new system will be capable of tracking up to 200,000 such objects.
28 The Space Fence Program will enhance US detection and tracking of space objects to help prevent space-based collisions.
Our customer insight will enable us to deliver facilities and infrastructure, including radar array buildings, mechanical and operations buildings, power generation plants and site work to create the largest ground-based radar of its type ever constructed.
29 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report: strategic review
