Effectiveness To further develop the directors understanding of the groups Professional development The Company Secretary assists the Chairman in the operations and culture, the board undertakes visits to various places of Amec Foster Wheeler business.
As previously co-ordination of director induction and ongoing training.
A comprehensive induction programme is in place for all new mentioned, the board visited the groups Aberdeen operations and also Robert Gordon University in 2014. directors which takes into account their previous experience, background and role on the board.
The programme is tailored Evaluation accordingly to: In line with the recommendations of the Code, each year a X provide an understanding of the duties and responsibilities formal performance evaluation review is undertaken of the of a director and their particular role: board, its committees and the directors individually.
In 2014, the performance evaluation was externally facilitated by X build an understanding of how the board operates within Lintstock, a third party service provider.
Lintstock have been Amec Foster Wheelers structure: the provider of the companys insider list management software X further their knowledge and understanding of Amec Foster since 2011 but other than this and the performance evaluation, Wheelers culture, its business and operations and the have not undertaken any other work of any kind for the board markets and countries in which it operates: or the company.
X The review process involved the completion by each director establish a link with Amec Foster Wheelers management and people: and of a survey designed to establish their perceptions in areas such as the current composition and expertise of the board: board X establish an understanding of the companys main dynamics and the relationships between board members and relationships.
the board and senior management: the boards management New directors are provided with key board, operational of time and the scope of board agendas: the quality of both internal and external support to the board including information and financial information and relevant legislatory and regulatory guidance.
Essential to the success of the programme presented at meetings and updates on major developments between meetings: and the boards strategic oversight.
is the varied delivery of materials, at intervals that allow the absorption of information at a steady pace.
Delivery Opinions were also sought on the appropriateness of the boards risk appetite and approach to risk management and of the induction programme involves a combination of documentation, accessible via the portal used by the board on succession planning and human resource management.
to communicate and share documents electronically, meetings The surveys that informed Lintstocks subsequent report with other members of the board, senior management and their to the board, for discussion at its December 2014 meeting, extended teams, key external parties including the companys were distributed prior to the completion of the acquisition advisers and, where appropriate, major shareholders, and, of Foster Wheeler.
In summary, the results were very positive site visits where possible.
Where a new director is to serve on a and demonstrated improvement against the outcomes of the board committee, induction material relevant to the committee 2013 evaluation process.
The overall role played by the board in is also provided.
Progress against the induction programme the acquisition of Foster Wheeler was very highly rated, as was is reviewed with the director midway through the process to its oversight of the ongoing post acquisition integration process.
ensure a smooth transition into director training and ongoing In line with the outcomes of the 2013 review process, areas for development.
improvement were again relatively minor and will be addressed Ongoing training, relevant to each directors individual as the board focuses on the integration of Foster Wheeler and development needs, continues after appointment.
The achievement of cost and revenue synergies: Chairman endeavours to review the training and development X although there was a high degree of consensus as to the top needs of the directors at least annually.
The aim is to ensure strategic issues facing the company over the next three to five the further enhancement of their skills and knowledge of the years, it was agreed that ensuring greater involvement and business, so that they continue to effectively fulfil their role time spent focusing on strategy and risk and assisting with on the board and its committees.
the determination of the strategic direction of the company, Internally facilitated training is arranged by the Company needed to remain a key area of focus: Secretary on topics and issues relevant to the operation of X the introduction of the new organisational structure following the board and the responsibilities of the directors.
The board the acquisition, intended to address the appropriateness receives presentations from management on changes and of the structure of the company at senior levels, will be significant developments in the business.
Regular updates supplemented by greater prioritisation of succession planning on changes in legislation and communications from the for the executive directors and key management positions Company Secretarys office on key developments in corporate below board level and as well increasing the boards exposure governance are also provided.
In addition, use is made of to top management to improve their ability to evaluate their external auditor and advisor training programmes.
During the capabilities: and year the board received presentations from external experts on such matters as UK and US requirements in relation to mergers X whilst the composition of the board was rated highly, and has and acquisitions and on health and safety legal requirements.
subsequently been enhanced by the addition of Stephanie From time to time the directors individually attend seminars Newby and Kent Masters, key changes were identified that and conferences related to their areas of expertise and should be made to the profile of the board over the next three responsibility.
to five years to match the companys strategic goals including increased oil and gas experience.
Amec Foster Wheeler 80 Annual report and accounts 2014
