Delivering excellence Investing in talent People are our principal asset We have developed both technical and leadership training to ensure we maintain a pipeline of skilled talent to meet our growth aspirations.
Group-wide training is led by The Academy, our in-house development programme.
Adapting to dynamic markets Delivering a project for our customers requires us to put together teams of people to match the needs of the project and the customer.
During 2014 we recruited 9,425 people into project teams.
Our success depends upon our Of these new hires, more than 95% were recruited directly.
We have also seen 2,997 people leave as projects finish, or their people delivering projects successfully roles change.
Together this means that our utilisation rates for our customers.
Diversity and inclusion To foster the right culture in which The business case is clear.
An organisation that enjoys diversity enjoys a richness of ideas that leads to better solutions for the our people can succeed, our values customer.
see page 15 are entrenched throughout Gender is just one part of this and women now make up 24%, our business.
or 8,823 members of our directly employed workforce: 12% 50 people of our executive grade employees: 10% one person of our Group Leadership Team and 22% two people of our board.
We perpetuate the very highest standards of safety, mutual respect and ethical behaviour that we can and this, combined Age, gender, ethnicity, etc.
are all important and assessed, with caring for the environment in which we operate, underpins but diversity of thought, for instance, cannot be measured as our approach to being a sustainable people business read accurately.
Our approach is to survey our employees, to ask more about our commitment to sustainability on page 24 and how they feel and feed the findings into the Group Leadership on our dedicated sustainability microsite to be launched on Team.
We are committed to providing a safe and secure workplace, New leadership and integration where people are free from harassment and where diversity and AMEC and Foster Wheeler both employed highly skilled, inclusion are the norm, with equal opportunities for progression customer focused workforces providing high value services, and development for all.
such as engineering, design and project management to their Our Code of Business Conduct highlights our commitment customers.
to human rights and we respect those of any individual, or Now, as one team, we have more than 40,000 employees and community, with whom we are involved and we support the the increased scale is expected to provide efficiencies, such elimination of child labour.
as increased workflow between offices, known as multi-office Incentivisation delivery.
We have completely refreshed our approach.
The top layers of The Group Leadership Team itself reflects this integration and management are now all rewarded against one set of common combines the best talents from both organisations see page 75 group-wide incentives.
Please see page 67 for more detail.
Priorities for 2015 Around 23,500 of our people met at least one of the new As usual, the most important priority remains that our people Group Leadership Team through an extensive roadshow around are safe at work and that we continue to attract, develop and our offices in the first three weeks following the creation of retain skilled employees.
Amec Foster Wheeler on 13 November.
The extended leadership team, of 100 people 85% male, 15% female, met in London to Split of employees 7 ensure we were thoroughly prepared for the launch of the new % 23 operating model.
Americas N. Europe and CIS New operating model AMEA and S. Europe On 1 January 2015, we introduced our new operating model.
Global Power Group The early signs are very encouraging, with changes to the way we identify, acquire and deliver work and also how we assure 29 each part of this process.
41 Key principles include global standards for execution of projects, creating centres of excellence and multi-office delivery.
Amec Foster Wheeler 16 Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic customer management We are customer focused Developing long term and worldwide relationships with key customers is a priority.
With additional service offerings and new customers across a broader geographic footprint, there are much greater opportunities to cross-sell and a strategic approach to managing our customer relationships is no longer a nice-to-have it is a necessity.
We now have three tiers of customer relationship: global, regional and local.
Global accounts will be managed centrally by the business development team.
We expect to expand this over the coming years.
We have a wide range of customers and By utilising strategic account management and global work for some of the worlds largest accounts, we are upping our game to expand and deepen our corporations and government bodies, relationships with our most significant customers.
designing and maintaining critical assets.
Our goal is to get closer to our customers and be their trusted partner.
Regional and local account management will remain Our customers expect us to deliver an important component.
We are very proud Achievements in 2014 We are pleased that in the first few weeks after the merger of the high proportion of repeat business was completed, several contracts with customers highlighted we generate.
the benefits of our new approach.
In November we were awarded a front-end engineering Our customers include some of the largest international oil contract with Alacer on the pler Gold Mine project in Turkey, companies such as ExxonMobil and BP, chemical companies combining the gold-processing expertise of the AMEC team such as Dow, miners such as Rio Tinto, utility companies such in North America and Foster Wheelers highly regarded Turkish as EDF, and government bodies, such as the US Department operation.
And earlier this year we had more success with new Our top 10 customers accounted for approximately 30% combinations of heritage expertise, winning a feasibility study of revenue.
in Chile that combined Power & Process Americas, our Milan team and the ports experts in our E&I team.
Diversified customer base 61 Priorities for 2015 % The development of long term and worldwide customer Top 10 relationships will continue to be our key priority.
11-20 Others Integrating the former AMEC and Foster Wheeler relationships will provide us with significant new opportunities, particularly 30 in the midand downstream Oil & Gas market.
9 For example, we will be able to offer enhanced project delivery to the combined upstream and downstream customer across new-build and brownfield projects.
We will be offering environmental services to former Foster Wheeler customers for the first time too.
We are also planning to expand the geographic reach of our services, for instance by offering brownfield services in countries where AMEC did not have a major presence, and where Foster Wheeler did not serve the upstream market.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 17 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report: strategic review Delivering excellence continued Working through the lifecycle Customers rely on our services We provide high value services across the life-cycle of our customers assets and the range of services we are able to and solutions provide is similar in each of our four markets.
Many of our services are provided through long-term contracts, giving us the opportunity to provide critical services in partnership with our customers.
For instance, we have been supporting the current fleet of UK nuclear reactors for more than 50 years.
Some of these contracts have been renewed several times.
Project delivery team Our new operating model has an enhanced project delivery In each market or sector, the range function with responsibility for ensuring the identification of services provided to our customers and management of project risks, driving the use of common systems and tools, supporting the development and is similar.
mobilisation of our teams and ultimately helping us to deliver excellence on all our projects.
We are experts in designing, delivering Achievements in 2014 and maintaining strategic and complex Contract wins announced in 2014 include: assets, offering total life of asset support X Australia: Early stage project support for Hillside copper project Rex Minerals : from feasibility planning right through X Austria Germany: 5-year integrated project management to decommissioning.
framework for refineries OMV : X Azerbaijan: EPCM for Shah Deniz 2 topsides BP : Our diversified service offering partially offsets the cyclical nature of our customers capital expenditure plans, and reduces X Bulgaria: Design and supply 50 MWe CFB boiler Solvay Sodi : our dependence on any one part of the energy mix.
X Canada: FEED for Canada LNG project Shell : X Core services Chile: Engineering and design for secondary ore processing 28 8 % facility Codelco : Design & supply X China: MOU for JV to establish nuclear decommissioning Consulting 12 Engineering and life extension services CNNC : EPCM PMC X Finland: Design, supply and erection of SCR at Naantali Other 5 Project delivery unit 3 TSE : 16 X Kuwait: FEED for onshore LNG import and regasification terminal KNPC : 31 X Libya: FEED for onshore oil field development in Core services Area 47 Nafusah : Our core services include: engineering, project management, X Mexico: EPC for delayed coking facilities at two refineries construction and construction management, hook-up and Pemex : commissioning, decommissioning, and related consultancy work.
X Poland: Owners engineer role for nuclear new build programme PGE Polska : We have a reputation for delivering engineering solutions for complex projects and operating in remote and harsh locations.
X Turkey: Design and supply two CFBs and flue gas scrubbers Harbin Electric : Our Clean Energy offering also now includes Circulating Fluidised Bed CFB and heat recovery steam generators, X UK North Sea: FEED for Captain expansion Chevron : condensers and emission control equipment for improved X US: Design and construction of specialist facilities for environmental performance.
DoD program US Space Fence : and X Vietnam: Design and supply two pulverised coal steam generators Vietnam Electricity.
Priorities in 2015 Our main priority is to implement the new operating model and show customers the strength of our platform and people.
Amec Foster Wheeler 18 Annual report and accounts 2014 Revenue by contract style We have a flexible and low-risk 2 26 % business model Reimbursable Fixed price Technology 72 Flexibility The Global Power Group has a different business model to our We have a flexible and low-risk business engineering and project management business.
model: the majority of our contracts are In addition to engineering and project delivery, it includes on a cost-plus basis.
fabrication in its typical scope of activities.
Enhanced risk management When we agree fixed-price work we take This plays a vital role in ensuring that we win projects with the the time to get to know the customer and greatest possible opportunity for success: maximising the value we get for our resources and addressing risks that are part of the project first.
We use a detailed workflow system which addresses the risks By using common systems we can deliver associated with tenders for both lump sum and reimbursable work consistently and share work across contracts in areas such as technical challenges, financial and pricing terms, joint venture partner risks: as well as a full offices and time zones.
range of governance issues, such as human rights, safety and environmental risks.
As a result, our business is more flexible Achievements in 2014 and sustainable, and our financial Our order book grew from 4.1bn to 6.3bn during the year.
On a like-for-like basis it was flat.
performance less volatile than others.
We completed our fixed-price detailed design and engineering services for Roy Hills iron ore processing plant and bulk ore In the majority of our contracts, our customers reimburse us handling facility at the Port Landside works for Samsung C&T for our peoples time and any materials we consume.
We often the EPC contractor on the project.
arrange to get additional payments if we achieve pre-agreed performance measures.
We transferred key staff from the upstream project team in Houston to work in the downstream propane dehydrogenation In selected circumstances we take on fixed-price work.
project for Enterprise in Texas.
Typically, we will do this where we know the customer and the project well.
Priorities for 2015 Despite some tough market conditions, we want to win new Where this is not possible, we may look to partner with others contracts which will maintain our low-risk and flexible business to gain access to projects which would otherwise be unavailable model.
We will continue to increase collaboration across the group Each year we do work on numerous contracts some of which between teams from different sectors and countries, as well as are multi-year this, together with the breadth of our market substantially increasing the share of work carried out through and customer exposure, reduces the impact of lower levels multi-office delivery.
of activity in any one area of our business.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 19 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report: strategic review
