Directors report Directors interests None of the directors is, or was, materially interested in any Our directors present their annual contract of significance to Amec Foster Wheelers businesses report and the audited accounts of during, or at the end of, the financial year.
Details of directors share interests and of their rights to subscribe for shares are Amec Foster Wheeler plc the Company shown in the remuneration report on page 72. and its subsidiaries together referred Corporate governance statement to as the Group for the year ended The companys statement on corporate governance is set out on pages 44 to 85 and is incorporated into this report 31 December 2014. by reference.
Share capital Achievements in 2014 and priorities for 2015 The primary market for Amec Foster Wheelers ordinary shares Disclosures relating to particulars of important events affecting is the London Stock Exchange, where we have a premium the Group which have occured since the last financial year and listing and our shares are admitted to the main market.
Since an indication of likely future developments in the business of the completion of the offer for Foster Wheeler, the companys the Group can be found in the strategic report on pages 1 to 41. securities have also been traded on the New York Stock Change of name Exchange in the form of American Depositary Shares ADS.
On 13 November 2014, following the acquisition of Foster Further information on the companys ADS programme can Wheeler AG, the company changed its name to Amec Foster be found on pages 177 to 178.
The names of certain of the Groups material The issued share capital of the company as at 31 December subsidiaries are also in the process of being changed to 2014 and movements during the year are set out in note 22 on reflect the acquisition.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Dividends shares are set out in full in the articles of association of the The directors are recommending a final ordinary dividend company and are described on pages 180 to 182.
In summary, in respect of the year ended 31 December 2014 of 28.5 pence each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings per share.
This final dividend will be payable on 2 July 2015 of the company and no right to a fixed income.
There are no to shareholders on the register at the close of business on restrictions on voting rights.
An interim dividend for the year ended Authority was granted to the directors at the 2014 AGM to allot 31 December 2014 of 14.8 pence per share was paid on shares or grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security 5 January 2015.
Further information on the payment of to shares up to a nominal amount of 49,181,027 Section 551 dividends to shareholders and the holders of American amount of which up to 7,451,671 could be allotted for cash Depositary Shares ADSs can be found on pages 177 to 178. other than in connection with a pre-emptive offer Section 561 Dividends paid during 2014 comprised an interim dividend of amount.
To allow the directors to allot shares to Foster Wheeler 13.5 pence per share and a final dividend of 28.5 pence per shareholders in connection with the acquisition, without share, both in respect of the year ended 31 December 2013. prejudice to the existing authority conferred on the directors and approved at the 2014 AGM, this authority was increased at Changes to the board of directors the General Meeting held on 23 October 2014 by a maximum Details of the directors of the company as at the date of this nominal value of 45,458,521.50, such authority to expire on report, together with brief biographical details and board 31 December 2015.
In anticipation that the offer for Foster committee memberships, are set out on page 45 to 47.
Wheeler would become effective and the issued share capital Changes to the board since 1 January 2014: of the company would increase as a result of the issue of new shares to Foster Wheeler shareholders, the authority conferred Tim Faithfull Non-executive Retired on the directors at the 2014 AGM was also renewed at the director 3 April 2014 General Meeting, without prejudice to the authority conferred in respect of the new shares to be issued in connection with the Stephanie Newby Non-executive Appointed offer, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 59,228,684.50 of director 13 November 2014 which up to 8,974,043 could be allotted for cash other than in Kent Masters Non-executive Appointed connection with a pre-emptive offer, such authority to expire at director 13 February 2015 the end of the AGM in 2015 or 1 June 2015, whichever is earlier.
In addition, Simon Thompson will step down as a director at the In connection with the acquisition of Foster Wheeler, conclusion of the 2015 AGM.
85,052,989 shares were issued to Foster Wheeler shareholders on 24 November 2014 as partial consideration for the Directors indemnity arrangements acquisition of their Foster Wheeler shares.
Pursuant to the The Company maintains directors and officers liability Squeeze-Out Merger initiated on 8 December 2014 to acquire insurance cover.
In addition, throughout the financial year the remaining outstanding issued and to be issued Foster and at the date of this report, qualifying third party indemnity Wheeler voting rights, a further 4,255,970 shares were issued provisions within the meaning of Sections 232234 of the to Foster Wheeler shareholders on 19 January 2015.
Companies Act 2006 were in place for all of the directors and the Company Secretary.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 83 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Directors report continued Resolutions will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM to Significant arrangements change of control extend this authority to the end of the AGM in 2016 or 1 June The following significant agreements contain provisions 2016, whichever is earlier.
The revised Section 551 amount entitling the counterparties to exercise termination or other will be 64,158,715 and the revised Section 561 amount will rights in the event of a change of control of the company: be 9,721,017.
The directors have no present intention of Under each of the 377m five year multi-currency revolving issuing any shares other than in respect of the exercise of credit facility agreement dated 18 July 2012 as amended from share options.
No issue will be made that will effectively alter time to time between, amongst others, the company and The the control of the company without the prior approval of Royal Bank of Scotland plc as facility agent and the $2,260m shareholders at a General Meeting.
facilities agreement dated 13 February 2014 as amended Since the completion of the 400m share buyback programme and re-stated from time to time, between, amongst others, in February 2013, the company has not made any purchases the company and Bank of America Merrill Lynch International of its shares in the market.
At the 2014 AGM, authority was Limited as facility agent, the company must promptly notify granted to the directors to make market purchases of up to each facility agent if it becomes aware of any change of control.
In anticipation that the Following such notice the lenders under the relevant agreement offer for Foster Wheeler would become effective and the issued are required to negotiate with the company for a period of share capital of the company would increase as a result of 30 days with a view to agreeing terms and conditions the issue of new shares to Foster Wheeler shareholders, this acceptable to the company and all the relevant lenders for authority was renewed at the General Meeting in October 2014, continuing the relevant facilities.
If agreement is not reached allowing the purchase of up to 35,896,172 of the companys by the relevant parties before the end of the 30-day period, shares in the market.
This further authority will expire at the if a lender so requires, the relevant facility agent must, by end of the 2015 AGM or 1 June 2015, whichever is earlier.
notice of not less than 30 days to the company, cancel the A resolution will be proposed at the 2015 AGM to extend the commitments of that lender under the relevant agreement authority of the directors to make market purchases of up to and declare the participations of that lender in all outstanding 10% of the companys shares within prescribed limits.
loans under that agreement together with accrued interest Major interests in shares and all other amounts accrued under that agreement to be On the basis of notifications received under the Disclosure and immediately due and payable.
Transparency Rules DTR 5 and other notifications received A change of control occurs if any person or group of persons by Amec Foster Wheeler plc from shareholders, shareholdings acting in concert gains control of the company.
of 3% or more of the voting rights of the company as at 31 December 2014 were as follows: Depending on the nature of the transaction, entitlements under the companys share plans may be triggered by a change of control.
Further detail can be found in the directors Number % remuneration report.
Mondrian Investment Partners Limited 20,253,855 5.28 Employees BlackRock, Inc 14,946,032 5.01 Our employees embody our knowledge, brand and reputation and it is through their activities, day by day, that we deliver The shareholding percentages reflect the issued share capital on our business objectives and commitments to shareholders, at the time of the notifications.
On 23 March 2015, pursuant to clients and the wider community.
Information on employee DTR 5, BlackRock, Inc notified the company of their interest in development and training: how we engage with our employees 21,904,416 shares, representing 5.63% of the voting rights of to ensure they understand the direction in which the company the company.
There were no other notifications received under is going and are committed to Amec Foster Wheelers values: DTR 5 between 31 December 2014 and 25 March 2015. the actions taken to share knowledge with our employees and There are no shareholdings that carry special rights relating keep them informed of developments: how we assess and to control of the company.
act on employee opinion and encourage involvement in the companys performance: and our commitment to cultural Financial instruments diversity and equal opportunities can be found on page 16 and Disclosures relating to the groups use of financial instruments is incorporated in this report by reference.
As can be seen in our can be found in note 19 on pages 134 to 139 and are Code of Business Conduct, Amec Foster Wheeler is committed incorporated into this report by reference.
to providing a workplace which offers equal opportunity for promotion and advancement.
As part of the integration of the two AMEC and Foster Wheeler businesses, a revised Code of Business Conduct is being produced that will meet the needs of the wider Group.
Amec Foster Wheeler 84 Annual report and accounts 2014 As part of the companys equal opportunities policy, procedures Responsibility statements are in place that are designed to provide for full and fair The statement of directors responsibilities, including the fair, consideration and selection of disabled applicants, to ensure balanced and understandable statement, in respect of the they are properly trained to perform safely and effectively and annual report and accounts can be found on page 86. to provide career opportunities that allow them to fulfil their The statement by the Companys auditor relating to their potential.
Where an employee becomes disabled in the course reporting responsibilities can be found on pages 93 and 94. of their employment, Amec Foster Wheeler will actively seek Annual general meeting to retain them wherever possible by making adjustments This years AGM will be held at Glaziers Hall, 9 Montague Close, to their work content and environment or by retraining them London Bridge, London SE1 9DD on 14 May 2015 at 11:00am.
The notice of meeting, which includes explanatory notes on the Sustainability business to be transacted at the meeting, accompanies this Summary details about our commitment to sustainability report and is also available on our website.
and its importance to our day-to-day activities are set out Separate resolutions will be proposed at the AGM to receive specifically on page 24 and in general throughout our strategic the annual report and accounts: to declare a final dividend: report.
Further detail is available in our sustainability report to approve the remuneration report and remuneration policy: and on our website.
to re-elect all of the current directors who will retire in Greenhouse gas emissions accordance with the provisions of the Code: to re-elect Disclosures relating to the groups greenhouse gas emissions, Ernst & Young LLP as auditor: and to authorise the directors as required to be disclosed under the Companies Act 2006 to fix the auditors remuneration.
strategic report and directors report Regulations 2013, Shareholders will also be asked to renew both the general can be found in the strategic report on page 24. authority of the directors to allot shares in the company Political donations and to allot such shares without the application of statutory During 2014, Amec Foster Wheeler made no political donations pre-emption rights.
In addition, shareholders will be requested in the UK or European Union, including donations as defined for to authorise the company to make market purchases of its own the purposes of the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums shares within prescribed limits and approve the resolution, Act 2000. to be repeated at each AGM going forward, to authorise the calling of general meetings, other than annual general meetings, Amec Foster Wheeler Americas Limited formerly AMEC on 14 clear days notice.
This year shareholders will be asked to Americas Limited, a subsidiary of the company in Canada, approve updated UK and International Sharesave Scheme rules made contributions to non-EU political parties in Canada together with the rules for a new LTIP Amec Foster Wheeler plc totalling C$1,810 995.
Going concern The board views the AGM as an opportunity to directly The directors, having made enquiries, consider that the group communicate the groups progress and engage with has adequate resources to operate for the foreseeable future shareholders.
Where possible, the entire board will attend the and, therefore, it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going AGM and will be available to answer questions from those concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Further details of this shareholders present.
The board encourages all shareholders review can be found on page 39. to attend and participate where possible.
Auditor On behalf of the board A resolution will be proposed at the AGM for the re-appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as auditor of the company.
Disclosure of information to auditor The directors who held office at the date of approval of this Alison Yapp directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, General Counsel and Company Secretary there is no relevant audit information of which the companys 26 March 2015 auditor is unaware: and the directors have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as directors to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that Find out more online the companys auditor is aware of that information.
Visit our website at amecfw.
com investors for further information regarding this years AGM.
The above statement is made in accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 85 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report
