Accountability Internal control In addition, and as required by the Code, during the year the Senior Independent Director, having taken the views The board is responsible for reviewing Amec Foster Wheelers systems of internal control.
Reviews cover the effectiveness of the non-executive and the executive directors, reviewed the performance of the Chairman.
The Senior Independent and adequacy of financial, operational, compliance and risk management systems and are undertaken regularly.
These Director met with the Chairman in December 2014, to review his performance during 2014.
The Chief Executive conducts annual systems can, however, only provide reasonable assurance against material misstatement or loss, as they are designed performance development reviews with his direct reports.
to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve In 2015, the performance evaluation review will again be business objectives.
externally facilitated and will include in depth face to face interviews with each member of the board.
The board and its committees have an ongoing process that is reviewed regularly by the board and accords with the Turnbull Information and support guidance, for identifying, evaluating and managing significant The Company Secretary is fundamental in ensuring the risks faced by Amec Foster Wheeler, including strategy, efficiency and effectiveness of the board and is responsible for major projects to be undertaken, significant acquisitions and ensuring that the directors have timely access to full, accurate disposals, as well as entry into and exit from different markets.
Agendas and supporting papers for The acquisition of Foster Wheeler was completed in the fourth board and committee meetings are circulated approximately quarter of 2014 and we are currently reviewing the control one week prior to the meeting date to allow sufficient time for framework and integrating the risk and control systems with review and enable informed debate and challenge at meetings.
Where appropriate, business decisions Monthly interim reports are prepared, including a report from are reached following a structured and documented review the Chief Executive, and these are circulated to the board if of potential opportunities and threats, taking steps designed a meeting is not scheduled in the month.
to manage or mitigate any risk exposure.
Where the directors, particularly non-executive directors, The threats and opportunities associated with tender require further insight on an issue, the Company Secretary will submissions are reviewed by commercial review boards at facilitate this from the business or relevant members of the various levels in the group, in line with delegated authorities.
Members of senior management are The highest value tenders are, in addition, reviewed by the regularly invited to attend board meetings to present on specific tender review committee.
Amec Foster Wheeler applies a set projects and issues.
The Company Secretary ensures that the of contracting principles, under which the level of approval correct board procedures are followed and that the board is required is dependent on the contractual provision in question.
informed on legislative, regulatory and governance matters The most significant issues in terms of risk require the approval related to its operation.
of the relevant business unit lead and the Group Commercial In addition to the advice and services of the Company Director.
Secretary, a formal process exists for the directors to The internal control processes are complemented by an annual obtain independent professional advice, at the companys control self-assessment exercise carried out by the principal expense, where appropriate and necessary to discharge their businesses.
This covers health, safety and environment, legal, responsibilities.
The Company Secretary is responsible for commercial and contractual, financial, information technology the organisation and co-ordination of access to such advice.
The results are reviewed by the board, The Company Secretary is also accountable for ensuring that through the audit committee, as part of the ongoing internal an accurate record is taken of all meetings of the board and control monitoring process.
If a director had a concern about the running of the company or a proposed action that could not be Amec Foster Wheeler has interests in a number of joint resolved, this would be recorded in the minutes.
In addition, arrangements where controls may not be reviewed as part upon resignation, should a director have any such outstanding of the groups formal corporate governance process because concerns, they would be invited to provide the Chairman of the joint management responsibilities.
Responsibility for with a written statement for circulation to the board.
No such such reviews rests with the joint venture and joint operations statements were received during 2014.
The appointment boards and these are reviewed from time to time as part of and removal of the Company Secretary is one of the matters Amec Foster Wheelers normal internal audit process.
Details of significant joint arrangements can be found on page 191.
Details of the Groups risk management process, including reporting and monitoring, and roles and responsibilities can be found on page 20.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 81 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report
