Global market trends Changing hydrocarbon production mix A change from todays production mix is still expected, with Our markets are all cyclical and we are crude oil falling and a greater share being taken by natural gas not immune to the recent falls in key liquids and unconventional sources.
commodity prices such as oil, gas, In recent years the rapid increase in tight oil production mainly from the oil sands in Canada and shale oil in the US copper and iron ore which are all at together with huge investments in liquefied natural gas projects five-year lows.
has changed the nature of the energy market, and created regional trade imbalances.
Each of our markets is expected to grow In 2005 the US imported more than 12 million barrels of oil per in the long term.
day, and it is now forecast to be self-sufficient during the 2030s.
Over the same period, China is expected to import more than 13 million barrels per day, and to become the largest importer.
We are positioned across sectors so as Changing energy mix to benefit whatever the relative weighting Concerns around resource depletion, dangerous emissions, in the energy mix.
stricter regulation and consumer preference are driving renewable forms of energy, including nuclear, to increase their share of total energy production.
Amongst fossil fuels, gas is This diversity means we are not dependent expected to grow its share, with oil and coal reducing.
on any one part of the energy mix.
Energy mix 7 4 % Positive long-term trends 3 Oil & Gas At the time of writing in early 2015 the full impact of the recent 30 Coal oil price decline is not yet clear.
The early consensus appears Renewable to be that global economic activity may receive a small Nuclear boost from lower fuel costs but this will largely be offset by Other negative consequences from lower levels of investment in the energy sector.
56 Oil price 111.11 110.80 107.38 At year end The nuclear industry remains a fragmented market with a $ per barrel 94.75 consequence that our opportunities vary significantly.
We expect to see new build in the UK, Eastern Europe and in some countries in Asia: reactor life extensions in the UK, Europe and 57.33 North America: and decommissioning work in the UK, Europe and North America.
Overall, the IEA forecasts nuclear will be used to generate around 12% of electricity in 2035, slightly Source: Bloomberg, above todays level.
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Brent USD barrel Emissions controls and the need for greater efficiency are also Despite the current volatility, long-term forecasts for global driving change.
Today, many renewable technologies benefit energy demand and supply have not changed significantly over from local and regional subsidies, which is currently supporting the past year.
The International Energy Agency IEA World their growth.
Energy Outlook 2014 predicts a 37% increase by 2040.
Strong resource fundamentals remain Long-term oil demand is expected to increase more than 20% More than 1.5bn people in emerging markets are expected to from just over 90 to 110 million barrels of oil per day by 2035. become urbanised in the period to 2035, a key underlying driver of long-term growth for the mining industry.
However, lower commodity prices and general economic uncertainty have caused the postponement or cancellation of some projects in the near term.
In addition, a number of major mining companies have announced delays to projects and cost reduction programmes in order to increase returns to their shareholders.
Solid growth in environmental consultancy The global environmental consultancy market is expected to grow consistently in line with GDP, with services related to climate change, energy and contaminated land remediation expected to grow particularly strongly.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 25 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report: strategic review
