ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 Governance Remuneration Policy The Companys policy on remuneration for Executive and Non-executive Directors was approved by shareholders at the AGM on 14 May 2014 for a 3-year period.
The full policy can be found on our website: www.
com governance The table below contains the principal elements of the remuneration packages for the Executive Directors.
Fixed Purpose and elements link to strategy Operation Maximum potential payment Performance metrics Base Reflects the Reviewed annually and paid There is no maximum salary None, although monthly in cash.
However, ordinarily overall individual responsibilities and Consideration is typically given salary increases will be in line and business to a range of factors when experience.
with the average increase performance determining salary levels, awarded to other employees is considered Supports the including: in the Company.
when setting and recruitment and Personal and Company-wide reviewing salaries.
retention of Executive Increases may be made performance.
Directors of the above this level to take Typical pay levels in relevant calibre required to account of individual markets for each Executive deliver the business circumstances, which may whilst recognising the need strategy within the include: for an appropriate premium competitive media Increase in size or scope of to attract and retain superior market.
talent, balanced against the need to provide a costIncrease to reflect the effective overall remuneration individuals development package.
The wider employee pay review.
Provision To provide Executives can choose to The maximum contributions None participate in the ITV defined for an competitive postor cash allowances for the contribution scheme, receive income in retirement benefits Executive Directors are 25% a cash allowance or receive retirement or cash allowance as a of base salary.
payments into a personal framework to save for pension or a combination thereof.
Contributions are set as a Supports the percentage of base salary.
recruitment and Post-retirement benefits do not retention of Executive form part of the base salary for Directors of the calibre the purposes of determining required to deliver incentives.
the business strategy within the competitive media market.
Benefits Ensures the The Company provides a range Set at a level which the None of market competitive benefits overall package is Committee considers to be including travel-related benefits, competitive and appropriately positioned private medical insurance and provides financial taking into account other insurance benefits.
protection for typical market levels for Additional benefits may employees and their comparable roles, individual also be provided in certain families.
circumstances and the circumstances, if required for overall cost to the business.
For example but not limited to, relocation expenses, housing allowance and education support.
com Stock code: ITV Board of Directors Management Board Directors Report and Responsibilities Chairmans Governance Statement Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report Annual Remuneration Report Remuneration Policy Variable Purpose and elements link to strategy Operation Maximum potential payment Performance metrics Annual Incentivises Measures and targets are set The maximum bonus Performance measures Bonus Executives and annually based on business opportunity for any and targets are set by Scheme colleagues to plans at the start of the Executive Director will not the Committee each Bonus achieve key strategic financial year and pay-out exceed 200% of salary.
year based on corporate and outcomes on an levels are determined by objectives closely The current bonus Deferred annual basis.
the Committee following linked to the strategic opportunities are 180% Share the year-end based on priorities and individual Focus on key of salary for Adam Crozier Award performance against contributions.
financial metrics and and 165% of salary for Ian Plan objectives.
The majority of the DSA the business strategy.
Paid once the results have bonus opportunity Increases above the been audited.
Annual bonus will be based on the The element current opportunities, up calculations that are based corporate and financial compulsorily to the maximum limit, on the financial results for measures.
deferred into shares may be made to take the year are audited by rewards delivery account of individual The remainder of the Internal Audit and reviewed of sustained longcircumstances, which may bonus will be based on by the Audit Committee term performance, include: performance against before consideration by the provides alignment individual objectives.
Increase in size or Committee.
with the shareholder scope of the role or Up to 20% of the experience and The Committee has the responsibility.
maximum opportunity supports the discretion to amend the bonus will be received for Increase to reflect retention of pay-out should any formulaic threshold performance.
assessment of performance development and not reflect a balanced view of performance in their overall business performance role.
Two-thirds of the bonus is delivered in cash and onethird is deferred into shares under the DSA for a period of three years.
During the deferral period share awards may be reduced or cancelled in certain circumstances.
Further detail is provided on our website www.
Dividends are paid to participants on the deferred shares during the deferral period.
97 slugline ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 Governance Remuneration Policy continued Variable Purpose and elements link to strategy Operation Maximum potential payment Performance metrics New LTIP Incentivises Awards are made annually Our current operational Performance is Executives to deliver with vesting dependent on policy is to make awards measured against performance which business performance during of 225% of salary each corporate targets closely is aligned to the the performance period.
linked to the Companys business strategy performance period will be financial and strategic Under the new LTIP rules, over the longer term three years, other than in priorities.
the maximum annual and the creation of exceptional circumstances.
award that may be Performance metrics shareholder value.
The Committee has granted in any financial are: Acts as a retention discretion to amend the year is 350% of salary.
Adjusted EPS tool to retain the final vesting level should The Committee would Non-NAR and its Executives required any formulaic assessment consult with shareholders components to deliver the of performance not reflect if it was considering business strategy.
a balanced view of the Viewing performance increasing awards above business performance during the current operational LTIP awards will vest the performance period.
based on financial Awards will be required to be performance.
held for an additional period A gateway condition of two years after the end of must be achieved before the performance period.
This any portion of the award is called the holding period vests.
and will be phased in during Each performance 2014 and 2015. metric will operate Dividends are earned on independently.
deferred shares during the The performance range holding period.
will be determined During the holding period for each metric.
The awards may be reduced proportion of each or cancelled in certain element of the award circumstances.
Further detail that will vest for is provided on our website threshold performance www.
SAYE Provides all Executive Directors are Participation limits are as None employees, including entitled to participate in the per the rules of the plan Executive Directors, plan on the same basis as and in accordance with the opportunity to other employees.
voluntarily invest in Company shares.
The table below summarises the main elements of remuneration for Non-executive Directors: 98 slugline Governance ar2014.
com Stock code: ITV Board of Directors Management Board Directors Report and Responsibilities Chairmans Governance Statement Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report Annual Remuneration Report Remuneration Policy Component Approach of the Company Chairman fees The Committee determines the fees of the Chairman and sets the fees at a level that is considered to be appropriate, taking into account the size and complexity of the business and the expected time commitment and contribution of the role.
The fee is a fixed annual fee of which 25% 40% for the current Chairman, after statutory deductions, is used to acquire shares in the Company.
The shares are purchased quarterly and held by a nominee until retirement from the Board.
Non-executive fees The Board determines the fees of the Non-executive Directors and sets the fees at a level that is considered to be appropriate, taking into account the size and complexity of the business and the expected time commitment and contribution of the role.
Fees are structured as a basic fee with additional fees payable for membership and or chairmanship of a committee or other additional responsibilities.
The Non-executive Directors are required to use 25% of their annual fees, after statutory deductions, to acquire shares in the Company.
The shares are purchased quarterly and held by a nominee on their behalf until they retire from the Board.
Benefits Additional benefits may also be provided in certain circumstances, if required for business purposes.
99 slugline ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 Pictured: Ant & Decs Saturday Night Takeaway was back for its 11th series in 2014, averaging 7.6 million viewers across the series, a 30% share.
A version of the show, produced by ITV Studios America, has been commissioned by NBC in the US for later in 2015.
