com Stock code: ITV 02 Strategic Report Provides a comprehensive review of ITVs business and strategy.
57 Governance Presents a clear view of ITVs governance.
101 167 Financial Statements Shareholder ITVs audited financial Information and statements for the year ended Glossary.
Look out for these icons within the report Read more content within this report Strategic Report The Strategic Report explains in detail how we have performed this year and sets out a fair review of the business, a balanced and comprehensive analysis of our performance, the use of key performance indicators to explain the progress we have made, a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company, and an indication of potential future developments.
Read more content online The Strategic Report is prepared in line with the relevant provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and the Company has had regard to the guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
It is intended to provide shareholders with a better understanding of the Company, of its position in the markets within which it operates, and of its prospects.
In setting out the Companys main risks and uncertainties, an indication of potential future developments, and in other content, this report and accounts contains statements that are based on knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of the Strategic Report, and what are believed to be reasonable judgements, and therefore cannot be considered as indications of likelihood or certainty.
A wide range of factors may cause the actual outcomes and results to differ materially from those contained within, or implied by, these various forward-looking statements.
None of these statements should be construed as a profit forecast.
01 slugline ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 Pictured: Downton Abbey returned for a fifth series in autumn 2014.
10.7 million watched the first episode making it ITVs most watched drama, with an average 10.4 million viewers for the series and a 38% share.
com Stock code: ITV Overview Investor Proposition 2014 Highlights ITV at a Glance Strategy Business Model Market Review Chairmans Statement Strategic Report Overview Investor Proposition 04 2014 Highlights 05 ITV At A Glance 06 Strategy 07 Business Model 08 Market Review 10 Chairmans Statement 12 Strategy and Operations Chief Executives Review 14 Performance Dashboard 20 Strategic Priority 1 22 Strategic Priority 2 26 Strategic Priority 3 30 Performance and Financials Key Performance Indicators 34 Financial and Performance Review 38 Risks and Uncertainties 50 03 slugline
