ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 Strategy and Operations Strategic Priority Build a global pay and distribution business As digital media and consumer viewing behaviour Following this, in 2014 we have made three further continue to evolve, our ability to create and distribute investments in the digital arena as we look to develop high value content in new and efficient ways is of greater expertise in monetising online audiences.
ITV is continually exploring, September 2014 we made small investments in Indigenous experimenting and developing our pay services with Media, a producer of scripted digital content, and Believe broadcasters and platform owners while also seeking Entertainment Group, a producer of digital-branded short new opportunities to extend the reach of our content for form entertainment.
Most recently, in December 2014 the consumer.
ITV made an investment in Zealot, a digital content multiplatform network founded by Danny Zappin, former CEO of Exploring new models for YouTube multi-channel network Maker Studios.
content creation Generating new sources of pay revenue As the way in which our viewers consume content changes, ITV earns revenue from pay television through licensing our especially amongst the younger generation, we are growing channels and content.
In 2014 Pay revenue grew by 63% as our exposure to new types of content including short form we negotiated and renewed a number of deals.
and younger-focused long form programming.
In 2014 we agreed a deal with YouTube to launch a number of short Most significantly, in January 2014 we announced a new form channels including Im A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of four-year deal with Sky, which makes ITV content available Here!, The Chase and our soaps.
through Skys range of connected platforms including Sky HD, Sky Go, Now TV and Sky Store.
This deal included our We are also building a presence in international digital first ever pay only channel, ITV Encore, which we launched in production.
Our acquisition of US producer DiGa in the first June.
Additionally in 2014, we extended our deal with Virgin half of 2014 gave ITV exposure to digital formats.
for another year covering HD versions of ITV2, ITV3 and ITV4 as well as our new FTA channel ITVBe, and signed several other deals including new deals with BT and TalkTalk.
com Stock code: ITV Strategy and Operations Chief Executives Review Performance Dashboard Strategic Priority 1 Strategic Priority 2 Strategic Priority 3 Online, Pay & Interactive revenue Now a material and Global profitable part of the 30% m YoY Entertainment 160 Group 140 revenue up 7% to Reflects strong growth in 120 Online and Pay as we further diversify our revenue streams.
100 144m 80 Read more on Online, Pay & 60 Interactive Revenue on page 41 40 In June 2014 09 10 11 12 13 14 we launched our new pay Launched 12 Invested in television channel YouTube three digital channels in 2014 ITV Encore content businesses: profitable from day one Believe, Indigenous with ten following in 2015 and Zealot Global Entertainment A library of over is a leading 40,000 European 63% distributor of More information on Global growth in Entertainment can be found at television content www.
com Pay revenue 4 year deal Mr Selfridge, Lewis Investment and Hells Kitchen US with Sky to make ITV content available through sold to over in Cirkus Skys platforms including a subscription VOD service 150 countries Sky HD, SkyGo, Now TV and Sky Store 31 slugline 206% Increase on 2009 50 58 81 102 118 153 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 Strategy and Operations Strategic Priority continued We are also looking to develop wider partnerships with on Past initiatives have included: trialling pay opportunities demand players as consumer demand for VOD continues on ITV Player for episode premieres of programmes: our to grow.
For example, in the year we made an investment in ad-free subscription ITV Player app on iOS which has been Cirkus, a UK-based subscription VOD service that offers the well received: and, most recently we made the first series best of British television content to pay television platforms of the comedy Cockroaches available exclusively online and their customers across the Nordic region.
one week ahead of its broadcast, intended to enhance viewer awareness and engagement with the shows young There remains scope to grow our UK pay revenue further audience.
We will continue to trial new sources of pay through extensions of our existing propositions as we revenue as we further develop our pay strategy.
experiment with new ways of monetising our content.
Pictured: Mr Selfridge returned for a second series in January 2014 with a series average of 6.3 million viewers and a 23% share.
The third series started airing in 2015.
Mr Selfridge has been sold to over 150 countries.
com Stock code: ITV Strategy and Operations Chief Executives Review Performance Dashboard Strategic Priority 1 Strategic Priority 2 Strategic Priority 3 A leading European 2015 and beyond Overall, looking ahead we expect continued good growth distributor of television content in pay revenue as we develop further new ways to package ITV Studios, through Global Entertainment, has a substantial and sell our content to take advantage of demand in the archive of over 40,000 hours of television and film that UK and internationally.
We will benefit from a full year of we distribute to broadcasters around the world.
This is ITV Encore and we will continue to explore new pay services predominantly ITV produced programming, with 2014 and channels while growing our exposure to new types of successes including Hells Kitchen US, Mr Selfridge and Lewis content, including digital.
which have all been sold to over 150 countries.
Global Entertainment remains well positioned for growth as We are benefitting from the growth in our UK and we expand our inventory in 2015.
In addition to our existing international production businesses as well as deeper programme and format archives, we will have new content network relationships as we build scale.
In 2014 Global available for distribution including our three new US dramas Entertainment increased revenue by 7% to 144 million as well as the benefit of Thunderbirds Are Go which has 2013: 135 million.
already sold to countries including the UK, Australia, New In addition to distributing ITVs own content, we are adding Zealand and Israel.
to our catalogue through the distribution of third party Lastly, to ensure we maximise the value of our investment content.
In 2014 we acquired the third party distribution in high quality content, we will continue to drive the debate rights to a number of international dramas including Schitts around the implementation of retransmission fees in the Creek from Canada, Jordskott from Sweden and Poldark UK.
In 2015 we will continue efforts to change the terms of from Mammoth in the UK.
UK and EU policy debate around the issue and support our Global Entertainment also continues to license ITV and third argument with strong evidence, such as the Nera report party formats successfully.
The number of UK formats sold we commissioned on the USAs retransmission consent internationally to three or more countries has increased scheme.
We will build on existing support in both the House from eight in 2013 to 12 in 2014 including Im A Celebrity... of Commons and the House of Lords in the next Parliament Get Me Out Of Here!, Saturday Night Takeaway, The Chase and continue our conversations with the regulator, Ofcom, to and Tricked.
make the case that we should be fairly compensated by the However, while Global Entertainment has a stable core of major pay TV platforms in return for access to the content long-running series for international distribution, it takes on the ITV main channel.
time for the creative pipeline of production to reach its full value potential.
The businesss available inventory naturally expands as we produce and acquire new content and in 2015 we expect to see good growth in our distribution revenue Pictured: from our strong creative pipeline, our investment in scripted Left: Aquarius, produced by Tomorrow ITV Studios in the US, is a new 13 part drama starring David Duchovny.
It is due to air on NBC in 2015. content, and further third party distribution agreements.
Right: Jordskott, a contemporary Nordic thriller, is distributed by Global Entertainment.
