ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 Governance Board of Directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 58 slugline Governance ar2014.
com Stock code: ITV Board of Directors Management Board Directors Report and Responsibilities Chairmans Governance Statement Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report Annual Remuneration Report Remuneration Policy Sir Peter Bazalgette Archie Norman Adam Crozier Ian Griffiths 1 2 3 4 Non-executive Director Chairman Chief Executive Group Finance Director Appointed: June 2013 Appointed: January 2010 Appointed: April 2010 Appointed: September 2008 Committees: Nomination, Committees: Nomination Committees: General Purpose Committees: General Purpose Remuneration Chairman, Remuneration Key areas of prior experience: Key areas of prior experience: Key areas of prior experience: Key areas of prior experience: Business turnaround and change Corporate finance and financial Media consultant, digital media Business turnaround, consumer management.
investor and former television marketing, international business Current external appointments: Current external appointments: producer.
corporate finance and regulatory Non-executive Director Non-executive Director G4S plc.
Current external appointments: DS Smith Plc.
Previous experience: Chairman Arts Council of Current external appointments: Previous experience: Group Non-executive Director England: Non-executive Director Chairman Lazard, London and Finance Director Emap plc.
Debenhams plc and Camelot Nutopia and Mirriad Ltd: President Hobbycraft PLC: Director Coles Senior finance roles held within Group plc: Group Chief Executive Royal Television Society: Group and Target Limited: Adviser Emap plc including Director Royal Mail Group: Chief Executive Senior Non-executive Director Wesfarmers Limited: Governor of financial control and head Football Association: Joint Chief and Chairman Remuneration National Institute of Economic and of finance at Emap Business Executive Saatchi & Saatchi.
Committee of YouGov plc: Social Research.
Communications: Manager - Audit Member Audit Committee, Previous experience: Founder and corporate finance, Ernst & YouGov plc.
Previous experience: NonLLP: Chairman HSS Hire Services executive Director DCMS, Base Group and Energis PLC: Chief 79 Ltd, Critical Information Group Executive and Chairman ASDA plc and Channel Four Television Group plc: Finance Director Corp: Trustee DebateMate: Kingfisher plc: Member of Chairman ENO and Endemol UK: Parliament.
Partner - McKinsey Deputy Chairman and Director & Co. : Deputy Chairman and National Film and Television Chief Executive - Conservative School: Adviser Sony Musics Party: Shadow Secretary of State television division: Chairman - Department of Environment, UK production business at Sony Transport and the Regions: NonPictures Television Inc. executive Director - British Rail, Railtrack plc and Geest plc.
Andy Haste Mary Harris Roger Faxon John Ormerod 5 6 7 8 Senior Independent Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointed: August 2008 Appointed: October 2012 Appointed: January 2008 Appointed: July 2014 Committees: Audit, Remuneration Committees: Nomination Committees: Audit Chairman, Committees: Nomination Chairman, Nomination Nomination, Remuneration Key areas of prior experience: Key areas of prior experience: Key areas of prior experience: Broad commercial, digital Key areas of prior experience: Business management consulting, International and emerging and media rights experience, Financial experience, developing sales and marketing, mergers and markets, change management, development of business strategy strategy and growth.
acquisitions, media, television and restructuring and business and finance.
interactive media investments and Current external appointments: turnaround.
Current external appointments: Non-executive Director First Current external appointments: Director - The John Hopkins Names Group Limited and Current external appointments: Chairman Wonga Group Limited: University, The Songwriters Hall of Constellium NV: Chairman Tribal Non-executive Director Reckitt Senior Independent Deputy Fame and Mirriad Limited.
Group plc: Non-executive Director Benckiser Group plc and J. Sainsbury Chairman Council of Lloyds.
and Chairman Audit Committee, plc: Member of supervisory Previous experience: Director Gemalto NV and Computacenter plc.
Previous experience: Group board Scotch and Soda NV, TNT EMI Group Global Limited and Chief Executive - RSA Insurance Express NV and Unibail Rodamco EMI Group plc: Chief Executive Previous experience: Senior Group plc: Chief Executive - AXA SE: Member of Remuneration Officer EMI Group Limited: Independent Director and Sun plc: Director AXA UK plc Committee St. Hildas College, Chairman and CEO EMI Music Chairman Audit Committee, life and pensions : President Oxford University.
Publishing, Music Choice Digital Misys plc: Trustee Design and Chief Executive Officer Cable Radio, the American Society Museum and The Roundhouse Previous experience: Member GE Capital Global Consumer of Composers and Authors and Trust: Non-executive Director and of supervisory board TNT NV: Finance UK, Western Europe Lancit Media Entertainment Ltd in Chairman Merlin Claims Services Member of advisory board and Eastern Europe: President the US: Chairman VIVA Television Holdings Limited: Non-executive Irdeto BV.
Partner of McKinsey & National Westminster Bank US in Germany: Director Channel V Director Negative Equity Company, Amsterdam: Various Consumer Credit Business: Senior Networks in Asia.
Protection Holdings Limited, Millen positions worldwide - McKinsey & Vice President and Head US Group Limited and BMS Associated Company, Maxwell Entertainment Consumer Loan Products Division Limited: Member of Audit and Group, Pepsi Cola Beverages and at National Westminster Bank.
Retail Risk Control Committees, Goldman Sachs & Co. HBOS plc: Chairman Audit Committee, Transport for London.
Practice Senior Partner - Deloitte: Full biographies can be found on our website: Regional Managing Partner - www.
com about management board-of-directors Arthur Andersen.
