ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 Governance Management Board 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 60 slugline Governance ar2014.
com Stock code: ITV Board of Directors Management Board Directors Report and Responsibilities Chairmans Governance Statement Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report Annual Remuneration Report Remuneration Policy Peter Fincham Mary Fagan Andrew Garard 1 2 3 Director of Television, Group Communications and Group Legal Director and Channels and Online Corporate Affairs Director Company Secretary Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: May 2008 January 2011 November 2007 Previous experience: Previous experience: Previous experience: Peter joined ITV in 2008 having previously Mary joined ITV from the Royal Mail Group, Andrew joined ITV as Group Legal Director been the controller of BBC One.
He began where she was Corporate and Government in 2007 and took on the additional role his career in broadcasting at independent Affairs Director from December 2003.
A senior of Company Secretary in 2009.
He is also production company Talkback Productions, City and Business journalist with more than Chairman of ITN, and responsible for rights where he became Managing Director in 1986.
20 years experience, Marys previous roles management, the ITV archive and Corporate In 2000 Talkback Productions was sold to included Deputy City Editor of the Sunday Responsibility.
Previously Andrew was a Fremantle Media and in 2003 Peter became Telegraph, Industrial Correspondent for the Partner in the corporate department of Chief Executive of the newly merged company Independent and City Reporter at the Evening LeBoeuf Lambs London office.
Andrew was Group General Counsel and Company Secretary at Cable & Wireless plc where he was a member of the Group Executive responsible for Global Legal.
Prior to that he was Global Head of Legal and Deputy General Counsel of Reuters Group plc in the UK, and before that, General Counsel Asia.
David Osborn Simon Pitts Kevin Lygo 4 5 6 Group Human Resources Director Managing Director, Online, Pay TV, Managing Director, ITV Studios Interactive & Technology Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: October 2014 August 2010 January 2011 Previous experience: Previous experience: Previous experience: Before joining ITV Kevin spent much of his David joined ITV as the Human Resources Simon joined ITV in 2000 and has held a career at Channel 4, most recently as Director Director for ITV Studios in May 2011, and range of roles across corporate strategy, of Television and Content which included was appointed to the Management Board general management, digital media, policy responsibility for Channel 4 Groups portfolio in October 2014 as Group Human Resources and regulation, and public affairs.
Kevins previous roles include Director, responsible for delivering the Groups on his most recent role in December 2014 Director of Programmes at Channel 5 as well People Strategy.
David has gained previous with a remit to grow ITVs Online, Pay TV and as a number of positions at the BBC, including experience in both the UK and internationally Interactive businesses alongside continued Head of Independent Commissioning for whilst working in a variety of businesses leadership of the Technology Group.
including EMI Music, Vodafone, Visa Europe and has responsibility for SDN, sits on the boards of Marks & Spencer.
ITN and YouView and is a Trustee of the Royal Television Society.
Before ITV Simon worked in the European Parliament in Brussels where he Kelly Williams specialised in media issues.
7 Managing Director, Commercial Appointment to the Board: December 2014 Previous experience: Kelly joined ITV in August 2011 as Group Commercial Director and was promoted to the Management Board as Managing Director of Commercial in December 2014.
He is also Chairman of the Thinkbox Board, sits on the BARB Strategy Board and is Vice Chairman of the Advertising Association.
Before joining ITV, Kelly was the Sales Director at Channel 5 and prior to that held various positions at UKTV, Sky and Thames Television.
