ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 Strategy and Operations Strategic Priority Maximise audience and revenue share from free-to-air broadcast and VOD business ITV has unique scale, delivering 99% of all commercial Television remains the most efficient and effective way for audiences over five million.
We invest over 1 billion annually brands to achieve mass simultaneous reach and ITV, as the in our programming, significantly more than our commercial biggest marketing platform in the UK, continues to be in high competitors, and have an unrivalled ability to deliver mass demand from advertisers.
In 2014, ITV Family NAR grew by 6% audiences across all demographics for our advertisers.
This with growth across the major categories, supporting our best scale and the strength of our brand underpin the success of outperformance of the advertising market for five years.
our free-to-air and on demand platforms.
In addition to the ITV main channel delivering mass audiences we also deliver targeted audiences to our Robust broadcast business remains advertisers through our digital channels.
ITV4 had a strong central to our strategy year in 2014 attracting male audiences, which are hard to While the media environment is changing rapidly, our reach, with live sport and movies.
ITV2 and ITV3 remain the broadcast business has performed consistently well over largest digital channels in the UK and our ambition is to have the last few years and has generated significant profit and the most watched, most loved and most talked about family cash, supported by our strong programme schedule, tight of channels for every household and every advertiser in cost control and a sustained recovery in the UK advertising the UK.
Since 2009 we have maintained our market leading position as the only commercial broadcaster consistently Our portfolio was further strengthened in the year by the able to deliver mass audiences to our advertisers, and over launch of ITVBe in October, targeted at a young female this period we have grown our share of broadcast from audience and now the home to The Only Way Is Essex.
This 44.7% to 45.9% in 2014. enabled us to reposition ITV2 for a more targeted younger audience who remain an important part of our commercial During this time, traditional linear television viewing has proposition as we look to grow our viewing and revenue remained resilient, despite significant changes in the availability share across all demographics.
Average television viewing is the same as it was ten years ago, at 221 minutes per person per Ongoing focus on improving day compared to 222 minutes in 2004, and the majority of viewing performance viewing is still live.
The viewer experience has been improved by Our family of channels provides an important platform to a greater choice of channels and greater flexibility in delivery, make ITV content famous before exploiting it internationally.
fuelling demand for high quality content that has the power to We therefore remain very focused on improving on screen engage and bring audiences together.
performance to ensure we continue to deliver mass audiences through standout content that underpins our brand.
