ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 Overview Business Model ITVs strategic assets ITVs competitive advantage is underpinned by three strategic assets: high quality content, our strong brand and our talented, creative people.
The value we create from these assets supports our strong balance sheet and cash generation, enabling us to continue to invest in their ongoing development.
Investing in content Investing in our brand Investing in our people Building our ITV television and Developing our creative, on screen, Over 1 billion annually in main channel brand commercial and operational talent programming for multiple platforms Extending that brand to our Attracting diversity amongst the portfolio of channels and skills, experience and makeup of Developing and acquiring digital assets to reach all our workforce intellectual property IP for demographics ITV Studios Maximising training and Growing our portfolio of programme development opportunities Financing productions both on brands and extending those brands and off-ITV to acquire global Driving higher employee beyond the television set distribution rights engagement Sources of competitive advantage As an integrated producer broadcaster we create value from world-class content that we develop, own and distribute around the world.
The scale of our free and pay platforms and our investment in our programme budget delivers unrivalled commercial audiences that drive our advertising revenue.
As the UKs biggest marketing platform our channels also enable us to showcase our own content to make it famous, and give it a proven track record, before selling it internationally.
As the demand for proven content continues to grow, we are diversifying and driving new revenue streams.
As well as developing our online and pay revenue, we have built a global network in the development, production and distribution of content.
Through investment in our creative pipeline and strategic acquisitions in key creative markets we are building scale in our international content business, exploiting programmes and formats that travel.
3 Maximise audience and revenue share from 2 free-to-air broadcast and VOD business Grow international World-class content business 2 content Build a global pay and distribution business 3 2 Global UKs biggest distribution marketing platform Diverse Unrivalled revenue commercial streams audiences 3 08 slugline Strategic Report ar2014.
com Stock code: ITV Overview Investor Proposition 2014 Highlights ITV at a Glance Strategy Business Model Market Review Chairmans Statement Sources of competitive advantage ITV has unique scale and reach in the UK, delivering World-class content mass audiences on our free and pay platforms across all At the core of ITV is our focus on creativity and content, demographics and regions.
whether selling unique content around the world or investing in third party content to broadcast on In 2014 we attracted 726 million long form video multiple platforms.
requests via online and on demand platforms, including ITV Player.
We benefit from our status as an integrated producer broadcaster.
By showcasing our own content on our Read more on Strategic Priority platforms we make it famous before distributing it on page 22 around the world.
UKs biggest marketing platform ITV Studios, the largest UK commercial production ITV reaches around 80% of the television owning company, creates content for ITV and other population each week, something that no other broadcasters in the UK.
advertising medium or commercial broadcaster is able Internationally we operate in, and have built scale in, to do.
key global creative markets through organic growth We work with advertisers and advertising agencies and selective acquisitions of content companies with to provide unique commercial partnerships and attractive IP and creative talent.
sponsorship opportunities that extend beyond the In the US, the most valuable content market in the television set, benefiting from our experienced sales world, ITV is now the largest unscripted independent teams and relationships with advertisers and agencies.
producer, and we are growing our scripted content As well as mass audience exposure on our main channel business.
we also deliver more targeted audiences on our family 2 3 of channels and ITV Player.
Read more on Strategic Priorities on pages 22, 26 and 30 Our new digital channel ITVBe is targeted at a young female audience, highly sought after by advertisers, while Global distribution ITV2 and ITV3 are the biggest digital channels in the UK ITV has built relationships globally, with major networks and ITV4 reaches a highly valued male audience.
and local broadcasters, and owns the IP to a diverse portfolio of shows for international distribution, with Read more on Strategic Priority an emphasis on genres that return and travel, such as on page 22 entertainment and drama.
Diverse revenue streams Our catalogue of finished programmes and formats By developing and retaining the rights to content, ITV is sold by Global Entertainment which is a leading is able to monetise the value of our current and archive European distributor of television content.
Global Entertainment has a catalogue of over 40,000 We earn pay revenue primarily from licensing our hours of television and film content which we license to channels, including ITV Encore, and content to pay over 3,000 partners globally.
operators and online video on demand VOD services.
Read more on Strategic Priorities 2 3 We also monetise consumer interaction with our on pages 26 and 30 biggest shows through competitions and voting, thereby increasing viewer engagement.
Unrivalled commercial audiences ITV invests in a varied and high quality programme ITV continues to work to extend our programme brands schedule, funded mainly by advertising, more than any beyond the television set through consumer products other UK commercial broadcaster.
This enables us to and live events.
deliver the largest commercial audiences in the UK.
Read more on Strategic Priorities 3 99% of all commercial audiences over five million are on pages 22 and 30 on ITV.
