ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 Overview Market Review The market environment in which we operate is ITV is now a genuine global player in non-scripted content, constantly changing.
Consolidation of media and being the largest unscripted independent producer in the telecoms companies and the increasing influence of US and a top indie producer in Germany, as well as the technology brings both challenges and opportunities largest commercial production company in the UK.
The large that we need to be able to respond to with pace and independent production companies, such as Endemol Shine confidence.
Group and Fremantle Media, continue to be ITV Studios main competitors in non-scripted content.
Global Content Global demand for content continues to grow, with more Broadcast & Online channels, more platforms and new entrants increasing Advertising revenue spend on high quality programming.
This growth can In the UK television has broadly held its share of the overall be attributed to a number of factors, including a more advertising market over the last five years, with a share of successful international pay television market with more 27.6% in 2014 2009: 27.5%.
Internet advertising has grown channels in more countries: convergence in the television its share of the UK advertising market from 27.6% in 2009 market, where telecom and other companies with significant to 43.9% in 2014, making the UK one of the most developed financial resources are increasingly competing with markets for online advertising.
This growth is at the expense traditional media companies for content and viewers: new of press advertising, which declined to 18.3% in 2014, down online players such as Netflix and Amazon starting to invest from 34.2% in 2009. heavily in archive and new content: and online advertising Within the UK television advertising market, we estimate driven platforms like YouTube and Facebook creating a new ITVs share of broadcast was 45.9% in 2014, up from 44.7% in market for short form and digital content.
This demonstrates ITVs unique position in delivering The US is by far the largest content market in the world, mass audiences.
dominating the global production sector, with the UK Within online advertising, display accounts for 32% of the second largest market.
This represents a significant the total online advertising spend 2013: 30%, with the opportunity for ITV Studios which has a strong presence in remaining 68% spent on search and classified.
within the display section of this market, providing an Demand for scripted drama, and US scripted drama in advertising platform around our online video content.
particular, has increased significantly in the last few years.
US studios continue to dominate the market for US drama with these companies now expanding internationally.
ITV Televisions share of the Studios America is developing a scripted business in the US advertising market in conjunction with various international partnerships.
In the Television 27.6% UK, where there is still stronger demand and higher viewing Press 18.3% figures for UK content over imported series, we are a major Radio 2.8% Cinema 1.2% producer of scripted content.
Outdoor 6.2% While not growing as quickly as scripted content, demand Internet 43.9% for non-scripted content remains strong as networks continue to require low cost, high volume popular series for Source: Advertising Association, January 2015 their programme schedules.
The UK remains the dominant producer of non-scripted formats, producing almost twice as many unique non-scripted formats as the US.
Along with the established entertainment and factual entertainment genres, scripted reality programming, where we have focused our recent acquisitions, has grown quickly with formats such as Pawn Stars, Real Housewives and Duck Dynasty.
com Stock code: ITV Overview Investor Proposition 2014 Highlights ITV at a Glance Strategy Business Model Market Review Chairmans Statement Increasingly homes are supplementing their free television Television viewing with other forms of paid content such as subscription VOD or Broadcast television viewing around the world has remained by purchasing additional channels from providers such as BT.
resilient over the last few years and overall viewing levels have remained high.
In most territories the major networks ITV participates in the pay television market, earning revenue continue to dominate viewing despite significantly increased from various third parties, including Sky and Virgin, through competition and a proliferation of new devices and delivery the licensing of channels and content.
its first pay only television channel, ITV Encore, on the Sky platform which joins our other pay channels, ITV2 HD, ITV3 HD Average television viewing in the UK in 2014 was down and ITV4 HD.
However, over a longer term basis viewing has been resilient despite year on year fluctuations.
Non-linear viewing UK average television viewing in 2014 was the same as it Non-linear viewing of long form content is mostly recorded, was ten years ago at 221 minutes per day, compared to or timeshifted, viewing and catch up of live television linear 222 minutes per day in 2004 source: BARB.
It also encompasses VOD or Over The Top OTT delivery of other long form content such as box sets and ITV competes for viewers with the BBC and other commercial movies.
broadcasters including Channel 4, Sky and Channel 5.
Since the digital switchover, the number of available channels has While non-linear viewing has grown fast it still accounts grown which impacted the SOV of the traditional broadcasters for a small proportion of total viewing time.
In the UK we in recent years.
Despite an increase in the number of channels, estimate 83% of all viewing of legal long form content is ITV and BBC1 continue to be the only channels consistently live including simulcast, with a further 12% timeshifted able to deliver mass audiences, and in 2014 ITV once again via a Personal Video Recorder PVR and watched within 28 delivered 99% of all commercial audiences over five million days of the original broadcast date.
In 2014 the ITV family of channels received a 22.0% of content viewed on demand, 2% is catch up viewing of SOV, second only to the BBCs family of channels.
broadcaster content via the television set or to other devices such as tablets and mobiles.
The remaining 3% of content is other VOD viewing, where viewing of box sets via services Share of viewing by broadcaster such as Netflix is replacing viewing of DVDs.
This is growing quickly driven by increased availability of devices such as ITV Family 22.0% smartphones, tablets and connected televisions.
BBC Family 32.9% Channel 4 Family 10.9% Five Family 5.9% Sky Family 8.3% Long form content viewing Other 20.0% Live including simulcast 83% Source: BARB Timeshifted PVR up to 28 days 12% VOD: Broadcaster catch up 2% VOD: Other 3% Pay television The platform mix in the UK is roughly 50% free-to-air and 50% pay.
Free-to-air television is delivered through the Source: Internal estimates services Freeview, YouView and Freesat, while pay television is delivered through the satellite operator Sky and cable operator Virgin.
Pay television revenue continues to grow in the UK in aggregate but the market dynamics are changing rapidly as established pay television providers such as Sky and Virgin come under pressure from relatively new entrants to the market such as BT and Netflix.
