ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 Strategy and Operations Strategic Priority Grow international content business Growing a strong international content business is Expanding our creative production pipeline central to our strategy as an integrated producer Our focus in the next phase of our growth strategy is on broadcaster.
As ITV creates and owns more content, leveraging the scale we have in our current markets to grow our channels provide a platform to showcase our our market share and expand the number of global networks programmes before distributing them across multiple and OTT players we work with, especially in the US.
platforms in the UK and internationally.
ITV now has a strong portfolio of successful series and Building scale in attractive markets formats that are returning year after year and can be The strong global demand for high quality content from distributed globally.
We are looking to expand our portfolio broadcasters and platform owners provides a significant across a more diverse range of programming genres, opportunity for ITV Studios.
Our strategy is to capitalise particularly long-running scripted series that appeal to on this demand by growing our international production the international market.
In addition to formats produced presence, building scale in attractive production markets in-house we are growing our portfolio by partnering with and developing IP in creative markets that has the ability to new creative talent who are attracted to our independent travel the world.
status outside of the UK, our distribution capability and strong network relationships, and we are also acquiring and The US and UK are the dominant creative markets, with investing in third party IP.
the US the largest exporter of scripted content and the UK the world leader for exported formats.
Over the last three Benefitting from the Groups strong financial position, cash years, ITV has built significant scale in both markets on the generation and global distribution we are also retaining back of organic growth and 11 acquisitions.
We are building more IP by producing drama straight to series in the UK and real momentum as we continue to invest in a strong and US.
Although more expensive than producing a pilot, this healthy creative pipeline, focusing specifically on genres that helps attract high profile talent to a production and raises return and travel, namely drama, entertainment and factual the profile of the series to support its distribution.
production cost is partly funded by pre-selling the series to a network, while the remainder, the deficit, is covered by As a result, we have cemented our position as the number one revenue from the international distribution of the finished commercial producer in the UK.
We are already the largest product.
As our portfolio grows, we will have a number of unscripted independent producer in the US as well as a top shows at different stages of the production cycle thereby indie in Germany and a growing player in the Nordics.
balancing our financial exposure at any one point in time.
com Stock code: ITV Strategy and Operations Chief Executives Review Performance Dashboard Strategic Priority 1 Strategic Priority 2 Strategic Priority 3 ITV Studios US now generating International production revenue 141 programmes Now a global player 24% m of scale and 884 hours YoY 350 We delivered 24% growth in of content annually in 300 international production revenue partnership with 45 networks in 2014 with US revenue up by 34% 250 and revenue for the rest of the 200 world up 4%.
150 Upcoming deliveries of 100 programming in 2015 include Read more on ITV Studios revenue 50 on page 42 0 Thunderbirds 09 10 11 12 13 14 Are Go Percentage of ITV output from ITV Studios and 3 US scripted dramas Growing our internal % creative capability 60 Making more commissions from ITV Studios famous on our multiple 55 Largest unscripted platforms before distributing them around the world.
independent 50 Excludes ITV2, 3 and 4 producer of content 45 Read more on in the US 40 page 37 09 10 11 12 13 14 12 formats sold to 3 or more countries 1,200 149 36 formats episodes of new series delivered new commissions in 2014 sold internationally and over 5,000 up from 121 in 2013 episodes of recommissions ITV Studios Three content won acquisitions in 2014, 5,700 149 with 11 acquisitions in 5 BAFTAs hours of original total since 2012 content produced and delivered in the year in 2014 27 slugline 139% Increase on 2009 50 138 53 106 55 141 58 171 59 266 60 330 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 Strategy and Operations Strategic Priority continued In 2014, ITV Studios total UK revenue was up 1% to 459 Investing to build an international business million 2013: 456 million with growth impacted by the Our acquisitions to date have been focused on factual and proportion of the ITV Broadcast programme budget allocated scripted reality producers in the US and UK, the two key to the FIFA World Cup.
This reduced the available spend on markets with a track record for creating and owning IP.
We internal drama and entertainment shows in the year.
However, are looking for companies with a solid financial and creative during the year we continued to grow the number of shows track record as well as a strong pipeline.
By maintaining this that return and travel with 2014 recommissions for ITV strict acquisition criteria, ITV has become a top global player including Mr Selfridge, Saturday Night Takeaway and Big in non-scripted production.
In 2014 we made three acquisitions as we look to continue Off-ITV we delivered new series of The Graham Norton Show to diversify our revenue streams and increase our reach.
and In It To Win It for the BBC, and Come Dine With Me and In February we acquired a 51% controlling interest in DiGa 24 hours in A&E for Channel 4.
Vision DiGa, a US independent producer of reality and scripted programming, and 100% of United Production We continue to receive strong recognition for the quality United, a Danish producer of factual and entertainment of our programming and calibre of our talent and won five programmes.
BAFTAs for our content in 2014.
In May we made our largest acquisition to date, purchasing Top international indie producer 80% of Leftfield Entertainment, a high margin US producer Our international production business is growing strongly, of reality programmes, for an initial cash payment of with revenue up 24% to 330 million 2013: 266 million $360 million.
Leftfield also owns Sirens Media and has in 2014. established two joint ventures, Loud Television and Outpost We are now the largest unscripted independent producer Entertainment.
Together the group produces more than in the US, generating 141 programmes and 884 hours of 300 hours of unscripted programming for over 30 US content in 2014 in partnership with 45 networks.
US revenue networks with a portfolio that includes Pawn Stars, American increased 34% to 235 million in 2014 2013: 175 million Restoration and The Real Housewives of New Jersey.
reflecting the acquisition of Leftfield and the longevity These businesses add to our growing portfolio of production and international appeal of our successful returning series.
companies acquired over the last three years which have In response to network demand, we have built a strong included Gurney Productions, High Noon Entertainment and portfolio of high volume formats and shows that return Thinkfactory Media in the US, The Garden Productions, Big year after year.
Examples delivered in 2014 included Hells Talk Productions and So TV in the UK, as well as Tarinatalo Kitchen USA, Pawn Stars and Duck Dynasty.
and Mediacircus in the Nordics.
Our other international bases in Germany, France, Australia We are also looking to develop joint ventures with key creative and the Nordics produce their own original formats talent, such as our scripted drama and comedy partnership alongside UK formats.
International revenue increased 4% with Marty Adelstein which launched Tomorrow ITV Studios in 2014 to 95 million 2013: 91 million driven by good in 2014.
More recently, we announced a new entertainment organic growth in Germany and France.
Germany benefitted label within ITV Studios, Possessed Television, in partnership from commissions in the year which included Quizduell, with Glenn Hugill.
series eight of Ich Bin Ein Star the German version of Im a Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here!
Hells Kitchen and Mini Beiz, Number one commercial Dini Beiz while France benefitted from Four Weddings and producer in the UK Party Wars.
Other international successes delivered during Local content in the UK continues to drive the largest the year included The Chase in Norway, Keeping the Nation audiences and, as an integrated producer broadcaster, ITV is Alive in Norway and Denmark, and Big Stars Little Star in well placed to benefit from this demand.
spend on original commissions on the ITV main channel is now with ITV Studios, up from 50% in 2009.
Pictured: Texas Rising is co-produced by ITV Studios, with Global Entertainment holding the global distribution rights.
com Stock code: ITV Strategy and Operations Chief Executives Review Performance Dashboard Strategic Priority 1 Strategic Priority 2 Strategic Priority 3 Thunderbirds Are Go in the UK, Im a Celebrity... Get Me Out 2015 and beyond Of Here!
in Australia and Saturday Night Takeaway in the US.
We look ahead to 2015 with confidence as the production While our drama production has historically been focused on lead times give us good visibility of our upcoming deliveries.
the UK market, we are growing our scripted presence in the We expect ITV Studios again to deliver around 100 million US and have three large scale dramas, Aquarius, Texas Rising revenue growth on a constant currency basis reflecting a and The Good Witch that will go straight to series in 2015. return to good organic growth, helped by our investment in global scripted content and supported by a full year of our Longer term, leveraging our network relationships and 2014 acquisitions.
As ever, ITVs revenue growth will not be global scale in production and distribution, our strategy is spread evenly throughout the year because of the phasing to have an ongoing portfolio with six to ten international of the delivery schedule required by our network and cable scripted series in production per annum.
We will also look customers.
to accelerate growth through further acquisitions while working to attract and retain key creative talent to ensure New commissions to be delivered in 2015 will include our creative pipeline remains strong.
dramas Jekyll and Hyde, Home Fires and the relaunch of 29 slugline
