ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 Strategy and Operations Strategic Priority Maximise audience and revenue share from free-to-air broadcast and VOD business ITV has unique scale, delivering 99% of all commercial Television remains the most efficient and effective way for audiences over five million.
We invest over 1 billion annually brands to achieve mass simultaneous reach and ITV, as the in our programming, significantly more than our commercial biggest marketing platform in the UK, continues to be in high competitors, and have an unrivalled ability to deliver mass demand from advertisers.
In 2014, ITV Family NAR grew by 6% audiences across all demographics for our advertisers.
This with growth across the major categories, supporting our best scale and the strength of our brand underpin the success of outperformance of the advertising market for five years.
our free-to-air and on demand platforms.
In addition to the ITV main channel delivering mass audiences we also deliver targeted audiences to our Robust broadcast business remains advertisers through our digital channels.
ITV4 had a strong central to our strategy year in 2014 attracting male audiences, which are hard to While the media environment is changing rapidly, our reach, with live sport and movies.
ITV2 and ITV3 remain the broadcast business has performed consistently well over largest digital channels in the UK and our ambition is to have the last few years and has generated significant profit and the most watched, most loved and most talked about family cash, supported by our strong programme schedule, tight of channels for every household and every advertiser in cost control and a sustained recovery in the UK advertising the UK.
Since 2009 we have maintained our market leading position as the only commercial broadcaster consistently Our portfolio was further strengthened in the year by the able to deliver mass audiences to our advertisers, and over launch of ITVBe in October, targeted at a young female this period we have grown our share of broadcast from audience and now the home to The Only Way Is Essex.
This 44.7% to 45.9% in 2014. enabled us to reposition ITV2 for a more targeted younger audience who remain an important part of our commercial During this time, traditional linear television viewing has proposition as we look to grow our viewing and revenue remained resilient, despite significant changes in the availability share across all demographics.
Average television viewing is the same as it was ten years ago, at 221 minutes per person per Ongoing focus on improving day compared to 222 minutes in 2004, and the majority of viewing performance viewing is still live.
The viewer experience has been improved by Our family of channels provides an important platform to a greater choice of channels and greater flexibility in delivery, make ITV content famous before exploiting it internationally.
fuelling demand for high quality content that has the power to We therefore remain very focused on improving on screen engage and bring audiences together.
performance to ensure we continue to deliver mass audiences through standout content that underpins our brand.
com Stock code: ITV Strategy and Operations Chief Executives Review Performance Dashboard Strategic Priority 1 Strategic Priority 2 Strategic Priority 3 In 2014 ITV broadcast the most ITV Family share of broadcast watched programme of the year with Maintaining our the England v Uruguay World Cup % market leading match, the most watched soap with 46 Coronation Street, the most watched position 45 new drama with Cilla and the most Share of broadcast increased in watched entertainment programme 44 the year as we benefitted from the with Britains Got Talent World Cup and our consistent ability 43 to deliver highly demanded mass and 42 target audiences to our advertisers.
41 8 million Read more on NAR on page 40 40 registered users of ITV Player 09 10 11 12 13 14 up 129% since 2013 Long form video requests Strong demand for 26% ITV VOD m YoY 800 Long form video requests were up 26% in 2014, supported by an 99% 600 improved ITV Player interface and of all commercial increased distribution and reach of 400 our VOD content.
audiences over five million in 2014 200 were delivered by ITV Read more on our Online business on page 25 0 09 10 11 12 13 14 ITV2 and ITV3 Over 1 billion are the UKs two invested in largest digital 21% programming for our channels family of channels growth in Online revenue Over 750k 22% share tickets sold ITV Player of viewing launched on new platforms in 2014 to live events for the ITV Family including Windows Phone 8, Sky Go, Now TV, Roku and Amazon Kindle Fire.
Now available on more than 20 in 2014 platforms in 2014 23 slugline 384% Increase on 2009 150 44.7 273 45.2 406 45.3 496 45.8 577 45.4 726 45.9 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 Strategy and Operations Strategic Priority continued ITV Family SOV declined 5% in 2014, following a strong year Other notable successes have included The X Factor, Im A in 2013 when we were up 4%.
This largely reflects a 4% Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here!, Ant and Decs Saturday Night decline in the ITV main channel SOV.
Although benefitting Takeaway, Grantchester, Prey, Vera and Downton Abbey.
from the World Cup in June, the main channel delivered a Our core schedule, which underpins the ITV brand, also lower audience share against strong competition from the continues to perform well.
Coronation Street was again the BBC.
ITV2 also contributed to the decline, partly as a result of most watched soap of the year, averaging 8.4 million viewers more competition from new digital channels in the year, but in 2014.
Overall, ITV continues to gain strong recognition for also due to our repositioning of the channel to provide more the quality of our programming and calibre of our talent.
In targeted audiences for our advertisers through the launch 2014 we won 101 awards including eight BAFTAs.
ITV Family SOCI was down 5%, with the ITV main channel down 6%.
As we look ahead to 2015 we remain focused on improving SOV.
While still drawing strong audiences, some of our most Despite this, we still enjoyed some real successes this year, successful shows are maturing.
We will therefore continue airing the most watched programme of 2014 with the to rejuvenate our schedule, creatively and commercially, England vs Uruguay World Cup match, as well as the most increasing our investment in high quality content and seeking watched entertainment show with Britains Got Talent, the new ways to maximise the value of our airtime.
most watched comedy with Birds of a Feather and the most watched new drama with Cilla.
Pictured: Coronation Street is the UKs most watched soap, averaging 8.4 million viewers per episode in 2014.
2014 also saw the launch of the highly successful Coronation Street set tour in Manchester, which attracted over 400,000 visitors.
com Stock code: ITV Strategy and Operations Chief Executives Review Performance Dashboard Strategic Priority 1 Strategic Priority 2 Strategic Priority 3 advertising break recreating existing television adverts in Capitalising on the growing LEGO in partnership with Warner Bros. We are also offering demand for VOD advertisers the opportunity to extend campaigns beyond Changes in technology and the growing base of connected the television spot as the first broadcaster to partner with devices are supporting a rapid growth in audiences appetite Twitter Amplify.
for VOD, which in turn is fuelling demand from new and existing platforms for high quality content and from We continue to seek new ways to build more value from advertisers for VOD inventory.
ITV, as the creator and owner our brands through various initiatives to increase consumer of content, particularly highly sought after long form drama engagement.
Over 40 million votes were cast for The X content, is well placed to exploit this growing customer base.
Factor in 2014, with the new free app driving significantly higher engagement.
We are also continuing to extend our Our Online business has grown strongly over the last few brands into off-air experiences, selling over 750,000 tickets years, with growth in online viewing driving revenue up 21% in the year for live events such as Ant & Decs Takeaway in 2014.
ITV Player, through which audiences can access ITV On Tour, The Big Reunion Boyband tour and the successful on different devices, is now contributing meaningful revenue Coronation Street set tour.
In addition, in 2014 there were to the Group.
over 900,000 combined downloads of our Tipping Point and Since launch, there have been over 16.5 million downloads The Chase mobile apps.
of the ITV Player app and in 2014 we improved its interface, 2015 and beyond enhancing the user experience by making the most popular As the viewing and advertising landscape continues to content more prominent.
We also relaunched our Android fragment, the scale of audience delivered by our biggest and iOS apps in the year to improve the delivery of live shows on the ITV family of channels becomes increasingly streaming content.
There was continued strong growth in long form video Our priority for 2015 is therefore to improve our on screen requests in 2014, up 26%.
We have been working to increase performance, strengthening our content, channels and the distribution and reach of our content and ITV Player is brand to maintain ITVs unique scale.
As a result, we have now available on over 20 platforms having launched on a invested in our programme schedule for the year across the number of new platforms in 2014, including Windows Phone premium genres of drama, entertainment and sport as well 8, Sky Go, Now TV, Roku and Amazon Kindle Fire.
as special events around our 60th anniversary.
Additionally, with eight million users of ITV Player now New dramas in 2015 will include Arthur and George, The registered, up 129% year-on-year, we continue to explore Forgotten, Safe House and Jekyll and Hyde, while we have how we can maximise the value of our digital data.
Not only a number of new and returning entertainment shows will this enable us to understand and communicate with including Newzoids, Eternal Glory and Saturday Night our audiences better but we are also looking at integrating Takeaway.
Additionally, Thunderbirds Are Go, our childrens targeting into the advertising server to enable more drama, merchandising and licensing initiative, will be addressable online advertising.
Maximising the value of our airtime Although we are disappointed that we will no longer hold the We are continually working to maximise the value of the live rights for the Champions League from the autumn, we still 30 second advertising spot and drive new revenue streams have a strong sporting schedule in 2015 with exclusive rights through sponsorship, interactivity and brand extensions.
to the Rugby World Cup, England qualifiers and friendlies, the We helped a number of brands implement successful French Open and Tour fide France in the year.
sponsorship campaigns and off-air endorsements in 2014 including Littlewoods with Im a Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Overall, despite our viewing performance being down in Here!, Dolmio with Saturday nights on ITV, Pets At Home 2014, strong advertising momentum has continued into with Paul OGrady For The Love Of Dogs and Morrisons with the start of 2015 and the television advertising outlook Britains Got Talent and Saturday Night Takeaway.
ITV Family NAR is expected to be up 11% in Q1 and up 4-7% in April.
Our Broadcast business will benefit Along with our unique commercial partnerships, ITV from a full year of our new channels and online revenue will exclusively broadcast the premiere of Sainsburys Christmas continue to grow strongly as we further improve the quality advertising campaign as well as broadcasting an entire and distribution of ITV Player.
