ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 Governance Directors Report and Responsibilities The Directors present their report together with the audited are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
Unless consolidated and parent company financial statements for expressly specified to the contrary, the Articles may only be the year ended 31 December 2014.
The comparative period amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
A copy of is for the year ended 31 December 2013. the Articles can be obtained from the Companys website or by writing to the Company Secretary.
Directors A table showing Directors who served in the year can be www.
com about governance found on page 70.
Biographies for Directors currently in office can be found on page 59.
Further information on Restrictions: There are no restrictions on the transfer of the appointment process can be found in the Governance ordinary shares in the capital of the Company other than section on page 69. those which may be imposed by law from time to time.
In accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the DTRs, certain employees are required to seek approval Code, each Director will retire and submit himself or herself to deal in ITV shares.
The Company is not aware of any for election or re-election at the AGM on 14 May 2015. agreements between shareholders that may result in On 28 July 2014 Mary Harris was appointed as a Nonrestrictions on the transfers of securities and or voting executive Director, and will seek election as a Director of rights.
Peter Bazalgette joined the Purchase of own shares: The Directors have the authority Remuneration Committee on 1 June 2014. to purchase up to 402.5 million of the Companys ordinary On 17 July 2014 Lucy Neville-Rolfe stepped down from the shares.
The authority remains valid until the AGM in 2015 or Board.
Detail on compensation for loss of office can be found in our Trusts: The Company has a discretionary employees Annual Remuneration Report on page 94. benefit trust EBT funded by loans to acquire shares for the potential benefit of employees.
Details of shares held by the No Director had any interest in any contract with the EBT at 31 December 2014 are set out on page 158.
During Company or its subsidiary undertakings.
the year shares have been released from the EBT in respect Post balance sheet events of share schemes for employees.
There are no post balance sheet events to report.
The trustee of the EBT has the power to exercise all voting Dividends rights in relation to any investment including ordinary The Board has proposed a final dividend for the year ended shares held within the EBT.
Details of this and other dividends paid Listing Rule 9.8.
4 disclosures for the year are as follows: There are no disclosures to be made other than that the trustee of the EBT waived their rights to receive dividends on 2014 2013 shares held by them which do not relate to restricted shares Interim dividend 1.4p 1.0p held under the ITV Deferred Share Award Plan.
Final dividend 3.3p 2.4p Total Ordinary 4.7p 3.5p Substantial shareholdings Information regarding interests in voting rights provided Special dividend 6.25p 4.0p to the Company pursuant to the DTRs is published on a Total Payments 10.95p 7.5p Regulatory Information Service and on the Companys website.
The final dividend and special dividend for 2014 will be paid on 29 May 2015 to shareholders on the register on 1 May www.
The ex dividend date is 30 April 2015.
As at 4 March 2015, the information in the table below Share capital had been received, in accordance with DTR5, from holders Issued: At the date of this report there were 4,025,409,194 of notifiable interests in the Companys issued share ordinary shares of 10 pence each in issue, all of which are capital.
It should be noted that these holdings are likely fully paid up and quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
to have changed since notified to the Company.
However, Rights: The rights attaching to the Companys ordinary notification of any change is not required until the next shares, as well as the powers of the Companys Directors, applicable threshold is crossed.
com Stock code: ITV Board of Directors Management Board Directors Report and Responsibilities Chairmans Governance Statement Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report Annual Remuneration Report Remuneration Policy Employees At 31 December 2014 Disability Nature of Shares % holding The Company gives full and fair consideration to the Liberty Global employment of people with disabilities in accordance with Incorporated Limited 259,820,065 6.46 Direct the Equality Act 2010.
Blackrock Inc. 195,504,921 5.00 Indirect This is reflected in an award from the Notification from Blackrock Inc. was not made in the year.
Department for Work and Pensions of a Two Ticks Disability Symbol.
The number of shares is based on announcements made by In the event of an employee becoming each relevant shareholder using the Companys issued share disabled, it is the Companys policy, wherever possible, to capital at that date.
support the individual to continue their employment or be Disclosures were also received from Brandes Investment considered for other open positions within the business.
Partners LP, Madjedie Asset Management Limited and Sky The Companys employment and recruitment policy is based Holdings Limited during the year notifying the Company on non-discrimination and equal opportunities.
We are that they no longer held a notifiable interest.
committed to ensuring that all training, career development Change of control and promotional opportunities are accessible and inclusive No person holds securities in the Company carrying special to all and individuals with a disability are afforded the same rights with regard to control of the Company.
career opportunities for growth and progression.
All of the Companys share schemes contain provisions A comprehensive Reasonable relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and Adjustment policy, disability options would normally vest and become exercisable on focused training and accessible a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any resource material enable the Company to build confidence performance conditions and proration for time where around the disability agenda to attract, develop and retain appropriate.
We are able to draw on our own inhouse service Signpost, for additional support and guidance Certain of the Groups bonds borrowing facilities have around access and inclusion for particular communities.
change of control clauses whereby the issuer can require ITV to repay redeem bonds in the event of a change of The Companys commitment around the disability agenda control.
The Company is not aware of any other significant extends beyond our legal obligations.
In addition to our agreements to which it is party that take effect, alter or corporate activities, diversity and inclusion is now factored terminate upon a change of control of the Company.
into the procurement of programme suppliers.
For a comprehensive outline of our activity visit our Corporate Financial instruments Responsibility website.
Note 4.5 to the accounts gives details of the Groups financial risk management policies and related exposures.
com responsibility Political donations Engagement It is the Companys policy not to make cash contributions Attracting and retaining talent is critical to our success.
It to any political party.
However, within the normal activities is therefore in our interest to ensure that we provide the of the Companys national and regional news-gathering appropriate rewards and opportunities for development so operations there may be occasions when an activity might that employees feel engaged with the Company.
fall within the broader definition of political expenditure contained within the Companies Act 2006.
Shareholder In 2014 the Company carried out an engagement authority for such expenditure was given at the 2014 AGM.
campaign consisting of a series of roadshows during which However, during 2014 the Group made no payments falling the Management Board visited ITV locations.
This gave within this definition 2013: nil.
employees an opportunity to feed back their thoughts and concerns about the business.
Engagement was reinforced through forums such as the intranet, regular hard copy newsletters and briefings between management and its teams.
These channels enabled employees to understand 63 slugline ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 Governance Directors Report and Responsibilities continued the financial and economic factors affecting the Companys A, B and C. Section A includes the defined contribution performance, how their role contributed towards the DC section of the Scheme.
The DC section is open to new execution of the strategy and how they could benefit from members.
The defined benefit DB sections are closed to Company success through involvement in employee share new members but are still open to future accrual.
schemes and information on their rights and benefits.
ITV Pension Scheme Limited a wholly owned subsidiary We have continued to measure and listen to employees of ITV plc is a corporate trustee and manages the DB and through employee surveys.
DC assets, which are held under trust separately from the Company.
Members of the trustee board are formally appointed as directors of ITV Pension Scheme Limited.
There Employee engagement in 2014 was are nine directors including the chairman five appointed 92% of respondents by the Company and four nominated by the members.
90% 2013: 91% said they were proud which is well ahead of the There is currently a vacancy for a Company appointed to work for ITV benchmark response of 83% director.
The trustee has four committees: Investment, Audit and Remuneration Operations, DC, and Corporate Affairs.
The Corporate When the Company reviews pay it takes a number of factors Affairs Committee is convened as and when appropriate for into consideration, including the need to stay competitive.
dealing with any corporate activities that may arise.
It is the Our focus on cash and costs remains incredibly important responsibility of the trustee to have in place appropriate for the future health of our business.
We need to balance training for its directors and effective committee structures.
our business and financial commitments with our continuing The trustee board and each committee have a business plan investment in our programming and people.
which is reviewed and updated on an annual basis, together with the associated budget.
The trustee board also has a From 1 January 2014 employees received an average pay risk register, a conflicts of interest policy and a register of increase of 2.75%.
interests policy, all of which are reviewed at least annually.
The Company continues to be committed to ensuring The trustee directors receive regular training throughout the colleagues earn at least the Living Wage or greater.
Where year and also have the support of various professional advisers.
appropriate we have agreed additional increases.
For all The chairman and the pensions executive identify training eligible colleagues on a full-time equivalent basic salary of opportunities.
Training is delivered both by attendance at 60,001 or above unless covered by a collective agreement, external courses and with targeted training to support specific pay increases are merit based, subject to performance and agenda items at the start of each trustee board meeting.
based on an overall pay pot 2.75% in 2014.
Where appropriate, longer training sessions are organised.
In addition a bonus arrangement extends to all our Comprehensive records are kept of all training completed by employees, providing a comprehensive and fully integrated each trustee director and training is discussed as part of the incentive framework which rewards everybody when the trustee evaluations conducted on an annual basis.
The all employee bonus award for The trustee board completes regular assessments of its 2014 was 1,200. advisers and has prepared a Service Charter that outlines The Company also operates a successful and popular the terms of the appointment and clarity on the services all-employee Save As You Earn scheme that encourages provided.
voluntary investment in Company shares and a package of On 28 March 2014, the Company and the trustee established voluntary benefits, which provides valuable cost savings for a Pension Funding Partnership backed by the London both employees and the Company.
Television Centre resulting in the assets of Section A as Information about remuneration for the Directors is included calculated on a funding basis being increased by 50 million, in the Annual Remuneration Report on page 82 to 95. met by annual dividend payments of around 2 million a year over a 24-year term and an initial payment of 2 million.
Pensions The Company operates a pension scheme which provides Full valuations are carried out every three years.
The latest retirement and death benefits for employees.
The ITV completed actuarial valuation of all three sections of the Pension Scheme the Scheme comprises three sections: main DB scheme was carried out as at 1 January 2011.
com Stock code: ITV Board of Directors Management Board Directors Report and Responsibilities Chairmans Governance Statement Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report Annual Remuneration Report Remuneration Policy trustee of the Scheme is undertaking actuarial valuations as that this increase could, in part, be due to a campaign at 1 January 2014 and the outcome is expected in Q2 2015. undertaken to improve awareness of the need to report lost time incidents.
To encourage greater pension savings, the Government has introduced auto-enrolment.
This requires employers to enrol Greenhouse Gas emissions all eligible individuals into a pension scheme automatically.
The Company is required to report annually on the quantity The requirement to comply with the auto-enrolment of carbon dioxide emissions in tonnes emitted as a result of regulations is being phased in with larger employers activities for which it is responsible.
required to comply first and medium and smaller employers All new regulatory data for the financial year ended following.
The Company had to comply from 2013 and has 31 December 2014 is disclosed below for direct and indirect to enrol all individuals who are contracted to work for us, emissions.
Data on other emissions where available and regardless of their contract type or tax status not just our more information on our energy use, environmental impacts, employees.
and how we aim to make a positive difference can be found Eligible individuals are enrolled into the ITV Auto-enrolment on our Corporate Responsibility website.
The plan is provided by a company called www.
com responsibility NOW:Pensions under a master trust which is run by an independent board of trustee directors.
2013 reported Pension Scheme indemnities: Qualifying pension scheme Indicator 2014 data indemnity provisions, as defined in Section 235 of the Total gross CO e emissions 40,200 t CO e 43,485 t CO e 2 2 2 Companies Act 2006, were in force for the financial year Scope 1: Direct emissions 11,180 t CO e 17,117 t CO e 2 2 ended 31 December 2014 and remain in force for the benefit Scope 2: Indirect emissions 29,021 t CO e 26,368 t CO e 2 2 of each of the directors of ITV Pension Scheme Limited.
Total Revenue 2,956m 2,753m These indemnity provisions cover, to the extent permitted Emissions per unit m turnover 13.6 t CO e 15.8 t CO e 2 2 by law, certain losses or liabilities incurred as a director or Source: Utilyx analysis of ITV data.
officer of ITV Pension Scheme Limited.
The latest conversion factors specified in Defra and DECCs 2014 guidance For further information about pensions please see page 49 were used as methodology.
28% of our data consumption is based on and note 3.7 on page 140. estimate.
This is where we are the occupier of a property but do not pay the energy bills directly.
Estimates are calculated from observed ITV consumption Health and safety intensity and published benchmarks where relevant.
The health and safety of our employees, contractors and Risk management visitors is always a high priority.
The significant loss of human Details of our High Impact Low Likelihood HILL and life as the result of a major incident has been identified as Strategic risks and our approach to risk management are set a specific risk to the organisation.
The Companys Health out on pages 50 to 55. and Safety team continue to use a management system that meets the specific risk profile of the business which Likely future developments is communicated across the business and supported by Details on strategy are set out in our Strategic Report.
Performance Going concern indicators for the UK are shown below.
The going concern statement is set out on page 113.
2014 2013 Non Non Auditor Staff Staff Total Staff Staff Total During the year the Audit Committee considered the Lost time accidents performance and audit fees of the external auditor, and the reported under RIDDOR 8 3 11 2 5 7 level of non-audit work undertaken.
They recommended to Specified injuries reported the Board that a resolution for the reappointment of KPMG under RIDDOR 4 2 6 1 6 7 LLP for a further year as the Companys auditor be proposed to shareholders at the AGM in May 2015.
In 2014 there was an increase in reported lost time accidents.
This increase was mainly as a result of a manual handling issue where more than seven days off normal duties was reported six reports.
Manual handling is therefore being reviewed in 2015.
It should also be noted 65 slugline ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 Governance Directors Report and Responsibilities continued Annual General Meeting The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report The AGM will be held on Thursday, 14 May 2015 at and the Group and parent company financial statements in 11.00 a. m. at the Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The Notice of Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and the AGM contains an explanation of special business to be parent company financial statements for each financial considered at the meeting.
Under that law they are required to prepare the A copy of the Notice is available on our website.
Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected www.
com investors  to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
Directors responsibilities Under company law the Directors must not approve the The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, financial statements unless they are satisfied that they taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and provides the information necessary for shareholders and parent company and of their profit or loss for that to assess the Companys and the Groups performance, period.
In preparing each of the Group and parent company business model and strategy.
financial statements, the Directors are required: Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed to select suitable accounting policies and then apply on page 59, confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: them consistently: to make judgements and estimates that are the Group accounts, which have been prepared in reasonable and prudent: accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true for the Group financial statements, to state whether and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as and profit of the Group: and adopted by the EU: for the parent company financial statements, state the Directors Report includes a fair review of the whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have development and performance of the business and the been followed, subject to any material departures position of the Group, together with a description of the disclosed and explained in the parent company principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
financial statements: and In accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, the to prepare the financial statements on the going concern Directors confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is and the parent company will continue in business.
unaware: and each Director has taken all steps that they ought The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate to have taken as a Director in order to make themselves aware accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain of any relevant audit information and to establish that the the parent companys transactions and disclose with Companys auditor is aware of that information.
reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial The Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have the Groups systems of internal controls for the year ended general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably 31 December 2014.
In the opinion of the Board, the Company open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to has complied with the internal control requirements of prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
the UK Corporate Governance Code throughout the year, Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are maintaining an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating, also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors and minimising risk.
Further information is set out in the Report, Annual Remuneration Report and Corporate Audit Committee Report on page 79.
Governance Statement that comply with that law and those By order of the Board regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included Andrew Garard on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing Company Secretary the preparation and dissemination of financial statements 4 March 2015 may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
ITV plc Registered number 4967001 66 slugline
