com Stock code: ITV Overview Investor Proposition 2014 Highlights ITV at a Glance Strategy Business Model Market Review Strategy Chairmans Statement We are entering the next phase of our strategy as a making our content famous on our multiple platforms demonstrably better business than when we set out our before distributing it around the world, is the right long term strategy for growth five years ago.
external revenue increased 38%, EBITA before exceptional While we continue to deliver growth across all parts items increased over 250% to 730 million and adjusted of the Company in the UK and internationally, the EPS increased by over 650%.
Our cash position has also market environment in which ITV operates is constantly consistently improved, up over 650 million, even after changing which brings both challenges and opportunities.
acquisitions of 328 million, investment across the business Convergence in the global media market as well as the and shareholder returns of 678 million.
growing impact of technology are changing the way viewers Weve made good progress rebalancing ITV and reducing are consuming content, and in turn fuelling greater global our dependence on UK advertising revenue, while growing demand for high quality content.
and strengthening the business and generating new revenue Therefore, as we enter the next phase of our strategy, we streams.
Today, 45% of our total revenue is from sources have placed increasing emphasis on international content other than traditional spot television advertising.
We will also continue to rebalance Pay & Interactive revenue is growing strongly and is now ITV and grow new revenue streams, both organically and a material and profitable part of the business while our through acquisition, as we seek new ways to monetise and international content business, ITV Studios, is now a global deliver our content on multiple platforms, free and pay.
player of scale with almost half its total revenue generated Our renewed three strategic priorities are therefore a natural outside the UK.
As a result, ITV is now a much stronger evolution of our current strategy, focusing on the areas business, creatively, commercially and financially, with a where we can achieve most growth, many of which we have more disciplined approach to cash, costs and operations, and already started to invest in as we continue to develop a a talented and motivated team in place.
creative, commercial and global organisation.
As we continue to execute our strategy, we remain focused on our original vision of ITV as an owner and producer of world-class content.
We are confident that our strategy to maximise our value as an integrated producer broadcaster, Three key areas for growth Maximise Grow Build a 2 3 audience and international global pay revenue content and share from business distribution free-to-air business broadcast and VOD business Continue to develop a creative, commercial and global organisation 07 slugline
