Strategic Report Our strategy continued Sainsburys Bank Sainsburys Bank is committed to offering We acquired the remaining 50 per Sainsburys customers banking and financial cent shareholding of Sainsburys services tailored to their specific needs.
Weconsistently offer competitive financial Bank from Lloyds Banking Group products built on value, quality and reward.
Now that the Bank is a wholly owned on 31 January 2014.
Our strategy subsidiary of Sainsburys, our finance is to increase the number of Bank products will be even more closely integrated with the Sainsburys shopping experience.
With the aim of sustaining prudent growth, the Bank will continue to manage a 42-month transition to become a standalone bank.
In this time, we will build a new banking platform, migrating from Lloyds Banking Group systems and contact centres, and evolve our risk and control framework.
We will also build greater people capability including the transfer of banking contact centre colleagues.
The new platform has been designed with our customers in mind and will offer additional functionality that will make doing business with us even easier.
As we build the new systems, profit growth will be constrained by double running costs.
We will incur a total of 260 million in transition costs and capital expenditure moving to the new platform.
31% year-on-year increase in the number of Nectar points awarded to our banking customers J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 14 Pet Best Buy insurance We offer customers Loans one of the highest Named most consistent levels of vet fee cover Best Buy Loan provider in the market In a challenging marketplace, we have Our loans regularly feature in best buy continued to see growth in banking against tables, with Moneynet naming us Most abackdrop of falling net interest margins.
Consistent Best Buy Loan Provider 2014.
Sainsburys Bank offers a range of The insurance market has become insuranceproducts, savings accounts, credit increasingly price-driven, reducing retention cards, loans and travel money.
We currently and profitability: despite this, Sainsburys have 1.6 million active customer accounts Home Insurance recorded its best ever sales and on average 1.8 million visitors to in July and August 2013.
138 in-store Travel Money bureaux recorded 27 per cent of these visits are from mobile their best ever performance last summer devices, an increase of 54 per cent year-onwith sales increasing 23 per cent compared year.
We see significant opportunities for to 2012.
We also opened 107 ATMs in the growth as only one in 20 Sainsburys last year and now have over 1,400 across customers has a Sainsburys Bank product.
Our financial products and services are We continue to report industry-low levels of designed specifically for our customers.
Over the last year, These include a Nectar Credit Card which complaints per 1,000 customers have gives extra points on Sainsburys purchases.
reduced by 30 per cent, a reflection of our Customers are also rewarded for their commitment to delivering the quality of ongoing loyalty with a range of Bank service customers expect from Sainsburys.
products offering double Nectar points for two years.
We have seen a 31 per cent Our strategy for long-term growth is focused year-on-year increase in Nectar points on unlocking value by offering shoppers awarded to our banking customers.
compelling reasons to bank and shop with Sainsburys.
Customers who take out a Bank product spend more with us in-store up to 15 per cent more per month once they have been with us 24 months, demonstrating increased brand loyalty.
1,400 We now have over 1,400 ATMs across our store estate J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 15
