Directors Report Other disclosures Dividends Shares acquired through the Companys employee share plans rank pari passu with shares in issue and have no special rights.
Where, under the The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 12.3 pence per Companys All-Employee Share Ownership Plan, participants are beneficial share 2013: 11.9 pence, making a total dividend for the year of 17.3 pence owners of the shares but the Trustee is the registered owner, the voting rights per share 2013: 16.7 pence, an increase of 3.6 per cent over the previous are normally exercised by the registered owner at the direction of the year.
Subject to shareholders approving this recommendation at the Annual participants.
The J Sainsbury Employee Benefit Trusts waive their right to General Meeting AGM, the dividend will be paid on 11 July 2014 to vote and to dividends on the shares they hold which are unallocated.
Some shareholders on the register at the close of business on 16 May 2014. ofthe Companys employee share plans include restrictions on transfer of shares while the shares are held within the plan.
Changes to the Board As reported in our Annual Report last year, Susan Rice joined the Board on At the AGM held in July 2013, the Company was authorised by shareholders 1 June 2013 and her appointment was approved by shareholders at the to purchase its own shares, within certain limits and as permitted by the AGM on 10 July 2013.
The Company made no purchases of its own shares during the year and no shares were acquired by forfeiture or surrender or In January, we announced that Justin King will stand down in July after ten made subject to a lien or charge.
very successful years as Chief Executive and that Mike Coupe will succeed him.
Mike joined Sainsburys in 2004 and was appointed to the Board in All of the Companys employee share plans contain provisions relating to a August 2007.
Since July 2010 he has been Group Commercial Director.
On a change of control, options and awards granted to employees under the Companys share plans may vest and become Re-election of Directors exercisable, subject to the satisfaction of any applicable performance conditions at that time.
The UK Corporate Governance Code provides for all directors of FTSE companies to stand for election or re-election by shareholders every year.
Certain of the Companys credit facilities and banking arrangements Accordingly, all members of the Board, with the exception of Justin King, containchange of control clauses under which lenders may cancel their will retire and seek re-election at this years AGM.
Full biographical details commitments and declare all outstanding amounts immediately due and of all of the current Directors are set out on page 37. payable.
There are no other significant agreements that would take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid.
Annual General Meeting The AGM will be held on Wednesday 9 July 2014 at The Queen Elizabeth II Ordinary shares Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE at Details of the changes to the ordinary issued share capital during the year are 11.00am.
The Chairmans letter and the Notice of Meeting accompany shown on page 109.
At the date of this report, 1,908,436,219 ordinary shares this report, together with notes explaining the business to be transacted 4 of 28 7 pence have been issued, are fully paid up and are listed on the at the meeting.
At the meeting, resolutions will be proposed to declare a final dividend, to receive the Annual Report and Financial Statements, approve the Directors Major interests in shares Remuneration Report and the Directors Remuneration Policy, to re-elect As at 6 May 2014, the Company had been notified by the following investors of the Directors, and to re-appoint  LLP as auditors.
their interests in 3 per cent or more of the Companys shares.
These interests In addition, shareholders will be asked to renew both the general authority were notified to the Company pursuant to Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5: of the Directors to issue shares and to authorise the Directors to issue shares without applying the statutory pre-emption rights.
In this regard, % of voting rights the Company will continue to adhere to the provisions in the Pre-emption Lord Sainsbury of Turville 4.99 Groups Statement of Principles.
Qatar Holdings LLC 25.99 Shareholders will be asked to authorise the Company to make market purchases of its own shares.
Shareholders will also be asked to authorise the Directors interests Directors to hold general meetings at 14 clear days notice where this The beneficial interests of the Directors and their families in the shares flexibility is merited by the business of the meeting and is thought to be in of the Company are shown on pages 69 and 71.
The Companys Register of the interests of shareholders as a whole.
A resolution to renew the authority Directors Interests contains full details of Directors interests, shareholdings to make political donations as defined by Part 14 of the 2006 Companies Act and options over ordinary shares of the Company.
During the year, no Director had any material interest in any contract Share capital and control of significance to the Groups business.
The following information is given pursuant to Section 992 of the 2006 Companies Act.
Directors indemnities The Directors are entitled to be indemnified by the Company to the extent Except as described below in relation to the Companys employee share permitted by law and the Companys Articles of Association in respect of schemes, there are no restrictions on the voting rights attaching to the all losses arising out of or in connection with the execution of their powers, Companys ordinary shares or the transfer of securities in the Company: no duties and responsibilities.
The Company has executed deeds of indemnity person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with regard to for the benefit of each Director in respect of liabilities which may attach to control of the Company: and the Company is not aware of any agreements them in their capacity as Directors of the Company.
The Company purchased between holders of securities that may result in restrictions in the transfer of and maintained Directors and Officers liability insurance throughout securities or voting rights.
Further details of the rights, restrictions and 2013 14, which has been renewed for 2014 15.
Neither the indemnities obligations attaching to the share capital of the Company, including voting nor the insurance provide cover in the event that the Director is proved rights, are contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
The Articles of to have acted fraudulently.
Association may only be changed with the agreement of shareholders.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 74 All of Sainsburys stores are based in the UK, and all our sales are generated Employment policies here.
As such substantially all more than 99 per cent of our taxes are paid The Company is committed to equal opportunities for recruitment and here.
The Group also includes companies based in the following jurisdictions: selection, through training and development, performance reviews and Hong Kong and China our offices in Hong Kong and China source many promotion through our A great place to work strategy.
The Company has ofour non-food products.
Local taxes of 1 million were paid in the year well developed policies for the fair and equal treatment of all colleagues 2012 13 1 million, Isle of Man our insurance company is based here for and the employment of disadvantaged persons.
During the year, a number regulatory reasons, as are many other insurance companies.
Ireland, Jersey, of training courses have been held to ensure that our policies are understood Guernsey, USA these companies are all dormant and accordingly do not pay throughout the organisation.
We will endeavour to adapt the work any tax.
There are also other Group companies that were incorporated in environment and retrain colleagues who have become disabled during their Ireland, USA, Jersey and the Cayman Islands that are UK tax resident, employment.
See page 46 for further information on our diversity strategy.
meaning that all relevant taxes are payable to the UK Government.
As well as creating jobs we are committed to providing a workplace where Post balance sheet events people feel they are given the right opportunities to succeed in a safe, healthy and respectful environment.
We know this is important and this is the reason There are no post balance sheet events.
why A great place to work is one of our five values, with a number of employment related commitments within our 20x20 Sustainability Plan.
Financial risk management For further information see our website http: www.
co. uk The financial risk management and policies of the Group are disclosed in note responsibility factsheets.
28 on pages 114 to 120 to the financial statements.
The Company is committed to colleague involvement throughout the Going concern business.
Colleagues are kept informed of the performance and strategy of The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its the Company and quarterly trading statements, interim and annual results future development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic are presented to all senior management and are communicated to all Report on pages 1 to 35, 46, 49, 75 and inside front cover.
position of the Group, its cash flows and liquidity are highlighted in the Financial Review on pages 28 to 35.
The Group manages its financing by Colleagues have always been encouraged to hold shares in the Company.
diversifying funding sources, structuring core borrowings with long-term One of our 20x20 commitments is to increase the number of colleagues with maturities and maintaining sufficient levels of standby liquidity.
Full details shares in our business by 25 per cent by 2020. of the Groups financing arrangements can be found in note 20 on pages 106 and 107 to the financial statements.
In addition, notes 28 and 29 on pages Human rights 114 to 126 to the financial statements include the Groups objectives, policies The Company does not have a specific human rights policy but fairness and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management andintegrity are an important part of the way we run the business as objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: shown bythe values and policies described above and throughout this and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Inaddition, our customers want to be confident that the people who makeand sell our products are not being exploited, or exposed to unsafe Management are satisfied that stress tests on the future liquidity of the Group working conditions.
Our Code of Conduct for Ethical Trade covers the do not indicate a going concern risk.
employment practices we expect from our suppliers, both in the UK and abroad.
As founder members of the Ethical Trading Initiative ETI, our As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to Codeof Conduct is consistent with the ETI Base Code and national and manage its business risks successfully despite the current challenging international laws.
For further information on this Code of Conduct see economic outlook.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the ourwebsite http: www.
Company has sufficient resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in Donations preparing the financial statements which are shown on pages 80 to 138.
The Company made no political donations in 2014 2013: nil.
Disclosure of information to auditors See page 23 for details of the Companys charitable donations.
Each of the Directors has confirmed that, so far as he she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware.
Each Director Essential contracts has taken all steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director in order to Sainsburys has contractual and other arrangements with numerous third make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to parties in support of its business activities.
None of the arrangements is establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
individually considered to be essential to Sainsburys business.
Independent auditors Taxation  LLP have expressed their willingness to be The Company complies with relevant tax laws, regulations and obligations reappointed as auditors of the Company.
Upon the recommendation of the regarding the filing of tax returns, payment and collection of tax.
Sainsburys Audit Committee, resolutions to reappoint them as auditors and to authorise does not undertake any tax planning schemes that seek to use so-called tax the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
havens for aggressive tax planning and for the purpose of tax avoidance.
Sainsburys aims to develop an open, honest relationship with the tax By order of the Board authorities and involve them at an early stage should any complex tax issues arise.
The taxation policy is reviewed annually by the Board.
Tax is a key item Tim Fallowfield on the Audit Committee agenda and is discussed quarterly where large or Company Secretary and Corporate Services Director complex tax items will feature, together with compliance and key risk management updates.
6 May 2014 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 75
