Strategic Report Our strategy continued Developing new business Developing new business and 275 investing beyond our core is part in-store pharmacies of our long-term strategy for the and four outpatient future.
All new ventures carry a pharmacies certain amount of risk and require investment and time to grow, and some of the businesses in this area are not yet progressing as quickly as we would have liked.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 16 2 I C has marked its first full year of operation 2 We are committed to providing in-store I C, our joint venture with Aimia, the Sainsburys Energy offers great value gas healthcare services to our customers.
Last operators of Nectar, has marked its first full andelectricity, with the reward of Nectar 2 year, pharmacists in our 275 in-store year of operation.
We also offer cost-saving products pharmacies carried out over 290,000 campaigns to Sainsburys customers through such as solar panels and energy efficient consultations, giving 86,000 flu vaccinations a unique range of cross-channel tools boilers.
We have gained over 60 per cent and conducting over 85,000 cholesterol including coupon-at-till, online, in-store more customers than last year as people checks.
Our stores host 35 NHS GP or sampling and Sainsburys Magazine.
It also look for the best deals in this highly nurse-led surgeries and 24 private dental markets customer insights to our supply base.
surgeries our convenient locations and good parking facilities lend themselves To address the competition in the perfectly to these services.
We have four entertainment market, we are trialling a hospital outpatient pharmacies offering range of services for our customers to keep excellent levels of service to the NHS and pace with the fast-growing trend for topatients.
We have moved to a completely on-demand Our mobile phone network Mobile by model for our entertainment website, whilst Sainsburys is still in its first year of continuing to sell physical products in our business and, although we have not supermarkets.
Although still very small, inits progressed as quickly as expected, we first year of trading, eBooks by Sainsburys continue to test and learn from the dynamic has trialled a number of initiatives, including market in which the business operates.
being the first to offerfree ebooks for those Mobile by Sainsburys is a joint venture with buying the physical version.
Vodafone, offering value-for-money mobile phone tariffs and handsets, and incentivising customers by offering double Nectar points on their grocery and fuel spend in Sainsburys.
As part of our strategy, we have introduced dedicated phone shops in some of our larger stores, offering customers specialist service and advice.
In addition, wesell SIM cards in our stores, with 300 stores also offering a range of handsets.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 17
