Strategic Report Our strategy continued Complementary channels and services Developing channels and services that complement our existing supermarket business is a key part of our long-term strategy for growth.
By investing in our online and convenience businesses, and through the acquisition of Sainsburys Bank, 1bn we are focused on driving sales annual grocery through increasing customer loyalty.
online sales 190,000 deliveries to customers each week J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 12 The trend continues for customers to shop across a range of channels supermarkets, convenience stores and online, from home and on the go.
Helping people shop where, when and how they want, across all channels, is a key driver of loyalty, and where customers shop all three channels their total spend is more than double the Locals average of a supermarket-only shopper.
Fewer than 1 in 10 of As well as doing their main supermarket the population live shop, our customers increasingly top up within a 15 minute walk locally, helping them to stick to a budget and of a Sainsburys Local cut waste and fuel consumption.
We opened 91 convenience stores last year and, with over 600 stores, we now have more become increasingly competitive, but with have already purchased our annual online convenience stores than supermarkets in our fewer than one in ten of the population living delivery pass, which we launched in store estate.
Our convenience stores now within a 15 minute walk of a Sainsburys November.
We also announced plans to open account for a third of Britains convenience Local, there is plenty of opportunity for us a dedicated online fulfilment centre within market growth.
We recently opened our first togrow, creating jobs for local people and the next few years in Bromley-by-Bow to Convenience Training College in Brixton, helping revitalise high streets through the help meet the growing demand for our London, which will provide training to increased footfall and trade our stores online grocery service in London and the colleagues and support our growth in this oftenbring.
When fully operational this new market.
Thanks to the hard work of over facility will allow us to serve an additional 16,000 convenience colleagues we were This year our groceries online business 20,000 online customers each week.
named Convenience Retailer of the Year for reached the significant milestone of 1 the fourth year running at the Retail Industry billion in annual sales.
Our focus on quality, Our general merchandise website offers Awards in September 2013. customer service and product availability has thousands of own-brand and branded resulted in customer satisfaction scores that products across home, garden, appliances, Great locations and an emphasis on fresh are at an all-time high.
We were named technology, toys, sports and leisure.
We are food have helped our convenience stores Online Retailer of the Year for the second continuing to rebalance the online product deliver sales growth of around 19 per cent consecutive year at the Grocer Gold Awards mix, focusing on categories such as cookware year-on-year, with around six million a testament to the commitment of the and kitchen electricals, away from highcustomer transactions each week and an 14,000 colleagues who make our online ticket, less profitable electrical items.
Over annual turnover of over 1.8 billion.
Over the past year we half our customers collect their orders Christmas Eve was our biggest ever day in have enhanced our groceries online website in-store via our Click & Collect service, convenience with sales of almost 7 million to give customers faster and more intuitive available in more than 1,000 of our stores.
Securing appropriate sites has product search, and an improved recipe and ideas section.
In addition, our new mobile website gives us a strategic platform on which to build new functionality in future years.
Our groceries online business has grown by over 12 per cent during the year, delivering to over 190,000 customers each week.
There was a reduction in the growth of marketing spend whilst we re-platformed the website which impacted on sales growth in the short term.
Over 30,000 online customers Scan and go We are pioneering the development of in-store technology through mobile scan and go J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 13
