Strategic Report Our strategy Great food Providing great quality food at fair 17m prices has been our passion for 145 punnets of British years.
We continually strive to help strawberries were customers Live Well for Less, sold last summer www.
co. uk strawberries helping them manage the cost of their weekly shop without sacrificing quality.
Ownbrand growing at twice the rate of branded goods and accounts for over 50 per cent of food sales J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 8 Recipes Weve been helping Our customers want to buy British when it is customers with recipe available, and we are committed to doubling ideas for nearly 100 years the amount of British food we sell by 2020.
This year we achieved 100 per cent British sourcing for all our fresh pork, breaded and From basics to Taste the Difference, our focus Our popular fresh and hot food counters are roast chicken, frozen chickens and chicken on the quality and integrity of our own-brand in more than 500 stores and we have 316 portions our fresh chicken has been British food gives us a clear competitive advantage.
To date, more for over 10 years.
In addition, our fresh and We continue to invest in our own-brand offer than 29,000 colleagues have received City & frozen beef is British or Irish and the beef in and, whilst growth in own-brand is Guilds-accredited training through our seven our fresh ready meals, pies, sandwiches, deflationary to the top line, it is growing at Food Colleges, and their knowledge and skills quiches and soups is British, as are our fresh over twice the rate of branded goods and are helping to drive sales in this area.
Our pork sausages, ham and fresh lamb when in accounts for over 50 per cent of food sales.
Make Your Roast Go Further campaign season.
Extending the season is important to wasa success with our customers, who our growers and is another way we can buy Our re-launched by Sainsburys range now appreciated the easy, budget-beating recipes more home-grown produce.
Last summer, has over 7,000 lines and is driving own-brand from authentic food-lovers showing how to we sold over 17 million punnets of British penetration, with 97 per cent of customers get the most out of leftovers.
strawberries and in August we became the buying by Sainsburys products.
Our only Big Four supermarket to sell UK-grown premium Taste the Difference range achieved We remained the most trusted food retailer fresh figs.
We have been the leading retailer of double-digit growth and reached over of the Big Four supermarkets, before, during British apples and pears for the past five years, 1.1billion in annual sales.
In September, a and after last years horsemeat contamination selling over 200 million pieces, accounting state-of-the-art factory opened in Fakenham with no horsemeat found in any of our for one in every four sold in the UK.
to create Taste the Difference desserts using products.
We have conducted isotope testing British ingredients and employing 200 people.
on foods for 20 years, and DNA testing for 10 Improved operating systems and the This year, readers of Good Housekeeping years, to guarantee quality and provenance.
simplification of in-store and depot processes Magazine voted Taste the Difference the most This year we have increased our investment have increased productivity and reduced popular supermarket own-brand food range.
in food testing, expanding our laboratory and food waste without compromising the Our basics brand remains the second largest the number of unannounced supplier audits customer experience.
Our new Real Time value range in the market, bought by nearly we undertake.
In addition, we have strong supply chain system enables us to deliver to 70 per cent of our customers.
Although working relationships with our 2,500 farmers stores using the most up-to-date stock basics sales declined over the year, we and growers and have invested more than information improving availability for re-launched the brand with new packaging 40million in our farmer development customers and minimising waste.
In and marketing to drive penetration.
In September 2013, we addition, we are introducing an improved were the first of the Big Four supermarkets to method of transporting and displaying our implement the Department of Healths new eggs which reduces breakages significantly, universal front of pack nutritional labelling.
leading to less food waste.
500 Fresh and hot food counters are now in more than 500 stores J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 9 Strategic Report Our strategy continued Compelling general merchandise and clothing Offering customers high-street quality at supermarket prices is key to our success.
Sales are increasing at over twice the rate of food, with a strong performance in cookware, kitchen electricals andclothing.
1bn annual sales in general merchandise and record market share J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 10 6th largest retailer of childrenswear We continue to engage with our customers and enhance our reputation as a credible by volume clothing and home retailer through point-ofsale material, blogs, videos, social media and our new website sainsburyshome.
Our strong in-house buying team designs and sources attractive, good quality products and our offices in the Far East, India and Bangladesh build strong relationships with suppliers to ensure rigorous checks are carried out and that our ethical and quality standards are maintained.
Our non-food ranges are on sale in over 400 stores and 34 per cent of our customers can Our general merchandise and clothing largest UK retailer of childrenswear by volume now access, within a 15 minute drive, the full proposition has a strong focus on quality and we retained fourth position by volume in non-food offer, compared to just 11 per cent anddesign and this year we created a the schoolwear market.
Our Back-to-School six years ago.
However, with only one in five contemporary department store look and event in the summer was the most of our supermarkets merchandising the full feel, with clothing and homeware cosuccessful ever.
non-food offer, we still have further ordinated and displayed to enhance opportunity for growth.
Currently Annual sales in general merchandise is over in53 stores, the response has been positive 1 billion and continues to grow, making us and this concept will be in over 150 stores the sixth largest retailer of homeware by bythe end of next year.
value and taking us to record levels of market share.
Building on the success of our The re-launch of our Tu clothing brand in bySainsburys food offer, we are extending Tu theautumn of 2013 represented the single the brand into all general merchandise biggest investment in our clothing business categories.
Our hero categories, such as The re-launch of Tu in the since 2004.
The range is now merchandised cookware and kitchen electrical ranges, autumn of 2013 represented in more than 400 stores, and is the seventh complement our food offer and have the single biggest investment biggest clothing line in the UK by volume, delivered double-digit growth this year.
The th in our clothing business and 11 by value.
More than 7.5 million premium Collection range has performed since 2004 customers buy the range and it generates particularly well and our Cooks Collection annual sales of approximately 750million.
cast iron range is now bigger than the UKs In January, we signed a new two-year deal market-leading brand by volume.
with Gok Wan, extending a successful collaboration with the designer whose We have outperformed the market by fashionable, flattering designs are hugely volume in all our entertainment categories popular with our customers.
games, books, DVDs and CDs enjoying particular success with PS4 and Xbox One We are a destination shop for parents looking consoles, own-brand cookery and to buy good quality, reasonably priced childrensbooks.
Tu is the sixth J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 11
