28 29 Property and Store Review Holland - During the year, we acquired a package of 14 Sport stores in Holland from a local fashion retailer who was JD looking to close one of its fascias.
Acquiring the stores in We have a consistent retail property strategy for the core JD this way gave us immediate critical mass in the country fascia across Europe with modern, efficient and attractively although the majority of the stores were located in smaller presented stores located in prime locations with strong footfall.
As with other territories, we are looking for JD is a world class retail fascia and we strongly believe that the suitable opportunities in the major metropolitan areas and vibrant presentation of our stores and the high quality retail subsequently we opened a store in the centre of Rotterdam.
theatre that we offer to our customers increases the attractiveness We are pleased with the initial performance of this store and desirability of our product and provides our stores with a and will look to open further new stores in prime locations real point of difference.
in other major towns and cities across the country in the new financial year.
The JD fascia provides the foundation for profit and cash Germany During the year, we also acquired the assets generation in the Group and consequently we continue to of the Isico partnership in Germany which, on acquisition, invest heavily in this fascia, both in our core market of UK and had 10 small stores primarily in the Berlin area.
These stores Republic of Ireland and internationally as we become increasingly will be converted to the JD fascia later in 2014. confident of its global potential.
We believe that we are gaining real credibility in Europe with both major landlords and property Chausport agents and we continue to look at opportunities, in both our It is still our belief that the Chausport fascia is more suited to existing and new territories, to develop the fascia with particular the smaller regional towns and centres.
We opened one Chausport focus on major metropolitan areas.
store in the period, closed one small store and refurbished a UK & Republic of Ireland 16 new stores were opened further three stores.
Investment in new stores and refurbishments in the period including one Size?
fascia store with 16, for Chausport will continue at a similar level in the new year.
The 16 new stores included nine relocations in towns or malls to a more appropriately Sprinter spaced store or a position of greater footfall.
We also Sprinters core store base has historically been located in units upsized in four locations where we were able to negotiate with an average of 12,500 sq ft retail space in out of town retail a favourable rent deal on additional space.
This is proving parks in the communities of Andalucia, Murcia and Valencia to be a cost efficient way of expanding our product offer, with a much lower presence elsewhere in Spain.
We believe widen our appeal to a broader consumer and ultimately that whilst the Sprinter management team has successfully improve the financial performance of the store.
adapted their product proposition to reflect customer demands France JD continues to develop momentum in France.
at this time, the size of the stores which the business historically A further seven stores opened in the year with 18 stores operated from was too large and that the same level of sales now trading in the country including one Size?
could be achieved from a smaller and more efficient footprint.
The focus on the major metropolitan areas is reflected in Therefore, the 13 new stores which we opened in the year, of the fact that the openings included three stores in malls which two were outside the traditional heartlands, had a smaller around Paris where we now have nine stores.
Our seven average retail footprint of 8,900 sq ft. We also closed one openings in the year also included three stores which were underperforming and larger spaced store.
The performance in acquired as a package from another retailer who was the year has reinforced our view on the potential of Sprinter in looking to exit those particular markets.
This is an effective the whole of Spain and consequently we will look to maintain way of increasing our presence in the country and, this momentum in store openings and at this stage we would if appropriate, we would look at other opportunities like this.
anticipate opening a similar number of new stores in the We will look to open at least a similar number of new JD current financial year.
stores in France in the new financial year.
Spain - The economic situation has meant that, to date, we have been more cautious in our programme for JD in Spain.
However, we did open a further three stores in the year with eight stores now trading in the country.
These openings included two in malls around Madrid where we now have four stores.
We will continue to be more cautious in Spain but will look to open at least a similar number of new JD stores in the new financial year.
Strategic Report 28 29 Fashion Outdoor Bank Blacks and Millets The eight new stores which were opened in the year included Neither fascia can currently generate the sales densities five that we were contractually committed to at the start of the required to pay the premium rents in the major malls and year.
These five stores were all in new locations for the fascia.
city centres and without third party brand support then the In addition, we have opened a further two temporary Pop Up property strategy for both fascias at this time is dictated by the stores on short term leases with a low initial capital expenditure.
availability of appropriately rented properties in the locations Given the recent trading performance of the Bank fascia then which are right for that fascia.
Generally, Blacks stores are we believe that we are right to adopt this flexible approach at focused in the larger towns and smaller cities with Millets this time and only if the stores developed sufficiently would we located in medium sized or market towns.
consider taking a longer lease and making a further investment Four new Blacks stores were opened in the year of which two in the store.
We do not anticipate making a significant investment stores were relocations.
A total of 13 stores were also closed in the Bank fascia in the new financial year.
in the year resulting in a portfolio of 76 stores at the end of the year.
Taking the learnings from our initial refurbishments in the Scotts previous year, we have also refurbished a further six Blacks Six new Scotts stores were opened in the year of which four stores in the year.
We anticipate a further small number of were replacements of existing units.
Whilst we are encouraged openings and refurbishments in the new financial year.
by the more recent performance of the business, we do not Seven new Millets stores were opened in the year, all of which anticipate making a significant investment in the Scotts fascia we had previously traded and exited but have now re-entered at this time.
following our decision to maintain Millets as a separate fascia.
Premium A total of 16 stores were also closed in the year resulting in a portfolio of 80 stores at the end of the year.
Subject to availability Three new Tessuti stores were opened in the year of which one was of appropriately priced units, we anticipate that we will open a the replacement of a legacy and poor performing Cecil Gee store.
further small number of Millets stores in the new financial year.
Whilst we still have some smaller stores in secondary towns fasciaed as Originals, we have now converted the remaining Tiso Cecil Gee stores to Tessuti which is our long term premium Tiso has 17 stores of which 16 are located across Scotland and fashion fascia.
The new stores which we have opened in the one in Keswick.
These stores vary in size ranging from specialist year are all located in the major shopping malls and city Alpine cycling stores at less than 1,000 sq ft to Tiso fasciaed centres where footfall is strongest.
stores in secondary out of town destinations with the largest one in Glasgow at 15,500 sq ft. We do not anticipate making a Ark significant investment in new Tiso stores at this time.
During the year we acquired nine stores trading as Ark from its administrators although one of these stores has subsequently For a complete table of store numbers see page 14. closed in the new financial year.
We are currently operating these stores under licence from the administrator whilst we assess our longer term options.
Cloggs The acquisition of the Cloggs branded footwear business from its administrator has given us access to certain brands which previously were not available to the Groups retail fascias.
We are committed to work with these brands on developing the business and to complement the online offering we have subsequently opened a Cloggs fasciaed store in Shrewsbury.
We would consider opening a small number of further stores if the appropriate locations were available and there was support from the brands on this.
