4 5 Who We Are Established in 1981 with a single store in Bury, in the North West of England, JD Sports Fashion Plc is a leading retailer and distributor of sport and athletic inspired fashion apparel, footwear and fashion and outdoor clothing and equipment in the UK and Europe.
The Group has over 800 stores across a number of retail fascias across Europe and is proud of the fact that it always provides its customers with the latest products from the very best brands.
The Group also operates online businesses for these retail fascias, providing the Group with a truly multichannel, international platform.
Overview 6 7 Who We Are Continued JD is acknowledged as the leading Established in 2000, size?
has proudly Blacks is a long established retailer specialist multiple retailer of fashionable specialised in supplying the UK, Europe of specialist outdoor apparel, footwear branded and own brand sports and and the rest of the World with the and equipment.
The Blacks stores casual wear in the UK and Republic of finest brands in footwear, apparel and primarily stock more technical products Ireland combining globally recognised accessories for over a decade.
Initially from the premium brands such as brands such as Nike and adidas with set up to trial edgier product collections Berghaus and The North Face and strong own brand labels such as before introducing them to the mass the fascia continues to place significant McKenzie, Carbrini, Supply & Demand market through the JD fascia, the size?
emphasis on acquiring premium and The Duffer of St George.
JD has brand has since grown to include its brands with the recent addition of now entered the European market with own roster of highly sought-after the Jack Wolfskin range being a stores in France, Spain, the Netherlands worldwide exclusive product releases.
opened its first mainland European store in Paris and is now about to embark on a major international expansion plan.
Overview 6 7 Millets is a long established retailer Scotts delivers brand authority to an Bank is a multi-branded retailer, of outdoor apparel, footwear and older, more affluent male consumer with an independent spirit, selling equipment.
Millets today trades from offering brands such as Fred Perry, brands such as Superdry, Converse, approximately 80 stores nationwide adidas Originals and Original Penguin.
Lipsy, Glamorous, Jack & Jones and with a strong emphasis on affordable Vans, as well as own brands such as family camping and is also the major Nanny State, Blonde & Blonde and fascia for our two strong own brands the recently relaunched Pink Soda.
of Peter Storm and Eurohike.
The Bank customers are young males and females, who want brands, are fashion-conscious and are also inspired by friends, celebrities and the media.
Overview 8 9 Who We Are Continued Chausport sells a strong range of Sprinter is one of the leading sports Premium branded fashion menswear is international brands such as Nike, retailers in Spain selling footwear, a new opportunity for the Group and adidas and Le Coq Sportif together apparel, accessories and equipment our vision is to become the first choice with brands more specific to the for a wide range of sports as well as retailer for branded premium menswear French market such as Redskins.
lifestyle casual wear and childrenswear.
Our current stores Their offer includes both international offer customers a strong mix of brands sports brands and successful including Hugo Boss, Ralph Lauren own brands.
Polo, Diesel and Stone Island.
Overview 8 9 Cloggs was acquired out of A majority shareholding in the Getthelabel.
com is an online and administration in February 2013 and Tiso Group Tiso, Alpine Bikes and catalogue business which offers is an online niche retailer of premium George Fisher was acquired in customers significant savings on branded footwear.
Tiso is Scotlands branded fashion and footwear.
Cloggs opened its first retail store leading outdoor retailer, with 10 stores.
It has successfully developed large format Outdoor Experience shops with unrivalled product ranges.
Alpine Bikes is a quality cycle retailer, with six standalone shops, stocking brands such as Trek, Cannondale, Whyte and Genesis.
George Fisher, in Keswick, is one of the most respected outdoor stores in the UK, renowned for their boot fitting and customer service.
Overview 10 11 Who We Are Continued Nicholas Deakins designs and Kooga design, source and wholesale Kukri sources and provides bespoke manufactures predominantly mens rugby apparel and equipment, with sports teamwear to schools, universities footwear and clothing.
Since its teamwear, replica and leisurewear and sports clubs.
Teams can design and inception in 1991, the brand has ranges.
Kooga is sole kit supplier to order their personalised kit online, been moulded into several collections a number of professional rugby with over 75 different sports catered for.
with labels including Nicholas Deakins clubs across both codes.
In addition, Kukri is sole kit supplier to Green Label clothing and footwear, a number of professional sports teams Deakins and Deakins kids.
and the official kit suppliers to Team Nicholas Deakins supplies both England at the 2014 Commonwealth Group and external businesses.
Overview 10 11 Focus is involved in the design, Source Lab, which was established in ActivInstinct was acquired in October sourcing and distribution of footwear 2005, designs, sources and distributes 2013 and is the leading online retailer and apparel both for own brand and football related apparel under license of performance sports equipment, licensed brands, such as Peter Werth, from some of the biggest clubs in footwear and apparel for the serious Fly 53, Ecko, Ellesse, and Voi Footwear, Europe including Manchester United, sports enthusiast.
ActivInstincts offer for both group and external customers.
covers 28 sports categories and aside from operating in the UK, it also has websites for France, Germany, Spain and Italy.
