36 37 Directors Report The Directors present their annual report and the audited Restrictions on Transfer of Shares financial statements of JD Sports Fashion Plc the Company The restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group for the are as follows: 52 week period ended 1 February 2014.
The Board may, in absolute discretion, refuse to register any transfer of shares which are not fully paid up but not so as Principal Activity to prevent dealings in listed shares from taking place, The principal activity of the Group is the retail and distribution or which is in favour of more than four persons jointly or of branded sportswear, fashionwear and outdoor clothing and which is in relation to more than one class of share.
Certain restrictions may, from time to time, be imposed by In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, a review of the laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws.
business providing a comprehensive analysis of the main trends Restrictions apply pursuant to the Listing Rules of the and factors likely to affect the development, performance and Financial Services Authority whereby Directors and certain of position of the business, including environmental, employee and the Groups employees require prior approval to deal in social and community issues, together with the Groups Key the Companys shares.
Performance Indicators and a description of the principal risks The Company is not aware of any arrangement between its and uncertainties facing the business is detailed in the Strategy shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of Report on pages 19 to 35. shares and or voting rights.
All the information set out in those sections is incorporated by reference into, and is deemed to form part of, this report.
Authority to Purchase Own Shares A resolution was passed at the 2013 Annual General Meeting The Corporate Governance Report pages 40 to 45 and the giving Directors authority to buy back ordinary shares up to a Directors Remuneration Report pages 46 to 56 are maximum of 10% of the total issued ordinary share capital of incorporated by reference into, and are deemed to form part of, the Company.
As at the date of this report no shares have been this report.
Share Capital Substantial Interests in Share Capital As at 1 February 2014 the Companys issued share capital was As at 1 February 2014 the Company has been advised of the 2,433,083 comprising 48,661,658 ordinary shares of 5p each.
following significant holdings of voting rights in its ordinary There have been no changes in the year.
share capital pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules Shareholder and Voting Rights of the Financial Conduct Authority DTRs : All members who hold ordinary shares are entitled to attend Number of % of and vote at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
On a ordinary ordinary show of hands at a general meeting, every member present in shares voting share rights held capital person or by proxy shall have one vote and, on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for Pentland Group Plc 27,963,722 57.47 every ordinary share they hold.
Subject to relevant statutory Sports World International Ltd 5,775,255 11.87 provisions and the Companys Articles of Association, holders of Aberforth Partners 4,711,740 9.68 ordinary shares are entitled to a dividend where declared or paid FMR LLC 2,437,000 5.00 out of profits available for such purposes.
The Company has not been notified of any change in interests pursuant to the DTRs between 1 February 2014 and the date of this report.
Governance 38 39 Directors Report Continued Directors Contractual Arrangements Essential to the Business of the Group The names and roles of the current Directors together with brief biographical details are given on page 36.
The Directors are The Board considers that continuing supply from Nike and adidas, responsible for the management of the business of the Company being the main suppliers of third party branded sporting and, subject to law and the Companys Articles of Association products, to the Groups core sports fashion retail operation Articles, the Directors may exercise all of the powers of is essential to the business of the Group.
the Company and may delegate their power and discretion Employees to committees.
The Group communicates with its employees through team The number of directors at any one point in time shall not be briefs and via the Companys intranet and notice boards.
Views of employees are sought on matters of common concern.
The Articles give the Directors power to appoint and replace Priority is given to ensuring that employees are aware of all directors.
Any director so appointed shall hold office only until significant matters affecting the Groups performance and of the dissolution of the first AGM of the Company following significant organisational changes.
appointment unless they are re-elected during such meeting.
The Groups employee remuneration strategy is set out in the The Articles require that, at each AGM of the Company, Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 56. any director who was elected or last re-elected at or before The Group is committed to promote equal opportunities in the AGM held in the third calendar year before the then current employment regardless of employees or potential employees sex, calendar year must retire by rotation and such further Directors marital status, creed, colour, race, religion, ethnic origin or must retire by rotation so that in total not less than one third of disability.
Recruitment, promotion and the availability of the Directors retire by rotation each year.
A retiring director is training are based on the suitability of any applicant for eligible for re-election.
the job and full and fair consideration is always given to However in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance disabled persons in such circumstances.
Code the Board has determined that all Directors will stand for Should an employee become disabled during his or her re-election at the 2014 AGM.
employment by the Group, every effort is made to continue employment and training within their existing capacity wherever Amendment of the Companys Articles of Association practicable, or failing that, in some alternative suitable capacity.
The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
Auditor KPMG LLP have indicated their willingness to continue in office Change of Control Significant Agreements as auditors of the Company.
A resolution proposing their In the event of a change of control of the Company, the Company re-appointment will be proposed to shareholders at the and the lenders of the 155 million bank syndicated facility forthcoming AGM.
shall enter into an agreement to determine how to continue the facility.
If no agreement is reached within 20 business days of the date of change in control, the lenders may, by giving not less than 10 business days notice to the Company, cancel the facility and declare all outstanding loans, together with accrued interest and all other amounts accrued immediately due and payable.
Governance 38 39 Disclosure of Information to the Auditor Each person who is a Director at the date of approval of this report confirms that: So far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and Each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Going Concern After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company, and the Group as a whole, has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
Annual General Meeting AGM Notice of the Companys AGM to be held at 1pm on 26 June 2014 at Edinburgh House, Hollinsbrook Way, Pilsworth, Bury, Lancashire, BL9 8RR incorporating explanatory notes of the resolutions to be proposed at the meeting is enclosed, together with a form of proxy.
By order of the Board Jane Brisley Company Secretary 15 April 2014 Governance
