DIRECTORS REPORT The directors present their annual report on the affairs of the Group, RELATIONSHIP AGREEMENT WITH CONTROLLING SHAREHOLDER together with the financial statements and auditors report, for Prior to the IPO, the Company and JAB Luxury entered into a theyear ended 31 December 2014.
The Corporate Governance relationship agreement to regulate the ongoing relationship between Statement set out on pages 48 to 57 forms part of this report.
The principal purpose of the Relationship Agreement is to ensure that the Group is capable of Details of significant events since the balance sheet date are carrying on its business for the benefit of the shareholders of the contained in note 29 to the financial statements.
An indication of Company as a whole, and that transactions and relationships with likely future developments in the business of the Group are included JAB Luxury and any of their respective associates are at arms length in the Strategic Report.
The Directors Report should be read in and on normal commercial terms.
Further details of the Relationship conjunction with the Strategic Report, which contains details of Agreement with regard to the conduct of the major shareholder are theprincipal activities of the Group during the year.
set out in the Corporate Governance report on page 51 and, with regard to the right to appoint directors, are set out on page 51.
Information about the use of financial instruments by the Group and DIREC TORS its subsidiaries is given in note 23 to the financial statements.
The directors of the Company as at 31 December 2014 and their DIVIDENDS interests in the shares of the Company are shown on pages 71 The directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend and73.
On 5 March 2015, Judith Sprieser informed the Company that she CAPITAL STRUCTURE intended to step down from the board of the Company with Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together with immediate effect for personal reasons unrelated to the Company.
details of the movements in the Companys issued share capital TheBoard has commenced a process to identify a new independent during the year are shown in note 21 to the financial statements.
Non-Executive Director to replace Judith Sprieser as soon TheCompany has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right aspracticable.
Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the company.
The percentage of the issued nominal As detailed in the Articles of Association, at every Annual General value of the ordinary shares is equal to the total issued nominal Meeting, all directors at the date of any subsequent notice of Annual valueof all share capital.
General Meeting shall retire from office.
Consequently, the directors currently holding office will all be required and all intend to seek There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to be held transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions inMay 2015. of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
The directors DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity provisions on voting rights.
for the benefit of its directors which were made during the year and which remain in force at the date of this report.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 22 to the POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS financial statements.
Shares held by the JimmyChoo PLC Employee The Group has not made any political donations during the year Benefit Trust abstain from voting.
With regard to the appointment and replacement of directors, the ACQUISITION OF THE COMPANYS OWN SHARES company is governed by its Articles of Association, the UK Corporate Further to the shareholders resolutions of 16 October 2014, the Governance Code, the Companies Acts and related legislation.
The Company purchased 11,951,119 ordinary shares with a nominal value Articles themselves may be amended by special resolution of the of 1, and representing 4.3% of the Companys called up ordinary shareholders.
The powers of directors are described in the Main share capital, for a consideration of 16,731,567.
The shares were Board Terms of Reference, copies of which are available on request, purchased from JAB Luxury prior to the IPO of the Group in order and the Corporate Governance Statement on page 48. to satisfy future awards to be made under the terms of the Groups share based payment schemes, as described in note 22 to the SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS financial statements.
On 31 December 2014, the Company had been notified, in accordance with chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, At 31 December 2014 the directors did not have the authority of the following voting rights as a shareholder of the Company.
Percentage of voting rights SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS and issued Number of Name share capital ordinary shares A summary of how the Group recognises its responsibility to colleagues, customers, environment including greenhouse gas JAB Luxury GmbH 67.68% 263,767,190 emissions and community is contained within the Corporate and GIC Private Limited 4.62% 18,000,000 Social Responsibility Report on pages 35 to 37 which forms part ofthis report.
ETHNA AKTIV E Luxembourg registered investment fund FCP and ETHNAGOING CONCERN GLOBAL DYNAMISCH Luxembourg The Board is of the opinion that there is a reasonable expectation that registered investment fund FCP 3.03% 11,800,000 the Company and the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
In arriving at this During the period between 31 December 2014 and 18 March 2015 conclusion the Board has taken account of current and anticipated the company did not receive any notifications under chapter 5 of the trading performance, current and anticipated levels of borrowings Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2014 GOV ERN A NCE 74 andthe availability of borrowing facilities and exposures to and Under company law the directors must not approve the financial management of the financial risks detailed on pages 38 to 40. statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair Consequently, the going concern basis has been used in the view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of preparation of the Company and Group financial statements.
their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements, the directors are required to: ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Annual General Meeting will be held at the Radisson Blu select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Edwardian Hotel, 140 Bath Road, Hayes, Middlesex UB3 5AW, on consistently: Wednesday 27 May 2015 at 1pm.
The Notice of Annual General make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Meeting is contained in a separate letter from the Chairman for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been accompanying this report.
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: for the parent company financial statements, state whether DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO THE AUDITOR applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent Annual Report confirms that: company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and company will continue in business.
the director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken asa director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys of that information.
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. with the provisions of s418 of the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group KPMG LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
auditor and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, INFORMATION REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance This Annual Report and Financial Statements includes forwardStatement that complies with that law and those regulations.
These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties, many of which are The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity beyond the Companys control and all of which are based on the of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys directors current beliefs and expectations about future events.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and Forward-looking statements are sometimes identified by the use dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation offorward-looking terminology such as believe, expects, may, in other jurisdictions.
will, could, should, shall, risk, intends, estimates, aims, plans, predicts, continues, assumes, positioned We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: oranticipates or the negative thereof, other variations thereon orcomparable terminology.
the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view These forward-looking statements include all matters that are not of the assets, liabilities, financial position and loss of the company historical facts.
They appear in a number of places throughout this and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a Annual Report and Financial Statements and includes statements whole: and regarding the intentions, beliefs or current expectations of the the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and directors or the Company concerning, among other things, the results performance of the business and the position of the issuer and of operations, financial condition, prospects, growth, strategies the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, including continued store roll out plans, and dividend policy of the together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties Company and the industry in which it operates.
In particular, the that they face.
statements regarding the Companys strategy and other future events or prospects are forward-looking statements.
We consider the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT OF THE information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups ANNUAL REPORT AND THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS position and performance, business model and strategy.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with By order of the Board, applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that lawthey are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and HANNAH MERRITT have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in COMPANY SECRETARY accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
18 March 2015 JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2014 GOV ERN A NCE 75 JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2014 GOV ERN A NCE 76 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
