STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK Our goal is to pursue growth without compromising JimmyChoos Like for like growth: through continued strong performance of our brand.
This is achieved by successful product collections driving collections and investment in our DOS network, with selected positive like for like sales, opening new DOS, and expansion in openings, relocations and new store concept renovations in Asiaand selected new markets.
JimmyChoos existing developed markets of Europe, USA andJapan.
Shoes are at the heart of JimmyChoo and will remain the core Retail led growth driven by: offering.
Shoes represent three quarters of revenue, which we door growth opportunity: expansion of DOS in Greater China, donotexpect to change substantially.
JimmyChoo is a specialist where JimmyChoo is currently under-represented compared luxury shoe company focused on growing our relationship with our to our peers, and potential franchise buyouts and JVs in customers and clients.
Growth will always be pursued within the incumbent fast growing markets, including the Middle East, context of protecting the JimmyChoo brand identity and luxury South Korea, Singapore and Malaysia.
It is expected that half positioning.
We believe that JimmyChoos unique brand DNA and totwo-thirds of JimmyChoos DOS development will be in experienced design team will enable us to continue to deliver China each year.
collections that resonate strongly with our clients.
Online: the Group will continue our investment in online which has proved to be one of the key elements of growth in the We aim to deliver earnings growth and returns through focusing on current environment.
Recent investments into the supply chain growth ahead of the market and margin expansion, together with and systems upgrades are expected to position the Group to good cash flow conversion.
participate in the growth of the global online trade, and provide an omnichannel distribution offering in the medium term.
REVENUE GROWTH Wholesale entry: explore potential franchise opportunities in new Revenue growth is supported by the store opening programme, markets where JimmyChoo currently has a limited presence, through which the Group plans to open 10 to 15 stores per year, particularly in Latin America and Eastern Europe, alongside aswell as the rollout of the recently introduced new store concept continued development of our existing business.
In addition to our DOS expansion plans, we intend MARGIN EXPANSION to pursue growth through our multibrand, franchise and JV channels.
All of these are important for JimmyChoos business model as they The revenue growth initiatives described above, together with provide access to new markets.
increased control over distribution, are designed to drive margin improvement in the business.
The opex impact of the investment Our aim is to grow towards a regional mix more in line with the wider insystems and logistics is now complete and the business is scaled luxury market through growth in Asia and selected new markets, forgrowth.
Direct costs will grow broadly in line with retail revenue while maintaining our presence in EMEA and USA.
JimmyChoos and indirect costs will grow slower than overall revenue.
The new revenue growth strategy is focused around the following key pillars: systems and logistics investment will help the management team toimprove inventory efficiency, thereby reducing markdowns and Market outperformance: we believe that JimmyChoos client increasing cash flow.
insight, design approach and systems that it has developed as aspecialist will enable us to outperform the wider luxury market.
JimmyChoo has the right specialist resource, knowhow, skills andpeople to excel in this attractive and complex category.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT 26 OBJEC TIVES PERFORMANCE INTENTIONS LIKE FOR LIKE SALES GROWTH LIKE FOR LIKE AT CONSTANT CURRENCY Collection-led growth Mid single digit like for New store concept 5.7% likegrowth Merchandising excellence 2014 5.7 % 2013 7.1% 2012 6.1% REVENUE GROWTH REVENUE GROWTH AT CONSTANT CURRENCY Like for like growth Constant currency revenue 10 to 15 new DOS per annum 12.2% growth ahead of the market Distribution growth in Asia, the Middle East and Latin America 2014 12.
2 % 2013 15.6 % 2012 17.1% ADJUSTED EBITDA MARGIN ADJUSTED EBITDA AS % OF REVENUE Impact of investment in systems Operational gearing to provide and processes complete modest Adjusted EBITDA 16.8% Direct costs growth in line with margingrowth retail revenue 2014 16.8 % Brand communication broadly maintained as % of revenue 2013 16.6 % Indirect costs growth slower 2012 19.0 % than revenue RETAIL LED GROWTH RETAIL AS % OF REVENUE Opening 10 to 15 DOS per year Retail revenue as percentage Forming JVs with franchise 64.4% oftotal revenue to increase partners overtime Renovations of existing DOS 2014 6 4.
0 % 2012 62.6 % JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT 27
