Our Core Values Our Core Values are at the heart of our business because they define who we are, how we work, what we believe in and what we stand for.
Our Core Values set out how we act and how we expect to be treated as part of Wood Group and provide a sound basis to make decisions.
Safety & Assurance Relationships Safety & Assurance is our top priority because lives depend on it.
Our business depends on healthy relationships with customers, We passionately care about the safety of our people and behave as business partners and suppliers.
We are committed to preventing injuries and ill health to We have a well balanced portfolio of customers from international oil our people and those we work with so everyone returns home safely.
companies, independents and national oil companies.
Our track record In 2014 we delivered measurable improvement in Health, Safety, in developing strong relationships is based on working closely with our Security and Environment HSSE performance, based on our key customers in the safe delivery of their business goals.
Across our workforce of 42,000 employees we This is underlined by the fact that we secured over 50 contract had no fatalities and our lost work case frequency LWCF showed a extensions and 11 contract renewals in 2014, 3 of which are long-term 36% improvement on 2013 performance.
We also had positive progress contract extensions with key operator clients in the North Sea.
in our total recordable case frequency TRCF with a 23% improvement.
Our diverse customer base means that our top 10 customers typically We launched our Safe Home vision which communicates our belief that all generate less than 40% of total Group revenues and our top customer accidents are preventable.
In support of Safe Home, we also implemented generates less than 10%.
our Life Saving Rules which were established following a detailed review of Our high win rate is achieved through the strong long-term relationships critical activities that presented the highest risk of harm to our people.
The we have fostered with our clients.
One of our biggest contract wins nine rules set out the minimum standard that must be met to ensure the this year for Wood Group PSN, at a value of $750m, was with BP, safety of our people when performing tasks in these areas.
a company we have worked with globally for more than 40 years, Wood Groups security team worked across the business to ensure that testament to the partnership we have established.
security risks were identified and addressed prior to starting new operations.
Our strength is in helping customers to become more efficient and The security team is structured to provide regional expertise, which included effective and we are committed to growing those relationships based recent enhancements to our security management capability and capacity.
on delivery: providing quality, consistency and strong alignment on A new Group head of HSSE was appointed with a focus on further health and safety.
Our flexibility and adaptability in todays continually developing HSSE assurance across Wood Group.
changing business environment is a key differentiator.
The 2015-2017 HSSE Strategic Plan aims to build on our strong Collaboration within the Group has helped secure new contracts in foundation, while at the same time recognising the challenges that a Asia Pacific with global operators with whom we have well established business of significant breadth and diversity presents and the impact that relationships, utilising the competence and capability of the Group to this brings to the HSSE system as a whole.
The Plan is centred on six fulfil the needs of customers.
core strategic objectives that focus on: robust processes and systems: competent people: inspiring leadership: risk understanding, management and assurance: and ensuring learning from previous events.
LWCF: lost work TRCF: total recordable case frequency case frequency per million man hours per million man hours 2.24 0.70 1.99 0.65 1.81 0.60 1.39 0.45 2011 2012 2013 2014 2011 2012 2013 2014 14 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Social Responsibility Being socially responsible is integral to what we do.
We aim to make a Disclosures concerning greenhouse gas GHG emissions positive difference to the communities where we operate and seek ways Global GHG emissions data is shown for the year ended 31 to assist them.
We focus principally on the areas of health, education, 2 December 2014 and totals 62,185 tonnes of CO split as poverty and environment.
The data excluded non controlled businesses.
The principal reason for the decrease in emissions in 2014 is In 2014, we joined the London Benchmarking Group, an organisation the exclusion of data for businesses in our GTS division now whose members strive to measure their company's overall contribution transferred to a new non-controlled Joint Venture with Siemens, to the community, taking account of cash, time and in-kind donations, EthosEnergy.
as well as management costs.
This will enhance our measurement framework and our ability to assess the quality and effectiveness of our social responsibility Core Value.
2014 2013 Emissions from Our charitable and community support is an important part of our social responsibility and includes support for educational programmes Combustion of fuel and in various locations around the world.
Alongside the ongoing support 51,279 118,439 operation of facilities for two flagship charities this year, the Vine Trust in Tanzania and tonnes of CO e tonnes of CO e 2 2 the ARCHIE Foundation in the UK, we have supported other local initiatives.
These include our support for the Clontarf Foundation in Australia, which improves education and employment prospects for Electricity, heat, steam 10,906 9,109 young Aboriginal men and our support to the Cardiff High School in and cooling purchased tonnes of CO e tonnes of CO e Houston.
We also supported a wide range of local projects that our for own use 2 2 people care passionately about through our Employee Community Fund programmes in Aberdeen and Houston and will extend these programmes in 2015.
Companys chosen intensity measurement: Emissions We manage environmental risks within our business by aligning and reported above normalised 1.8 certifying our environmental management systems to ISO14001 and 0.8 to per tonne of $100,000 we drive heightened environmental awareness through HSE alerts and revenue environmental initiatives.
In 2014 we continued our investment in a sustainable property portfolio for improved working conditions and energy efficiency within key strategic hubs including Melbourne, Australia and Houston, Texas.
Methodology Building work also started for Wood Group's new Southern campus We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and location in Aberdeen.
Reporting Standard revised edition data gathered to fulfil our requirements, and emission factors from the UK Governments Our annual Environmental Day saw activities across the globe ranging GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2014.
In a from switch off campaigns and informative presentations, to local area few instances, where data was not available, estimation of data cleans and garden planting.
The Nigg oil terminal in the north east of has occurred to best reflect an accurate view of those sources Scotland ran a community event to demonstrate the tight environmental included in the reporting.
controls we have on the site of specific scientific interest to conserve locally protected species.
We continue to develop our engineering, production support and renewable energy expertise to help reduce our customers environmental impact.
SgurrEnergy, our renewable energy consultancy, has assessed over 110GW of renewable energy developments internationally covering on and offshore wind, solar, hydro, wave and tidal and bioenergy.
EcoMax, a gas turbine optimisation system, enables analysis to optimise gas turbine operations while complying with environmental law.
We are supporting our clients within the US Gulf of Mexico with Safety and Environmental management systems SEMS compliance requirements.
In 2015 we will revise our environmental strategy to reinforce our commitment on minimising the impact of our activities and ensure compliance with upcoming UK ESOS Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme legislation.
14 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 Core Values continued People Innovation People are the heart of our business.
We are professional, high performing Innovation gives us competitive advantage.
team players focused on delivering and drawing on our global expertise.
In Wood Group we foster a culture of innovation and improvement As we seek to expand our global business we strive to make the best use which enables us to unlock or increase value for our customers.
In order of talent, representing wider communities and stakeholders.
As a global to promote and embed this culture we have a Group-wide Innovation group with over 42,000 people working in more than 40 countries, we are Network who take the role of technology thought leaders to unearth blue committed to attracting, developing and retaining the best people from sky thinking which has the potential to become a commercial reality.
different backgrounds and cultures, creating a dynamic workforce that can More immediately, our continued focus on internal and external cost apply diverse perspectives and backgrounds to competitive advantage.
savings stimulates innovation as we look for improvement and efficiency.
To operate at the highest levels we need to invest in our people wherever Our internal framework accommodates and encourages the pursuit of they are located and whatever role they hold.
Our extensive training and new ways of working as we work with our customers to overcome the development programmes are designed to help them learn new skills and challenges that the lower oil price environment presents.
Our approach to early careers is an investment in the Collaborating with our clients in the search for new ways of working in future of the Group with over 120 graduates and apprentices recruited 2014 has led to notable innovation successes, the benefit of which has into these programmes in 2014.
The planned approach to developing been passed onto our customers.
talent from within the organisation ensures we have the capability to meet our current and future business needs.
An example of this was the installation of an innovative tank solution for Esso Australia by Wood Group PSN which achieved a work schedule Talent management is a key priority for our business: we recognise saving of 18 weeks, capex savings of over $2m and significantly reduced that in succession planning for the future, we need to ensure we have projected maintenance costs.
leaders who understand our global business and who exemplify our leadership principles.
Supporting our succession planning process, Again in Wood Group PSN we worked alongside a client on a North Sea our management and supervisory development programmes help our project where we simplified processes and delivered a fit for purpose people further develop their own skills and prepare for progression in plant design more suitable for late life operation.
This work was part of their own careers.
In addition to internal programmes, there are a range a strategy to help recover a further 35 million barrels of oil from mature of courses provided locally to focus on personal development, specific fields and enhance one of the region's oldest platforms.
job related skills and vocational and professional qualifications.
Wood Group Kenny's Integrity Management business developed a During 2014 we have continued our focus on driving consistency, risk-based ROV inspection programme that aims to save approximately fairness and transparency in the way we reward and incentivise our 30% in inspection resources.
The team is also developing software tools people.
We have simplified our approach to annual bonus plans and to access and analyse online field measurements, saving thousands of long-term incentives, and aligned our approach to employee benefits in hours a year in manual processing, allowing more efficient review and key geographical locations.
decision making based on key performance indicators.
To retain and attract the best people, we recognise the need to offer Attention to detail by the Process Plants & Industrial unit in Wood Group challenging and exciting opportunities.
During 2014, we enhanced Mustang led to the development of a more automated application for processes to allow our people to effectively move around the world and accurate material procurement, improving on the solution offered to throughout our businesses to deliver their full potential.
clients from a perspective of schedule, budget and quality.
How we interact with people is crucial and our Human Rights Policy Innovation is usually associated with the creation of cost savings which can be found here www.
net policies documents however alongside these, there can be other benefits.
The decision to people human rights.
We are committed to protecting use a Cyberhawk ROAV Remote Operated Aerial Vehicle to carry out and enhancing the human dignity of all Wood Group personnel and a detailed structural inspection of the drilling derrick on Brent Delta was everyone who has dealings with the Group worldwide.
a significantly safer solution than traditional rope access methods and removed the need for a 3 week shutdown.
9 people as at 31 December 2014 including CEO, CFO, WG Mustang CEO, WG Kenny CEO, WG PSN CEO, Group Head of HR, Group Head of HSS&E, Group Head of Strategy & Development and Company Secretary 2.
50 people as at 31 December 2014, comprising direct reports to the Executive Committee 16 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 17 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Financial Responsibility Integrity We expect to receive fair reward for our business performance.
We are proud of our reputation, built over many years, which depends on us doing the right thing.
Our financial responsibility Core Value covers five key topics: receiving fair reward for what we do: managing financial risk: communicating Our Business Ethics Policy highlights the importance of conducting financial performance responsibly: and looking after our own and our business ethically and legally.
Our Business Ethics Committee oversees customers costs.
the implementation of this policy and our business ethics compliance programme.
The Committee comprises senior managers from across As a primarily reimbursable business, there is transparency in the reward the Group and is chaired by Robbie Brown, Company Secretary.
The receipt of fair reward allows us to invest in our people Its members appoint the Groups Responsible Officers, senior business and our business.
In turn this allows us to improve the service to our leaders who, liaising with a number of designated Country Officers, customers.
An example of this is the investment in ERP systems to promote ethical conduct across the business.
We use various forms enhance and consolidate our back office capabilities as a step towards of communication and training, both in-person and through electronic increased efficiency and improved service to customers.
media, to embed the Integrity message across the Group.
Financial risk is reviewed by the Board alongside all risks twice a year.
Compliance with the Business Ethics Policy is mandatory for our The business is continually assessing financial risks as part of its normal directors, officers and employees, as well as all contractors, consultants, operations.
We have Group-wide accounting, treasury and tax policies representatives, intermediaries and agents retained by Wood Group.
It is that underpin our approach to managing financial risk.
As a move to lower updated regularly, and is available in nine languages.
our financial risk we adopted a new policy effective in 2014, to limit our exposure to fixed price or lump sum work to less than 15% of revenues.
Over 5,000 designated business ethics personnel were required to undertake on-line training and confirm their continued compliance in 2014.
Key to our business and operations are the flows of information.
We regularly Business ethics personnel are identified based on a range of roles and communicate our financial performance in a clear and concise manner.
responsibilities, including those who liaise with customers and third parties.
Throughout the year we seek feedback from investors, analysts and financial media.
This takes the form of roadshows, conferences and also We recognise that the use of third party intermediaries increases our one-to-one sessions.
In 2014, we held a capital markets day focused exposure to corruption risks.
Our Commercial Intermediaries Policy requires on Wood Group PSN Production Services, which provided a valuable pre-appointment due diligence to be undertaken, as well as on-going insight for investors, analysts and lenders into the structure, scope, risks post-appointment monitoring and audit.
In addition to commercial sales and opportunities in the business.
This was delivered by operational representatives, the policy also applies to those who assist in securing management and gave attendees the opportunity to ask questions business permits, licenses, visas, work permits, clearances or waivers on around the content and enabled discussion with extended management behalf of Wood Group.
Using our external, confidential, multi-lingual Business Ethics helpline, Managing our customers costs is crucially important, particularly in an anyone, anywhere, can raise a concern, or report a suspected violation environment of increased focus on efficiency.
By working alongside our of the Business Ethics Policy.
We investigate violations or complaints and customers at the start of a project we believe that we have the potential take necessary action.
A register of matters is maintained by the Groups to significantly reduce the overall cost of the project or extend asset life.
Chief Compliance Officer and the Board receives regular updates.
During 2014 we conducted a number of internal investigations into allegations of Our next Annual General Meeting, to be held on 13 May 2015, will unethical behaviour.
Appropriate disciplinary action was taken based on provide an opportunity for shareholders to raise any questions they the facts and circumstances, including the dismissal of four employees may have with the Board.
and two other cases where an employee left during or immediately upon completion of an investigation.
Total shareholder return 16 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 17
