1 SUSTAINABLE TECHNOLOGIES for today and for the future JOHNSON MATTHEY IS A LEADING SPECIALITY CHEMICALS COMPANY.
As a business, we always aim to deliver what we promise.
We work together, applying our expertise in advanced materials and technology to innovate and improve solutions that: are valued by our customers: optimise the use of natural resources: and enhance the quality of life for the people of the world, both today and for the future.
To us, good performance is not just about profit.
Its about running our business in the most sustainable way and we have five elements of sustainability which have a material impact on our business.
In this report we will update you on our progress.
BUILDING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Social Environment Employee development and wellbeing, recruitment Responsible operations Supporting communities, safeguarding reputation Beneficial products DELIVERING VALUE Health and Safety Governance Protecting employees, customers and communities Well run business Beneficial products Transparent reporting Financial Must be profitable to be sustainable Sustainability initiatives can be cost efficient too CAUTIONARY STATEMENT The Strategic Report and certain other sections of this annual report contain forward looking statements that are subject to risk factors associated with, amongst other things, the economic and business circumstances occurring from time to time in the countries and sectors in which the group operates.
It is believed that the expectations reflected in these statements are reasonable but they may be affected by a wide range of variables which could cause actual results to differ materially from those currently anticipated.
2 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Contents This annual report combines our financial, social, health and safety, environmental and governance performance into one document and reflects the five elements of sustainability which we believe have a material impact on our business.
It is divided into eight sections over four main chapters: Strategic Report Overview: introduces Johnson Matthey and summarises our performance during the year.
It also outlines the groups strategy to 1. build our 3rd century through value adding sustainable technologies.
Financial: details the financial performance of the group and its five divisions during the year.
Social: highlights initiatives involving our people, our communities and other stakeholder groups.
It also contains performance data relating 3. to employees and community investment.
Health and Safety: outlines our performance in the year, our approach to health, safety and product stewardship and the programmes we have 4. in place to drive continuous improvement.
Environment: provides more detail on the impact of our business on the environment.
It details the environmental performance of our operations 5. during the year and highlights the beneficial impact of our products.
Governance Governance: introduces our Board of Directors and details the corporate governance structures that are in place to ensure we manage 6. our business in a responsible and transparent way.
It also contains the Directors Report and the statement on responsibility of directors.
Accounts Accounts: includes the consolidated and parent company accounts and related notes, as well as the independent auditors report on the 7. financial accounts.
Other Information Other Information: contains five year performance data for the group.
It also provides further information for shareholders, a glossary and an 8. index to help the reader locate information in the relevant sections.
In addition to this integrated Annual Report and Accounts we publish case studies Go Online and further information on sustainability online.
Links to this supplementary www.
com AR14 information are highlighted in the relevant chapter of this report with the symbol.
Governance Case Study: Four Decades of Emissions Control Case Study: Catalysis and Chiral Technologies 76 Letter from the Chairman Johnson Matthey at a Glance outer flap 77 Sustainability and Governance Performance Highlights inner flap 82 Board of Directors 6 Chairmans Statement 84 Corporate Governance Report 8 Chief Executives Statement 95 Nomination Committee Report 10 Our Business 98 Audit Committee Report 12 Building our 3rd Century 103 Remuneration Report 12 Our Business Model 123 Directors Report 13 Our Vision and Values 127 Responsibility of Directors 14 Our Strategy 15 Research and Development 16 Group Key Performance Indicators 18 Risks and Uncertainties Accounts 7.
Financial Case Study: Johnson Matthey The Original Recycler Case Study: Maximising Plant Performance: Minimising Natural Resources 130 Consolidated Income Statement 130 Consolidated Statement of Total Comprehensive 24 Group Performance Review Income 26 Financial Review of Operations 131 Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets 26 Emission Control Technologies 132 Consolidated and Parent Company Cash Flow 30 Process Technologies Statements 34 Precious Metal Products 133 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 38 Fine Chemicals 134 Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity 41 New Businesses 135 Accounting Policies 44 Financial Review 139 Notes on the Accounts 49 Treasury Policies and Going Concern 177 Independent Auditors Report 3.
Social Other Information Case Study: New Catalyst Removes Toxic Mercury from VCM Manufacturing 8.
Other Information 52 Building a Sustainable Workforce Case Study: Technology to Tackle 57 Stakeholder Engagement Greenhouse Gases 182 Five Year Record Financial Data 183 Five Year Record Non-Financial Data 184 Basis of Reporting Non-Financial Data 4.
Health and Safety 185 Verification of Non-Financial Data Case Study: Micromachined Components 186 Shareholder Information for Medical Device Applications 188 Global Reporting Initiative GRI Summary 62 Managing Performance and Driving Continuous Improvement 189 Glossary of Terms 62 Health Performance 190 Index 64 Safety Performance 191 Financial Calendar 2014 15 65 Product Stewardship 192 Company Details 67 Regulatory Matters 5.
Environment Case Study: The Right Solution for Water Purification 70 Improving Our Processes, Products and Performance 71 Environmental Performance Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
