65.. Safety checks at our autocatalyst testing centre in Royston, UK.
Emission control catalyst manufacturing in Smithfield, USA.
We are planning to introduce a Looking Ahead to 2014 15 We have created product stewardship system of guest auditing, bringing in After a couple of years where systems to ensure the sound employees from outside the audit performance, in particular safety management of chemicals throughout function.
As a first step, we have performance, has plateaued, 2014 15 their life cycle, and in this we follow a identified 20 key personnel who will be will mark a reinvigoration in our global framework introduced by the trained for the task by internal and approach.
A variety of work programmes Strategic Approach to International external trainers.
The benefits of guest are planned or underway to stimulate Chemicals Management SAICM auditing flow both ways: the employees further progress, reduce accident and to promote chemical safety around learn more about our central EHS incident rates and align ourselves better the world.
auditing practices while contributing with global best practice.
In 2014 15 We carry out rigorous evaluations their specialist knowledge of local we will focus on enhancing leadership of our products, both new and existing, hazards on their own sites.
in health and safety across Johnson assessing any risks associated with Matthey and we will continue to build product use and determining risk Our EHS culture building a culture on the behavioural based safety management measures and mechanisms that is consistently high across the programmes we already have in place.
which we communicate to those outside group is an important part of our health We are assessing our current health and the company.
We work in cooperation and safety work.
EHS culture facilitators safety metrics with a view to revising with industry partners and customers, have been trained in Europe, the US and updating them in order to drive regulators and non-governmental and India and we will complete training performance improvement and provide organisations to strengthen confidence in Korea and China during June 2014. benchmarking opportunities.
Our group EHS policy and guidance We are introducing a new format Our businesses have management will then be amended to include the for our monthly performance report to systems to assess the health and safety EHS culture programme.
provide more focus on our key EHS impacts of products across their life cycle, Health and safety risk management issues.
In addition, we are revising our from product concept and R&D, through we published our new group EHS EHS assurance programme to provide manufacturing, distribution, the use policy and guidance on ergonomics, a more comprehensive and rigorous phase, to end of life or reuse.
which forms part of the group EHS scope in line with how our sites operate, management system.
We ran three that incorporates new metrics and Read more about product day training programmes in the EU, that focuses more on continuous stewardship at Johnson North America and China to train local improvement.
Matthey, including our policy staff in how to implement our ergonomic on animal testing, at programme toolkit.
Product Stewardship We also continued our seminars on how to manage fire risk, one of the The products that leave our sites are Performance in 2013 14 and only part way through their life cycle.
most significant health and safety risks Strategic Priorities across Johnson Matthey, with a focus They go on to become part of another Johnson Matthey use a systematic product or material which will be used on platinum group metal pgm related product responsibility reporting scheme fires and pressurised gas safety.
During and then disposed of or recycled.
All conforming to the Global Reporting products, not least those with a chemical the seminars, attendees examine the Initiative Sustainability Reporting systems in place at each facility to content, have a potential impact on Guidelines, G3.1 to monitor the health and the environment.
prevent, control and mitigate these performance of our operations and types of fires and explosions.
Over the Product stewardship is about maintain surveillance of the companys taking responsibility for the content of year, seminars were held in North products and services.
In 2013 14, America and India and the programme a product over its life cycle so that it will there were no notifications of significant not go on to have an adverse impact on will be completed in China in June 2014. end user health effects involving our In addition, we continued our process the environment or on anyone in contact products and no major incidents or with the product.
risk management programmes, with environmental releases during our one audit completed in the UK and one At Johnson Matthey we are product distribution were recorded.
committed to responsible management planned and scheduled to take place in No product recalls occurred for the US in June 2014. of the chemicals we use and produce.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 66 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2014 4.
Health and Safety Health and Safety continued During the year we have made As part of our ongoing work on product resources to the Pgm Health Science good progress in improving our strategic risk assessments, we have evaluated Research Group, in a project covering product stewardship systems and exposure scenarios for our core product pgms in the environment and workplace.
areas including our major pgm and base The project is now yielding significant We have continued to encourage metal catalysts and a number of our APIs.
new data beneficial to preventing the responsible management of Over the past five years we have occupational illness amongst workers substances throughout the supply chain.
committed substantial funding and in the sector and on the fate and behaviour of pgms in the environment.
CASE STUDY Managing Substances of Concern One Path to Greener Chemistry Across all industries, chemical substances are becoming controls in place throughout its life cycle and at its end of increasingly regulated in Europe and North America.
life: its potential application which can range from use under Chemical controls are rapidly becoming much more carefully controlled conditions to wide dispersive uses stringent in Asia too.
Some substances are classed as where it comes into contact with many people and or is hazardous and, within that category, those that present dispersed into the environment : and the economics and more significant hazards may be deemed substances of feasibility of substitution.
concern where further control is considered.
Although very It is a fine balancing act.
For some substances of few of Johnson Mattheys products contain substances of concern, such as nickel oxide in well established catalyst concern, we place considerable emphasis on how we applications, substitution could only be done at huge cost evaluate and manage these substances.
This is also a or is simply not viable, given the socioeconomic impacts matter of interest to regulators and to all our stakeholders, which would result from their use.
We must also take our including our customers, our shareholders and other stakeholders, including our customers, with us, working groups.
They need to know that we are active stewards of closely with them during our product development.
Market our products, taking responsibility for identifying hazards and drivers are important too: in one example when we have managing the risks over the product life cycle and for the developed a heavy metal free catalyst for use in long term.
polyurethane manufacture, the product did not become So how does Johnson Matthey react to potential accepted in the marketplace.
future requirements and recommendations in relation to But overall we have a positive record on substitution.
substances of concern, including considerations for When we removed cadmium from our brazing alloys phasing them out?
Firstly, we always comply with our legal brazing is a metal joining process we ran a obligations.
Beyond this we have policies and procedures communications campaign with customers and in place to ensure we operate to the same standards in distributors, which included a Cancel the Cadmium all countries.
brochure, explaining the health and safety risks of Secondly, we distinguish between hazard and risk, cadmium.
Although the reformulated product contained placing most emphasis on risk.
A substance may be more silver and was more expensive, we took the market intrinsically hazardous but when it is produced under strict with us and succeeded, assuming a leadership position operating practices in a regulated plant, the risk may be ahead of subsequent regulation.
One example where we place a particular We have a strong interest in green chemistry.
For focus on risk is that of a chemical intermediate which is a example, recently we have phased out a lead compound substance of concern but is rigorously contained and then pigment which is designated a substance of very high transformed to another chemical.
In this case, the actual concern.
We are also very close to completing the risk is acceptably low.
voluntary phase out of phthalate esters from one of our Thirdly, as detailed in our policies, when we introduce product lines.
new products we start by selecting the safest substances.
Our commitment to sustainability is inspiring us to find In the words of our new product introduction policy, we better materials and better technology solutions.
Externally, promote the selection and development of inherently we have a good track record in communicating with sustainable chemistry.
We also review the chemical customers and stakeholders.
Internally, we have strong content of existing products to see if there are safer expertise in advanced materials together with well tried alternatives to the substances we currently use.
systems of product stewardship and risk assessment in Regulations on chemicals are subject to change and place.
The EU list of substances of very high concern is we must not be caught unaware.
Equally, knowledge of expected to increase dramatically in the coming years and chemical hazards is constantly expanding.
To keep up to the bar will be raised.
We are well placed to develop the date with evolving scientific knowledge and regulatory materials and the chemistry required to meet higher change we have set up tracking IT systems that allow us regulatory standards in a market that needs our products.
to maintain our global horizon scanning.
At the same time, our corporate reputation benefits from When we assess the risk associated with a substance our efforts to use the safest feasible substances.
we consider a number of things: the hazard it presents: the
