123 Directors Report For the year ended 31st March 2014 Contents 123 2014 Annual General Meeting AGM 125 Powers of the Directors 123 Dividends 125 Indemnification of Directors 123 Dividend Payments and DRIP 125 The Interests of Directors in the Companys Shares 123 Share Allotments 125 Directors Interests in Contracts 123 Share Capital and Control 125 The Companys Articles of Association 124 Listing of the Companys Shares 125 Change of Control 124 American Depositary Receipt Programme 126 Branches 124 Employee Share Schemes 126 Political Donations and Expenditure 124 Interests in Voting Rights 126 Information Set Out in the Strategic Report 125 Contracts with Controlling Shareholders 126 Important Events since 31st March 2014 125 Directors 126 Auditors and Disclosure of Information 125 Appointment and Replacement of Directors 126 Management Report Purchase by the Company of its 2014 Annual General Dividend Payments and DRIP Own Shares Meeting AGM Dividends can be paid directly into At the 2013 AGM shareholders renewed shareholders bank accounts.
A Dividend Our 2014 AGM will be held at 11.00 am on the companys authority to make market Reinvestment Plan DRIP is also available.
Wednesday 23rd July 2014 at Ironmongers purchases of up to 20,491,774 ordinary This allows shareholders to purchase Hall, Shaftesbury Place, Barbican, London 16 shares of 104 21 pence each, representing additional shares in Johnson Matthey with EC2Y 8AA.
10% of the issued share capital of the their dividend payment.
Further information The notice of the 2014 AGM, together company excluding treasury shares as at and a mandate can be obtained from our with an explanation of the resolutions to be 31st May 2013.
This authority subsisted at registrars, Equiniti, whose details are set considered at the meeting, is set out in a 31st March 2014. out on page 187 and on the Investor separate circular to shareholders.
This During the year, Johnson Matthey did Relations Shareholder Centre section circular is published on the Investor not make any purchases of its own shares of our website.
Relations Shareholder Centre Annual or propose to purchase its own shares General Meeting section of our website.
either through the market or by an offer Share Allotments made to all shareholders or otherwise, nor Dividends There were no share allotments during did the company acquire any of its own the year.
The interim dividend of 17.0 pence per shares other than by purchase.
share 2013 15.5 pence was paid in Since 31st March 2014 the company Share Capital and Control February 2014. has not effected any purchases of its own The directors recommend a final shares, entered into any options to purchase Capital Structure dividend of 45.5 pence per share in respect its own shares or entered into any contracts to The issued share capital of the company at of the year 2013 41.5 pence, making a make such purchases including transactions 31st March 2014 was 204,917,749 ordinary total for the year of 62.5 pence per share 16 made through the market or by an offer made shares of 104 21 pence each excluding 2013 57.0 pence, payable on 5th August to all shareholders or otherwise.
2014 to shareholders on the register at the As at 31st March 2014, the company Rights and Obligations Attaching to close of business on 13th June 2014. held 5,725,246 treasury shares.
There were Shares Other than as referred to under no purchases, sales or transfers of treasury The holders of ordinary shares in Johnson Employee Share Schemes on page 124, shares during the year.
Matthey are entitled to receive dividends during the year there were no arrangements when declared, to receive the companys under which a shareholder has waived or annual report, to attend and speak at agreed to waive any dividends nor any general meetings, to appoint proxies and agreement by a shareholder to waive to exercise voting rights.
As at 31st March 2014 and as at the date of approval of this annual report, except as referred to on page 124, there were no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the company, no limitations on the holding of securities and no requirements to obtain the approval of the company, or of other holders of securities in the company, for a transfer of securities.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 124 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2014 6.
Governance Directors Report continued The directors may, in certain Nominees, Financial Assistance and Liens over-the-counter market under the symbol circumstances, refuse to register the transfer During the year: JMPLY.
When dividends are paid to of a share in certificated form which is not shareholders, the Depositary converts such no shares in the company were fully paid up, where the instrument of dividends into US dollars, net of fees and acquired by the companys nominee, transfer does not comply with the expenses, and distributes the net amount or by a person with financial assistance requirements of the companys Articles of to ADR holders.
Contact details for BNY from the company, in either case where Association, or if entitled to do so under the Mellon are set out on page 187. the company has a beneficial interest Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. in the shares and no person acquired Employee Share Schemes The directors may also refuse to register a shares in the company in any previous transfer of ordinary shares in certificated At 31st March 2014, 4,730 current and financial year in its capacity as the form, which represents 0.25% or more of former employees representing companys nominee or with financial the issued share capital of the company, approximately 41% of employees assistance from the company : and following the failure by the member or any worldwide, were shareholders in the the company did not obtain or hold a other person appearing to be interested in company through the groups employee lien or other charge over its own shares.
the shares to provide the company with share schemes.
Through these schemes, information requested under section 793 of current and former employees held Allotment of Securities for Cash and the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act.
3,577,148 ordinary shares 1.7% of issued Placing of Equity Securities Also as at 31st March 2014 and as at share capital, excluding treasury shares.
During the year the company has not the date of approval of this annual report: As at 31st March 2014, 22 current and allotted, nor has any major subsidiary former employees held options over 32,303 no person held securities in the undertaking of the company broadly an ordinary shares through the companys company carrying any special rights undertaking that represents at least 25% of executive share option schemes.
Also as with regard to control of the company: the groups aggregate gross assets or profit at 31st March 2014, 2,513,341 ordinary allotted, equity securities for cash.
During there were no restrictions on voting shares had been allocated but had not yet the year the company has not participated rights including any limitations on voting vested under the companys long term in any placing of equity securities.
rights of holders of a given percentage incentive plan to 1,135 current and former or number of votes or deadlines for employees.
Listing of the Companys Shares exercising voting rights except that a Shares acquired by employees through shareholder has no right to vote in Johnson Mattheys shares have a Premium the companys employee share schemes respect of a share unless all sums due Listing on the London Stock Exchange and rank equally with the other shares in issue in respect of that share are fully paid: trade as part of the FTSE 100 index under and have no special rights.
Voting rights in the symbol JMAT.
there were no arrangements by which, respect of shares held through the with the companys cooperation, companys employee share schemes are American Depositary Receipt financial rights carried by shares in the not exercisable directly by employees.
Programme company are held by a person other However, employees can direct the trustee than the holder of the shares: and of the schemes to exercise voting rights on Johnson Matthey has a sponsored Level 1 their behalf.
The trustee of the companys American Depositary Receipt ADR there were no agreements known to employee share ownership trust ESOT has programme which BNY Mellon administers the company between holders of waived its right to dividends on shares held and for which it acts as Depositary.
Each securities that may result in restrictions by the ESOT which have not yet vested ADR represents two ordinary shares of on the transfer of securities or on unconditionally in employees.
The ADRs trade on the US voting rights.
Interests in Voting Rights The following information has been disclosed to the company under the Financial Conduct Authoritys FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 5 in respect of notifiable interests in the voting rights in the companys issued share capital: Nature of holding Total voting rights % of total voting rights As at 31st March 2014: BlackRock, Inc.
Indirect 20,240,386 9.88% Financial Instrument CFD 314,799 0.15% Ameriprise Financial, Inc.
Direct 131,805 0.064% Indirect 9,874,924 4.819% Norges Bank Direct 8,036,292 3.92% Other than as stated above, as far as the company is aware, there is no person with a significant direct or indirect holding of securities in the company.
No changes in interests in the voting rights of the companys issued share capital have been notified to the company in accordance with DTR 5 between 31st March 2014 and 4th June 2014.
125 Notwithstanding these provisions, the The Remuneration Report also sets out Contracts with Controlling board has agreed that all directors will seek details of any changes in those interests Shareholders re-election at each AGM in accordance with between 31st March 2014 and 31st May There were no contracts of significance as the UK Corporate Governance Code.
At the 2014. defined in the FCAs Listing Rules subsisting 2014 AGM, John Walker and Den Jones, during the year between any group Directors Interests in Contracts having been appointed by the directors since undertaking and a controlling shareholder.
the 2013 AGM, will be offering themselves Other than service contracts, no director There were no contracts for the provision for election and all other continuing directors had any interest in any material contract with of services to any group undertaking by will be offering themselves for re-election.
any group company at any time during the a controlling shareholder subsisting during A director may be removed by a special year.
There were no contracts of significance the year.
In addition, a as defined in the FCAs Listing Rules director must automatically cease to be a subsisting during the year to which any Directors director if i he or she ceases to be a director group undertaking was a party and in which The following served as directors during by virtue of any provision of the 2006 Act or a director of the company is or was the year: he or she becomes prohibited by law from materially interested.
being a director, or ii he or she becomes Tim Stevenson bankrupt or makes any arrangement or The Companys Articles of Neil Carson composition with his or her creditors Association Odile Desforges appointed generally, or iii he or she is suffering from Johnson Mattheys Articles of Association 1st July 2013 a mental disorder, or iv he or she resigns are available on the Investor Relations from his or her office by notice in writing to Alan Ferguson Corporate Governance section of our the company or, in the case of an executive Robert MacLeod website.
These Articles of Association may director, the appointment is terminated or only be amended by a special resolution at Colin Matthews expires and the directors resolve that his a general meeting of the company.
or her office be vacated, or v he or she Larry Pentz is absent for more than six consecutive Michael Roney Change of Control months without permission of the directors Bill Sandford retired 9th October 2013 from meetings of the directors and the As at 31st March 2014 and as at the date Dorothy Thompson directors resolve that his or her office be of approval of this annual report, there were vacated, or vi he or she is requested in no significant agreements to which the John Walker appointed writing, or by electronic form, by all the other company or any subsidiary was or is a party 9th October 2013 directors to resign.
that take effect, alter or terminate on a The biographical details of all the change of control of the company, whether directors serving at 31st March 2014 are Powers of the Directors following a takeover bid or otherwise.
However, the company and its The powers of the directors are determined As previously announced, Neil Carson subsidiaries were as at 31st March 2014 by our Articles of Association, UK legislation will step down as Chief Executive on 5th and as at the date of approval of this annual including the 2006 Act and any directions June 2014 but will remain on the board until report, party to a number of commercial given by the company in general meeting.
Also on 5th June, agreements that may allow the The directors have been authorised Robert MacLeod will succeed Neil as Chief counterparties to alter or terminate the by the companys Articles of Association Executive and Den Jones will join the board agreements on a change of control of the to issue and allot ordinary shares and to succeeding Robert as Group Finance company following a takeover bid.
Other make market purchases of its own shares.
Michael Roney will retire from the than the matters referred to below, these These powers are referred to shareholders board as a non-executive director at the are not deemed by the company to be for renewal at each AGM.
Any shares so close of the 2014 AGM on 23rd July 2014. significant in terms of their potential effect purchased by the company may be on the group as a whole.
cancelled or held as treasury shares.
Further Appointment and Replacement The group has a number of loan notes information is set out under Purchase by the of Directors and borrowing facilities which may require Company of its Own Shares on page 123.
The rules about the appointment and prepayment of principal and payment of replacement of directors are contained accrued interest and breakage costs if there Indemnification of Directors in the companys Articles of Association.
is change of control of the company.
The Details of indemnities granted in favour of These include: group has also entered into a series of each director of the company and each financial instruments to hedge its currency, the number of directors is not subject director of the companys subsidiaries, which interest rate and metal price exposures to any maximum but must not be less were in force during the year and which which provide for termination or alteration than six, unless otherwise determined remain in force as at the date of approval if a change of control of the company by the company by ordinary resolution: of this annual report, can be found in the materially weakens the creditworthiness Corporate Governance Report on page 91. directors may be appointed by an of the group.
ordinary resolution of the members or The executive directors service The Interests of Directors in the by a resolution of the directors: and contracts each contain a provision to the Companys Shares effect that if the contract is terminated by a director appointed by the directors The interests of persons who were directors the company within one year after a change must retire at the next AGM and is not of the company at 31st March 2014, and of control of the company, the company will taken into account in determining the their connected persons, in the issued pay to the director as liquidated damages directors who are to retire by rotation shares of the company or in derivatives or an amount equivalent to one years gross at the meeting.
At least one third of other financial instruments relating to such base salary and other contractual benefits the board must retire by rotation at shares disclosed in accordance with the less the period of any notice given by the each AGM.
FCAs Listing Rules are given in the company to the director.
Remuneration Report on pages 103 to 122.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 126 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2014 6.
Governance Directors Report continued The rules of the companys employee Information Set Out in the Important Events since share schemes set out the consequences of Strategic Report 31st March 2014 a change of control of the company on In accordance with section 414C 11 of the There have been no important events participants rights under the schemes.
2006 Act, the directors have chosen to set affecting the company or any subsidiary Generally such rights will vest and become out in the Strategic Report the following since 31st March 2014. exercisable on a change of control subject information required to be included in the to the satisfaction of relevant performance Auditors and Disclosure of Directors Report: conditions.
Information As at 31st March 2014 and as at the Employee Involvement date of approval of this annual report, there A description of the action taken by The auditor of the company is KPMG LLP.
were no other agreements between the the company during the year relating to So far as each person serving as a company or any subsidiary and its or their employee involvement pages 52 to 59 : director of the company at the date this directors or employees providing for Directors Report was approved by the Research and Development Activities compensation for loss of office or board is aware, there is no relevant audit An indication of the activities of the employment whether through resignation, information that is, information needed by group in the field of research and purported redundancy or otherwise that the auditor in connection with preparing its development pages 14 and 15 : occurs because of a takeover bid.
report of which the companys auditor is Likely Future Developments unaware.
Each such director confirms that Branches An indication on likely future he or she has taken all the steps that he or developments in our business page 9 : she ought to have taken as a director in The company and its subsidiaries have order to make himself or herself aware of established branches in a number of Greenhouse Gas Emissions any relevant audit information and to different countries in which they operate.
Disclosures relating to greenhouse gas establish that the companys auditor is emissions pages 71 and 72 : and aware of that information.
Political Donations and Use of Financial Instruments Expenditure Information on the groups financial risk Management Report It is the policy of the group not to make management objectives and policies, The Strategic Report and the Directors political donations or to incur political its exposure to credit risk, liquidity risk, Report together include the management expenditure.
During the year, there were no interest rate risk and foreign currency report for the purposes of the FCAs political donations made to any EU political risk and its use of financial instruments Disclosure and Transparency Rules party, EU political organisation or to any pages 161 to 167.
Also The Directors Report was approved by during the year, no EU political expenditure the board on 4th June 2014 and is signed was incurred.
on its behalf by: Disabled Persons Information on the companys policy applied during the year relating to the recruitment, employment, training, career development and promotion of disabled employees can be found on page 81.
