70 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2014 5.
Environment Environment Performance Summary 2014 2013 % change Energy consumption thousands GJ 4,915 4,648 6 Total global warming potential thousand tonnes CO equivalent 444 413 7 2 Total acid gas emissions tonnes SO equivalent 405 334 21 2 Total VOC emissions tonnes 209 186 12 Total waste tonnes 121,594 110,448 10 Total waste to landfill tonnes 3,819 3,218 19 3 Water consumption thousands m 2,564 2,444 5 JOHNSON MATTHEY HAS AN IMPACT ON THE ENVIRONMENT IN MANY WAYS: through the resources we use, the way we operate our processes and the action of our products and services on enhancing the environment for others.
A major part of our business involves At group level, we have well Improving Our Processes, applying our scientific knowledge and Products and Performance established policies, systems and expertise to turn natural resources into processes in place to manage Targets to improve environmental value adding sustainable technologies environmental performance and to drive performance are a key part of our for our customers.
As a result, many of continuous improvement.
All our major Sustainability 2017 programme.
The our products, including emission control manufacturing sites are required to group aims to cut its carbon intensity by catalysts for vehicles and process maintain certification to the ISO 14001 half, achieve zero waste to landfill and catalysts that improve resource environmental management system as halve the key resources per unit of output efficiency, have a positive impact on the a means of setting, maintaining and consumed compared with baseline data environment.
A significant proportion of improving standards.
We have identified our R&D efforts are directed towards requires new or acquired sites to achieve natural gas, electricity and water as our developing the next generation of ISO 14001 certification within two years most significant resources in the current environmentally beneficial products.
of beneficial operation or acquisition.
and future context of availability including Given that we operate in a world Following the acquisition of Johnson accessibility, geopolitical factors and where increased demand for key Matthey Battery Systems formerly Axeon infrastructure, cost and quantities used.
resources and critical raw materials can and Formox in 2012 13, work is underway In order to meet these aspirations, expose the group to the risk of price to implement the standard at their major long term environmental improvement volatility or resource availability, we also manufacturing sites.
plans and performance indicators have aim to apply our technical expertise to During the year we introduced been established.
Our efforts are an enhanced reporting system for threefold: we develop products which environmental data.
We also worked Read more on Sustainability 2017 deliver the same performance but with to further specify definitions used in at www.
less critical raw material content such our annual data collection processes as thrifting rare earth materials from our which resulted in the creation of a data Read more on our progress emission control catalysts and refinery dictionary which was distributed to all towards Sustainability 2017 on the additives : we develop products that can sites.
Together these will provide greater inner front cover of this report.
be manufactured via a less resource consistency and clarity of reporting intense route such as our compact across our global operations.
Each of our businesses sets internal catalysed soot filter product for diesel reduction targets which are formally cars : or we develop products that Read more in the Governance reviewed as part of the annual budget enable our customers to lower their section on pages 80 and 81. process to ensure alignment of their environmental footprint for example Sustainability 2017 and Manufacturing our process catalysts.
Read full details of our policies Excellence programme efforts and their In addition, our Sustainability 2017 and strategies to manage and contribution towards the groups goals.
and Manufacturing Excellence drive performance at In addition to process improvement programmes both focus on increasing www.
efforts, efficiency and longevity of resource efficiency, generating cost equipment are considered in purchasing savings for our business today and decisions and for large capital helping to conserve resources for expenditure projects.
Read more on the environmental benefits of our products at www.
