10 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2014 1.
Overview Our Business KEY FACTS We are organised into five global divisions: Johnson Matthey is a leading speciality chemicals company.
Emission Control Technologies Read more on pages 26 to 29 We have operations in over 30 Process Technologies countries and employ around Read more on pages 30 to 33 12,000 people worldwide.
Precious Metal Products Read more on pages 34 to 37 Fine Chemicals Read more on pages 38 to 40 New Businesses Read more on pages 41 to 43 Sales by Region 21% Rest of World Sales in Asia in 2013 14.
11% Europe Rest of Asia 35% A Truly Global Company 10% Johnson Matthey sells its products globally which provides stability in times of regional market uncertainty.
Year on year we China are increasing our sales to developing markets and expanding 11% our operations to support this global growth.
North America 33% Sales by Key Market 20% Other 14% Growth in heavy duty diesel catalyst sales in 2013 14.
Precious metal services Light duty 5% vehicles 36% Focused on Key Markets Pharmaceutical Johnson Matthey is focused on its key markets where we can 12% innovate and improve solutions for our customers through applying our expertise in advanced materials and technology.
This enables us to differentiate ourselves from our competitors Petrochemical 13% and achieve leading industry positions with high margin products.
Heavy duty diesel vehicles 20% Read more on pages 24 to 43.
Sales by Area of Beneficial Impact 87% Other Sales from products providing sustainability benefits in 2013 14.
13% Environment 57% A Leader in Sustainable Technologies Johnson Matthey is focused on developing value adding sustainable Resource technologies to our customers and to society.
Today, some 87% efficiency 21% of the groups sales represent products and services which provide sustainability benefits i. e. through the positive impact they have on the environment, resource efficiency or human health.
11 WHAT WE DO AT JOHNSON MATTHEY WE ALWAYS AIM TO deliver what we promise.
We work together, applying our expertise in advanced materials and technology to innovate and improve solutions that: are valued by our customers: optimise the use of natural resources: and enhance the quality of life for the people of the world, both for today and for the future.
Delivering what Working Together Experts in Advanced Innovating and Improving we Promise Materials and Technology Solutions In Johnson Matthey we Whether its dealing with have around 12,000 people Whether it is harnessing Johnson Matthey is in the customers, shareholders or working in different fields and chemical properties at an business of developing new each other, we take pride in its their contribution across atomic scale or applying our solutions for our customers.
a variety of functions that engineering skills to create We also apply our innovative Integrity is one of our core makes us indispensable to new solutions, developing approach to improve the values which we have built our customers.
We need to advanced materials and performance of the products upon since the companys continue to work smarter, technology is what we do we already have and to foundation in 1817. closer and more collaboratively best.
We continue to invest optimise the way we to ensure our organisation is in R&D to make sure we stay manufacture them.
This is how fit for the future.
we can continue to offer our customers real differentiation in the marketplace.
Valued by our Customers Optimise the use of Enhancing Quality of Life Natural Resources We always want to deliver the Our goal at Johnson Matthey best solution we can for our We utilise our expertise to is to grow our business customers.
It has been in our promote the most efficient use but to grow it sustainably.
But of the worlds natural resources.
As a leader in sustainable the best can mean different We apply this to the way we technologies, we are proud things in different markets run our own facilities and of the fact that many of our for different customers.
To through the action of our products enhance the quality remain competitive we need products and services at our of life for millions of people to look consistently to add customers operations.
In our value for our customers by 3rd century we will continue understanding what the best to strive to do the right thing looks like for each and every by the planet and improve market they are working in the lives of the people and and then delivering it.
communities we share it with.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
