n i t n e m t s s e t i f v e n n e n I b o g n i i e t b l a l e v w d o n a n l a i n c o I S h t w o r g e l b a t i f o r P t n i r p t o s o f n l a t n o e i m t n a 12 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2014 1.
Overview Building Our 3rd Century o How We Create Value ADVANCED MATERIALS AND OUR BUSINESS MODEL TECHNOLOGY is to create value from applying our expertise in advanced materials and technology to innovate and improve solutions that are valued by our customers, optimise the use of natural resources and enhance quality of life.
Approximately one quarter of the value we create comes There are three inputs to our business model: from the provision of specialist services such as the refining Our people and recycling of precious metals, process technology used Our operations to design chemical plants or diagnostics that improve efficiency in the oil and gas industry.
Collaboration and Innovation strong relationships with our customers are crucial in providing These align with the nine aspects of our strategy a high quality tailored service.
Know-how and a strong reputation underpin success and we perpetually build on page 14 and support the long term creation of these through continued investment in R&D and our people.
Innovation Our People Innovation fuels the continuous development of new and higher performance products and this, together with our We rely on the ability of our people to innovate and to know-how in advanced materials and, where appropriate, collaborate with each other and our customers to develop intellectual property protection, underpins our ability to and bring value adding sustainable technologies to market.
We partner with We hire the best people with the right skills and support our customers, industry experts and academics to spark them with a culture that engenders innovation and further ideas.
Innovation isnt just confined to new product encourages them to develop and grow.
Our people are development: it is harnessed throughout our business motivated by working for a company that is doing the right processes.
Our values encourage collaboration and thing and this is an important differentiator in attracting innovation amongst our people, whilst continued investment and retaining top talent in an increasingly diverse business.
in R&D provides them with the infrastructure and resources to realise the potential of their innovative ideas.
Our Operations Around three quarters of the value we create comes from physical products, such as our emission control catalysts The outputs of our model are threefold: or active pharmaceutical ingredients, which we manufacture Sustainable profitable growth at our facilities around the world.
Reduced environmental footprint of our Efficient and responsible manufacturing is critical to our customers operations, as well as our own economic and environmental performance and we have programmes in place to optimise our operations.
Our Social and wellbeing benefits from the action Manufacturing Excellence programme is driving efficiency of our products improvements and innovation in manufacturing.
This is These all directly align with our vision and support complemented by Sustainability 2017 which is focused on reducing emissions and minimising resource use.
in our manufacturing capacity to ensure we can meet customer demand and have the ability to flex our cost base if our markets slow.
We demand high returns from our investments, with a target of at least 20%, which drives continued improvement in operational efficiency.
r i r s v n t e e c d u p e d c u O o d r e p R y g o l o n h c e t h g i h p o h t l w e o v r g e e D l e b a l t i f p o r p o e l e b a s n P t i a e t s s u s S a d n a D & R 13 OUR VISION At Johnson Matthey it is our vision to In our 1st century we built a reputation, not just for expertise in precious metals, but for real integrity, and for being build our 3rd century through value a company our customers could trust.
In our 2nd century we developed our expertise in the engineering and refining of metals.
We also began our environmental journey a journey that continues to this day.
For our 3rd century, we have developed a business model and strategy that, when underpinned by our company values, will drive our next century of growth.
OUR VALUES Recognition and Development Our values highlight what is important Anyone from anywhere can progress to us, what makes us distinctive and We want to ensure that doing a good job and delivering results with a commitment to our company values are recognised and what its like to work at Johnson Matthey.
rewarded, whoever you are and wherever you are in the They describe how we do things when company.
We provide opportunities for personal growth and career development in a successful company.
Freedom to Act Integrity Anyone with a good business case can realise their ideas Doing the right thing is important to us We genuinely give people the freedom to take action, obtain At Johnson Matthey we are proud of our reputation for resources and implement ideas.
This helps the company, integrity, built over 200 years, and as our business grows and our people, grow through encouraging innovation and we will continue to follow our predecessors honest, safe leadership.
We trust and respect each others judgment and successful way of working.
and expertise and support those who act and deliver.
Ability and Innovation The Best of Big and Small We seek and value talented people We have big company resources but apply small company We need talented people to deliver the scientific, technical methods and business innovations that continue to fuel our growth.
We keep it simple, straightforward and personal, but have We develop and draw on each others talents and collaborate the stability and support that comes with being a successful to create value for ourselves and our stakeholders.
We treat our customers as people and they find us easy to work with.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 14 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2014 1.
Overview Building Our 3rd Century continued Collaborate Customer Focus 3 and Create Value.
c Invest Collaborate in people, to leverage products and our expertise technology Build on Growth Customer our core from new OUR STRATEGY focus strengths businesses Our 3C strategy will enable us to build our 3rd century Operational The Johnson of value adding sustainable technologies.
In doing this Create The best of excellence and Matthey value big and small we are focusing on three powerful themes: sustainability culture Collaborate, Customer Focus and Create Value.
WE HAVE NINE BUILDING BLOCKS THAT MAKE UP OUR STRATEGY PYRAMID: INVEST IN PEOPLE, PRODUCTS CUSTOMER FOCUS CREATE VALUE AND TECHNOLOGY Focus on our customers.
Target Create value from strategic Invest in our people to develop the those who value technology and investments that accelerate best talent across our business: ensure we select attractive markets and enhance our growth.
also invest in our products and with strong external drivers.
In doing this we can GROWTH FROM NEW CULTURE differentiate ourselves from our BUSINESSES competitors.
Evolve our culture through Develop new businesses that fit living our values by applying COLLABORATE TO LEVERAGE our technology competences what has made us successful OUR EXPERTISE and can provide the next material and unique in the past to the Collaborate more, for smarter, growth engines for the group.
challenges of todays complex closer working, with even greater and global marketplace.
OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE flexibility so we can better leverage AND SUSTAINABILITY BEST OF BIG AND SMALL our expertise across the company.
Be the best we can be, pursuing Marry our small company BUILD ON OUR CORE operational excellence and flexibility with our large company STRENGTHS sustainable business practices global strengths to ensure Build on our core strengths in to enhance our operations, keep we can be both nimble and advanced materials and technology our people safe, protect our competitive as we continue to develop the next generation of reputation and make a positive to grow.
contribution to the world around us.
Johnson Mattheys Technology Competences Modelling Applying Our Expertise in Advanced Materials and Pgm and base metal Technology to Innovate and Improve Solutions chemistry Johnson Matthey provides solutions to difficult real life problems for our customers and, Characterisation Synthetic in most cases, we achieve this through the design and application of advanced materials.
chemistry Not all of our products are materials, but most of our businesses supply products that Surface science contain or incorporate an advanced material in some way, whether it is a powdered or coated catalyst, a coated component or a fully functional device.
So designing advanced materials is at the centre of much of what we do.
ADVANCED MATERIAL Whatever the material, the ability to develop and supply the best performing product Manufacture DESIGN Specialist at scale comes from being able to design at the molecular or atomic scale exactly what we want technology expertise and then manufacture it at scale.
Synthetic chemistry is a core competence for Johnson Matthey and we excel in both organic and inorganic chemistry and in the application of predictive computational modelling to accelerate the evaluation of new structures.
We Integrating into also have an unrivalled knowledge of platinum group metal pgm chemistry and a applications Coatings deep understanding of surface science, particularly of the properties of coatings and Testing coated surfaces.
We need to be able to verify that what we have made is what we wanted.
Evaluating materials, once synthesised, is critical and Johnson Matthey has world leading characterisation and analytical capabilities and experts to support this.
