30 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2014 2.
Financial Financial Review of Operations continued PROCESS TECHNOLOGIES KEY STATISTICS SPECIALITY CATALYSTS, Capital expenditure 59.5 million PROCESS TECHNOLOGIES Capex depreciation 2.4 R&D expenditure 29.6 million AND SERVICES FOR Average invested capital 664 million THE CHEMICALS AND Employees 2,095 OIL AND GAS INDUSTRIES Year to 31st March % at 2014 2013 % constant million million change rates Revenue 580 515 13 13 Sales excluding precious metals sales 565 509 11 12 1 Underlying operating profit 101.9 92.4 10 11 1 Return on sales 18.0% 18.2% 1 Return on invested capital ROIC 15.3% 15.9% 1 Restated.
Sales Sales by Destination Oil and Gas Diagnostic Services 12% Rest of World Europe Oil and Gas 18% Chemicals 24% Gas Processing Syngas 6% 29% Rest of Asia Oil and Gas 16% Refineries North America 22% Chemicals 24% Petrochemicals China Chemicals 19% 18% Oleo biochemicals 12% Divisional Sales Divisional Underlying Operating Profit million million 101.9 565 105 600 92.4 509 497 74.9 450 70 300 35 150 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Not restated for IAS 19 revised.
31 The division is focused on maintaining leading positions in catalysts and STRATEGY process technologies for chemicals markets.
Through combining its expertise in catalysts and process technology to create value and new opportunities, Maintain leading positions in the division aims to deliver superior growth in existing and new markets.
catalysts and process technologies for chemicals markets Developing a larger presence in oil and gas markets is a key part of the strategy.
Exploiting existing technology advantages and developing process Develop larger presence in oil and technology to complement our catalysts will enable the division to access gas markets larger markets within the oil and gas sector.
Invest for growth The division will invest for growth.
This will allow Process Technologies to continue to develop high performance leading edge catalysts, technologies Expand capabilities and services for its customers.
It will also invest in its people, manufacturing and technology to capitalise on opportunities in its markets.
The division aims to expand capabilities through focused research and development, external partnerships and targeted acquisitions in order to provide value adding solutions for its customers.
DIVISIONAL SUMMARY CHEMICALS MARKETS OIL AND GAS MARKETS Business Syngas Oleo Petrochemicals Refineries Gas Processing Diagnostic biochemicals Services What We Do Manufacture catalysts, license process technology and deliver Manufacture catalysts, additives and absorbents, and deliver services to the chemical industry services to the oil and gas industry How We Add Innovate and develop products, process technologies and services to enable customers to operate their processes at optimum efficiency and with reduced environmental impact Value Societal Benefits More efficient use of natural resources Improved fuel Removal of Improved asset quality harmful impurities performance Lower energy use from gas and integrity More efficient Biorenewables low carbon technology use of natural Improved resources environmental performance Lower for our energy use customers Improved environmental performance of refineries Global Drivers Natural Environmental Factors Population Growth Health and Nutrition Resource Climate Change Urbanisation Ageing Population Constraints Regulation Increasing Wealth Customer Profile Chemical companies Engineering contractors Refineries Gas producers Oil and gas companies Industrial gas companies Major Haldor Topse BASF Clariant Grace Competitors Clariant Lurgi Albemarle UOP Employees 2,095 Locations Nine manufacturing facilities in six countries Ten technical centres in four countries Sales offices in key markets 2013 14 Sales 166 million 66 million 107 million 124 million 34 million 68 million Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 32 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2014 2.
Financial Financial Review of Operations continued PROCESS TECHNOLOGIES continued Performance in 2013 14 Process Technologies Chemicals Businesses Sales 2014 2013 % Process Technologies sales of its million million change catalysts, technology licences and Syngas 166 111 50 services were 565 million, 11% ahead Oleo biochemicals 66 63 5 of prior year and underlying operating Petrochemicals 107 127 -16 profit grew by 10% to 101.9 million, Total 339 301 13 supported by a good performance in its Oil and Gas businesses and the contribution of Formox which was acquired at the end of last year.
Excluding Formox, the divisions sales would have Syngas Oleo biochemicals been 2% ahead.
Return on sales fell Sales of catalysts and licences in our Our Oleo biochemicals business grew slightly to 18.0% as a result of a reduced Syngas business, which supplies its sales by 5% to 66 million.
Demand contribution from our higher margin products to manufacturers of methanol, for its nickel based catalysts, which licensing business.
ROIC was also ammonia, formaldehyde and substitute are used by our customers in the lower at 15.3%, impacted by the natural gas SNG, increased by 50% to manufacture of food and personal care Formox acquisition.
166 million: excluding Formox, sales products, was robust but our sales were up 8%.
As predicted, demand were held back by lower average nickel Chemicals for methanol catalysts increased due prices: nickel is a key component in a to the timing of customer refills and number of our catalysts and is a pass The performance of Process Technologies Chemicals businesses consequently our sales were 47% up at through cost.
Sales of ammonia catalysts benefited from four new licences for was mixed as lower revenues from technology licensing were more than were down 12% at 46 million following its biochemical based technologies.
Formox, offset by good growth in syngas catalysts and the contribution from which supplies catalysts and licenses Petrochemicals technology for the manufacture of Formox.
Overall, sales were 13% ahead Sales in our Petrochemicals business at 339 million, of which 82 million formaldehyde, had a good first year fell 16% to 107 million.
Our catalyst under Johnson Mattheys ownership.
2012 13 100 million was derived volumes slightly increased although from licensing, engineering and related The business performed well, reporting sales were down due to the lower 47 million of sales, and we have already activities and eight new licences were average nickel price.
As expected, secured in the year.
Underlying operating identified a number of opportunities our licensing income was lower this through further R&D to create value profit grew at a lower rate as a result of year after several years of strong the reduction in licensing income.
across the chemicals flowsheet for our growth supported by the expanding customers.
In the year we secured a petrochemical industry in China.
The further three new SNG licences, all in number of new Chinese plants requiring China, which brings our total SNG our existing technology has reduced as licences to nine.
These new licences all capacity for petrochemicals, such as require our catalysts and this will boost oxo alcohols and butanediol, is in line our sales over the coming years as the with current levels of demand.
CASE STUDY Building Our Bio Based Technologies Building on Johnson Mattheys portfolio of bio based sustainable technologies, we have recently embarked on a collaboration with Rennovia, Inc. to develop, demonstrate and commercialise catalytic process technologies for the production of bio based glucaric acid an emerging platform chemical with wide applications and adipic acid.
Adipic acid is an industrial chemical conventionally derived from petroleum with a multi billion dollar global market and its major applications include nylon-6,6 fibres, engineering resins and polyester polyols for polyurethanes.
We are working on developing technology capable of producing a bio based adipic acid equivalent to the petroleum based product, at a lower cost, and with a significantly improved environmental footprint.
Johnson Matthey has already licensed 1.5 million tonnes of bio based chemical product utilising catalytic chemical transformations.
The collaboration with Rennovia offers new opportunities for us to expand our bio based process technology portfolio.
Process Technologies designs and develops processes to enable Johnson Matthey produces a wide range of process catalysts.
customers to operate their plants at optimum efficiency.
During the year we continued to Process Technologies Oil and Gas Businesses Sales invest in developing new technologies 2014 2013 % to expand our existing portfolio in the million million change longer term.
As previously announced, Refineries 124 118 5 new technology, developed in conjunction Gas Processing 34 30 15 with Eastman Chemical Company, for Diagnostic Services 68 60 14 the production of mono ethylene glycol Total 226 208 9 MEG from coal became available for licence this year.
Discussions with potential customers are underway as we seek our first commercial references.
Oil and Gas Key Investments and Developments We have also developed a catalyst Process Technologies Oil and Gas We completed projects to expand our that contains no mercury for the businesses performed well across all manufacturing facilities in the UK and manufacture of vinyl chloride monomer sectors with sales up 9% at 226 million India in the first half of the year.
We are VCM from acetylene and the intellectual and operating profit was further ahead.
also in the process of acquiring land in property associated with this catalyst China and have commissioned design was co-owned by Johnson Matthey and work with the intention of building a Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. Jacobs.
Refineries plant to manufacture SNG catalysts for In March 2014, we acquired full and sole Sales of catalysts and additives in our the Chinese market.
Construction of the ownership of the catalyst patents Refineries business grew by 5% to new facility is expected to commence together with Jacobs process technology 124 million benefiting from a general in 2014. for building VCM plants.
increase in refining activity, particularly Work is underway at our The manufacture of VCM is an in North America.
Catalyst sales for petrochemical catalyst manufacturing important step in the production of poly hydrogen manufacture were up 5% to plants in Germany to expand capacity vinyl chloride PVC from coal and in China 58 million.
We also saw good demand to meet future demand and we have around 80% of PVC production uses the for our speciality additives, which help to commenced construction of a technology coal based route.
Current technology improve the efficiency and environmental centre in the UK to support the employs a mercury based catalyst but performance of the refinery fluid catalytic development of new diagnostic services.
legislation is in place to phase out cracking FCC process, and sales were We have also recently completed the mercury catalysts for VCM manufacture ahead by 5% at 66 million.
major expansion of our additives plant from 2017 providing there is an in the USA.
Our Gas Processing The further expansion of VCM catalyst should allow customers In the Gas Processing business, demand petrochemical manufacturing capacity to meet this new legislation.
for our purification products, which are and utilisation of coal as a feedstock in used to remove harmful impurities such China continue to offer opportunities for Technology Licensing as sulphur and mercury from gas Projects Awarded 2010 2014 growth in Process Technologies over the streams, made progress with sales up next few years through the provision of 15% to 34 million.
both catalysts and technology licensing, 15 although exact timings and pace of Diagnostic Services development is difficult to predict.
Longer term, the division is also well Sales in our Diagnostic Services 10 business Tracerco also increased and placed to benefit from an increase in the use of unconventional shale gas for were up 14% to 68 million.
During the year, demand increased in North chemical applications in North America.
America for reservoir studies which 5 are used by our customers to better understand and optimise their shale gas production processes.
This 0 represents a growing market for our 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Diagnostic Services business.
Methanol Oxo alcohols SNG Butanediol Other Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
