41 NEW BUSINESSES KEY STATISTICS INVESTING IN NEW Capital expenditure 8.0 million OPPORTUNITIES Capex depreciation 2.6 R&D expenditure 10.4 million THAT PLAY TO Average invested capital 78 million OUR STRENGTHS Employees 637 Year to 31st March 2014 2013 million million Revenue 79 39 Sales excluding precious metals sales 76 37 1 Underlying operating profit loss 18.3 16.0 1 Restated.
Sales Sales by Destination Asia 2% Fuel Cells North America 10% Battery 10% Technologies 90% Europe 88% We are targeting opportunities with sales potential of around 200 million STRATEGY per annum by 2020.
We will focus on areas peripheral to our current businesses and that build on our core technology competences.
Targeting opportunities The division is focused on developing new business areas.
Potential with sales potential of around 200 million areas must show a good fit with our key global drivers, offer strong per annum by 2020 market growth and present the opportunity for new market entry positions through a new technology solution.
Develop new business We will invest in R&D to drive organic growth through developing areas technology for new markets.
Through an ongoing process, we will simultaneously identify and evaluate new areas whilst developing and Invest in R&D to drive filtering out those already in our pipeline.
organic growth Alongside organic development and the evolution of our business plans, Make targeted acquisitions we anticipate the need to fill gaps in our experience and make targeted to accelerate progress acquisitions to accelerate progress.
These are likely to be relatively small scale, up to the value of around 100 million.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 42 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2014 2.
Financial Financial Review of Operations continued NEW BUSINESSES continued DIVISIONAL SUMMARY Business Battery Technologies Fuel Cells What We Do Research and development of battery materials, design and Develop and manufacture catalysts and components for supply of high performance battery systems emerging fuel cell markets How We Add Research into improved next generation battery materials, Leverage expertise in advanced materials to develop more Value development of advanced battery systems economically viable fuel cell components Societal Benefits Alternative energy Low carbon, zero emission transport power Global Drivers Environmental Factors Natural Climate Change Resource Regulation Constraints Customer Profile High performance cordless tool and niche transport manufacturers Manufacturers of fuel cells for portable, automotive and stationary applications Automotive and heavy duty vehicle customers Major Systems: Materials: W L Gore Competitors LG BASF 3M BMZ Umicore Solivcore Employees 637 Locations Materials R&D in Sonning Common, UK Headquartered in Swindon, UK Systems design, development and manufacture in Dundee, UK R&D capability in Swindon and Sonning Common, UK and Poland 2013 14 Sales 69 million 7 million CASE STUDY Is This the Bus of the Future?
Together with UK based manufacturer Alexander Dennis Limited, Johnson Matthey has developed a high capacity and performance battery to power an Enviro350H.
The bus is currently a hybrid diesel with a lower capacity battery: the advantage of the new battery is that it lasts for significantly longer periods and a stop of just five or ten minutes at a charger point allows for a partial recharge.
In city centres, the bus would run in electric vehicle mode and switch to hybrid using diesel in suburban areas.
The bus would use GPS to identify when it was entering the outer area.
Buses powered like this would produce zero emissions in city centres and be less polluting than traditional vehicles while operating companies could reduce emissions related charges.
In short, there would be business, social and environmental benefits for all.
Read the full case study at www.
43.. Membrane electrode assemblies, the component found at the Johnson Matthey Battery Systems specialises in the design, heart of a fuel cell.
development and manufacture of integrated battery systems.
Our focus is on the development We have continued to invest in Performance in 2013 14 of battery materials for highly demanding developing our membrane electrode New Businesses made progress in the applications such as for the automotive assemblies MEAs and manufacturing year benefiting from growing sales in sector.
On 3rd June 2014 we agreed technology in order to provide Battery Technologies.
Overall, sales to purchase certain battery material products with cost and performance increased from 37 million to 76 million, manufacturing assets from A123 characteristics in line with the needs of boosted by a full years contribution Systems LLC, a leading lithium-ion car manufacturers.
Given the upcoming from Johnson Matthey Battery Systems battery manufacturer that is part of the legislation in California we should, in formerly Axeon.
We have continued to Wangxiang Group, for US $26 million.
the next year or so, get much greater invest in R&D to support the development In this transaction, Johnson Matthey clarity from the original equipment of this and other long term new business will purchase A123s cathode material manufacturers OEMs on how they will areas, including water purification, air manufacturing facility in China: the meet the new legislative requirements.
facility employs around 80 people A significant proportion of our sales As a result, the underlying operating who will transfer to Johnson Matthey.
in 2013 14 were of MEAs for stationary loss was 18.3 million.
The deal also includes a long term applications such as combined heat agreement where Johnson Matthey and power units.
Since the year end Battery Technologies will supply all of A123s lithium iron our principal customer for these MEAs, Our Battery Technologies business phosphate requirements.
who is based in the USA, has entered comprises Johnson Mattheys R&D The acquisition of the assets from Chapter 11.
Although it is too early to programmes in advanced battery A123 and the supply agreement will assess what will happen to that materials and Johnson Matthey Battery complement our battery systems customer, we are considering what Systems which specialises in the design, expertise and battery materials research possible cost saving actions we may development and manufacture of programmes.
It will further support need to take in response to this integrated battery systems.
The business development of the next generation of development.
made steady progress in its first full year high performance products to meet the The net expense of our Fuel Cells with sales of 69 million 2012 13 sales challenging energy storage requirements business was broadly in line with last of 31 million following acquisition in of batteries for the automotive sector.
October 2012, primarily as a result of robust demand for battery systems Fuel Cells New Business Development for high performance power tools and Sales in our Fuel Cells business increased We invested just under 7 million on e-bikes.
We have also grown sales to slightly this year to 7 million.
Of these, the customers in the automotive sector.
Fuel cell technology for transport development of a new water purification In addition, we have continued to invest applications, especially cars, remains business is the most advanced, albeit in battery materials R&D, expanding our an important opportunity for Johnson still at a very early stage.
current programmes and developing Matthey.
The phased emissions relationships with key partners in the regulation in California, USA starting supply chain.
Battery Technologies from 2017 provides a driver for car broke even for the year, if acquisition companies to bring small numbers of costs are excluded.
fuel cell powered vehicles to market.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
