62 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2014 4.
Health and Safety Health and Safety Performance Summary 2014 2013 % change 1 Incidence of greater than three day accidents per 1,000 employees 2.68 2.98 -10 1 Total number of accidents that resulted in lost time 68 54 26 1 Total accident rate per 1,000 employees 6.09 5.37 13 1 Total lost time accident incident rate per 100,000 hours worked 0.31 0.27 15 1 Total number of accident days lost per 1,000 employees 122 147 -17 Incidence of occupational illness cases per 1,000 employees 2.2 2.7 -19 1 Restated due to four lost time accidents that occurred in 2012 13 but that were not declared as having resulted in lost time until after the 2012 13 year end.
JOHNSON MATTHEY IS COMMITTED TO MINIMISING THE HEALTH AND SAFETY RELATED IMPACTS for employees, customers, communities and other stakeholders arising from our operations and from the use of our products.
Many of our products and services Managing Performance and Health Performance make a contribution to enhancing Driving Continuous Improvement During the year we continued to general health and wellbeing or provide Johnson Matthey is primarily a develop our corporate and facility health safety benefits.
We manufacture a range manufacturing business and a significant programmes and have made further of products used in medical applications.
proportion of our employees work in good progress towards our long term These include opiate based active production environments with chemicals health improvement goals.
pharmaceutical ingredients APIs for and process machinery.
We apply Some 87% of our facilities around pain relief, such as morphine and rigorous policies, systems and processes the world reported that they had complied codeine, platinum based anticancer across all our facilities to monitor and with the requirement to conduct an compounds for chemotherapy manage health and safety performance annual sustainable health review and treatments, other controlled substance and to drive continuous improvement.
improvement planning process in APIs, components used in medical 2013 14, broadly the same proportion devices which are used to assist with Read more in the Governance as last year.
surgery or treat long term medical section on pages 80 and 81.
All sites completed their health conditions and Bitrex, the worlds scorecard review during the year.
We bitterest substance, which is added to Read full details of our policies use a health scorecard system to rate household cleaning products to prevent and strategies to manage the level of implementation of preventative accidental swallowing by children.
Our and drive performance at programmes against our corporate emission control catalysts, which are www.
It includes 14 key elements used to reduce harmful emissions from of health programmes that align with vehicles and industrial processes, have Proactively managing health and our most significant health risks.
We a major impact on air quality for millions safety delivers value for our business in saw an increase in the proportion of of people around the world.
It can assist in the avoidance sites achieving a best practice level Targets to improve health and or reduction of liability claims, potential of performance for seven of the safety performance are a key part of our legal exposure, concerns over the cost 14 programme elements.
The of insurance premiums and external were seen in scores in the areas of group aims to achieve zero greater than pressures from insurance companies.
chemical exposure management and three day lost time accidents and zero In addition, it helps to support ergonomics, both of which were cases of occupational illness.
In order maintenance of the groups corporate important action areas identified last year.
to meet these aspirations, long term reputation, the expectations of its In 2013 14 we achieved a further health and safety improvement plans customers and in meeting government reduction in the annual incidence of and performance indicators have targets.
Most importantly it supports our employee occupational illness cases.
ethical obligations to our employees and The incidence of employee cases other stakeholders and, when effectively reduced from 2.7 cases per 1,000 Read more on Sustainability 2017 managed, can have a positive impact employees in 2012 13 to 2.2 in 2013 14. at www.
on staff morale, attendance, recruitment This represents a 19% improvement and retention and on our productivity, over last year and is a significant step Read more on our progress efficiency and quality of service.
towards our overall target of zero towards Sustainability 2017 on occupational illnesses.
the inner front cover of this report.
There were two cases of occupational illness affecting contractors Read more on the health and working at our sites reported during safety benefits of our products at the year.
This is an annual incidence www.
com sustainability of 1.7 cases per 1,000 contractors.
