110 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2014 6.
Governance Remuneration Report continued There are also a number of country and Prior Commitments Group Employee Considerations business dependent arrangements under All remuneration commitments entered into The MDRC considers the directors which bonuses may be paid to the entire prior to this Remuneration Policy coming remuneration in the context of the wider business unit workforce where performance into force will continue to be honoured.
employee population and is kept regularly conditions associated with profitability These existing remuneration commitments updated on pay and conditions across the are met.
The company has not consulted Johnson Matthey operates a number directly with employees with respect to A number of previous and current of pension arrangements around the world, directors remuneration.
Increases in base directors are contractually entitled to relevant to the local conditions and salary for directors will take into account the post-retirement medical benefits for arrangements.
level of salary increases granted to all themselves and their dependents.
This The key element of remuneration for employees within the group.
benefit is no longer offered to new those below management grades is base The general principle for remuneration directors or other employees joining salary and Johnson Mattheys policy is to in Johnson Matthey is to pay a competitive Johnson Matthey.
A full list of current ensure that basic wages are fully competitive package of pay and benefits in all markets and previous directors receiving or in the local markets.
General pay increases and at all job levels in order to attract and entitled to post-retirement medical take into account local wage norms, local retain high quality employees.
The benefits is provided on page 120. inflation and business conditions.
proportion of variable pay increases with Neil Carson, Robert MacLeod, Larry progression through management levels Consideration of Shareholder Pentz and John Walker have legacy with the highest proportion of variable pay at Views defined benefits pension arrangements executive director level, as defined by this that will become payable at retirement During 2013 14 the MDRC consulted Remuneration Policy.
but are not accruing any additional extensively with shareholders representing The key elements of variable pay, LTIP pensionable service.
Details of such around 50% of shares in issue in relation to and bonus cascade down through the next accrued pensions are given on the proposed changes to executive tiers of senior management with appropriate page 119. remuneration as part of the triennial review.
reductions in opportunity levels based on The MDRC has considered their feedback seniority.
More than 220 of the groups most Annual bonus, deferred bonus and thoroughly in formulating this Remuneration senior executives participate in the annual LTIP payments from awards made prior Policy.
Further details regarding this bonus plan with performance conditions to this Remuneration Policy coming consultation are provided on pages 104 similar to those described in this into force will continue to pay out in and 105.
Remuneration Policy and around 1,100 of accordance with the respective plan the groups senior and middle managers rules for each award.
Further details participate in the LTIP in line with the same of these awards are shown in the EPS based performance conditions Annual Report on Remuneration although only executive directors are starting on page 115. subject to the post-vesting LTIP holding period and only the top three levels of management are subject to deferral of annual bonus.
Bonus awards are also made to an additional circa 880 employees largely based on their individual performance.
