112 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2014 6.
Governance Remuneration Report continued Approach to Recruitment Remuneration The recruitment policy provides an appropriate framework within which to attract individuals of the required calibre to lead a company of Johnson Mattheys size, scale and complexity.
The MDRC determines the remuneration package for any appointment to an executive director position, either from within or outside Johnson Matthey.
The following table sets out the various components which would be considered for inclusion in the remuneration package for the appointment of an executive director and the approach to be adopted by the MDRC in respect of each component.
Area Policy and operation Overall The policy of the board is to recruit the best candidate possible for any board position and to structure pay and benefits in line with the Remuneration Policy set out in this report.
The ongoing structure of a new recruits package would be the same as for existing directors, with the possible exception of an identifiable buy-out provision, as set out below.
Base salary or fees Salary or fees will be determined by the MDRC in accordance with the principles set out in the policy table on page 105.
Benefits and pension An executive director shall be eligible for benefits and pension arrangements in line with the companys policy for current executive directors, as set out in the policy table on page 108.
Annual bonus The maximum level of opportunity is as set out in the policy table on page 106.
The MDRC retains discretion to set individual performance targets for a new externally appointed executive director, or adjust performance targets in the case of an internal promotion, to be assessed over the remainder of the financial year, in which case any bonus payment would be made at the same time as for existing directors, such award to be pro-rated for the time served in the performance period.
LTIP The maximum level of opportunity is as set out in the policy table on page 107.
In order to achieve rapid alignment with Johnson Mattheys and shareholder interests, the MDRC retains discretion to grant an LTIP award to a new externally appointed executive director with the same performance targets as awards already granted in that year.
The level of such awards would be pro-rated from the normal opportunity to take account of the time elapsed since the start of the performance period.
Replacement awards The MDRC retains discretion to grant replacement buy-out awards to a new externally appointed executive director to reflect the loss of awards granted by a previous employer.
Where this is the case, the MDRC will seek to structure the replacement award such that overall it is on an equivalent basis to broadly replicate that foregone, using appropriate performance terms.
If the executive directors prior employer pays any portion of the remuneration that was anticipated to be forfeited, the replacement awards shall be reduced by an equivalent amount.
Other The MDRC may agree that the company will meet certain mobility costs, relocation costs, including temporary living and transportation expenses, in line with the companys prevailing mobility policy for senior executives as described in the policy table on page 108.
In the case of an internal promotion to the board, the company will honour any contractual commitments made prior to the promotion.
Service Contracts and Policy on Payment for Loss of Office The table below summarises relevant key provisions of executive directors service contracts and the treatment of payments on termination of employment.
The full contracts of service of the executive directors as well as the terms and conditions of appointment of the non-executive directors are available for inspection at the registered office of the company during normal business hours as well as prior to and during the forthcoming AGM of the company.
In exceptional circumstances, the MDRC may authorise, where it considers it to be in the best interests of the company and shareholders, entering into contractual arrangements with a departing executive director, for example a settlement, confidentiality, restrictive covenant or other arrangement, pursuant to which sums not set out in the following table may become payable.
In these exceptional circumstances, full disclosure of the payments will be made in accordance with the new remuneration reporting requirements.
The following table describes the contractual conditions pertaining to the contracts for Robert MacLeod, Larry Pentz and John Walker and for any executive director joining after the 1st April 2014.
Neil Carson was appointed as an executive director on 1st August 1999 under a service agreement of the same date.
Mr Carson will be retiring on 30th September 2014 and his termination arrangements are described on page 114.
