103 Remuneration Report Contents Michael Roney 103 Introduction Chairman of the Management Development 104 Changes to the Remuneration Policy and Remuneration Committee 105 Remuneration Policy 115 Annual Report on Remuneration At the same time there are some increases in the quantum of variable Introduction pay which reflect the continuing growth of the company.
We can also confirm that we have tightened contractual provisions regarding exit payments and mitigation for executive Corporate Performance and Incentive Outcomes directors by giving the company an ability to make payments in lieu The year just ended has been a successful year for Johnson Matthey of notice PILON in monthly instalments over the notice period and to reduce such phased payments if appropriate to nil if the director with good increases in the key measures of underlying profit before mitigates his or her losses.
tax and underlying earnings per share.
The financial results have been matched by the development of new products and new businesses Overall, we believe we have found the right balance between which place the company in a healthy position going forward.
variable pay incentives and deferral.
The increases in the level of With the appropriately challenging targets in place, maximum deferral are such that near term cash payments for on target results will reduce.
levels of payout have not been reached but bonuses and long term On page 104 we include details of the triennial review, including incentive payments are above midpoint at 71% of maximum payout for the bonus and 75% payout under the Long Term Incentive Plan any changes from previous policy.
All the changes are then LTIP 2011 14 cycle.
embodied in the Remuneration Policy starting on page 105.
With regard to general discretionary powers, we recognise that Format of this Report our Remuneration Policy needs to be broadly defined to cover not only normal circumstances, but also retain the flexibility to deal with This report has been produced in accordance with the new unexpected events.
In considering the use of discretion by the regulations regarding directors pay and it therefore includes not MDRC, our intent will always be to exercise discretion in such a only the outcomes for the year just ended, but also a separate way that the original and published intent of incentives and section on remuneration policy.
In the Remuneration Policy we practices is maintained.
describe in detail the bases under which we propose to pay our Finally, we have sought to keep the measures upon which executive directors going forward.
We introduced a separate remuneration is based as simple and transparent as possible and forward policy section in last years report, but this years policy have maintained continuity of policy with previous reports.
We section has been reformatted to comply with the final regulations would expect that we do not need to make changes to the policy and will be subject to a separate annual general meeting AGM before the next mandatory vote in 2017. resolution requiring the majority support of shareholders.
Board Changes Commentary on Changes Over the Year In 2014 we have seen the announcement that after a highly In the last year we have carried out a full remuneration review successful decade in charge, Neil Carson will step down and be including consultation and exchange of views with leading replaced as Chief Executive by Robert MacLeod.
In addition, we shareholders and representative bodies.
The outcomes of this are adding to the breadth of experience in the executive by bringing triennial review form the basis for the Remuneration Policy.
In in Den Jones as Group Finance Director.
The planning of orderly carrying out the review, the Management Development and succession is a key function of the MDRC and requires that Remuneration Committee MDRC has retained the same overriding competitive packages are in place to retain and to attract the best aims which are to ensure that remuneration remains aligned with and to provide the scope to earn the appropriate rewards for strategy and shareholder value.
continuing the growth of the company.
This requirement is reflected The overall objective of the company is the delivery of superior in our remuneration practice and policy.
long term growth from value adding sustainable technologies and therefore the remuneration strategy focuses on ensuring alignment Conclusion with long term success and growth.
Long term variable pay is firmly based on growth as measured by increases in underlying earnings Overall, the MDRC considers this to be a balanced and correct policy that fulfils our aims of aligning reward and incentives with per share, and annual bonuses will require strong near term delivery strategy, and with the long term interests of shareholders.
therefore seek your support in approving this report and in As is fitting for a company founded in 1817, plans for long term success have always been a key element of Johnson Mattheys culture.
approving the Remuneration Policy going forward.
Our executives have always understood that maintaining high growth in the future requires correct decisions on investment and strategic direction now.
Therefore we have sought to ensure that executives are firmly bound into the success of the company beyond the short term, and the remuneration review and resulting policy are much stronger on deferral of variable pay, on malus and clawback and on the requirements to maintain a greater personal shareholding.
Michael Roney Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
