109 Future Policy Table continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation and changes if appropriate of the element Potential value of element and performance measures Shareholding requirements Executive directors are expected to build up a The minimum shareholding requirement is as follows: To encourage executive shareholding in the company over a five year period.
Chief Executive 200% of base salary.
directors to build a Shares that count towards achieving these Other executive directors 150% of base salary.
shareholding in the company guidelines include: all shares beneficially owned by and ensure the interests of The above shareholding requirements are effective as an executive or a person connected to the executive management are aligned of the date of approval of this policy.
The previous as recognised by the MDRC: deferred bonus shares with those of shareholders.
shareholding requirement was 100% of base salary for and LTIP awards which have vested and so are no the Chief Executive and the other executive directors.
longer subject to performance conditions but are subject to the post-vesting deferral period.
There is no requirement for non-executive directors to hold shares but they are encouraged to acquire a Executive directors are expected to retain at least holding over time.
50% of the net after tax vested shares that are released under the LTIP and deferred bonus plans until the required levels of shareholding are achieved.
Executive directors are not required to make personal share purchases should awards not meet the performance conditions and so a newly appointed director may take longer to reach the expected level, depending on the companys performance against targets over the period.
In the event of an executive director not reaching the expected level within the five year period, or subsequently, the director will discuss the circumstances with the MDRC and agree an appropriate forward plan.
Non-executive director fees Non-executive directors are paid a base fee each Annual fees at the last review in 2012 are shown below: Attracts, retains and year with an additional fee for each committee Non-executive Chairman 300,000. motivates non-executive chairmanship or additional role held.
Non-executive directors 55,000. directors with the required Going forward, non-executive director fees will be knowledge and experience.
Audit Committee chairmanship additional fee reviewed every year.
Any increase will take into 10,000. account the market rate for the relevant positions within the comparator group of similarly sized MDRC chairmanship additional fee 10,000. companies with a comparable international presence Senior Independent Director SID additional fee and geographic spread and operating in relevant 13,000. industry sectors.
Where the MDRC chairman is also the SID, no extra fee is paid for chairing the MDRC.
Selection of Performance Targets Annual bonus Financial performance targets under the annual bonus plan are set by the MDRC with reference to the prior year and to the budgets and business plans for the coming year, ensuring the levels to achieve threshold, target or maximum payout are appropriately challenging.
The performance targets for 2014 15 are based upon budgeted underlying PBT to ensure that there is strong attention paid to delivery of current operational plans and operational efficiency.
Commercial sensitivity precludes the advance publication of the actual bonus targets but these targets will be retrospectively published in the Annual Report on Remuneration for 2014 15.
LTIP EPS targets under the LTIP are set to reflect the companys longer term growth objectives at a level where the maximum represents genuine outperformance.
Underlying EPS is considered a simple and clear measure of absolute growth in line with the companys strategy.
It is also a key objective of the company to achieve earnings growth only in the context of a good performance on ROIC.
Accordingly, the MDRC makes an assessment of the groups ROIC over the performance period to ensure underlying EPS growth has been achieved with ROIC in line with the groups planned expectations.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
