15 Research and Development CONTINUED INVESTMENT IN R&D UNDERPINS THE FUTURE GROWTH OF JOHNSON MATTHEY.
It is this investment, together with our ability to recruit the most talented and creative scientists, that will ensure we maintain the expertise and leadership in advanced materials that drive the development of value adding sustainable technologies and improved manufacturing processes.
Around 1,400 of our employees work Alongside these activities, Johnson In 2013 14 Johnson Matthey increased in R&D representing around 12% of the Matthey also has central capability its gross investment in R&D by 12% to total workforce and include many highly on strategic R&D, located at five 152.3 million.
Around technology centres, which works on 80% of our R&D staff work within the behalf of all of the groups businesses.
groups divisions in dedicated R&D and Read more on R&D at We maintain a close link between technical centres around the world.
In Johnson Matthey at our central R&D activities and the our divisions, work is mainly focused on www.
development work carried out directly delivery of shorter term business specific by our divisions.
This interaction is key in projects or to address particular market ensuring the rapid transfer of technology developments or customer needs.
to support the continued development of innovative new products and services for our customers.
Research and Development Distribution of Research and Research and Development Employees Development Expenditure Expenditure million million sales New % New Central Businesses Central Businesses Research 7% Research 7% Fine Chemicals 152.3 Fine Chemicals 16% 21% 160 6.0 8% 136.0 8% 128.6 140 5.0 Precious Precious 109.8 120 Metal Metal 4.0 91.7 100 Products Products 80 3.0 6% 6% 60 2.0 Process 40 Process 1.0 Technologies 20 Technologies 19% Emission Emission 0 0 20% Control 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Control Technologies Technologies R&D expenditure R&D expenditure 38% million million sales % 44% The materials we make not only have a specific chemical Once we have optimised a material and proven it as a prototype structure, they also have defined functionalities its what they do that we need to be able to manufacture it at scale for our customers.
gives them value rather than what they are chemically.
Designing This could be anything from a few kilograms through to thousands functional materials requires specialist technology expertise and of tonnes of a material, or hundreds through to millions of units of a a good understanding of applied disciplines such as catalysis, discrete component or system.
Taking prototypes rapidly into full scale electrochemistry and pharmacology.
production and maintaining functionality and system behaviour is The performance of a functional material is affected hugely by the another critical element of the mix.
Understanding scale up requirements environment that the material sees during its life.
A key skill of ours is often informs the whole process, right back to the initial material design.
that of taking a material and customising and integrating it into a Many disciplines contribute to successful manufacturing scale up specific application based upon the environment in which it will operate.
and our understanding of how to generate defined surface structures is This involves a deep understanding of how the material will interact a particular strength of Johnson Matthey.
Our ability to design coatings, with its environment, including with other components in the system, such as catalyst washcoats and inks, that self assemble into the required and the conditions such as the temperature and or pressure that structure during manufacture, underpins many of our businesses.
it will see during its lifetime.
Completing the cycle is our ability to characterise production of Longevity and life of the material are vital too and we typically both our final product and the manufacturing process used to make it, need to provide our customers with data that proves the durability or and is a key requirement for a materials supplier.
performance of our products over their design life.
Many of our products Each competence contributes to the process of developing and last for years and so our ability to design and carry out accelerated supplying advanced and highly functional materials and technology that lifetime testing and, critically, to interpret the results is a key strength.
give the best performance in specific applications.
These competences The results from real life testing are used to inform and refine the are interconnected and knowledge from each informs the others.
It is overall design of new materials as part of our development processes.
the combination of these skills and capabilities which we believe sets Johnson Mattheys technology apart from that of our competitors.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
