116 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2014 6.
Governance Remuneration Report continued Advisers to the Committee In determining the remuneration structure, the MDRC appoints and receives advice from independent remuneration consultants on the pay and incentive arrangements prevailing in comparably sized industrial companies in each country in which Johnson Matthey has operations.
During the year, such advice was received from  LLP who acted as remuneration consultant through the triennial review carried out in 2013 14.
 was appointed independently by the MDRC.
The MDRC regularly reviews the advisers it uses and periodically retenders.
 fees, which were charged on an hourly basis, for advice in relation to remuneration matters, including the development and implementation of remuneration policy, incurred during the year were 135,625.
 is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group RCG and a signatory to the RCGs code of conduct.
 also provides advice and tax compliance services to the company in relation to the administration of expatriates and internationally mobile employees.
Additionally,  provides other tax advice, tax audit work, completion of overseas tax returns, advice on set up of new overseas operations, some overseas payroll services and the review of some financial controls.
The fees associated with the provision of these services are not included in the above figures.
Herbert Smith Freehills LLP, which is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority of England and Wales, provided legal advice to the MDRC on compliance with the regulations relating to the reporting of directors remuneration.
Herbert Smith Freehills has also provided advice to the company in connection with the drafting of share plan rules and directors service contracts in accordance with the policy determined by the MDRC.
This advice was charged on an hourly basis.
The MDRC is aware that Herbert Smith Freehills is one of a number of legal firms that provide legal advice and services to the company on a range of matters.
A statement regarding the use of remuneration consultants for the year ended 31st March 2014 is available on our website in the Investor Relations Corporate Governance section.
Single Figure Table of Remuneration The table below sets out the total remuneration and breakdown of the elements each director received in relation to the year ended 31st March 2013 and the year ended 31st March 2014.
An explanation of how the figures are calculated follows the table.
2 Larry Pentz repatriated to the United States in 2012 13 and received specialist tax and pension advice and a one-off contractual relocation allowance.
3 In accordance with the rules of the pension plan Bill Sandford put his defined benefit pension into payment at his normal retirement age of 60 and subsequently retired from the board on 9th October 2013.
Salary, benefits and pension supplement were paid to the date of cessation of office.
Bill Sandford was awarded an annual bonus payment as described on page 120 and will receive a vesting of the LTIP award in respect of the performance period ending 31st March 2014 as described on page 117, each on a pro-rata basis.
4 John Walker was appointed to the board on 9th October 2013.
The base salary, pension and benefit values shown are in respect of Mr Walkers time since being appointed to the board.
The annual bonus and LTIP figures shown were paid to Mr Walker while he was member of the board but are in respect of performance periods that include time before and after his appointment to the board.
5 Odile Desforges was appointed to the board on 1st July 2013.
Explanation of Figures Base salary fees Salary paid during the year to executive directors and fees paid during the year to non-executive directors.
Benefits All taxable benefits such as medical and life insurance, service and car allowances, matching shares under the all employee share incentive plan and assistance with tax advice and tax compliance services where appropriate.
Annual bonus Annual bonus awarded for the year ended 31st March 2014.
The figure includes any amounts deferred and awarded as shares.
LTIP The 2013 figure represents the value of shares which vested in July 2013.
The 2014 figure represents the estimated value of the shares which are due to vest in July 2014 based on achievement of performance conditions over the three years to 31st March 2014, calculated using the average share price from 1st January 2014 to 31st March 2014 which was 3,256 pence.
Pension The amounts shown represent the value of the increase over the year of any defined benefit pension the executive director may have in the Johnson Matthey Employees Pension Scheme JMEPS plus any cash supplements paid in lieu of pension membership.
