105 Following written communications with Service contracts should include the Remuneration Policy shareholders, we received detailed requirement for mitigation of losses as It is proposed that this Remuneration Policy responses on our Remuneration Policy and far as possible.
will take effect immediately following the we were able to follow up on particular issues.
At the same time, shareholders 2014 AGM, subject to shareholder approval, Some of the comments made by welcomed the significantly enhanced deferral and that the policy will be applied to all shareholders and representative bodies are arrangements and shareholding requirements remuneration for the year commencing that the MDRC should ensure that: and supported the history of prudent reward 1st April 2014.
Salary increases for incumbents should and target setting.
Shareholders have also Below we publish the required not be excessive.
recognised the importance of the package remuneration policy table, which includes being appropriate and competitive in the the elements of directors remuneration.
The targets upon which variable pay sector, which has been an important factor For each element we describe its purpose are based should remain challenging in the recent succession planning and and its link to strategy, how it works, the and transparent.
recruitment at board level associated with opportunity, boundaries and performance Bonus and LTIP payments on the planned retirement of the Chief measures and any clawback or withholding termination should be pro-rated to Executive in September 2014. conditions which may apply.
The MDRC has taken on board these A clear statement of bonus targets shareholder views which have been should be provided retrospectively.
incorporated in the Remuneration Policy and will be taken into account in the deliberations Consideration is given to post-vesting of the MDRC going forward.
Future Policy Table Purpose and link to strategy Operation and changes if appropriate of the element Potential value of element and performance measures Base salary Base salaries will be reviewed annually and any Base salaries at the last review are shown below: Base salary is the basic pay changes normally take effect from 1st August Salary as at Salary as at for doing the job.
1st August 1st August 2013 2012 % is to provide a fair and In determining salaries for new executive Director change competitive level of base directors and salary increases, the MDRC will pay to attract and retain Neil Carson 843,570 803,400 5 take account of performance of the individual individuals of the calibre Robert MacLeod 457,537 435,750 5 director against a broad set of parameters required to lead the business.
Larry Pentz 438,690 417,800 5 including financial, environmental, social and 1 John Walker 365,000 n a governance issues.
The MDRC will further take into account the 1 John Walker was appointed as an executive director on 9th length of time in post and the level of salary October 2013.
The salary disclosed is effective from this date.
increases awarded to the wider Johnson Matthey workforce.
Maximum opportunity Salaries across the group are benchmarked No salary increase will be awarded which results in against a comparator group of similarly sized a base salary which exceeds the competitive market companies within the FTSE100, with a range.
comparable international presence and New salaries 2014 geographic spread and operating in relevant In view of the significant board changes being made industry sectors.
in 2014, we publish here further salary details for 2014 New appointments or promotions will be paid where they have been determined.
at a level reflecting the executive directors Robert MacLeod will become Chief Executive on level of experience in the particular role and 5th June 2014 with an annual base salary of 750,000. experience at board level.
New or promoted This will next be reviewed in 2015. executive directors may receive higher pay Den Jones will become Group Finance Director on increases than typical for the group over a 5th June 2014 with an annual base salary of 465,000. period of time following their appointment as This will next be reviewed in 2015. their pay trends toward an appropriate level for their role.
Neil Carson will receive no increase in base salary this year and will retire from the board on 30th September 2014.
The base salary of Larry Pentz and John Walker will be reviewed on 1st August 2014 in accordance with the policy.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 106 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2014 6.
Governance Remuneration Report continued Future Policy Table continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation and changes if appropriate of the element Potential value of element and performance measures Annual bonus The MDRC sets annual bonus performance measures Performance measures Provides a strong incentive and targets at the start of the year.
At the end of the It is intended that for the lifetime of this policy the aligned to strategy in the year, the MDRC determines the extent to which these annual bonus will be subject to a financial measure short term.
The annual have been achieved.
The MDRC retains the discretion based on achievement of the groups budgeted bonus allows the board to to prevent any bonus award if, in its opinion, the underlying PBT, although the MDRC retains discretion ensure that the companys underlying financial performance of the company has to amend the performance measure upon which plans are properly reflected not been satisfactory in the circumstances.
bonus is to be paid to ensure that bonuses remain in stretching but achievable appropriately linked to the prospects of the business.
In such circumstances the performance measures Of any bonus paid, 50% is paid in cash and the will still have a substantial proportion based on key The annual bonus plays a remaining 50% is deferred into shares for a three financial measures.
key part in the motivation year period as an award under the deferred bonus and retention of senior plan.
No further performance conditions apply to The budget is set on a robust bottom up process employees, one of the awards under the deferred bonus plan.
The target budgeted key requirements for underlying PBT is retrospectively published in the Malus and clawback long term growth.
immediately following Annual Report on Remuneration.
The deferred element of the bonus is subject to a Details of last years bonus awards are on page 117.
The introduction of malus provision such that it can be forfeited in part increased bonus deferral as or in full in the event of a misstatement of results.
The performance period for annual bonus purposes well as malus and clawback Deferred awards are also forfeited in the event of matches the financial year 1st April to 31st March.
provisions ensures that dismissal for misconduct.
Maximum opportunity and vesting thresholds longer term considerations Adjustments Chief Executive 180% of base salary.
are properly taken into The MDRC retains judgment to adjust the bonus Other executive directors 150% of base salary.
account in the pursuit of paid within the defined range should the original annual targets.
Threshold vesting will result in a bonus of 15% of base target no longer reflect overall business performance salary.
On-target performance will result in 50% or individual contribution.
For example, appropriately payment of the maximum opportunity.
adjusting budgets to reflect significant acquisitions or disposals.
The MDRC also retains discretion to amend the level of annual bonuses determined by the performance condition to seek to ensure that the incentive structure for senior management does not raise environmental, social and governance risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour.
For example, reducing or eliminating bonuses where the company has suffered reputational damage or where other aspects of performance have been unacceptable.
The MDRC retains the ability to increase bonus awards from the formulaic outcome where there is identifiable and exceptional performance by the executive director.
Bonus payments in such circumstances would remain within the maximum bonus opportunity and shareholders would be fully informed of the justification.
107 Future Policy Table continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation and changes if appropriate of the element Potential value of element and performance measures LTIP Shares may be awarded each year, with the potential Performance measures LTIP is designed to ensure to vest after three years subject to performance LTIP vesting is based on compound annual growth in that executives take conditions over a three year performance period.
underlying EPS over the three year performance period.
decisions in the interest of The performance targets are set by the MDRC Vesting is also subject to a discretionary ROIC longer term success of the based on internal growth forecasts and to ensure underpin that is monitored by the MDRC.
Having a target that they remain appropriate and aligned with assessed against internal expectations and forecasts.
looks at growth over the shareholder interests.
The MDRC retains discretion to amend the targets longer term ensures that the Deferral and or the performance measures for future awards.
interests of executives are Subject to performance conditions being met, one Wherever possible, the views of shareholders will be aligned with shareholder third of the vested shares are released on the third sought when it is proposed to make any substantive wishes for long term value.
anniversary of the date of award.
The remaining changes to the performance measures.
It is currently The LTIP is based around vested shares are subject to a post-vesting deferral envisaged that the LTIP award will remain strongly targets which require strong period and will be released in equal instalments based on underlying EPS growth for the duration of this growth in underlying EPS.
on the fourth and the fifth anniversaries of the initial Remuneration Policy.
The prospective targets and Having a strong underlying date of award.
measures for the year commencing 1st April 2014 EPS target requires that are shown on page 118.
Malus and clawback annual budgets are also LTIP awards granted in 2014 and subsequently will Maximum opportunity and vesting thresholds ambitious and focused be subject to malus and clawback provisions that The current LTIP was approved by shareholders in on growth.
can apply in the case of misstatement or misconduct.
2007 and allows for an absolute maximum award We consider that underlying of 200% of base salary.
This Remuneration Policy Adjustments EPS is a simple and clear specifies that the maximum award made under The MDRC has power to adjust the vesting level measure and reflects the this policy will be 200% of base salary for the of an award based on the general performance full total of all company Chief Executive and 175% of base salary for other regarding the expected value of ROIC.
A guideline ROIC of 20% is in place, however the It is also a key objective MDRC does not wish to discourage long term of the company to achieve investment and acquisition which might depress earnings growth only in short term ROIC.
Therefore the MDRC has not the context of a good implemented a hard numerical measure to the performance on return on assessment of the satisfactory development of ROIC.
The MDRC may adjust the performance measure Accordingly, the MDRC to reflect material events such as significant is required to make an acquisitions or disposals, share consolidation, assessment of the groups share buy-back or special dividend.
Any such ROIC over the performance change would be fully explained to shareholders.
period to ensure underlying EPS growth has been achieved with ROIC in line with the groups planned expectations.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 108 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2014 6.
Governance Remuneration Report continued Future Policy Table continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation and changes if appropriate of the element Potential value of element and performance measures Benefits Benefits include medical, life and income protection Benefits are not generally expected to be a significant To provide a market aligned insurance, medical assessments, company sick pay, part of the remuneration package in financial terms benefits package.
and a company car or equivalent.
Other appropriate and are there to support the director in his or her benefits may also be provided from time to time at performance in the role.
In general benefits will be The purpose of any benefits the discretion of the MDRC.
restricted to the typical level in the relevant market is to align with normal for an executive director.
market practices, and to Directors and officers liability insurance is remove certain day to day maintained for all directors.
Car benefits will not exceed a total of 25,000 per concerns from executive annum.
Directors who are required to move for a business directors and other senior reason may, where appropriate, also be provided The cost of medical insurance for an individual director managers, to allow them with benefits such as relocation benefits and and dependents will not exceed 15,000 per annum.
to concentrate on the task schooling for dependents.
Company sick pay is 52 weeks full pay.
Directors may be assisted with tax advice and tax compliance services.
The company will reimburse all reasonable expenses which the executive director is authorised to incur whilst carrying out executive duties.
Certain benefits are provided to executive directors in connection with the company requiring them to be internationally mobile, for example the provision of living accommodation, transport or medical insurance away from their country of residence.
The company may pay the tax on these benefits.
Pension All executive directors will be paid a cash supplement The supplement is 25% of base salary.
Provides for post-retirement in lieu of membership in a pension scheme.
remuneration, ensures that the total package is competitive and aids retention.
All employee Executive directors are entitled to participate in the Executive directors are entitled to participate up to the share plans companys all employee plan under which regular same limits in force from time to time for all employees.
Encourages share monthly share purchases are made and matched ownership.
with the award of company shares, subject to retention conditions.
Executive directors would also be entitled to participate in any other all employee arrangements that may be established by the company on the same terms as all other employees.
