105 Following written communications with Service contracts should include the Remuneration Policy shareholders, we received detailed requirement for mitigation of losses as It is proposed that this Remuneration Policy responses on our Remuneration Policy and far as possible.
will take effect immediately following the we were able to follow up on particular issues.
At the same time, shareholders 2014 AGM, subject to shareholder approval, Some of the comments made by welcomed the significantly enhanced deferral and that the policy will be applied to all shareholders and representative bodies are arrangements and shareholding requirements remuneration for the year commencing that the MDRC should ensure that: and supported the history of prudent reward 1st April 2014.
Salary increases for incumbents should and target setting.
Shareholders have also Below we publish the required not be excessive.
recognised the importance of the package remuneration policy table, which includes being appropriate and competitive in the the elements of directors remuneration.
The targets upon which variable pay sector, which has been an important factor For each element we describe its purpose are based should remain challenging in the recent succession planning and and its link to strategy, how it works, the and transparent.
recruitment at board level associated with opportunity, boundaries and performance Bonus and LTIP payments on the planned retirement of the Chief measures and any clawback or withholding termination should be pro-rated to Executive in September 2014. conditions which may apply.
The MDRC has taken on board these A clear statement of bonus targets shareholder views which have been should be provided retrospectively.
incorporated in the Remuneration Policy and will be taken into account in the deliberations Consideration is given to post-vesting of the MDRC going forward.
Future Policy Table Purpose and link to strategy Operation and changes if appropriate of the element Potential value of element and performance measures Base salary Base salaries will be reviewed annually and any Base salaries at the last review are shown below: Base salary is the basic pay changes normally take effect from 1st August Salary as at Salary as at for doing the job.
1st August 1st August 2013 2012 % is to provide a fair and In determining salaries for new executive Director change competitive level of base directors and salary increases, the MDRC will pay to attract and retain Neil Carson 843,570 803,400 5 take account of performance of the individual individuals of the calibre Robert MacLeod 457,537 435,750 5 director against a broad set of parameters required to lead the business.
Larry Pentz 438,690 417,800 5 including financial, environmental, social and 1 John Walker 365,000 n a governance issues.
The MDRC will further take into account the 1 John Walker was appointed as an executive director on 9th length of time in post and the level of salary October 2013.
The salary disclosed is effective from this date.
increases awarded to the wider Johnson Matthey workforce.
Maximum opportunity Salaries across the group are benchmarked No salary increase will be awarded which results in against a comparator group of similarly sized a base salary which exceeds the competitive market companies within the FTSE100, with a range.
comparable international presence and New salaries 2014 geographic spread and operating in relevant In view of the significant board changes being made industry sectors.
in 2014, we publish here further salary details for 2014 New appointments or promotions will be paid where they have been determined.
at a level reflecting the executive directors Robert MacLeod will become Chief Executive on level of experience in the particular role and 5th June 2014 with an annual base salary of 750,000. experience at board level.
New or promoted This will next be reviewed in 2015. executive directors may receive higher pay Den Jones will become Group Finance Director on increases than typical for the group over a 5th June 2014 with an annual base salary of 465,000. period of time following their appointment as This will next be reviewed in 2015. their pay trends toward an appropriate level for their role.
Neil Carson will receive no increase in base salary this year and will retire from the board on 30th September 2014.
The base salary of Larry Pentz and John Walker will be reviewed on 1st August 2014 in accordance with the policy.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
