38 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2014 2.
Financial Financial Review of Operations continued FINE CHEMICALS KEY STATISTICS SPECIALITY PRODUCTS Capital expenditure 26.2 million FOR THE PHARMACEUTICAL Capex depreciation 1.4 R&D expenditure 11.6 million INDUSTRY Average invested capital 447 million Employees 1,341 Year to 31st March % at 2014 2013 % constant million million change rates Revenue 371 345 8 8 Sales excluding precious metals sales 322 308 5 5 1 Underlying operating profit 84.1 76.6 10 10 1 Return on sales 26.1% 24.9% 1 Return on invested capital ROIC 18.8% 17.5% 1 Restated.
Sales Sales by Destination Rest of Rest World of Asia 2% 5% Research China Chemicals 3% 25% Europe 40% Catalysis and Chiral Technologies API Manufacturing North America 10% 65% 50% Divisional Sales Divisional Underlying Operating Profit million million 84.1 322 350 90 311 308 76.6 73.6 280 60 210 140 30 70 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Not restated for IAS 19 revised.
39 Fine Chemicals is focused on delivering niche products and services to STRATEGY pharmaceutical markets where it can apply its speciality and expertise in research, development and manufacturing to deliver existing and new Deliver niche products and services products.
Differentiation through technology while delivering on speed to to pharmaceutical markets market and quality is a key value proposition we offer to both branded and generic pharmaceutical customers.
Leverage synergies between research, development and manufacturing By leveraging synergies between research, development and manufacturing across the division, we maintain a robust portfolio of new Increase market share of established products and customers.
Vertical integration and close collaboration products between its Research Chemicals, Catalysis and Chiral Technologies and Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient API Manufacturing businesses are key Deliver superior growth advantages the division offers to customers through providing a broad technical offering.
Building upon its reputation as a premier API development business that can reliably stand out against its competition, Fine Chemicals aims to increase market share further by diversifying its portfolio of products and customers through its strengths and specialities in technology.
The division aims to deliver superior growth in markets that are driven by global trends towards the increased use of pharmaceutical products.
Its strong position in niche areas and its development and manufacturing infrastructure position it well for growth at rates ahead of industry baselines.
DIVISIONAL SUMMARY Catalysis and Business API Manufacturing Chiral Technologies Research Chemicals What We Do Develop and manufacture complex active Supply a range of speciality chemical, Supply speciality inorganic and organic APIs for a variety of treatments, including chiral and biocatalytic technologies chemicals and biochemicals under the for pain management and attention deficit and products Alfa Aesar brand name hyperactivity disorders How We Add Use our unique technology position and Use our unique catalysis technology Support the research and development Value expertise to develop and manufacture APIs, position to develop and manufacture activities of our customers around the enabling first to market commercialisation products for customers in the world opportunities for our branded and pharmaceutical and agrochemical sectors generic customers Societal Benefits Improved quality of life for an ageing Enhances life science development Our customers work underpins global population a broad range of health and other societal benefits Treats critical conditions e. g. cancer, chronic pain, neurodegenerative diseases Global Drivers Population Growth Health and Nutrition Urbanisation Ageing Population Increasing Wealth Customer Profile Multiple small and large branded and Pharmaceutical, fine chemical and Academic and industrial research generic pharmaceutical companies agrochemical companies organisations Global customer base, expanding in Asia Major Covidien Cambrex Evonik Sigma Aldrich Competitors Noramco AMRI BASF Francopia Siegfried Employees 1,341 Locations Three sites in the US and two in the UK UK, USA, Germany, India and China UK, USA, Germany, China, India and Korea 2013 14 Sales 211 million 32 million 79 million Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 40 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2014 2.
Financial Financial Review of Operations continued FINE CHEMICALS continued Performance in 2013 14 Fine Chemicals Sales by Business 2014 2013 % million million change In 2013 14, Fine Chemicals performed steadily with sales 5% ahead of last year API Manufacturing 211 198 6 at 322 million and underlying operating Catalysis and Chiral Technologies 32 31 4 Research Chemicals 79 79 1 profit 10% ahead at 84.1 million.
The divisions return on sales improved by Total 322 308 5 1.2% to 26.1% benefiting from increased sales in the higher margin API Manufacturing business, and consequently ROIC also increased by 1.3% to 18.8%.
API Manufacturing However, we have completed the The business continued to expand The divisions API Manufacturing restructuring at our UK API manufacturing its range and during the year nearly business, which represents 65% of Fine operation, which represents around 40% 4,000 new products were added.
Its Chemicals sales, grew its sales by 6% of our API Manufacturing business, and new catalogue, launched in April 2013, to 211 million and underlying operating the business is now better positioned to now offers over 45,000 products.
compete in todays more open market.
Sales of our opiate based APIs Key Investments and Developments grew, partly driven by the launch of a Catalysis and Chiral Technologies CCT During the year, we have continued to new generic product by one of our CCTs sales grew slightly this year at invest in the development of APIs to customers for the treatment of drug 32 million and operating profit grew ensure a steady pipeline of new products.
The business benefited from well.
During the year demand was good We are focusing on complex, typically strong demand for APIs used for the for CCTs range of heterogeneous and smaller volume, APIs and are working treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity homogeneous catalyst products which with a number of customers to help disorder.
This included additional revenue are used by customers in the fine them develop new generic drugs in following some supply shortages for chemical and pharmaceutical industries.
anticipation of the expiry of existing one generic product that resulted in an branded drug patents.
At this stage, it is We also completed construction Research Chemicals unclear how long these higher prices will of new warehouses for Research In 2013 14 the sales of Research continue.
The business also continued Chemicals in China and on the west Chemicals, which operates globally to benefit from oxymorphone patent coast USA, although both projects under the Alfa Aesar brand name, were revenue from Endo, the US based took slightly longer than expected to in line with last year at 79 million.
These new warehouses business saw some sales growth in its The UK government has yet to provide us with better access to our European and Asian markets.
However, confirm its future intentions on the customers and will enhance service sales in North America were down due importation of controlled substances.
CASE STUDY Manufacturing Excellence Manufacturing is the way we bring our science to life and the groups Manufacturing Excellence programme is focused on ensuring we run our manufacturing operations with the highest efficiency.
Through Manufacturing Excellence we aim to boost efficiency, reduce manufacturing costs, develop our people and support delivery of our Sustainability 2017 targets.
Efficient manufacturing is a key contributor to value creation in Johnson Matthey and will underpin our growth in the future.
It is a major part of our business in terms of the groups global spend and provides jobs for around 60% of our employees.
Improving our manufacturing performance can therefore have a significant impact on our business.
Our Manufacturing Excellence programme is a long term investment in our people, manufacturing processes, engineering and technology across the group.
Learning and development modules are in place to support our manufacturing employees whilst lean principles are becoming integrated at all sites to increase manufacturing efficiency and improve overall performance.
Technical centres of excellence provide opportunities for manufacturing teams around the world to trial and test new equipment and engineering teams are working to identify and develop best practice for our key processes.
Read more about our Manufacturing Excellence programme in the case studies on our website at www matthey.
