104 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2014 6.
Governance Remuneration Report continued The Triennial Review Changes to the Remuneration Policy During the course of this year the MDRC has carried out its triennial review of remuneration for executive directors.
Following this review, we have proposed certain changes to the remuneration structure which are summarised below and which are embodied in the Remuneration Policy beginning on page 105.
In December 2013 we wrote to shareholders representing more than 50% of share ownership to seek views on the changes.
We have been encouraged by the broad support for the proposals which had three principal aims: 1 To ensure that management remains focused on success beyond the short term.
This will be achieved by increasing the levels of bonus deferral and LTIP awards.
We are also strengthening the requirement for executive directors to hold shares in the company.
2 To maintain simple and transparent structures.
The structure of variable pay remains unchanged and there are no matching schemes associated with deferral.
Bonuses will continue to be based on performance against budgeted underlying profit before tax PBT, and the LTIP will continue to be based on underlying earnings per share EPS growth over the performance period.
3 To maintain the competitiveness and attractiveness of the package by aligning potential rewards to the scale and growth of the company, but only within the context of achieving upper quartile results.
The quantum for bonus and LTIP will be increased but we will balance that strongly through the maintenance of ambitious targets and through the significant increases in deferral, the introduction of a post-vesting holding period and increased shareholding requirements.
As a result of the increase in deferral, near term on-target cash rewards will reduce.
The table below summarises the new remuneration structure and the changes from the previous year.
Changes in policy 1 Termination payments and Executive directors Contractual termination payments are capped at one years base mitigation requirements salary plus contractual benefits with no payment of bonus or LTIP beyond that which is pro-rata to service.
PILON payments may be made in phased monthly instalments over the notice period, in which case the company will reduce such phased payments 2 if appropriate to nil where the director mitigates his or her losses.
The director is required to mitigate his or her losses and notify the company of any new job and or earnings during the notice period.
Maximum bonus Chief Executive 180% of base salary with half deferred into shares for three years.
Continues to be based on Formerly 150% of base salary with one third deferred for three underlying PBT versus budget years.
Other executive directors 150% of base salary with half deferred into shares for three years.
Formerly 125% of base salary with one fifth deferred for three years.
Maximum LTIP Chief Executive 200% of base salary in shares, performance period of three years and Continues to be based on shares released in three equal instalments at years three, four and five.
compound annual growth rate Formerly 175% of base salary, all released at year three.
CAGR in underlying EPS in the 175% of base salary in shares, performance period of three years and performance period Other executive directors shares released in three equal instalments at years three, four and five.
Formerly 140% of base salary, all released at year three.
Clawback and malus Executive directors The deferred element of the bonus is subject to a malus forfeiture provisions provision in the event of misstatement or misconduct.
LTIP awards granted in 2014 and subsequently will be subject to malus and clawback provisions that can apply in the case of misstatement or misconduct.
This will also include a power to forfeit outstanding awards to effect a clawback of previous vested awards.
Shareholding requirement Chief Executive Requirement to build up to 200% of base salary in shares.
Other executive directors Requirement to build up to 150% of base salary in shares.
1 These new contractual provisions apply to all executive directors other than Neil Carson who will step down from the board in September 2014.
Full details of the retirement arrangements for Neil Carson are included on page 114.
2 For executive directors subject to US tax, PILON payments must be made in phased monthly instalments.
