67.. Our Shanghai, China facility for platinum group metal Active pharmaceutical ingredient manufacturing.
This information will be shared with Looking Ahead to 2014 15 We have committed further effort to an external stakeholders and also published We plan to upgrade the consultancy impact analysis of these regulations and in research journals.
service on toxicology and product to developing compliance strategies Work has also continued to promote stewardship that we offer our which will enable us to redeploy data systems in our businesses covering all businesses as they develop new sets that we have already developed aspects of product sustainability, such products and technology platforms.
as chemical regulation, management of We also plan to commit further effort Under the Globally Harmonised restricted substances and encouraging to harmonising chemical classification System of Classification and Labelling of the use of green chemistry a type of across the business.
Chemicals GHS, recently implemented product design and production that We will be making further in the US as the Hazard Communication minimises the use of hazardous improvements to our workplace chemical Standard HCS 2012, new chemical substances.
During the year we brought exposure management programmes information standards are imposed on in an additional member to the groups and will continue to contribute to all companies.
To meet this safety product stewardship function which has industry efforts to develop guidelines regulation, our US sites have completed allowed us to put more resources into on occupational hazard and safety the mandatory workforce retraining and these activities.
We have also instigated management information for products other facility related requirements on a new monitoring and alerting system such as platinum group metals.
We are now close to fulfilling for our businesses to enable them to HCS product related requirements better monitor chemical substances against the mid 2015 deadline and also Regulatory Matters considered to be of concern because anticipate that we will complete our Chemical Control Regulations of their intrinsic hazard.
GHS responsibilities in Canada within The EU Regulation on the registration We remain committed to improving a similar timescale.
of chemicals the Registration, publicly available information on the safe Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction use of chemicals and explanation of their of Chemicals REACH requires effects on health and the environment.
companies dealing with these substances This is part of a broader drive within the to register them with the European chemical industry to be transparent.
In accordance with example, one valuable industry wide the phased implementation of REACH, initiative is the Global Product Strategy Johnson Matthey successfully completed open database which provides all its medium tonnage substance summaries of safety information on registrations during 2013 14. chemicals expressed in language that Our businesses have submitted a non-scientists can understand.
During total of 36 new or updated substance the year we started to upload product dossiers.
The programmes to support the safety summaries to the database.
final raft of substance registrations with a We plan to expand the number of these 2018 deadline are making good progress.
easy to understand summaries in the Thanks to a number of factors, including future and to keep them updated as the efficiency of the industry consortia new hazard and risk assessments are with whom we have collaborated and done on Johnson Mattheys products.
the rationalisation of testing programmes, We have also continued to support our corporate expenditure committed our businesses as they work towards to the support of REACH programmes developing a minimum standard set was approximately 30% less than of EHS data for all bulk products originally envisaged.
marketed at lower production volumes The Asia Pacific region has seen an i. e. approaching 1 tonne per annum.
upsurge of new or amended chemical This is a long term goal aligned with our control regimes similar to REACH in the voluntary commitment to the International UK, notably in China and South Korea.
Council of Chemical Associations ICCA Responsible Care programme.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
