Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Our Board Our Board comprises a diverse range of directors with a wide variety of complementary skill sets and experience.
A: Audit Committee N: Nomination Committee R: Remuneration Committee I: Independent Non-Executive Director S: Nominee of a Major Shareholder John Hughes, CBE N David Buttress Mike Wroe Non-Executive Chairman Group Chief Executive Officer Group Chief Financial Officer Chairman of the Nomination Committee John joined as Chairman in December 2011.
Appointed to the Board as Chief Executive Appointed a director of the Company He has more than 30 years experience Officer in July 2013, David originally joined in October 2013, Mike originally joined leading complex, high technology businesses JUST EAT in March 2006 to launch its UK JUST EAT in October 2008 as Chief Financial operating at a global level.
David started his career with Officer.
Prior to joining JUST EAT, his roles senior executive positions at Thales Group, Coca-Cola Enterprises at the start of 1998. included Chief Financial Officer of listed Radio Lucent Technologies and Hewlett Packard.
During his time at Coca-Cola he had a Frequency Identification RFID Near Field John currently serves as Chairman of the variety of senior sales roles before moving Communication NFC chip design business Board for Sepura plc, Spectris plc and into the internet world with JUST EAT.
He Innovision Research and Technology plc, Telecity Group plc: and as a Non-Executive won the prestigious Account Manager of which he took public in 2001.
Mike now has Director of CSG Systems International, Inc. the Year award when he was managing the over 20 years commercial experience having John holds a Bachelor of Science in Electrical key national restaurant customers in the qualified as a chartered accountant in 1993 and Electronic Engineering from University of UK for Coca-Cola.
David holds a Bachelor with Deloitte.
He holds a Joint Honours Hertfordshire formerly Hatfield Polytechnic of Arts Hons.
in Law & Business from Bachelor of Science in Chemistry and from which he was, in 2014, awarded an Middlesex University Business School.
Management Studies from The University of honorary Doctor of Science in recognition of He was named Male Entrepreneur of Nottingham and is a Fellow of the Institute of his contribution to the communications and the Year in 2014 by Growth Business, Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
technology sector and to the wider business and one of the top 500 most influential community.
He was awarded the CBE for people in Britain in 2015 by Debretts.
services to international telecommunications in the Queens 2011 New Year Honours List.
44 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Gwyn Burr A, R, N, I Frederic Coorevits S Andrew Griffith A, R, N, I Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Non-Executive Chairman of the Remuneration Director Committee Chairman of Audit Committee Gwyn was appointed a Director in March Fred was appointed a director in July 2009.
Andrew was appointed a director in 2014.
Gwyn is also Non-Executive Director Fred is an advisor for SM Trust for which March 2014.
Andrew has served as of Sainsburys Bank plc, Hammerson plc he has been working for more than ten Chief Financial Officer of BSkyB since DFS Furniture Holdings plc, Metro AG, the years.
He manages SM Trusts portfolio of April 2008 where, since 2012, he has also Financial Ombudsman Service Limited investments which focus on the areas of had executive responsibility for BSkyBs and Wembley National Stadium Limited.
Prior commercial businesses, having originally From May 2005 to March 2013, Gwyn was to this, Fred worked as a finance director joined BSkyB in 1999 from Rothschild, the Customer Director and a member of the for i-spire plc and as a senior manager investment banking organisation.
Andrew operating board for J Sainsbury plc, with for  transaction is a member of the 100 Group of Finance responsibility for brand, own brand customer services in London.
Fred holds a Masters in Directors and he serves on the Advisory service, corporate communications and Business Administration and a Masters in Board of the Oxford University Centre for corporate and social responsibility and also, Organic Chemistry from Louvain Belgium.
Business Taxation and a number of BSkyB from 2010, human resources.
Andrew is a qualified a Bachelor of Science in Economics and Chartered Accountant and holds a Bachelor History from The University of Bradford.
of Law from The University of Nottingham.
Benjamin Holmes S Henri Moissinac A, R, N, I Michael Risman S Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Ben was appointed a Director of the Henri was appointed an independent Mike was appointed as a director of the Company in July 2009.
Ben is a partner Non-Executive Director of the Company in Company in March 2014.
Mike also acted at Index Ventures and is based in the August 2014.
Henri brings with him a wealth as the primary representative of the former London office.
He joined Index Ventures of international experience in consumer corporate director of the Company, Vitruvian in 2002, having worked previously as an digital, mobile and e-commerce.
Henri Directors I Limited, from April 2012 to investment manager at NewMedia Spark leads Mobile Business Development at Uber March 2014.
Mike is a Managing Partner at and as a consultant at OC&C Strategy for Europe, Middle East and Africa after Vitruvian and one of the founders of the firm.
At Index Ventures, Ben focuses spending six years with facebook, leading He is currently Chairman of the Board for on commerce and consumer investments mobile partnerships across the world and Benity Linnealex AB, Snow Software Iglu and played a key role in building the helping facebook to grow its mobile users Intressenter AB and Universal Utilities Etihad portfolio of games investments.
Ben holds to almost a billion.
Previously, he led eBay Topco Limited and also serves as a Director a Masters in Engineering Economics and mobile and was co-founder and CTO of on the Board of CRF Health Chelsea TopCo Management from Oxford University.
iBazar, an e-commerce marketplace, in Limited, FarFetch.
com Limited, JAC Travel Europe and South America, acquired by Sebco TopCo Limited, and Inenco Energy eBay.
Henri is a graduate of cole Normale Services TopCo Limited for the Vitruvian Suprieure and holds a PhD in Computer funds.
Mike holds a MBA from Harvard Science from Tlcom ParisTech.
Business School and a Masters MA in Electrical Engineering and Management from Cambridge University.
He is Chairman of the Venture Partnership Foundation, a charity that supports social entrepreneurs.
