Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Our Business Model Five per cent of the Groups revenue consists of connection JUST EAT operates a simple success-based fees, which is a one-off charge of up to 850 depending on business model which has a beneficial geography paid by a restaurant to join the JUST EAT network.
cash flow cycle, creating value for It is important to JUST EAT that restaurants are making a conscious decision to join the JUST EAT platform and that consumers, restaurants and shareholders.
they have an interest in treating the orders sent to them from our platforms with the same care and attention as all their Consumers are attracted to the JUST EAT platform due to the other orders.
brand, choice of restaurants, ordering convenience and the ratings and reviews available.
Consumer orders on the platform A restaurant may also pay for additional services such as create benefits for other users by increasing the number of promotional top-placement on the JUST EAT platform and restaurant ratings and reviews.
More consumers attracts more branded commodity products, which together constitute 6% restaurants to sign-up, which in turn increases choice and drives of the Groups revenue.
Top-placement fees are charged to more consumers to order takeaway through JUST EAT, restaurants who want to be listed in one of four clearly-labelled completing the virtuous circle.
sponsored slots at the top of search results in a particular postcode.
By paying this fee, the restaurant secures a topSuccess-based revenue model placement slot for a particular postcode for a period of up to We have a simple success-based revenue model which is highly 12 weeks.
Our organic listings below these top-placement slots scalable.
Order-driven B2C revenues account for 89% of total are not affected by restaurant payments and are ordered by Group revenues, comprising commission paid by the restaurant restaurant ratings and distance from the consumer.
on successfully fulfilled orders and payment card or admin fees.
Commission revenue is driven by the number of orders placed, Beneficial cash flow cycle the average order value AOV and commission rates.
Thus, an When a consumer pays online, JUST EAT collects the full order increase in any one of these three variables will have a positive value on behalf of the restaurant.
Payment to restaurants of the impact on the B2C revenue.
The AOV is principally driven by the funds collected, less our fees, is typically made twice per month.
demographic of the consumer ordering, such as families or As over 60% of orders are paid for by card, JUST EAT operates students and increases with food service inflation.
The with a very favourable working capital cycle.
commission rates are agreed in the contractual terms with the restaurants and vary by country.
In January, we successfully raised commission rates in the UK from 11% to 12% with only a handful of restaurants leaving the network as a result.
Revenue Journey Connection fees Commission Payment card Top-placement fee admin fees and other revenue Restaurants pay a one-off Commission is charged to A small fee is charged Restaurants can choose to fee to join the JUST EAT restaurants on the value of typically on orders paid pay for additional services network.
The pricing of successful orders placed by for by card.
Restaurants such as promotional topconnection fees varies consumers.
The rate charged can choose to pass this placement and branded with geography, depending varies by country.
In January fee on to the consumer.
commodity products, on market maturity.
2014, we successfully raised which we can supply commission rates in the at lower prices.
14 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 s r e d l o h e r a h S R e s Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements How We Generate Value The diagram below summarises the key drivers behind how JUST EAT achieves sustainable growth.
It is based on four inter-linking value drivers scalability, technology, brand and people.
Through our focus on these areas, we generate value for our consumers, restaurants and shareholders.
Scalability Technology When creating, developing Our technology is making and maintaining our life easier for consumers technology, we recognise and restaurants.
The the importance of JUST EAT system enables scalability.
We invest restaurants to efficiently heavily to ensure our manage their order process platforms and apps are by reducing communication robust, flexible and secure errors that could be enough to meet increasing made over the phone and peaks of demand from reducing the time spent on consumers and restaurants.
The JUST EAT websites and apps enables consumers to make informed choices about what food to order in a quick and convenient way.
Sustainable Growth People Brand Our people are integral to Consumers have the all that we do at JUST EAT.
reassurance of ordering We have an outstanding from a well-known, trusted central team who are brand, receiving customer responsible for designing, service through JUST EAT implementing, maintaining, online support or offline supporting and promoting through call centres.
our websites and apps, Brand association helps as well as great local restaurants to drive scale in teams who lead sales, orders by enabling efficient marketing and operational entry to the online market.
com 15 t a u r a n t s s r e m u s n o C Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Business Model continued Who we create value for Shareholders Consumers 2014 has been a milestone year for JUST EAT on our long-term Our platform allows consumers to make informed choices about journey of growth and development.
In April, the Group what food to order and then do so in a convenient manner.
successfully entered the High Growth segment of the London The consumer can examine the full menu for each takeaway Stock Exchange, subsequently transferring to a Premium Listing restaurant and read consumer reviews and ratings.
In the in May and joining the FTSE 250 in June.
UK they can also click on a link to the Food Standards Agency ratings.
By delivering value to our consumers and restaurants, we ultimately drive long-term financial value to our shareholders.
Consumers can choose to store their card details securely with Given the high growth of the business, the Group intends to JUST EAT, along with contact details, favourite restaurants and retain any earnings generated in the short-term in order to fund favourite meals.
They can choose to place an order wherever development and expansion.
As such, despite a 200% increase they are using one of our mobile apps or mobile website.
The in adjusted EPS to 4.2p, we have not paid a dividend in 2014 consumer has the reassurance of ordering from a well-known, since IPO one was paid in April 2014 prior to the IPO as part of trusted brand, receiving customer service through JUST EAT a capital restructuring and it is anticipated that dividends will online support or offline through our call centres.
not be paid in the foreseeable future.
Our focus remains on driving growth through our strategic initiatives in the mediumThis access to readily accessible relevant and recent information, term across all our markets.
combined with ordering simplicity helps to drive channel shift, one of our strategic initiatives for growth.
Consumers Shareholders Consumer Journey Postcode Choose Delivery method Payment method restaurant The local JUST EAT websites Consumers can make If the restaurant provides The final stage in placing an and apps enable consumers an informed choice the option, a consumer can order is for the consumer to search for restaurants by reading customer choose delivery or to collect to choose to either pay in their area using their reviews and examining the order themselves.
securely online with stored postcode, sorted by cuisine the full menu.
There are card details or pay cash choice and preference for currently over seven million on delivery collection.
16 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Restaurants Peak orders per minute Takeaway restaurants may not have the knowledge or readily Demand is highly concentrated at weekends and evenings.
Our available capital to invest in creating their own platform.
core platform has maintained high availability whilst managing Additionally, many do not have the time or investment to spend peak volumes, such as the 1,000 orders a minute processed for on marketing, particularly dealing with the complexities of online the hungry romantics ordering on St. Valentines Day 2014.
The search and promotion or building a broader brand.
Brand growth in the peak volumes is shown below.
association helps restaurants to drive scale in orders.
1,200 JUST EAT provides an easy solution to these problems, enabling 1,000 efficient entry to the online market.
In addition, takeaway restaurants often see an increase in average order values for 800 online orders as consumers shop the whole menu at their own 600 pace.
The JUST EAT platform improves restaurant efficiency: accepting an online order is significantly quicker and more 400 efficient than processing a telephone order.
200 The receipt of clear print-outs, rather than hand written notes 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 of consumer orders also reduces communication errors.
This Year improvement in speed and efficiency is particularly beneficial during peak ordering times, reducing or eliminating orders lost through an engaged phone line.
We help takeaway restaurants to develop their businesses through feedback for consumer preferences and reviews left on the JUST EAT platform, ultimately helping to drive standards in the takeaway food industry.
We also utilise our buying power to Restaurants offer restaurants JUST EAT branded commodity products at a lower price than is available to them individually.
Strong, Active Relationships with Takeaway Restaurants JUSTEAT provides: More orders Higher value More efficient Services order processing An online presence and Consumers who order The JUST EAT platform Restaurants have access access to JUST EATs online through JUST EAT, reduces communication to other benefits such as 8.1 million Active Users, on average, tend to errors and enables cheaper menu printing helps restaurants to spend more than when restaurants to significantly and branded commodity generate more orders.
products, as well as feedback on consumer preferences.
