GOVERNANCE REPORT OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION Directors Share capital The Directors of the Company who served during the year At 31 December 2014, the Companys issued share capital was were as shown on pages 32 and 33, together with Eduard Ogay 458,379,033 ordinary shares of 20 pence, each credited as fully whostepped downfrom the Board following completion of the paid.
As at the date of this Directors Report, the Company holds Restructuring on31 October 2014.
Details of Directors interests 11,701,830 ordinary shares in treasury and the issued share capital in shares can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on of the Company which carries voting rights of one vote per share page 99. comprises 446,677,203 ordinary shares excluding treasury shares.
Further details of the Companys issued share capital are shown in All Directors are required by the Companys Articles of Association note 26 commencing on page 141. to be elected by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting after their appointment, if appointed by the Board.
Andrew Southam, The Companys shares are listed on the London, Hong Kong and having been appointed by the Board on 1 November 2014 and John Kazakhstan stock exchanges.
MacKenzie, who will be appointed to the Board on 1 March 2015, A list of main subsidiary undertakings and their principal activity, will be seeking election as Directors at the forthcoming Annual is given in note 38 m on page 170.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all other Directors excluding Lord Renwick who will be Major shareholdings stepping down from the Board at the conclusion of the forthcoming As at 25 February 2015, the Company had been notified under Annual General Meeting will retire and submit themselves for Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial re-election at the Companys forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Conduct Authority of the following interests in its total voting Details of Directors contracts or letters of appointment are included rights of 3% or more: in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Percentage of Number of total voting The performance of each Director was reviewed and it was ordinary shares rights held as at found that each of them continues to make an effective and of 20 pence 25 February Name of holder each held 2015 valuable contribution to the deliberations of the Board and 1 demonstrate commitment to the role.
The performance of the Cuprum Holding Limited 135,944,325 30.43 Chairman was reviewed by the Senior Independent Director.
2 Harper Finance Limited 29,706,901 6.65 Lafonda Limited 26,696,953 5.98 During the year, no Director had any interest in any shares or debentures in the Companys subsidiaries, or any material 1 Vladimir Kim holds a 100% interest in Cuprum Holding Limited.
interests in any contract with the Company or a subsidiary being 2 Oleg Novachuk holds a 100% interest in Harper Finance Limited.
a contract of significance in relation to the Companys business.
Relationship agreements Directors indemnity and insurance As required by Listing Rule 9.2.
2AR 2 a, the Company entered KAZ Minerals maintains liability insurance for its Directors and into: i an amended and restated relationship agreement originally Officers.
The Company has also granted indemnities to each of the entered into on 26 September 2005 with Cuprum Holding Directors, the Chief Financial Officer and the Company Secretary Limited, Perry Partners S. A. and Vladimir Kim on 23 July 2014: ii a to the extent permitted by law.
These indemnities are uncapped in relationship agreement with Harper Finance Limited, Kinton Trade amount, in relation to certain losses and liabilities which they may Limited and Oleg Novachuk on 23 July 2014: and iii a relationship incur to third parties in the course of acting as a Director or agreement with Stansbury International Limited and Eduard Ogay Officer or Company Secretary as the case may be of the Company on 23 July 2014.
In accordance with Listing Rule 6.1.
4DR, each or any of its associated companies.
Neither the indemnity nor relationship agreement establishes that all transactions between insurance cover provides cover in the event that a Director or the Company and the controlling shareholder are undertaken on Officer or Company Secretary as the case may be is proved to an arms length basis and on normal commercial terms, that neither have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
the controlling shareholder nor its associates will cause the Company to breach or circumvent the Listing Rules or prevent the The indemnity is categorised as a qualifying third-party indemnity Company from complying with its obligations under the Listing for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006 and will continue Rules and that neither the controlling shareholder nor any of its in force for the benefit of Directors or Officers or Company associates will propose or procure the proposal of a shareholder Secretary as the case may be on an ongoing basis.
resolution which is intended or appears to be intended to Annual General Meeting circumvent the proper application of the Listing Rules.
Under the The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held at 12.15pm on relationship agreement with Mr. Kim, inter alia, there must be a Thursday 7 May 2015 at The Lincoln Centre, 18 Lincolns Inn Fields, majority of independent Directors on the Board and on all its London WC2A 3ED, United Kingdom.
Details of the meeting venue standing committees, and no material transaction may be entered and the resolutions to be proposed, together with explanatory into without approval of the independent Directors.
Each notes, are set out in a separate Notice of Annual General Meeting relationship agreement will continue as long as the ordinary shares which accompanies this Annual Report and Accounts.
are listed on the premium segment of the Official List and traded on the London Stock Exchange and will terminate should the A summary of the business carried out at the Annual General relevant shareholder cease to be a controlling shareholder as Meeting will be published on the Companys website defined in the Listing Rules.
The Company has complied with the www.
independence provisions included in the relationship agreements and, so far as the Company is aware, such provisions have been complied with during the period under review by the controlling shareholders and their associates.
com 101 GOVERNANCE REPORT OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION CONTINUED Each of a $1,844 million facility agreement and a $148.5 million Political donations facility agreement dated 29 December 2014 between KAZ Minerals The Group did not give any money for political purposes in the Finance PLC as borrower and China Development Bank United Kingdom nor did it make any donations to EU political Corporation as lender, contain terms which give the lender the right organisations or incur any EU political expenditure during the year.
to cancel any of the commitments provided to KAZ Minerals Policy on derivatives and financial instruments Finance PLC and declare all outstanding loans together with accrued The Groups objectives and policies on financial risk management, interest, and all other amounts accrued and outstanding immediately and information on the Groups exposures to foreign exchange, due and payable on 30 business days notice if the Company ceases counterparty credit, commodity price, liquidity and interest rate to hold directly or indirectly more than 50 per cent of the issued risks can be found in note 33 commencing on page 147. share capital of KAZ Minerals Finance PLC and or certain other named subsidiaries.
Legal proceedings Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is a defendant in Going concern any proceedings which the Directors believe will have a material The Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, have a effect on either the Companys financial position or profitability.
reasonable expectation that theGroup has adequate resources Commitments and contingencies are disclosed in note 34 to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future commencing on page 153. which is for this purpose a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of these financial statements.
Accordingly, they Significant agreements change of control continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in The following significant agreements contain certain termination preparing the consolidated financial statements.
and other rights for the counterparties upon a change of control of the Company.
Articles of Association The following description summarises certain provisions of the Each of a $2 billion facility agreement dated 30 December 2009, Companys Articles of Association and applicable English law a $100 million facility agreement dated 30 December 2009 and a concerning companies the Companies Act 2006.
This summary $200 million facility agreement dated 12 January 2010 in each case is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Companys Articles entered into between KAZ Minerals Finance PLC as borrower and of Association and the Companies Act 2006.
The Companys Joint Stock Company Sovereign Wealth Fund Samruk-Kazyna as Articles of Association may only be amended by a special lender, contain terms which give the lender the right to cancel all resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
or any of the commitments provided to KAZ Minerals Finance PLC, declare all or part of the loans, together with accrued interest, and Rights attaching to shares all other amounts accrued or outstanding immediately due and The rights attaching to the ordinary shares of the Company are payable and or declare that all or part of the loans be payable on defined in the Companys Articles of Association.
demand if the Company ceases to hold 100 per cent less one share of the issued share capital of KAZ Minerals Finance PLC.
Voting rights Members may attend any general meeting of the Company.
Each of a $1.34 billion facility agreement and a RMB1.0 billion On a show of hands every member or his representative who facility agreement dated 16 December 2011 between KAZ is present in person or by proxy has one vote on each resolution Minerals Aktogay Finance Limited as borrower and China and on a poll every member or his representative who is present Development Bank Corporation as lender, contain terms which in person or by proxy shall have one vote on each resolution for give the lender the right to cancel any of the commitments each share of which he she is the holder.
provided to KAZ Minerals Aktogay Finance Limited and declare all outstanding loans together with accrued interest, and all other As a result of changes introduced by the Companies Act 2006 to amounts accrued and outstanding immediately due and payable on allow multiple proxies appointed by a single member to vote on a 30 business days notice if the Company ceases to hold directly or show of hands, all substantive resolutions at general meetings will indirectly more than 50 per cent of the issued share capital of normally be put to a poll vote.
Employees who participate in the KAZ Minerals Aktogay Finance Limited and or certain other Companys Share Incentive Plans SIP and hold shares in the SIP named subsidiaries.
trusts, provide directions to the trustee to vote on their behalf by way of a form of direction.
The terms of a pre-export finance debt facility dated 20 The Company is not aware of any agreements between December 2012, as amended and restated on 29 October 2014, shareholders that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
between KAZ Minerals Finance PLC and a syndicate of banks, provide that if any person excluding Vladimir Kim and Oleg Dividend rights Novachuk or group of people acting in concert secures control of Shareholders may by ordinary resolution declare dividends the Company: i a lender under the facility shall not be obliged to but the amount of the dividend may not exceed the amount fund a loan: and ii if a body of lenders representing more than recommended by the Board.
two-thirds of the amount of the facility so require, the parties shall enter into negotiations for a period of not more than 30 days with a view to agreeing alternative terms for continuing the facility.
If no alternative basis has been agreed during such period then the lenders may cancel the commitments of the lenders to lend the facility and declare all outstanding amounts due and payable.
102 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2014 GOVERNANCE REPORT The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Transfer of shares records that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups and There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares other than certain parent companys transactions and disclose with reasonable restrictions as set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and of Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out using the parent company and enable them to ensure that the financial CREST and the Board can refuse a transfer of an uncertificated statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have share in accordance with the regulations governing the operation general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open of CREST.
to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities, and have adopted a control The Company is not aware of any agreements between framework for application across the Group.
shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also Powers of the Directors responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors The Directors are responsible for the management of the business Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement of the Company and may exercise all powers of the Company that complies with that law and those regulations.
subject to applicable legislation and regulation and the Companys Articles of Association.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys Audit information website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in Directors Report confirm that so far as they each are aware, there other jurisdictions.
is no relevant audit information being information needed by the auditors in connection with preparing their audit report, of which Responsibility statement the Companys auditors are unaware, and each Director has taken Each Director confirms to the best of his knowledge that: all steps that he ought to have reasonably taken as a Director to the Group and parent company accounts, prepared in accordance make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of Auditors the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation Having reviewed the independence, objectivity and performance taken as a whole: of the auditors, the Audit Committee has recommended to the the Strategic Report, Directors Report and Governance Report Board that the existing auditors, KPMG, be re-appointed.
Ordinary include a fair review of the development and performance of the resolutions re-appointing them as auditors and authorising the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings Directors to set their remuneration will be proposed at the 2015 included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a Annual General Meeting.
description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face: and the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect and understandable and provides the information necessary for of the annual report and the financial statements shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report model and strategy.
and the Group and parent company financial statements in The Strategic Report comprising pages 2 to 35, the Directors accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Report comprising pages 38 to 69 and 101 to 103, and the Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent Governance Report comprising pages 72 to 100, and including the company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that sections of the Annual Report and Accounts referred to in these law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in pages, have been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU and applicable law and Stephen Hodges have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements Company Secretary on the same basis.
25 February 2015 Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair Registered Office view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company 6th Floor, Cardinal Place and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each 100 Victoria Street of the Group and parent company financial statements, the London Directors are required to: SW1E 5JL select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Registered in England and Wales No.
05180783 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and parent company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will continue in business.
com 103 Koksay Koksay is the Groups third major growth project, acquired in June 2014.
Koksay will be developed once Bozshakol has commenced production.
The projects measured and indicated resource contains copper of 3.1 MT at a grade of 0.44% as well as gold, silver and molybdenum by-products.
For more information about our major growth projects, go to www.
com FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 106 Independent Auditors Report 110 Consolidated Income Statement 111 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 112 Consolidated Balance Sheet 113 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 114 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 115 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 171 Consolidated Five Year Summary 172 Production and Sales Figures 178 Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources 182 Shareholder Information 184 Glossary
