Directors report Other disclosures General information Share capital General information is provided in the note 1 of the financial statements.
The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into ordinary shares of 10 pence.
Disclosure of all relevant information to auditors The Directors who approved this report are satisfied that, as far as they Rights and obligations attaching to shares are aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined in the In a general meeting of the Company voting is as follows: Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
I on a show of hands, every member present in person shall Each of the Directors has taken all the steps that they ought to have haveonevote: taken as a Director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant I on a show of hands, every proxy present who has been duly audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are appointed by one or more members shall have one vote: and aware of that information.
I on a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which he or she is the holder.
Directors The names and biographical details of our Directors as at 31 March 2014 A member is not entitled to vote in respect of any share in the capital are on pages 30 and 31.
Further information regarding the Directors ofthe Company held by him or her, if there are sums payable to the whoserved during the year can be found on pages 44 to 60 in the Company in respect of such share which remain unpaid.
Full details of the deadline for exercising voting rights in respect of the Political donations resolutions to be considered at the AGM to be held on 29 July 2014 are No political donations were made by the Group during the year set out in the Notice of Meeting.
All dividends are paid proportionately to the amounts paid up on the Employees shares and are paid to those members whose names are on the share Our people make all the difference to the service we can provide register at the date at which the dividend is declared, or at such other toourcustomers and enable us to differentiate ourselves from our date as determined by the Directors or by an ordinary resolution of competitors.
We therefore take great care to have employment theCompany.
strategies in place that drive business performance but also help our people to develop to their full potential.
Our employment policies are If the Company is wound up, the liquidator, with the sanction of a designed to provide equal opportunities irrespective of age, disability, special resolution of the Company or any other sanction required by ethnicity, gender, gender reassignment, marital status and civil law, may divide the whole or any part of the assets of the Company partnership, nationality, pregnancy and maternity, race, religion among the shareholders and may determine how the division of the andbelief and sexual orientation.
assets will be carried out.
All employees, whether part-time or full-time, temporary or permanent, Transfer of shares are treated fairly and equally.
We select employees for employment, All transfers of uncertificated shares must be made in accordance with, promotion, training or other matters affecting their employment and be subject to, the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 and in onthebasis of aptitude and ability.
accordance with any arrangements made by the Board.
We take every opportunity to involve and consult with our employees and All transfers of certificated shares must be in writing in a form which has we believe that employee involvement is an essential contributor to the been approved by the Directors: this is known as the Instrument of development of our business.
Our Executive Directors regularly visit our Transfer.
The Instrument of Transfer must be signed by, or on behalf of, different office locations to meet with our employees, provide updates on the transferor and the transferor will remain as the holder of the share the performance of the Group and to receive suggestions and feedback, until the name of the transferee is entered into the share register.
through both roadshow presentations and informal meetings.
The Directors may refuse to register the transfer of any share which is Regular video and news updates are provided to all employees through not fully paid or which is in favour of more than four persons jointly.
The our intranet, and a weekly round-up bulletin via email to keep them Directors may also refuse to recognise an Instrument of Transfer if it is informed of activities and Group performance.
There is also a monthly not lodged at the Companys registered office or at any other place briefing document for managers to share with their teams.
which the Directors have determined.
In March 2013 we undertook our second Group-wide employee survey If the Directors refuse to register a transfer they will send to the transferee in two years, to obtain feedback on a range of topics.
The results of this a notice of the refusal and the Instrument of Transfer within two months were fed back to employees and action plans were developed to of the date on which the transfer was lodged with the Company.
address the key matters raised.
We encourage our employees to become shareholders by offering a Share Incentive Plan SIP as we believe this is one opportunity to encourage greater employee engagement.
More information about this can be found on page 59.
KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2013 14 41 DIRECTORS REPORT Other disclosures continued Allotment of shares Significant agreements change of control At the AGM in 2013, the Company was authorised by the members to The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling the allot shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 17,220,130. counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event of Authority was also given at the same time for the partial disapplication achange of control of the Company: of pre-emption rights, up to a maximum aggregate value of 2,583,019.
I under our 200 million multi-currency revolving facility agreement As at the date of this report no shares had been allotted under dated 4 June 2014, the Company must notify Lloyds Bank PLC, the thisauthority.
Agent of the agreement, within seven days of becoming aware of achange of control of the Company.
Any bank or financial institution Repurchase of shares named within the facility agreement may then notify the Agent At the AGM in 2013, the Company was authorised by members to within seven days that they wish to cancel their commitments.
purchase its own shares, up to a maximum of 51,660,391.
During the TheAgent must then give at least 21 days notice to the Company year, the Company did not purchase any of its own shares.
ofthis and all outstanding amounts due to that bank or financial institution will become immediately due and payable.
Forthese The Company funds Employee Share Trusts ESTs to meet its obligations purposes, a change of control occurs if any person or group of under the Companys share schemes.
During the year the ESTs purchased persons acting in concert gains control of the Company: and 12,043,000 2013: 15,130,000 shares on the London Stock Exchange at I the Companys share schemes, details of which are contained a cost of 1,778,000 2013: 11,053,000 with a nominal value of intheRemuneration report on pages 44 to 60, contain provisions 1,204,300 2013: 1,513,000.
These shares represent 2.33 per cent of which take effect in the event of a change of control, as a result the called-up share capital and are held in trust until they vest: therefore ofwhich options and awards may vest and become exercisable.
the purchase of these shares does not reduce the share capital in issue.
Theprovisions do not entitle participants to a greater interest in Thetotal number of shares held in trust to meet obligations under the theshares of the Company than that created by the initial grant Companys share schemes is: oraward under the relevant scheme.
000s of shares The Company does not have any agreements with any Director or As at 1 April 2013 9,524 employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover.
As at 31 March 2014 205 Strategic report Further details around the purchase of shares in the year are set out Pursuant to section 414c of the Companies Act 2006 the Strategic innote 25 to the financial statements.
report on pages 2 to 29 contains disclosures in relation to future developments, dividends, financial risk management and the disclosure Shares held by ESTs of the Greenhouse Gas emissions for which the Company is responsible.
The trustees of the Kingston Communications 2000 EST and the Kingston Communications All Employee Share Plan vote any shares held Annual General Meeting in the ESTs as they wish, having due regard to the interests of the Our AGM will be held at the KC Stadium, Hull, on Tuesday 29 July 2014 employees as potential beneficiaries.
The Notice of Meeting accompanies this annual report andisalso available on our Group website at www.
There are two other ESTs, the Kingston Communications Qualifying Fourresolutions will be proposed as special business.
Explanatory Employee Share Ownership Trust and the KCOM Group PLC Employee noteson these resolutions are set out in the Notice of Meeting.
Benefit Trust, that are currently dormant and hold no shares.
The Directors consider that all the resolutions proposed are in the best interests of the Company and it is their recommendation that shareholders support these proposals as they intend to do so in respect of their own holdings.
Substantial shareholdings As at 31 March 2014, the Company had been notified of the following interests amounting to three per cent or more of the voting rights in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
As at 18 June 2014, there had been no additional disclosures received.
Number of shares with voting rights % of total votingrights Invesco Asset Management 70,171,901 13.58 Aviva Investors 24,599,612 4.76 Aberforth Partners LLP 24,336,606 4.71 Scottish Widows Investment Partnerships 22,773,730 4.41 Legal & General Investment Management 16,285,090 3.15 Norges Bank Investment Management 15,933,680 3.08 KCOM Group PLC 42 Annual report and accounts 2013 14 Directors report Directors responsibilities statement Directors statement pursuant to the Disclosure The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the andTransparencyRules financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Each of the Directors whose names and functions are listed on pages Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements 30 and 31 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: foreach financial year.
Under that law, the Directors have prepared I the financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance theGroup and Company financial statements in accordance with with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of theGroup and theEuropean Union EU.
Under company law, the Directors must Company: and notapprove the financial statements unless they are satisfied that I t he Strategic report and Directors report contained in the annual report theygive a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and includes a fair review of the development andperformance ofthe the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
business and the position of the Group and Company, togetherwith a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that itfaces.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: Conclusion on the annual report I select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: The Board is responsible for reviewing the annual report and, I make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable afterconsideration, has concluded that the annual report, taken and prudent: asawhole, is fair, balanced and understandable and that it provides I state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the EU have been thenecessary information for shareholders to assess performance, followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained business model and strategy.
In reaching this conclusion, the Board in the financial statements: and has considered the different types of shareholders that the Group has, the reports and presentations that the Board has received during the I prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless year and the reports submitted to the Audit Committee during the itis inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue year by both the internal and external auditors and combined this inbusiness.
with the Boards collective knowledge of the business, gained through both formal and informal meetings and personal interactions across The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records the Group at all levels.
that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of Amendments to the Companys Articles of Association the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the Any amendments to the Companys Articles of Association may financial statements and the Directors Remuneration report comply bemade by passing a special resolution at a general meeting of with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial theshareholders.
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence Going concern for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud The Directors confirm that, having reviewed the Groups budget and and other irregularities.
forecasts along with the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, they are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Legislation in the United Kingdom the Group continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements financial statements.
may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
This report has been reviewed and approved by the Board of KCOM Group PLC.
Signed on behalf of the Board Kathy Smith Company Secretary 18 June 2014 KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2013 14 43
