DIRECTORS REPORT Board of Directors Term of office External appointments Graham Holden 54 Graham joined the Board as Non-Executive Graham is a Visiting Fellow in the School Non-Executive Chairman Director in November 2007.
On 1 April 2014 ofManagement at Cranfield University.
previously Non-Executive Director to 31 March 2014 he became Non-Executive Chairman for theGroup.
Responsibilities As Chairman, Graham is responsible for Previous experience leading the Board.
Graham is a Chartered Accountant and graduate of the Harvard Advanced Board Committees Management Programme.
He was Chief To 31 March 2014: A R N Executive of Marshalls plc until his retirement From 1 April 2014: A R N in October 2013.
He was with the Company for27 years and served as Group Financial Director from 1992 until 2001.
Term of office External appointments Bill Halbert 66 Bill was appointed Executive Chairman of Bills other directorships include Excelsys Ltd, Chief Executive theKCOM Group in July 2009 having joined Jade Solutions Limited and Tacit Connexions Ltd. previously ExecutiveChairman to 31 March 2014 the Board as a Non-Executive Director inSeptember 2006.
On 1 April 2014 he Responsibilities becamethe Chief Executive for the Group.
As Chief Executive, Bill has overall executive responsibility for the day-to-day leadership Previous experience ofthe Group and its brands.
Bill has worked in the information technology industry for over 40 years and brings a wealth Board Committees of experience and strategic insight to the A R N KCOM Group Board.
During his time in the industry he founded and was the CEO for 13 years for Syntegra, BTs global consultancy and systems integration subsidiary.
Term of office External appointments Paul Simpson 45 Paul was appointed Chief Financial Officer in None.
Chief Financial Officer May 2004, having joined the Group in 2000.
Responsibilities Previous experience Paul has responsibility for all finance Paul is a graduate in Economics and qualified mattersacross the Group.
In addition, he with Price Waterhouse.
He is a fellow of the hasresponsibility for the leadership of the IT, Institute of Chartered Accountants in England Project Management, Technology, Service and Wales.
Prior to joining the Group, Paul andOperations and Risk teams.
worked in transaction services at Ernst and Young, which included working on the flotation Board Committees of the KCOM Group.
A R N Board Committees Audit Committee Member A R Remuneration Committee Member N Nomination Committee Member Committee Chairman Not a member See also 35 Committees in detail KCOM Group PLC 30 Annual report and accounts 2013 14 Directors report Term of office External appointments Kevin Walsh 61 Kevin joined the Board in May2004, having In February 2014, Kevin was appointed as Executive Director joined the Group in 2000.
He has indicated Chairman of Manx Telecom Plc.
Kevin is also a hisintention to retire from the Board in the member of Business in the Communitys Yorkshire summer of 2014. and Humber Advisory Board and the City Leadership Board of Hull City Council.
Previous experience Kevin was Managing Director of a new media Responsibilities start-up and held a number of senior director Kevin had responsibility for the management of roles within the Electrolux Group.
He brings to the Groups KC brand up to 31 March 2014 and the KCOM Group Board a wealth of business will continue to offer support to the KC brand and knowledge including a significant amount of the rest of the business up until his retirement.
Board Committees A R N Term of office External appointments Tony Illsley 57 Tony joined the Board in June 2009.
Tony is Chairman of Plastic Logic Ltd and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director isaNon-Executive Director of Camelot Previous experience Global Services Limited and Camelot UK Tony has held a variety of senior business Lotteries Limited.
positions including Chief Executive of Telewest Communications PLC, President of Pepsi Cola Board Committees Asia Pacific and Senior Independent To 31 March 2014: A R N Non-Executive Director of easyJet plc.
From 1 April 2014: A R N Tony is acting as interim Chairman oftheRemuneration Committee with effectfrom1April 2014.
Term of office External appointments Martin Towers 61 Martin joined the Board in June 2009.
Martin is Chairman of Norcros PLC and is a Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director of RPC Group PLC Previous experience andTyman PLC.
Martin is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and has Board Committees held a number of senior finance roles including A R N Group Finance Director at Kelda Group PLC, Allied Textile Group PLC and the Spring Ram Corporation PLC.
KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2013 14 31
