STRATEGIC REPORT Our strategy Our strategic vision is about passionately pursuing betterways to connect people and deliveringinspiring customer experiences Our long-term plan Strategic pillar Description Progress Priorities Key performance indicators Our focus on exceptional service delivery has In each of our markets, we have focused I build reputation for delivery, design and I revenue and gross margin: The Groups vision is resulted in increasing customer advocacy, new ondeploying additional service offerings, management of value-added services through: I EBITDA: underpinned by four strategic contracts with large enterprise customers and including significantly faster broadband I net cash inflow from operations: I delivering growth in the provision of managed further business fromexisting customers.
speeds in Hull and East Yorkshire, by pillars that support our I net debt: services toUK-based : developing fibre, and anew suite of hosted ambition and focus our I uplift in ARPU: We target and align our capabilities managed communication services.
I continuing the deployment and take-up Customers I market share: and totherequirements of our customers offibre-based broadband services to investment.
Those pillars I customer service awards.
Increasingly, our enterprise customers customers in Hull and EastYorkshire: We understand and anticipate the needs support us in ourpursuit want to benefit from our specialist ofourcustomers and align our products, I continuing to grow market share through integration and consultancy services ofoperational excellence, services and solutions to meet those needs ourongoing focus on delivering inspiring alongside managed communications.
and create aunique brand experience.
customer experiences: and asweseek to achieve a I thought leadership.
market-leading position in our selectedmarkets and deliver In order to achieve that, we are evolving the We launched the Building our Future I continue developing the skills and capabilities I employee engagement in the Groups increasing shareholder value.
waywe work together, harnessing the power initiative to support our business goals of of our people to drive the achievement of our employee benefits programme: ofall 1,900 people so that all our customers delivering and recognising excellence.
strategic objectives inline with our growth I environmental impact canbenefit from our collective experience ambition: and CO e emissions : 2 andskills.
Throughout the year we brought people I community volunteering hours: and I reward and recognise employees together to create Group-wide teams I employee satisfaction.
whodemonstrate excellence in People We continue to reward andrecognise our responsible for network-related activities theirperformance.
people when theygo the extra mile to deliver andproject management.
Achieving our vision is dependent upon the excellence, not just by what they achieve, skills and capabilities of our people.
Creating butalso how they achieve it, through their a value-driven, high performance culture is behaviour and attitude.
about providing an environment where we attract, develop, sustain and enable all of our people to demonstrate and apply their capabilities, providing opportunities for See also everyone to reach their full potential.
16 Key performance indicators We have strong relationships inplace with We have created a Group-wide team I invest in partnerships that support I revenue: organisations including BT, Microsoft, IBM, responsible for all network-related activities : I EBITDA: Cisco, Avaya and Amazon Web Services.
and for leveraging our partnership with I profit before tax: I continue to exploit our strategic Withaccess to their skills, experience and BTparticularly.
I net cash inflow from operations: relationshipsto deliver market-leading technologies, overlaid with our managed innovative services:and I net debt: and service capability, we are able to fulfil our Our partnerships support our abilityto Partners I environmental impact long-term vision.
As a result of those achieve a level of innovation and deliver I leverage our hosted and cloud CO eemissions.
2 relationships, leading organisations solutions and experiences that cannot be  and unified We harness the skills and capabilities ofour increasingly are recognising the capabilities of gained elsewhere, as customers experience communication services offerings.
partners tosupport the focus ofourbrands.
the Group andits exceptional service delivery.
improved ways toconnect, collaborate and interact, using the power oftechnology.
To achieve our long-term aims, we are We are upgrading some of our core I implement efficient scalable back-office I cost base: focused onensuring we have processes ITsystems to introduce new ways processes and systems in our I EBITDA: andsystems that are both efficient and ofworking within our finance function.
financefunction: I profit before tax: and scalable, to enable usboth to grow our Thisactivity is expected to complete I extend and improve our customer I employee satisfaction.
business and continue todrive inDecember 2014.
At the same time, : and .
development in our customer facing portals Processes and systems willcreate more self-service capability.
Our pursuit of customer service excellenceis underpinned by ourprocessesand systems.
KCOM Group PLC 14 Annual report and accounts 2013 14 Strategic report Strategic pillar Description Progress Priorities Key performance indicators Our focus on exceptional service delivery has In each of our markets, we have focused I build reputation for delivery, design and I revenue and gross margin: resulted in increasing customer advocacy, new ondeploying additional service offerings, management of value-added services through: I EBITDA: contracts with large enterprise customers and including significantly faster broadband I net cash inflow from operations: I delivering growth in the provision of managed further business fromexisting customers.
speeds in Hull and East Yorkshire, by I net debt: services toUK-based : developing fibre, and anew suite of hosted I uplift in ARPU: We target and align our capabilities managed communication services.
I continuing the deployment and take-up Customers I market share: and totherequirements of our customers offibre-based broadband services to I customer service awards.
Increasingly, our enterprise customers customers in Hull and EastYorkshire: We understand and anticipate the needs want to benefit from our specialist ofourcustomers and align our products, I continuing to grow market share through integration and consultancy services services and solutions to meet those needs ourongoing focus on delivering inspiring alongside managed communications.
customer experiences: and I thought leadership.
In order to achieve that, we are evolving the We launched the Building our Future I continue developing the skills and capabilities I employee engagement in the Groups waywe work together, harnessing the power initiative to support our business goals of of our people to drive the achievement of our employee benefits programme: ofall 1,900 people so that all our customers delivering and recognising excellence.
about providing an environment where we attract, develop, sustain and enable all of our people to demonstrate and apply their capabilities, providing opportunities for everyone to reach their full potential.
We have strong relationships inplace with We have created a Group-wide team I invest in partnerships that support I revenue: organisations including BT, Microsoft, IBM, responsible for all network-related activities : I EBITDA: Cisco, Avaya and Amazon Web Services.
KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2013 14 15
