s e c i v n r i a e t S n i a M n o i t c u r t s n o C d l i Our business model We have a resilient business model which delivers sustainable value for all of our stakeholders by providing an integrated offering to invest in, build, maintain and renew over the life of an asset.
R Rene enew w Excel Safe Optimise Sustainable Deliver On 1 July 2014, a fourth division, Kier Residential, was created which brings all of Kiers house building activities together.
Key performance indicators Resources and relationships We monitor our performance against a range of financial and As we provide a greater breadth of services to more customers non-financial key performance indicators KPIs that measure across a wider geography, we maintain our emphasis on our progress in delivering our strategy and which we believe are responsibility to deliver social, environmental and economic value.
important to our longer-term success.
See page 26 for more information See page 28 for more information In the financial statements and in the segmental note note 2 page 104, three operating divisions have been disclosed to 30 June 2014.
For the year ending 30 June 2015, there will be four operating divisions disclosed in the segmental note.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 14 u B l a i t n e d i s e R t s e v n I y t r e p o r P Strategic report Governance Financial statements How we create value Sector leadership We retained and improved our leading position in construction markets, extending our reach Aim to be a top three player in education through the Priority Schools Building Programme framework and in health through in key markets the ProCure 21 framework.
We improved our coverage of the defence sector where we are Further develop long-term now working for the Ministry of Defence on a three-year 400m national framework capital relationships works contract and the 121m first phase of the Defence Technical Training Change Programme Sustainable approach at RAF Lyneham.
We also expanded our services offering through the May Gurney acquisition, strengthening our position as a top three player with local authorities, as well as increasing our share in the highways market with the mobilisation of our contract with Suffolk County Council, enhancing our profile in utilities markets with awards under the AMP6 programme and maintaining our top three position in housing maintenance with contract awards from Genesis Housing Association and Sheffield City Council.
Capability and breadth We offer a broad set of capabilities and have a strong regional presence across the Leverage our integrated offering UK and in three international territories.
We offer an end-to-end range of property and Widen our scope of services  services designed to maximise customer value when investing Innovation and engineering solutions in property development and regeneration, by building private and affordable homes, through constructing major buildings and infrastructure, to facilities management and environmental services.
Value added centre The enlarged organisation is supported by a corporate centre that provides strategic direction Disciplined capital allocation and implementation.
It comprises value added services in the key functions of finance, IT, Continued focus on cash management procurement, fleet and HR to support divisional operations, safety, customer engagement Streamlined central function and business development.
Over the next two years the Group will be investing around 30m in back-office systems whilst continuing to invest in front-of-house IT capabilities to improve the performance and efficiency of the Group.
Performance Whilst it is not possible to eliminate all risks, the Group has well-established risk management Focused risk management and internal control systems which are reviewed regularly.
Our business is resilient, Operational excellence demonstrated by the performance through the downcycle, our winning of new business, Financial delivery operating performance and balance sheet strength.
As we increase in size, we are refining our operating model and, at the same time, continue to streamline the Group.
Key risks to manage A culture of good governance We are aware of the risks within our businesses and have The 2014 financial year was another successful year for processes in place to manage them.
As risks develop and change the business.
The Group is continuing to adapt to significant over time, management regularly reassess them to minimise their recent change, having recently integrated May Gurney and also impact on our stakeholders.
undertaken a significant business efficiency programme.
See page 32 for more information See page 52 for more information Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15
