Divisional review: Construction Kier is one of the UKs leading regional builders, with growing infrastructure and international businesses.
Revenue was up 22% to 1.6bn 2013: 1.3bn reflecting Revenue significant market and contract growth over the period, particularly within the infrastructure and international businesses.
This resulted in an operating profit increase 1,597m 22% of 11% to 33.6m 2013: 30.4m.
The cash position at 30 June 2014 of 274m held up well given the continued challenging working capital conditions.
1 Operating profit The order book of secured and probable work, at 2.5bn, represents more than 90% of the forecast revenue for the 33.6m 11% 2015 financial year, on increasing volumes.
2013: 30.4m The increase in market activity has resulted in some price inflation with rising labour costs and commodity prices.
1 However, Kiers use of frameworks, greater use of two Operating margin stage bidding and established supply chain management helped to mitigate this impact.
Kier has a large presence 2.1% in the health, education, defence, commercial and 2013: 2.3% residential sectors with an evenly balanced contribution from both public and private sectors.
UK regional building and major projects Order book The improvement in the construction market in the south, and increasingly in the north and regions, has seen growth 2.5bn 12% particularly in the commercial and residential sector with 2013: 2.3bn revenues in excess of 900m.
The increased building of high-rise flats and regeneration projects, particularly in London, has generated significant Employees opportunities for Kiers major projects business such as the Argent development at Kings Cross where work on 3,720 the 74m T1 mixed-use and residential development commenced this year.
The 50m Knight Dragon high-rise 2013: 3,911 residential project on the Greenwich Peninsula, where Kier has been appointed as preferred bidder, illustrates the increasing demand in the high-rise sector.
Regeneration schemes are also flourishing outside of London, including the 600m Cardiff Pointe mixed-use scheme, where Kier is building the first phase of ninety-eight luxury townhouses and apartments including an ice rink.
1 Underlying operating profits and margins are stated before exceptional items and amortisation of intangible assets relating to contract rights.
Reported Construction operating profit was 25.4m 2013: 21.4m.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 38 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Cheltenham In March The Jockey Club announced the appointment of Kier as the main contractor to deliver its 45m state-of-the-art new grandstand development at its flagship Cheltenham Racecourse in time for The Festival 2016.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 39 Divisional review: Construction continued Christophe Harbour, With a spread of regional operations and an established through an effective performance managed framework will St Kitts supply chain, Kier is well placed for local and regional result in greater activity via the framework over the next In October 2013 framework opportunities, operating on over forty headline twelve months.
During the year a record level of opportunities a leading hospitality In the defence sector, the three-year 400m National and awards were secured from this source.
Regional and developer, appointed Ministry of Defence MoD framework for capital works up Kier Construction local frameworks, like the south-east and south-west to 50m is now providing a visible pipeline of opportunities.
for Phase 1 of the Wales contractors frameworks which are soon to be 50m Park Hyatt This complements the significant progress the Group awarded, are particularly key to local economies, St Kitts project.
The made in the year of developing its presence in the defence supporting local training schemes and highlight project, planned for sector following the award of the 121m first phase of the completion in 2015, Kiers regional penetration.
Defence Technical Training change programme at RAF will produce a world-class resort Kier continues to be very active in the health sector with work Lyneham, secured in December 2013. hotel at Christophe continuing on the 120m Broadmoor redevelopment and the Harbour, a 2,500-acre Post year-end a contract was awarded to build a 43m West London Mental Health Trust.
Kier was selected resort community new 270,000sqft HQ for Total E&P UK in Aberdeen, as preferred bidder on fifteen of the twenty-three schemes being developed on construction commencing spring 2015. the Caribbean island announced under the National ProCure 21 framework in the of St Kitts.
period, in total worth more than 500m.
As a leading Infrastructure provider on the ProCure 21 framework, awards included the With revenues c400m in the year and future UK 130m University of North Staffordshire NHS Development Government investment in power, roads, rail and water and Capital Programme and a new 22m Emergency Centre anticipated, this business performed strongly.
for the Royal Wolverhampton NHS Trust which is already Kier is the UKs largest builder of gas-fired power stations under construction.
and has many opportunities across the power sector The Education Funding Agency EFA procures around including work on Phase 2 at the Hinkley Point C nuclear 2bn of education facilities through its national and power station.
Work in this sector is also continuing with other complementary frameworks.
Kier has recently been Urenco and Sellafield and there are future opportunities awarded a place on all six of the EFA regional frameworks over the medium to long term.
In the energy sector, work with a combined opportunity value up to 5bn over the is progressing well on our energy from waste projects in next four years.
Kier has secured up to 290m of EFA both Plymouth and Wakefield which are scheduled to funded schemes through either the EFA Contractors complete in the next financial year.
Frameworks or the LHC Frameworks.
Notable awards in With economic growth a priority and roads and highways the period include three Priority Schools Building playing a vital role in achieving this goal, growth in the Programme schemes in the north east, east and highways and bridges sectors continued, culminating in Nottingham worth a combined 154m.
the financial close of the 450m Mersey Gateway six The number of local authorities utilising the Scape lane toll bridge and the successful completion of the National Minor Works Framework continues to increase Berryfields link road.
and has resulted in 120m of awards to Kier in the period.
It is anticipated that the benefits of procuring minor works Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 40 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Our penetration of the rail and water sectors has benefited Construction revenue by sector from the integration of May Gurney, which provides a larger, more sustainable workload for the infrastructure business and broader client exposure.
Kier has won Education places on a number of rail frameworks including the Living residential Network Rail Western and Wales regional framework, Health level crossing and type C signalling frameworks.
Work on Transportation Crossrail progresses well with completion of some of the Commercial and works at both Liverpool Street and the western running mixed use tunnels expected in the next twelve months.
In the water Power, industrial, sector, work began on the 180m Deephams sewerage utilities and waste treatment works upgrade, in joint venture with Aecom and incl nuclear Murphy, with additional water projects in excess of 100m International to deliver under the United Utility AMP6 framework in joint Defence venture with Murphy and Interserve.
Other International The international business doubled revenue, despite operational challenges and time delays in the Mass Transit Rail Corporation timetable that affected the Hong Kong joint venture infrastructure contracts.
Growth was underpinned by major project successes in the Caribbean and the Middle East, including the 43m Park Hyatt Hotel in St. Kitts, two infrastructure projects, the Dubai Parks project worth 47m and the Dubai University, a prestigious building contract of approximately 26m, together with the ongoing major rail contracts in Hong Kong.
Post year end two contracts totaling c120m were awarded in Abu Dhabi: the 105m joint venture contract award for a prestigious hotel and spa in Abu Dhabi and the 87m joint venture with Mercury to build a new data centre for a UAE bank.
Plymouth Work is well underway Construction outlook on the main The Construction divisions performance this year construction works was supported by a more buoyant UK market which is for MVV Umwelts Energy from Waste growing at approximately 5% a year.
This trend provides plant at Weston Mill in opportunities particularly in new market sectors such as Devonport Dockyard, industrials, defence and aviation.
It is anticipated that Plymouth.
This project completion of the European review of the nuclear sector further endorses Kiers position as the expected in October will see further investment in nuclear UKs number one power and provide clarity on other forms of power generation.
contractor for The outlook for national frameworks over the next twelve power-related months is predicted to provide a steady stream of infrastructure.
opportunities particularly in the health, education and defence sectors.
It is anticipated that there will be a rising level of opportunities in the UAE supporting growth in our international operations.
In Dubai, the real estate, tourism, transportation and infrastructure sectors are all yielding good opportunities as the economy recovers strongly and Crossrail as the Emirate prepares for EXPO 2020.
In Abu Dhabi, Kiers involvement in there is also a growing pipeline of good prospects across Europes largest transportation, tourism, healthcare, education, industrials, engineering project, Crossrail, has enabled water and defence, as well as a steady stream of the Group to penetrate opportunities in the oil and gas sector.
other parts of the rail market.
Through In the Caribbean there remains a steady stream of its joint venture with opportunities in the private sector, particularly in the BAM, Kier is currently tourism sector, resulting in major hotel projects in both involved in four packages of Haiti and St Kitts.
The order book of secured and probable work at 2.5bn, includes more than 90% of the forecast revenue for the 2015 financial year, on increasing volumes.
With increased infrastructure and international businesses, it is anticipated that the Construction division margin will increase to 2.5% over the next 5 to 6 years.
Source: CPA Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 41
