Divisional review: Services With a broad range of capability and a wide geographic spread, the division is well placed to win new outsourcing opportunities arising in the marketplace.
Revenue was up 153% to 1.1bn 2013: 437m benefiting Revenue from the increased breadth of capability and strengthening of client-partnerships following the May Gurney integration 1 which has been substantially completed.
An increase in 2013: 437m 1 operating margin to 4.8% reflects the increased range of services available to clients and the ability to bid for a greater number and larger scale contracts.
As anticipated, 1 Operating profit 5m of cost savings was delivered with a further 20m by 2016.
The fair value of the loss-making contracts of May 53.3m 176% Gurney was assessed in the year and a provision of 73m has been taken, a slight increase since December 2013 2013: 19.3m reflecting completion of further contract and balance sheet reviews.
1 Operating margin The order book at 30 June 2014 of 3.7bn 2013: 2.0bn provides a good visibility of work, having secured over 1.1bn of new contracts during the year including the 4.8% 1.7bn May Gurney order book.
This includes more than 2013: 4.4% 90% of targeted revenue for 2015.
The order book does not include contract extensions, which, if included, would add a further 2.1bn to the order book.
Order book The cash position of 13m at 30 June 2014 reflects the 37m overdraft acquired with May Gurney and continued 3.7bn 85% investment in future growth.
2013: 2.0bn The May Gurney acquisition has significantly strengthened Kiers penetration of the utilities and highways maintenance marketplaces, as well as giving the division an increased Employees presence in environmental services.
Kiers overall market share is below 1.5% in an addressable services market 10,813 worth in excess of 80bn.
Therefore, there is significant 2013: 5,595 room for further penetration.
Greater co-operation between our Construction and Services divisions has resulted in larger contract awards in the year, for example, Anglian Water, where the client has procured both maintenance services and capex construction capabilities from the Group.
Over 70% of Services revenue comes from the public sector where budgets are increasingly constrained.
With austerity still on the agenda, public sector bodies are continuing to outsource, albeit smaller value individual contracts, reflecting reduced budgets.
Bundled service contracts, such as that with Torbay Council, provide clients with a 1 Underlying operating profits and margins are stated before exceptional items and amortisation of intangible assets relating to contract rights.
Reported Services operating profit was 32.6m 2013: 9.3m.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 42 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Anglian Water Since the May Gurney acquisition, new works with Anglian Water have increased with Kier now on three of the four Anglian frameworks.
Kier continues to work with the client to help them reduce their overall cost base.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 43 Divisional review: Services continued Genesis breadth of offerings and enable to provide cross-sector Housing maintenance Kier secured a packages including bespoke packages of support covering With Kiers established track record in housing maintenance, four-year 140m investment, building and maintenance.
In addition, many of new awards in the year were over 430m and included the repairs and our skills, such as housing maintenance, are transferable to 110m three-year Sheffield housing maintenance contract maintenance contract private sector clients and further inroads are being made on with Genesis Housing with additional contracts from Aberdeenshire Council, Association, one of the increasing our presence in this market, as evidenced by the Riverside Housing Association in Merseyside and through G15 who represent award of the Genesis and Metropolitan housing the North East Procure Framework.
largest housing Kier was selected by Grainger plc, the UKs largest listed associations.
Kier residential property owner and manager, to be the sole Utilities provides responsive provider of tenant repairs and maintenance services repair services to over Kiers penetration of the utilities sector continues to expand 10,000 Genesis across its UK portfolio.
The contract, which commenced into water, energy and telecoms.
Contract awards, including properties, as well as on 1 September 2013, is for a ten-year period and has an awards under the AMP6 bidding cycle, have been high in undertaking planned annual value of 5m.
In addition, an initial 110m contract the year totalling 374m, demonstrating the greater maintenance work with Metropolitan Housing commenced, with further across the whole capability of the Group.
Most recent AMP6 awards include Genesis portfolio opportunities with this client in the pipeline.
A four-year three five-year Anglian Water contracts with a total value of of 33,000 homes.
140m repairs and maintenance contract commences 250m and a contract worth up to 24m with Bournemouth this October with Genesis Housing Association, one of the Water.
In addition, a 20m pa network maintenance G15 housing associations, providing support to over 33,000 services programme has been secured with Bristol Water.
Kier was also named preferred bidder for Four In August this year the 25m pa Canal & River Trust Housing Group on a 7m pa three-year contract for a planned National Engineering & Construction Contract NECC for programme of works to homes in Northumberland.
Further England and Wales was secured and Kier was named opportunities exist with other G15 housing associations.
preferred bidder on Severn Trents two-year 7m pa contract for provision of asset maintenance solutions Highways maintenance with a possible five-year extension.
The highways business is continuing to benefit from Through the Team Van Oord joint venture, 21m worth of increased Government spending in infrastructure.
The projects have been awarded by the Environment Agency National Infrastructure Plan includes 24bn for highways for flood defence and flood remediation work.
In addition the Autumn Statement confirmed that Central Government In the power distribution sector, this years awards have would invest an additional 1bn over a five-year included a new 107m five-year utilities contracts, with programme on highways maintenance.
Western Power Distribution, giving Kier a foothold in this market and extending Kiers operational reach across Operating across approximately one fifth of the UK Somerset and Bristol.
landmass, our long-term, typically ten-year contracts require consistent high quality service and working in partnership Further opportunities exist in the AMP6 cycle as well as with local authorities.
As a strategic partner, Kier can assist new opportunities in the power transmission and fixed local authorities to refine their spending plans and telecoms markets.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 44 Strategic report Governance Financial statements discussions are underway with a number of councils Services revenue by sector including Northamptonshire County Council, Surrey County Council and Suffolk County Council, where the new 200m Utilities contract was mobilised this year.
Kiers greater capability in Housing this sector following the May Gurney acquisition has led to maintenance further opportunities with the Highways Agency.
Highways maintenance Facilities management Facilities management The FM business is being reshaped and will be expanded Environmental both organically and by acquisition.
The FM business Fleet & passenger delivered a record number of awards including Epsom and services Ewell Borough Council, DTZ, London Fire PFI, Stoke and Staffordshire Fire PFI, QinetiQ, Sheffield City Council and the Welsh Government, reflecting client recognition of the importance of rigorous maintenance programmes and well-managed life-cycle costs.
After the year end, new contracts were awarded by Solent NHS, Kent County Council and the London Borough of Camden for FM services, the latters offices being built by Kier at Kings Cross.
These wins add scale and wider geography to the FM business.
Other The acquired May Gurney environmental services businesses remain challenging.
As previously reported, the environmental business and fleet & passenger services businesses remain under review.
Services outlook With increased attention on regulated sectors such as telecoms and water and the increasing pressure on local authority budgets, it is anticipated the number of opportunities available to the Services division will FM increase considerably.
In the housing maintenance Kier combines the business, the sharing of our skillsets to other G15 latest technology, logistics expertise and authorities and selling to the private sector will continue.
innovative service As well as extending our highways capability to existing design to provide a and new clients, we continue to look at opportunities complete range of arising from the district councils and the Highways Agency.
environmental services tailored to With a less than 0.5% market share in the sector, our meet the individual FM business is focused on the strength of its technical needs of local services and growing its presence with private clients.
Our Kiers range of capabilities and geographic reach position customer-focused front-line delivery it well for further outsourcing opportunities in the future teams serve more and it is anticipated that the Services division margin will than 3.2 million grow to above 5%.
households across the UK, working in long-term partnership with more than 20 public and private sector clients.
FM With a foothold in the 44bn FM market, the business is Greater interaction reshaping to extend its geographic reach between our Construction for growth both organically and by and Services divisions acquisition.
has resulted in additional or larger scale contracts in the year.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 45
