Creating new platforms for growth Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 18 Strategic report Governance Financial statements n i a t n i a M d l i Renew An end-to-end partnership approach to project management Invest: clients use Kiers development expertise to support every stage of a scheme, from gaining finance and planning permission through to delivering end-to-end project management.
The Health Campus Partnership LLP has selected our specialist project investment business as its development and management partner for a 240m mixed use scheme that is bringing new life to a derelict 65-acre former hospital site in west Watford.
The 375,000sqft mixed use development is poised to have a tremendous positive impact on Watford and South Hertfordshire, drawing on our expertise as one of the UKs leading healthcare developers to deliver much needed new hospital facilities, up to 650 homes and business space to house up to 1,600 new jobs.
Audit House, Embankment, London When our Property and Construction arms work together, they achieve efficiencies for the customer from shared overheads and technical solutions.
Audit House is an example of one such project.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 19 u B t s e v n I Creating new platforms for growth Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 20 Strategic report Governance Financial statements n i a t n i a M d l i Renew Delivering our technical expertise over the long term Build: construction is at the heart of Kier, based around outstanding technical skills that enable us to meet the most demanding quality and efficiency standards.
We have now been working for several years on the multiphased, 67-acre redevelopment of Londons Kings Cross area for Kings Cross Central Limited Partnership.
One of our most significant projects there to date has been to build the Arthouse, an eight-storey development of 143 one, two, three and fourbedroom properties including 29 affordable homes.
Now, in the next phase of our work, we are redeveloping the Grade II-listed, 68,000sqft Midland Goods Shed to be occupied by Waitrose as a 29,000sqft food and wine store, a cookery school and 25,000sqft of office space.
Working on such a sensitive building takes a very high degree of technical expertise.
Built by the Great Northern Railway in 1850, the Shed needs to retain its integrity as a historic building of national importance while providing a very high level of performance.
Frameworks Kier Group chief operating officer, Steve Bowcott far right, is pictured at a ceremony held to celebrate the start of work on the new 121m Defence College of Technical Training at the former RAF Lyneham base in Wiltshire.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 21 u B t s e v n I Creating new platforms for growth Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 22 Strategic report Governance Financial statements n i a t n i a M d l i Renew Realising the value of going that extra mile Maintain: we work with clients to manage and develop their assets.
Our focus on working in partnership on defined outputs ensures we deliver the added value they seek.
In Surrey, our highways maintenance contract has grown since 2011 to include a five-year 100m asset investment programme, Project Horizon, focused on finding and fixing the root cause of highway problems and reducing overall maintenance costs.
The long-term nature of the programme provides assurance to our suppliers, generates local employment and significantly reduces overall costs.
It is estimated the 100m investment will deliver 120m of improvements.
We can control both the cost and the quality of the surfacedressing materials used by our highway teams.
Through our in-house production, we lay over 9 million square metres annually with a success rate of over 99.9%.
Torbay Council As Kier delivers its Vision 2020 growth strategy, an important element of its approach will be to increase the breadth of its services.
A glimpse of that future can already be seen in Torbay, where Kier provides a portfolio of services for the local community ranging from highways and environmental services to cleaning beaches, street lighting, maintaining parks and grounds.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 23 u B t s e v n I Creating new platforms for growth Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 24 Strategic report Governance Financial statements n i a t n i a M d l i Renew Transforming an inner-city derelict site into a vibrant new community Renew: returning life to tired communities involves creating a complete social infrastructure, including new economic opportunities, affordable housing and accessible public spaces.
Kiers development partnership with Derby City Council and the Homes and Communities Agency HCA is entirely transforming the 73-acre Manor and Kingsway site.
What was a derelict brownfield site is fast becoming a vibrant and sought-after new neighbourhood that has already won many design and renovation awards.
Started in 2012 on a former hospital site some 2.5 miles south-west of Derby city centre, the development is a priority project for the city due to its potential as a provider of new homes, jobs, businesses and economic growth.
When complete, Manor Kingsway will comprise around 700 new homes, including a high proportion of affordable properties for purchase, rent or shared ownership and a business park supporting around 450 new local jobs.
It is making use of the existing features of the landscape, to bring a large area of open space back into use for leisure and an ecology area.
Woking PFI Another example of where derelict land is being regenerated for the local authority to create an entire new community is Moor Lane, Woking, where 373 new homes will include 224 affordable rental properties managed by Thames Valley Housing.
The sale of the remaining 149 homes will cross-subsidise the project and illustrates our work with the public and third sectors to address the UKs national housing shortage.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 25 u B t s e v n I
