Divisional review: Property and Residential The development business focuses predominantly on non speculative opportunities.
From 1 July 2014 Kiers house building activities were brought into one division, Kier Residential.
Revenue was 284m 2013: 238m generating an 1 Revenue operating profit of 21.0m 2013: 20.5m.
This impressive result was achieved by the development business on the basis of average capital investment of 284m 19% 70m.
Opportunities in retail, commercial, industrial and 2013: 238m mixed-use schemes generated a return on capital of 15%.
A profit of 6m was generated from the disposal of two of our PFI investments and the activities of our private and 1 Operating profit affordable housing businesses.
Property development 21.0m 2% The development business concentrates predominantly 2013: 20.5m on non speculative opportunities where elements of the schemes are forward sold or pre-let, thereby reducing the associated risk and demands on the Groups capital Employees and cash.
In January, Costco exercised its pre-emption right and 411 forward funded their 41m membership warehouse 2013: 350 at our site at Western International Market, Hayes.
Kier Construction was appointed as contractor and the building achieved practical completion at the end of June.
At Bracknell a 39,000sqft light industrial scheme was forward funded, 83% pre-let to Travis Perkins with construction completed in November and the scheme fully let by June.
At Feltham a 41,000sqft distribution depot was forward funded, fully pre-let to Geopost and achieved practical completion in June.
The Trade City brand for industrial development performed well with funded schemes at Hayes 60,000sqft and Uxbridge 120,000sqft reaching practical completion in the second half with strong interest from potential occupiers.
Investors continue to show interest in the Trade City brand with recent deals signed with DTZIM and Investec, the latter releasing up to 50m of funding for future Trade City developments.
With an improvement in the London and south east economy, the office development market has been active.
Examples of such opportunities include a 60,000sqft office development in Hammersmith, London which was acquired for 11m and in which Investec has become our joint venture partner.
The property has planning permission for offices over seven floors and will be 1 Underlying operating profits and margins are stated before exceptional items and amortisation of intangible assets relating to contract rights.
Reported Property operating profit was 18.5m 2013: 20.5m.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 34 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Costco Costco forward funded their 41m membership warehouse at Kier Propertys site at Western International Market, Hayes.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 35 Divisional review: Property and Residential continued Harlow redeveloped, with construction set to commence in early PFI and structured finance Kier has a long- 2015.
In addition demolition work is underway at Audit The strategy to sell mature PFI investments continued standing relationship House, 58 Victoria Embankment, London in which Kier with the disposal of Kiers equity stakes in the North with Harlow Council holds a 16% equity stake and is the development Kent Police project and Kent Schools project for a total providing building repair and maintenance and manager, with Kier Construction appointed as building consideration of 16m, representing a valuation discount environmental contractor.
In Northampton, a five year option agreement rate on future cash flows of approximately 7%.
When the on the Waterside site with Northampton Borough Council portfolio of PFI investments was also replenished.
Council wanted to for office use was also signed.
These opportunities reflect Financial close was reached on both the London Fire regenerate spare land, Kier was appointed by the buoyancy of the office market.
Service and Staffordshire Fire Service PFI schemes, which the Council to construct between them will provide twenty new fire stations at a In the retail and mixed-use sector, construction nine detached luxury combined value of 73m, and also the Woking PFI housing private houses.
commenced on the 25m retail and leisure development scheme in consortium with Thames Valley Housing.
at Catterick in joint venture with Lingfield.
The cinema and food and beverage outlets are pre-let and the retail units In the education sector Kier was named preferred bidder more than 80% pre-let with the remainder of the space for the North and East Ayrshire Schools DBFM schemes under offer.
as part of its investment in the South West Hub scheme in Scotland.
With the market for student accommodation In the hotel sector, a 108 room Travelodge and retail increasing, an 81m contract to build and maintain 1,376 units at Hemel Hempstead were sold for a total cash rooms of student accommodation at Salford University consideration of 8m and in August, construction was closed and we have purchased one building and started on a 222 bed hotel for Motel 1 in Newcastle.
completed another for delivery of 264 student rooms in Glasgow.
Solum Regeneration, our joint venture with Network Rail, has in excess of 500m of mixed used schemes in its The current portfolio of PFI projects totals eight portfolio and a number of significant regeneration schemes, two at preferred bidder stage and the remainder schemes are underway including Christchurch, Guildford, in construction or operational.
The committed equity Haywards Heath, Redhill, Twickenham and Walthamstow.
investment stands at 19m 2013: 22m of which 11m Last September the 240m Watford Health Campus 2013: 15m has been invested to date.
The directors project reached its first critical milestone with the award valuation at a discount rate of 7.5% is 34m 2013: 35m.
of planning for the main link road through the site.
Renewable energy firm Biogen, a 50 50 joint venture Construction of the road using third party funding is between Kier and Bedfordia, secured 10m of further expected to start later this year and will enable the phased funding from the Royal Bank of Scotland RBS, taking the land draw-down and development of the remainder of the total funding to 22m under a fully flexible arrangement to scheme.
The scheme is for the regeneration of land support the continued expansion of the business.
During around the Watford General Hospital and will deliver the year construction was completed on two new Biogen 375,000sqft of mixed-use development to the area, plants in Wales and financial close reached with the including 650 new homes.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 36 % 3 3 s t e l - e r P Strategic report Governance Financial statements % 5.
0 L 1 a n s d e r L u e t d n e R V e t g n e i n o e J r Tomorrows Valley Hub for a plant in Rhondda, South Our property markets Wales.
With two further plants underway in Hertfordshire and Warwickshire, this brings the total number of plants either operating, in construction or planning to seven.
Kier has a 50% investment in Biogen UK Holdings Ltd which develops, constructs and operates these facilities.
Residential The past twelve months have seen a sustained recovery in the UK housing market and significantly increased levels Structured Offices of activity in both our private and housing businesses Finance 15% resulting in a significant increase in revenue.
In the year 20% our partnership homes business completed 461 units with Hotel & 25m invested.
Highlights of the period for the affordable Leisure homes business included the commencement of Manor 16.5% Kingsway, a flagship 90m development in Derby where Trade City 32 new homes were completed and the completion of 19.5% 68 new homes in Balaam Wood, Birmingham.
Resi Retail In our private housing business, Kier Homes, we & Land 17% completed 601 units from a sales rate of 0.7 units per Sales active site per week.
The homes business completed the 12% purchase of 290 plots across four sites and exchanged conditional contracts on a further 300 plots which when combined with unit and land sales resulted in the land a bank reducing to 3,672 plots June 2013: 4,005.
The Government Help to Buy scheme contributed 42% of private sales.
Sixteen new developments commenced on our own land over the past twelve months at Aylesbury, Gamlingay, Harlow, Little Paxton St Neots, Worthing, and Paisley near Glasgow.
Trade City Two Trade City Property and Residential outlook forward funded Development activity is mainly influenced by occupier sites at Hayes requirements which are improving across the UK.
Equally, 60,000sqft this demand is being supported by an increase in lending and Uxbridge 120,000sqft from banks and major institutions in the development reached practical market.
The structured finance business is exploring new completion in the markets including the student accommodation and elderly second half with care markets with further scope for developments with local strong interest from potential occupiers.
The non speculative approach of the property development business will continue, with invested capital increasing towards 200m by 2020 enabling larger opportunities and a ROCE target towards 20%.
From 1 July 2014 Kiers house building activities were brought into one division branded Kier Living, enabling the Group to scale up its residential activities whilst redeploying our land bank into mixed tenure housing.
Kier Living is well placed to respond to the UKs requirement for more new houses.
Walthamstow Solum Regeneration, Demand for Kiers affordable housing market remains the partnership high with a forward order book of more than 400m between Network Rail representing 3,400 plots.
There is a good flow of and Kier Property, is opportunities from our partnerships and frameworks investing a further 20m in a second with the HCA, local authorities and housing associations phase of development which, when linked to the Governments affordable in Walthamstow, housing grant programme, will provide a strong platform London providing a for housing growth and affordable housing delivery taking further boost to the regeneration the combined residential activity of this new division to ambitions of the 4,000 units by 2020. town centre.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 37 t i o n 1 6.
