Directors report Introduction Employees The directors present their annual report and audited financial The companies in the Group are equal opportunities employers.
statements as at, and for the year ended, 30 June 2014.
The Group gives consideration to applications for employment made by disabled persons having regard to their particular aptitudes and The directors report, together with the strategic report and other abilities and encourages and assists, whenever practicable, the sections from the annual report, which are incorporated by recruitment, training, career development and promotion of disabled reference, collectively comprise the management report, for people and the retention of, and appropriate training for, those who the purposes of Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4.1.
become disabled during the course of their employment and who can be employed in a safe working environment.
The Groups approach to Results and dividends employee involvement, equal opportunities, health and safety and the The Groups profit for the year after taxation and exceptional items environment is set out in the resources, relationships and sustainability was 10.7m 2013: 25.6m.
An interim dividend of 22.5p per share report on pages 28 to 31 inclusive and is incorporated by reference 2013: 21.5p, amounting to 12.3m 2013: 8.5m, was paid on into this report.
The directors propose a final dividend of 49.5p per share 2013: 46.5p per share, amounting to 27.1m 2013: 25.0m, The Group provides relevant information on matters of concern payable on 28 November 2014 to shareholders on the register to employees through newsletters, video addresses, the Groups of members on 26 September 2014. intranet, social media and formal and informal meetings with various groups of employees and management.
These aim to create a Future developments common awareness on the part of employees on matters affecting An indication of the likely future developments of the business of the performance of the Group.
The Group also consults with the Company is set out in the strategic report on pages 1 to 51 employees to ascertain their views in relation to decisions which inclusive and is incorporated by reference in this report.
are likely to affect their interests.
An example of this is the employee engagement survey which took place during the year.
Directors The names of the directors of the Company during the reporting The Group operates the Kier Group plc 2006 Sharesave Scheme period are set out on page 58.
Biographical details of the directors the Sharesave Scheme for eligible employees and makes available of the Company are shown on pages 54 and 55.
Details of directors a dealing service to enable employees to buy and sell its shares with a interests in the Companys shares are disclosed in the directors minimum of formality.
The Group also operates an all employee share remuneration report on pages 67 to 85 inclusive.
ownership plan the AESOP for all employees, which includes a share-matching element.
Qualifying third party indemnities The articles of association of the Company the Articles entitle the In addition, as a result of the acquisition of May Gurney, the Group directors of the Company, to the extent permitted by the Companies operates the May Gurney Savings Related Share Option Scheme, Act 2006 and other applicable legislation together, the Companies which is similar to the Sharesave Scheme.
The existing May Gurney Acts, to be indemnified out of the assets of the Company in the event shares in this scheme were exchanged by participants for new options that they suffer any expenses in connection with certain proceedings over shares in the capital of the Company.
relating to the execution of their duties as directors of the Company.
Greenhouse gas emissions In addition, and in common with many other companies, the Information relating to the greenhouse gas emissions of the Company has insurance for its directors and officers to cover certain Company is set out on page 29 and is incorporated by reference losses or liabilities to which they may be exposed due to their office.
The UK Corporate Governance Code Share capital A statement on the Groups corporate governance is set out on As at 30 June 2014, the issued share capital of the Company pages 56 to 59 inclusive and is incorporated by reference into comprised a single class of ordinary shares of 1p each.
55,264,354 shares in the capital of the Company were in issue.
During the year, 491,764 shares were issued in relation to the scrip Going concern dividend alternative, 210,073 shares were issued in connection The going concern statement is set out on page 51 and is with the Sharesave Scheme and 14,714,445 shares were issued incorporated by reference into this report.
under a scheme of arrangement in relation to the acquisition of May Gurney Integrated Services Public Limited Company.
As at Political donations 17 September 2014, 55,390,767 shares in the capital of the No political donations were made during the year 2013: nil.
Details of the Companys share capital are set out in note 24 to the consolidated financial statements.
Financial instruments Details of the financial risk management objectives and policies Subject to the provisions of the Articles and the Companies Acts, of the Group, together with its exposure to material financial risks, shares may be issued with such rights or restrictions as the are set out in note 27 to the consolidated financial statements.
Company may by ordinary resolution determine or, if the Company has not so determined, as the directors may decide.
Research and development The Group undertakes research and development activity in creating innovative construction techniques and designs for its projects.
The direct expenditure incurred is not separately identifiable, as the investment is usually made within the relevant project.
Restated figure, as per note 31 to the consolidated financial statements.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 86 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Restrictions on transfer of securities Voting Subject to any terms upon which the relevant shares may have been in the Company issued or are subject and to the Articles, every member present in There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities in the person or by proxy at a general meeting and entitled to vote has, Company, except: upon a show of hands, one vote and, upon a poll, one vote for every That certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by law share held.
In the case of joint holders of a share, the vote of the or regulation for example, insider trading laws : and senior holder who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, will Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders the Listing Rules, whereby certain employees require approval and, for this purpose, seniority will be determined by the order in to deal in the Companys shares.
which the names stand in the register in respect of the joint holding.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of Restrictions on voting rights securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities No member shall, unless the Board otherwise determines, be in the Company.
entitled to vote at any general meeting in respect of any share held by it unless all calls or other sums then payable by it in respect of Substantial voting rights that share have been paid or if that member has been served with As at 17 September 2014, the Company had been notified of the a disenfranchisement notice as defined in the Articles after failure following interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company to provide the Company with information concerning interests in being voting rights over such share capital, pursuant to Rule 5.1 that share required to be provided under the Companies Acts.
of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of Shareholder Interest securities that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
Standard Life Investments Limited 7.9% Appointment and replacement of directors Schroders plc 5.4% The directors shall be not less than three and not more than 12 in Blackrock Inc. 5.0% number.
The Company may by ordinary resolution vary the minimum and or maximum number of directors.
Norges Bank 4.0% Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution 1 Subject to rounding.
A director appointed by the Board holds office only until the next annual general meeting of the Company after his her Securities carrying special rights appointment and is then eligible to stand for election.
No person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
Pursuant to the Articles, at every annual general meeting of the Company, one-third of the directors who are subject to the Rights under employees share schemes requirement to retire by rotation not including any director who was As at 30 June 2014, RBC Trustees Guernsey Limited RBC, as appointed by the Board and is standing for election will retire from trustee of the Kier Group 1999 Employee Benefit Trust the Trust, office and may offer themselves for re-election by the members.
The held 349,484 shares 0.63% of the issued share capital of the directors to retire by rotation will be those who have been longest in Company as at that date on trust for the benefit of the employees office since their last election.
However, at the forthcoming annual of the Group.
The Trust was established for the purposes of general meeting of the Company, notwithstanding the provisions of satisfying awards of shares made to individuals under the the Articles, all the directors will offer themselves for re-election in Groups remuneration and long-term incentive arrangements.
accordance with The UK Corporate Governance Code.
During the year, RBC waived the dividends payable in respect of The Company may by ordinary resolution, of which special notice has these shares, but either received the dividends in respect of shares been given, remove any director before the expiry of the directors to which certain directors and senior managers are beneficially period of office.
The office of a director will be vacated if: entitled as a result of their annual bonus being satisfied in part by The director becomes bankrupt or the subject of an interim an allocation of shares or elected to take up the scrip dividend with receiving order or makes any arrangement or composition with his respect to these shares, as requested by the participants.
RBC, in creditors generally or applies to the court for an interim order in turn, transferred the dividends or allocated additional shares to the connection with a voluntary arrangement under the Insolvency Act relevant directors and senior managers.
1986: As at 30 June 2014, Computershare Investor Services PLC held The director is certified as having become physically or mentally 865,616 shares approximately 1.57% of the issued share capital incapable of acting as a director and may remain so for more than of the Company as at that date on trust for the benefit of staff and three months: former staff who are members of the AESOP.
The director ceases to be a director by virtue of the Companies Acts or becomes prohibited by law from being a director: As at 30 June 2014, the trustee of the May Gurney Limited The director receives written notice from not less than threeEmployee Share Ownership Trust and the trustee of the May Gurney quarters of the other directors removing the director from office: Integrated Services plc Employee Benefit Trust held, respectively, or 226,115 and 161,193 shares in the capital of the Company In the case of a director who holds executive office, the director together, 387,308 shares representing approximately 0.70% of the ceases to hold such office and the majority of the other directors issued share capital of the Company as at that date on trust for the resolve that the relevant directors office be vacated.
benefit of employees of May Gurney.
Both trusts were established for the purposes of satisfying awards of shares to individuals under May Gurneys remuneration and long-term incentive arrangements.
During the year, the trustees waived the dividends payable in respect of these shares.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 87 Directors report continued Outstanding options granted under the Sharesave Scheme and the Amendment of Articles May Gurney Savings Related Share Option Scheme may be exercised The Articles may be amended by a special resolution of the within a period of six months from a change of control of the Company Companys shareholders.
following a takeover bid or will lapse upon the expiry of such a period.
Powers of the directors Awards granted under the Groups long-term incentive plan which Subject to the Articles, the Companies Acts and any directions given is described in the directors remuneration report may vest on a by the Company by special resolution, the business of the Company change of control of the Company following a takeover bid and the will be managed by the Board, which may exercise all the powers of maximum number of shares in the Company to be awarded upon the Company.
such vesting may become immediately due.
Powers in relation to the Company issuing There are no agreements between the Company and its directors its shares providing for compensation for loss of office that occurs as a result The directors were granted authority at the annual general meeting of a takeover bid.
on 14 November 2013 to allot shares in the Company in accordance with section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 i up to an aggregate Auditor nominal amount of 182,403 and ii up to an aggregate nominal The Board has decided that  LLP will amount of 364,806 in connection with a rights issue.
The directors be proposed as the Groups auditor for the financial year ending were also granted authority to allot shares non-pre-emptively and 30 June 2015 and a resolution relating to this appointment will wholly for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount of 27,360. be tabled at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
In addition, at the same annual general meeting, an ordinary Each director who holds office at the date of approval of this directors resolution was approved which grants the directors the authority to report confirms that, so far as each such director is aware, there is no continue to offer the scrip dividend alternative.
In accordance with relevant audit information of which the auditor is unaware: and the the requirements of investor protection committees, this authority directors have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as is renewed every five years.
directors to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditor is aware of that information.
Powers in relation to the Company buying back its shares Annual general meeting The Company may only buy back shares if the Articles do not prohibit The annual general meeting of the Company will be held it from doing so and it has received the requisite authority from at 12 noon at the Andaz Hotel, 40 Liverpool Street, London, shareholders in general meeting.
Although the Articles do not EC2M 7QN on 13 November 2014. contain any such prohibition, the Company did not request any such authority at its last annual general meeting and does not propose to This report was approved by the Board on 17 September 2014 do so at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
and signed on its behalf by: Change of control Hugh Raven The Company has entered into certain agreements that may take Company Secretary effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company Tempsford Hall following a takeover bid.
The significant agreements in this Sandy respect are: Bedfordshire SG19 2BD The Companys 120m revolving credit facility agreement dated 31 May 2012 entered into with HSBC Bank plc, Lloyds TSB Bank plc, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc and Santander UK plc: The Companys 30m term facility agreement dated 11 January 2013 entered into with Lloyds TSB Bank plc: The Companys 50m term loan facility and 70m revolving credit facility agreement dated 22 April 2013 entered into with HSBC Bank plc, Lloyds TSB Bank plc, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc and Santander UK plc together with the 120m and 30m facility agreements, the Facility Agreements : The Companys 45m and $28m note purchase agreement dated 20 December 2012 the Note Purchase Agreement : and Certain of the Groups employee share schemes.
Each of the Facility Agreements includes a provision under which, in the event of a change of control of the Company, the lenders may cancel all or any part of the relevant facility and or declare that all amounts outstanding under the relevant facility are immediately due and payable by the Company.
The Note Purchase Agreement includes a provision under which, in the event of a change of control of the Company, the Company is obliged to offer to prepay the notes issued pursuant to the agreement.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 88
