Governance Governance Board of directors Board of directors The Board is made up of a non-executive Chairman, four executive directors and six non-executive directors who have overall collective The Board is made up of a non-executive Chairman, four executive responsibility for the direction of the Company.
The role and composition directors and six non-executive directors who have overall collective of the Board is set out on page 36 of the Governance section.
responsibility for the direction of the Company.
The role and composition of the Board is set out on page 36 of the Governance section.
Daniel Bernard Sir Ian Cheshire Karen Witts Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director Daniel Bernard Sir Ian Cheshire Karen Witts Current directorships: Joined the Board as Deputy Current directorships: Appointed to the Board in June Current directorships: Appointed to the Board in Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director Chairman in May 2006 before being appointed 2000 and as Group Chief Executive in January 2008.
She is a non-executive director Chairman on 3 June 2009.
He is President of He is also Senior Independent Director of Whitbread of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC.
Current directorships: Joined the Board as Deputy Current directorships: Appointed to the Board in June Current directorships: Appointed to the Board in Provestis, his own investment company, and since plc, lead non-executive member on the Department Chairman in May 2006 before being appointed 2000 and as Group Chief Executive in January 2008.
She is a non-executive director Expertise and experience: Karen provides additional January 2010, has been Chairman of MAF Retail for Work and Pensions Board, Chair of the Prince of Chairman on 3 June 2009.
recent relevant finance expertise to the Board.
He has also been Senior Advisor of Wales Corporate Leaders Group on Climate Change, Provestis, his own investment company, and since plc, lead non-executive member on the Department previously Chief Financial Officer, Africa, Middle East, Expertise and experience: Karen provides additional TowerBrook Capital Partners since October 2010. and President of the Business Disability Forum.
In January 2010, has been Chairman of MAF Retail for Work and Pensions Board, Chair of the Prince of Asia and Asia Pacific for Vodafone plc.
From 1999 to recent relevant finance expertise to the Board.
She was He is a non-executive director of Alcatel Lucent and October 2012, Ian became the Chairman of the British Group, Dubai.
He has also been Senior Advisor of Wales Corporate Leaders Group on Climate Change, 2010 she worked at BT plc, most recently as Chief previously Chief Financial Officer, Africa, Middle East, Capgemini and Phase Eight Ltd.
He is also President Retail Consortium.
TowerBrook Capital Partners since October 2010. and President of the Business Disability Forum.
In Financial Officer, BT Retail and Managing Director Asia and Asia Pacific for Vodafone plc.
From 1999 to of the HEC Business School Foundation in Paris and He is a non-executive director of Alcatel Lucent and October 2012, Ian became the Chairman of the British Expertise and experience: Ian was previously Enterprises and before that as Managing Director 2010 she worked at BT plc, most recently as Chief a member of the Advisory Board of HEC.
Capgemini and Phase Eight Ltd.
Chief Executive, B&Q UK from June 2005.
She is a chartered accountant Financial Officer, BT Retail and Managing Director of the HEC Business School Foundation in Paris and Expertise and experience: Daniel provides considerable was appointed Chief Executive International and and has experience in finance and management Expertise and experience: Ian was previously Enterprises and before that as Managing Director a member of the Advisory Board of HEC.
retailing experience and expertise to the Kingfisher Development in September 2002, Chief Executive of roles at companies such as Paribas, Diageo, Mars Chief Executive, B&Q UK from June 2005.
She is a chartered accountant Board.
He was Chairman and Chief Executive of e-Kingfisher in May 2000 and was Group Director of Electronics, The Observer Newspaper and Ernst Expertise and experience: Daniel provides considerable was appointed Chief Executive International and and has experience in finance and management Carrefour, the Paris-based retail group and worlds Strategy & Development.
Before joining Kingfisher he & Whinney.
retailing experience and expertise to the Kingfisher Development in September 2002, Chief Executive of roles at companies such as Paribas, Diageo, Mars second largest retailer, from 1992 to 2005.
Prior to worked for a number of retail businesses including Board.
He was Chairman and Chief Executive of e-Kingfisher in May 2000 and was Group Director of Electronics, The Observer Newspaper and Ernst Carrefour, he was Chief Operating Officer of METRO, Sears plc where he was Group Commercial Director.
Carrefour, the Paris-based retail group and worlds Strategy & Development.
He was second largest retailer, from 1992 to 2005.
Prior to worked for a number of retail businesses including previously a non-executive director of Compagnie Carrefour, he was Chief Operating Officer of METRO, Sears plc where he was Group Commercial Director.
fide St Gobain until June 2006.
He was previously a non-executive director of Compagnie fide St Gobain until June 2006.
Andrew Bonfield Pascal Cagni Clare Chapman Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Andrew Bonfield Pascal Cagni Clare Chapman Current directorships: Appointed to the Board in Current directorships: Appointed to the Board in Current directorships: Appointed to the Board in Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director February 2010.
He is Finance Director of National Grid November 2010.
He is an independent director of the December 2010.
She is currently Group People plc.
He is also a committee member of the Hundred supervisory board of Vivendi.
Current directorships: Appointed to the Board in Current directorships: Appointed to the Board in Current directorships: Appointed to the Board in Group of Finance Directors.
She is currently Group People Expertise and experience: Pascal provides the Board Expertise and experience: Clare brings significant plc.
Expertise and experience: Andrew brings significant with expertise in the field of digital and online retailing.
human resources expertise to the Kingfisher Board.
current finance experience to the Kingfisher Board.
He was formerly Vice President and General Manager She was previously the Director General of Workforce, Expertise and experience: Pascal provides the Board Expertise and experience: Clare brings significant He was previously Chief Financial Officer of Cadbury of Apple Europe, Middle-East, India and Africa, and for the NHS and Social Care and was also a nonExpertise and experience: Andrew brings significant with expertise in the field of digital and online retailing.
plc and prior to that he was Chief Financial Officer of was with Apple for ten years in a variety of roles.
His executive director of TUI Travel plc and Chairman current finance experience to the Kingfisher Board.
He was formerly Vice President and General Manager She was previously the Director General of Workforce, Bristol-Myers Squibb from 2002 to 2007, Finance previous experience includes roles at NEC, Compaq of its Remuneration Committee.
Her previous He was previously Chief Financial Officer of Cadbury of Apple Europe, Middle-East, India and Africa, and for the NHS and Social Care and was also a nonDirector of BG Group plc from 2001 to 2002 and and Booz Allen Hamilton.
He has also held the position experience also includes Group HR Director of Tesco plc and prior to that he was Chief Financial Officer of was with Apple for ten years in a variety of roles.
His executive director of TUI Travel plc and Chairman Chief Financial Officer of SmithKline Beecham Plc of non-executive director on the board of Egg Banking plc from 1999 to 2006 and HR Vice President of Pepsi Bristol-Myers Squibb from 2002 to 2007, Finance previous experience includes roles at NEC, Compaq of its Remuneration Committee.
Her previous from 1999 to 2000 during an 11 year period with the plc, the online banking arm of Prudential plc, from Colas West and Central European operations from Director of BG Group plc from 2001 to 2002 and and Booz Allen Hamilton.
He has also held the position experience also includes Group HR Director of Tesco pharmaceuticals group.
2002 to 2006 and on the board of Atari, the computer 1994 to 1999.
Chief Financial Officer of SmithKline Beecham Plc of non-executive director on the board of Egg Banking plc from 1999 to 2006 and HR Vice President of Pepsi games company.
from 1999 to 2000 during an 11 year period with the plc, the online banking arm of Prudential plc, from Colas West and Central European operations from pharmaceuticals group.
2002 to 2006 and on the board of Atari, the computer 1994 to 1999. games company.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 32 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 32 Strategic Report Governance Accounts Kevin OByrne Philippe Tible Audit Committee CEO B&Q UK & Ireland CEO Castorama & Remuneration Committee Brico Dpt brands Current directorships: Appointed to the Board as Nomination Committee Group Finance Director in October 2008, and Current directorships: Appointed to the Board in See pages 35 to 68 for further details.
became CEO, B&Q and Kota s brands in October October 2012.
2012 responsible for the Groups businesses in China, Expertise and experience: Philippe was appointed Turkey, the UK and investment in Germany.
He CEO Castorama & Brico Dpt brands after nine years assumed direct leadership of B&Q UK & Ireland in with the Group.
He previously spent four years as Chief October 2013, and is Deputy Chairman of Kingfishers Executive of Kingfisher France.
Prior to this he spent joint venture in Turkey, Kota s. He was also a five years as CEO of Castorama France.
He holds director of Hornbach Holdings AG.
He is the Senior responsibility for the Castorama and Brico Dpt Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit businesses in France, Poland, Romania, Russia and Committee of Land Securities Group plc.
He previously held senior roles at DIY retailer Expertise and experience: Previously he was Group Leroy Merlin and furniture retailer Conforama.
Finance Director, a role he held from 2008 to 2012.
He previously worked for Dixons Retail plc from 2002 to 2008 where he was Group Finance Director.
Before this he was European Finance Director at Quaker Oats Limited.
Anders Dahlvig Janis Kong Mark Seligman Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director Current directorships: Appointed to the Board in Current directorships: Appointed to the Board in Current directorships: Appointed to the Board in December 2009.
He is a director of Oriflame December 2006.
She is a non-executive director January 2012.
He is a non-executive director of BG Cosmetics AB, H&M Hennes & Mauritz AB and of Portmeirion Group PLC, NetworkRail and TUI Group plc, where he is also Chairman of the Audit Axel Johnson AB: and is Chairman of The New Wave Travel plc.
She is also a non-executive director of Committee.
He serves as an alternate member of the Group and a member of the Advisory Board of Lund Copenhagen Airports A S. Panel on Takeovers and Mergers, is a member of the University Business School.
He is also a director of Regional Growth Fund advisory panel and nonExpertise and experience: Janis provides important Resurs Bank AB and Pret a Manger Limited.
executive deputy Chairman of G4S, where he is also experience to the Kingfisher Board.
She was previously Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Expertise and experience: Anders brings extensive a non-executive director of The Royal Bank of Scotland commercial retailing expertise to the Board.
He was Group Plc and, until her retirement in March 2006, Expertise and experience: Mark provides substantial previously Chief Executive and President of The IKEA was a director of BAA plc and Chairman of Heathrow expertise to the Kingfisher Board in the field of finance.
Group from 1999 to 2009, having spent 26 years with Airport Ltd for five years as well as being Chairman of He was a senior adviser at Credit Suisse.
Prior to becoming Chief Executive, he Heathrow Express.
Prior to that she was Managing career at Price Waterhouse and spent over 30 years in was Vice President of IKEA Europe from 1997 to 1999 Director of Gatwick Airport and has held a number of the City, including senior roles at SG Warburg, BZW and Managing Director of IKEA UK from 1993 to 1997. operational roles within BAA during her 33-year career and Credit Suisse First Boston.
At Credit Suisse he was with the company.
Deputy Chairman Europe from 1999 to 2005 and later Chairman UK Investment Banking from 2003 to 2005. www.
