G e n e r a t e s Strategic Report Our business model Our unique contribution as a business is to harness our home improvement experience, our heritage as a leader in sustainability and our scale and sourcing capability to bring new, more sustainable and more affordable products to market.
This means our customers can have better homes, the planets resources can be protected and we generate value for our people, communities and shareholders.
As well as having local stores with What we do Maximising sales extended opening hours we increasingly Kingfisher is a retailer of home We believe home improvement is offer home delivery and click & collect improvement products and services.
an attractive retail sector as spending via the internet.
This type of retailing on the home is a key priority The vast majority of our sales take place is called omnichannel and our most for householders.
through our 1,124 stores in nine countries advanced business in this area is across Europe and in China.
Increasingly As a specialist in this area we aim to Screwfix in the UK.
we are also selling via the internet.
provide a wide product choice and expert advice while using our international Minimising costs How we do it our Net strength and capability to bring new, more The biggest cost in our business Positive ambitions sustainable and more affordable products is buying the products that we sell In the broadest sense our business to market.
There are four key areas we to our customers.
creates value for society in a number focus on in order to maximise sales: Our suppliers benefit from the huge of ways.
We help people to have better scale that we can offer them as one of Customers homes for themselves and their families the largest buyers of home improvement We aim to have mass appeal with a and we have a long heritage of helping products in the world.
The certainty of compelling choice of products and them do this in a more sustainable large scale orders means they can operate services so that we can capture a large way.
We operate in the heart of local their businesses more efficiently and share of the home improvement market.
communities, supporting local projects, these benefits are shared between the We recognise that one size does not fit all positively impacting the environment and manufacturer and Kingfisher helping and so we have adapted our customer importantly providing local employment.
offer to best suit the different needs of Over 79,000 people work in our the Do-it-Yourself DIY customer, the businesses and many more work for The next major cost is selling and Do-it-for-Me DFM customer and the our suppliers.
And we contributed distribution, principally the cost of running professional tradesman.
1.71 billion in 2013 14 to the economies our stores, the cost of getting products in which we operate through taxes borne to our stores and the cost of our people.
We aim to do more than We are constantly working on a rolling Retail is a people business and it minimise our impact: instead we aspire programme of cost efficiencies and is particularly true in our sector as to have a positive impact on the world.
productivity initiatives to minimise these customers often need help and We call this approach Net Positive costs sustainably.
advice when shopping for home and we believe this gives us a licence improvement products and services.
Cash generated to operate for the long-term see pages We aim to recruit and retain diverse 18 to 19 for more information.
The net result of maximising our sales and talented teams to serve our whilst minimising our costs is the customers and we prioritise investment Financial value optimisation of the cash we generate in their training and development.
This section concentrates on the financial each year.
Over the last six years we value that we create that is, the cash have generated 5.5 billion of operating Products we generate.
Cash is the life-blood of any cash flow from our business model.
We use our scale and international business as it can be reinvested to keep a reach to find the worlds best products We have strengthened our balance sheet business healthy and growing, and is also and make them available to customers in by eliminating our financial net debt used to reward the owners who bear all their local market.
The rate of innovation and we have reinvested 1.7 billion in the investment risk.
For Kingfisher in home improvement tends to be slower modernising and expanding our store maximising our cash generation in a than in other retail sectors, such as network and upgrading our IT and responsible way means maximising sales electricals or clothing, and so we are supply chain infrastructure to underpin and minimising costs whilst observing increasingly deploying our international our future prospects.
And we have key behaviours responsibility, honesty, scale and experience to work with returned 1.0 billion to our shareholders passion, openness and adaptability.
suppliers to stimulate innovation and as annual dividends.
Over the same The better we are at this the more cash create better, more sustainable and period our market value has grown we generate and the more value we affordable products.
create for our people, our shareholders and society at large.
Channels Our strategy for delivering this, known We want to make home improvement as Creating the Leader, is on pages as easy as possible for our customers and 8 to 17, including Key Performance this includes giving them as wide a choice Indicators KPIs and progress to date.
as possible of ways to shop with us.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 6 6 G e n e r a t e s s G e e t n a r e r e a n t e e s G Strategic Report Governance Accounts Customers People DIY, DFM, Trade Recruitment, professionals retention, training, development, diversity Products Channels Innovation, Stores, affordability, online, mobile, quality, own call centres, brands, sourcing, catalogues, direct sustainability Strategy: Creating the Leader Improve, modernise & expand for long-term success and to become Maximising net positive sales Better Homes, Better Lives Minimising costs Value for the business: Sourcing, Brand preference cost productivity Cash retained for a strong balance sheet Licence to operate long-term Value Value for society: Value for shareholders: Value for customers: Creating employment and a brighter Healthy annual dividend & Relevant, better, sustainable and future for our people, the environment commitment to return surplus affordable products and services and wider communities capital when appropriate Creating a licence to operate Creating brand preference long-term To view and download the business model go to http: annualreport.
