Strategic Report Governance Accounts Directors report The Company is required by the Companies Act 2006 to present Principal risk identification and management a Directors Report for the financial year ended 1 February The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group have been 2014.
It is also required to report on its compliance with the reviewed by the Board and are shown in the Risks section on UK Corporate Governance Code the Code for the year and pages 28 to 31.
The Risks section also provides information on provide certain disclosures in respect of the United Kingdom the performance of the Board in actively managing those risks, to Listing Authoritys the UKLA Disclosure and Transparency allow assessment of how the directors have performed their and Listing Rules.
The report, together with the Corporate statutory duty to promote the success of the Company.
Governance report on pages 35 to 41 the Audit Committee report Employees on pages 42 to 45, and the Directors Remuneration Report on The commitment of the Groups employees is vital to ensure that pages 47 to 68 are incorporated into this Directors Report by high standards of customer care and service are maintained reference, and when taken together with cross references to throughout the business.
The Group is fully committed to treating disclosures elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts, fulfil its employees and customers with dignity and respect, and to the Companys disclosure requirements.
It is Group policy to: Strategic Report ensure there is no discrimination in employment on the The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company to present grounds of race, gender, age, disability, marital status, a fair review of the operations of the business during the year sexual orientation or religious belief: to 1 February 2014 and the position of the Company at year end along with the principal risks and uncertainties faced.
The implement measures in stores to ensure a level of customer Strategic Report of the Company, which includes the Groups service for disabled people equivalent to that offered to Key Performance Indicators, a statement on Corporate non-disabled people: and Responsibility, a Financial Review including financial and maintain a mechanism which customers and employees can capital risk, is detailed on pages 1 to 31 and is incorporated use to give feedback on the Groups performance and ensure by reference and deemed to form part of this report.
that all customer comments are analysed, responded to and Dividends acted upon.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 6.78p 2012 13: A breakdown of employee gender diversity, as required by the 6.37p per ordinary share amounting to 160m 2012 13: Companies Act 2006, can be found on page 19 in the Net 150m to be paid on 16 June 2014 to members appearing on Positive section of the Strategic Report and forms part of the the Register at the close of business on 16 May 2014.
During the year B&Q UK with the interim dividend of 3.12p 2012 13: 3.09p per ordinary continued its long-established policy of promoting age diversity, share, amounting to 74m 2012 13: 73m, paid on 15 with around a quarter of its employees aged over 50.
November 2013, the total dividend for the financial year ended 1 February 2014 will be 9.90p 2012 13: 9.46p per ordinary The Groups statement on employee development is set share, amounting to 234m 2012 13: 224m.
out in the People section of the Companys website www.
The Kingfisher Employee Benefit Trust has waived all dividends payable by the Company in respect of the ordinary shares held There are a number of communication channels in place to by it.
The total dividends waived in the year to 1 February 2014 help employees to develop their knowledge of, and enhance were in aggregate 1.1m.
their involvement with, the Group.
These channels include engagement surveys, briefing groups, internal magazines and Directors newsletters that report on business performance and objectives, Full biographical details of the current directors are set out on community involvement and other applicable issues.
In accordance with the principles of the and senior management regularly visit stores and discuss UK Corporate Governance Code, all directors will retire and be matters of current interest and concern with employees.
submitted for re-appointment at the AGM in 2014.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Directors indemnity arrangements The Group is required to state the annual quantity of emissions The Company has provided qualifying third-party deeds of in tonnes of CO equivalent from activities for which the Group 2 indemnity for the benefit of each director and former director is responsible.
Details of our emissions for the year ended 1 who held office during the 2013 14 financial year.
The Company February 2014 and the actions the Group is taking to reduce has also purchased and maintained Directors and Officers their impact are set out within the Sustainability section of the liability insurance throughout 2013 14.
Neither the indemnities Strategic Report on pages 18 and 19 and form part of this nor the insurance provides cover in the event that the director Directors Report.
concerned is proved to have acted fraudulently.
Political donations Directors interests The Board annually seeks and obtains shareholders approval Details of directors remuneration, service contracts and interests to enable the Group to make donations or incur expenditure in the Companys shares and share options are set out in the in relation to EU political parties, other political organisations Directors Remuneration Report on pages 47 to 68.
No director or independent election candidates under section 366 of the had a material interest at any time during the year in any derivative Companies Act 2006. or financial instrument relating to the Companys shares.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 www.
com 69 69 Governance Directors report continued The Group made no political donations during the year The Company has a Sponsored Level 1 American Depositary 2012 13: nil.
As with previous annual approvals, the Group Receipt ADR programme in the United States.
has no intention of changing its current policy and practice of not Authority to allot shares making political donations.
The Board seeks the approval on a At the AGM in 2013, shareholders approved a resolution to give precautionary basis to avoid any unintentional breach of the the directors authority to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal relevant provisions.
Shareholder approval will be sought at this value of 124,279,699.
In addition, shareholders approved a years AGM to renew this authority: further details are provided resolution to give the directors authority to allot up to a nominal in the Notice of AGM.
amount of 248,559,398 in connection with an offer by way Significant agreements change of control of a rights issue in accordance with ABI guidance.
If this There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or additional allotment authority were used, the ABI guidance terminate upon a change of control of the Company following would be followed.
The directors have no present intention to a takeover bid, such as bank loan agreements, Medium Term issue ordinary shares, other than pursuant to employee share Note MTN documentation, private placement debt and incentive schemes.
These resolutions remain valid until the employee share plans.
None of these are deemed to be conclusion of this years AGM when resolutions will be proposed significant in terms of their potential impact on the business to renew these authorities.
of the Group as a whole except for: Authority to purchase own shares the 200 million credit facility dated 8 July 2011 between At the AGM in 2013, shareholders approved a resolution the Company, HSBC Bank plc as the facility agent and the for the Company to make purchases of its own shares to a banks named therein as lenders, which contains a provision maximum number of 237,261,243 ordinary shares, being such that in the event of a change of control any lender may, approximately 10% of the issued share capital.
This resolution if they so require, notify the agent that they wish to cancel remains valid until the conclusion of this years AGM.
As at 24 their commitment whereupon the commitment of that lender March 2014, the directors have not used this authority.
In order will be cancelled and all their outstanding loans, together to retain maximum flexibility, a resolution will be proposed at with accrued interest, will become immediately due and this years AGM to renew this authority.
It is the Companys payable: and current intention that shares acquired under this authority will be cancelled.
the US$297 million US Private Placement notes, issued pursuant to a note purchase agreement dated 24 May 2006 Financial instruments by the Company to various institutions, which contains a The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies provision such that in the event of a change of control, the are set out in note 24 to the financial statements on pages Company is required to make an offer to the holders of the 107 to 109.
Note 24 also details the Groups exposure to foreign US Private Placement notes to prepay the principal amount exchange, interest, credit and liquidity risks.
These notes are of the notes together with interest accrued.
included by reference and form part of this report.
The Company does not have agreements with any director or Major shareholders officer that would provide compensation for loss of office or As at 24 March 2014, the Company had been notified of the employment resulting from a takeover, except that provisions of following interests in its shares: the Companys share incentive schemes may cause options and Number of awards granted under such schemes to vest on a takeover.
ordinary % of total shares held voting rights Share capital Details of the Companys issued share capital are set out in The Capital Group Companies Inc. 139,479,920 6.05% note 28 to the consolidated financial statements.
All of the Annual General Meeting Companys issued ordinary shares are fully paid up and rank equally in all respects.
The 2014 Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on 12 June 2014 at the Hilton London Paddington Hotel, The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary Paddington at 11.00am.
A full description of the business to be shares, in addition to those conferred on their holders by law, are conducted at the meeting is set out in the separate Notice of set out in the Companys Articles of Association, copies of which Annual General Meeting.
can be obtained from the Companys website.
The holders of By order of the Board ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys Annual Report and Accounts, to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
Kathryn Hudson There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares or on Company Secretary the exercise of voting rights attached to them, except i where 24 March 2014 the Company has exercised its right to suspend their voting rights or to prohibit their transfer following the omission of their holder or any person interested in them to provide the Company with information requested by it in accordance with Part 22 of the Companies Act 2006 or ii where their holder is precluded from exercising voting rights by the Financial Services Authority Listing Rules or the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 70 70
