g n i n n a l p n o i t c A t n e m s s e s s a k s i R n o i t a c fi i 34 Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report RISKS AND HOW WE MANAGE THEM RISK GOVERNANCE AND RESPONSIBILITIES RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS AND METHODOLOGY We have adopted an integrated federated and proactive approach toour risk management and responsibilities.
THE BOARD The effective understanding, acceptance and management of risk Overall responsibility for risk management as an integral part isfundamental to the strategy of the Group and what could materially ofstrategic planning affect the ability to achieve strategic goals.
Formal review of risks twice yearly Annual assessment of the effectiveness of Internal ControlsSystem THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Responsible for assessing the scope and effectiveness of the systems established to identify, assess, manage and monitor risks CONTINUOUS Reviews reports from Internal Audit four times per year IMPROVEMENT Internal audit function outsourced to Deloitte LLP has an annual audit programme that addresses most of the principal risks as well as other operational and business risks EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Executive directors and senior executives identify key The Risk Committee considers the following impact areas risksandmake recommendations on the overall approach inassessing risks: toriskmanagement Legal and regulatory Reviews overall assessment of likely risks Betting and gaming compliance Responsible for enforcing risk management as an integral part Financial management and bookmaking ofthe Groups internal control, planning and approval process Reputation Each key risk is assigned Executive Committee member ownership Technology Data integrity and fraud protection Customers RISK COMMITTEE Employees Constitutes Group and divisional executives and senior managers Health & safety Responsible for maintaining the corporate risk register including Human rights, as appropriate periodic monitoring of the mitigating actions as well as the For each risk identified within these impact areas the likelihood, likelihood and consequence of each risk consequence, risk owner Executive Committee Member and Meets four times a year operational lead are identified by the Risk Committee.
Business units report into the Risk Committee The risk owner and operational lead suggest the appropriate mitigating control and actions which are reviewed for appropriateness and monitored regularly by the Risk Committee.
Throughout the year the risk management approach is the subject of continuous review and updated to reflect new and developing issues which might impact business strategy.
Emerging or topical risks are examined to understand the significance to the business.
Risks are identified and monitored through workshops and risk registers at the Group level and within key business units.
A Risk Matrix and risk indicators have been established and further developed which helps to monitor progress on risks.
t n e d i k s i R g n i t r o p e R g n i r o t i n o M Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 35 PRINCIPAL RISKS The risks outlined here are those principal risks that are material to the Marketplace and Operational changes in the economic Group.
They do not include all those associated with Group activities environment, changes in consumer leisure spend and and are not set out in any order of priority.
known to management, or currently deemed less material may also Financial availability of debt financing and costs of borrowing, have an adverse effect on the business including taxation and pension fund liability.
SPECIFIC RISKS THAT ARE MATERIAL TO LADBROKES ARE: Relevance to Change in risk Risks Mitigation strategy to the business BETTING AND GAMING INDUSTRY Taxes, laws, regulations and licensing, regulatory compliance Regulatory Leadership Regulatory, legislative and fiscal regimes for betting and Regulatory, legislative and fiscal developments in key gaming in key markets around the world can change, markets are monitored closely, allowing Ladbrokes to sometimes at short notice.
Such changes could benefit assess and adapt quickly to changes in the environment or have an adverse effect on Ladbrokes and additional and minimise risks to the business.
Ladbrokes engages costs might be incurred in order to comply with any new withits regulators and the relevant trade organisations with laws or regulations.
regard to the betting and gaming regulatory framework and other issues of shared concern, such as problem gambling.
Ladbrokes has entered into a voluntary code of practice and has established a Social Responsibility Committee.
Increased cost of product Digital Capability and Retail Excellence Ladbrokes is subject to certain financing arrangements Ladbrokes engages with the relevant trade associations intended to support industries from which it profits.
andthe principal bodies of sport and event industries with Examples are the horseracing and the voluntary regard to sports rights payments, including the statutory greyhound racing levies which respectively support the horseracing levy, animal welfare and other issues.
British horseracing and greyhound industries.
In addition, Ladbrokes enters into contracts for the distribution of television pictures, audio and other data that are broadcast into Ladbrokes betting shops.
A number ofthese are under negotiation at any one time.
OPERATIONAL AND BOOKMAKING Trading, liability management and pricing Pricing, Trading and Liability Management Ladbrokes may experience significant losses as a result Ladbrokes core expertise is risk management and it has of a failure to determine accurately the odds in relation developed the skills and systems to be able to offer a wide toany particular event and or any failure of its risk range of betting opportunities and accept large bets.
is in place a highly experienced trading team and risks are spread across a wide range of events.
A bookmakers odds are determined so as to provide an average return to the bookmaker over a large number of events and therefore, over the long-term, Ladbrokes gross win percentage has remained fairly constant.
Loss of key locations All Ladbrokes has a number of key sites, in particular Existing business continuity plans and arrangements Imperial House at Rayners Lane in London, its head foroffsite data storage, alternate system availability and officeand main operations centre, its premises at remote working for key operational and senior management Europort in Gibraltar from where online betting and continue to be developed and refined as part of an gaming operations are based, and in Tel Aviv, Israel ongoingreview process.
fromwhere our Digital marketing operates.
36 Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report RISK MANAGEMENT AND PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED Relevance to Change in risk Risks Mitigation strategy to the business OPERATIONAL AND BOOKMAKING CONTINUED Recruitment and retention of key employees and All succession planning Our people are our greatest asset.
We aim to be an Performance Management, Development, Reward and employer of choice for talented and passionate people Recognition systems are all constantly reviewed and and we need a high level of competence across the updated to marry business needs with best practice.
business to meet our objectives and respond to Anincreasingly important part is being played by formal, changing market needs.
biannual Talent Management and Succession Plan reviews.
Ladbrokes undertook its latest Colleague Engagement Survey in 2014 and will implement action plans throughout 2015 16 to address areas for improvement.
A process is under way to identify a successor for the ChiefExecutive following the announcement on succession planning.
The search will evaluate both internal and external candidates.
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND COMMUNICATIONS Technology failure Digital Capability and Retail Excellence Ladbrokes operations are highly dependent on Ladbrokes has a level of resilience in place which technology and advanced information systems and seekstoeliminate single points of failure within key thereis a risk that such technology or systems could fail.
In particular, any damage to, or failure of online systems and servers, electronic point of sale systems and electronic display systems could result in interruptions tofinancial controls and customer service systems.
Data management Digital Capability, Retail Excellence, Customer and Brand Ladbrokes process sensitive personal customer data Security systems are deployed to protect transactional data.
including name, address, age, bank details and betting Sophisticated hardware and security mechanisms are used and gaming history as part of its business and therefore to ensure all sensitive and confidential data is fully encrypted.
must comply with strict data protection and privacy laws To provide fail-safe integrity of all data, a series of storage in all jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
Ladbrokes systems are used to replicate all data processed by online is exposed to the risk that this data could be wrongfully services.
In respect of fraud protection, an extensive appropriated, lost or disclosed, or processed in breach programme of data monitoring is in place with both ofdata protection regulation.
This could also result in prevention and detection audit controls.
prosecutions and the loss of the goodwill of its customersand deter new customers.
An independent review was undertaken on our cyber resilience and supporting our approach, a steering grouphas been formed to drive through changes to ensurewe have sufficient maturity.
Technology changes Retail Excellence, Digital Capability, Pricing Trading, Liability Management, Customer and Brand The market for online and mobile gambling products and Ladbrokes has invested and committed considerable services is characterised by technological developments, resources into upgrading its existing technology, IT new product and service introductions and evolving infrastructure, communication systems and application industry standards.
Failure by Ladbrokes to use leading systems, as well as developing and acquiring new platforms.
technologies effectively, develop its technological Rigorous testing regimes are utilised to ensure that a expertise, enhance its products and services and improve continued high quality of product offerings and services the performance, features and reliability of its technology aremaintained.
and advanced information systems, could have a materialadverse effect on its competitive position.
Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 37 Relevance to Change in risk Risks Mitigation strategy to the business INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND COMMUNICATIONS CONTINUED Failure in the supply chain Retail Excellence, Digital Capability, Pricing Trading, Liability Management, Customer and Brand Ladbrokes is dependent on a number of third parties Infrastructure suppliers, network and telecommunication forthe operation of its business.
The withdrawal or suppliers and application service providers are long-term removal from the market of one or more of these major partners in providing an infrastructure which seeks to third party suppliers, or failure of third party suppliers to ensurethe delivery of sophisticated and high performance comply with contractual obligations could adversely transaction processing systems.
There is continual affectLadbrokes operations.
communication with these suppliers and providers at an operating level and service level agreements have been established to maintain high service levels.
The ongoing review of business continuity plans includes key supplier alternatives and the introduction of a new SRM platform.
MARKETPLACE Competition Digital Capability and Retail Excellence Ladbrokes faces competition primarily from other Ladbrokes performance and competitive position land-based bookmakers, online betting exchanges arecontinuously monitored and, where appropriate, andother online gambling operators.
In particular, the changes are instituted, including in relation to marketing, online gambling market is characterised by intense and productdevelopment, yield management, cost substantial competition and by relatively low barriers to controlandinvestment.
Acquisition opportunities, entry for new participants.
In addition, Ladbrokes faces withaview totakingadvantage of market consolidation, competition from market participants who benefit from arecontinuously evaluated.
greater liquidity as a result of accepting bets and wagers from jurisdictions in which Ladbrokes chooses not to operate because of legal reasons or otherwise.
Key Increased Decreased Remains unaltered
