50 Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance DIRECTORS REPORT Auditor and disclosure of information to the auditor Each of the directors in office as of the date of approval of this report THE DIRECTORS PRESENT THEIR confirms that, so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information being information needed by the auditor in connection with ANNUAL REPORT AND THE AUDITED preparing its report of which the auditor is unaware and that he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director in FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditor is aware of that information.
COMPANY AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES FOR Share capital At 25 February 2015, the Company had been notified, in accordance THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014. with the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following holdings of voting rights attaching to the Companys shares.
Number % of issued of shares share capital Corporate Governance reports on pages 44 to 49 are deemed to be Schroders plc 91,210,194 9.92 incorporated into this report by reference.
Details of the likely future The Capital Group Companies, Inc 55,207,826 5.98 developments of the business are described in the Strategic Report Invesco Limited 47,377,092 5.16 Jupiter Asset Management Limited 45,953,525 5.00 onpages 4 to 41.
The Strategic Report, Directors Report and other sections from the Annual Report which are incorporated by reference, None of the interests stated above have changed since 31 December collectively comprise the Management Report for the purposes of 2014.
At 31 December 2014: Dividends The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 4.60 pence BlackRock Inc had a material interest in respect of 46,953,525 of per ordinary share, making a total of 8.90 pence for the year.
Subject to the Companys ordinary shares.
On 25 February 2015, the Company shareholders approval at the Annual General Meeting the final dividend was advised that the interest of BlackRock Inc had fallen below 5%: is expected to be paid on 14 May 2015 to shareholders registered on FIL Limited had a material interest in respect of 46,506,296 of the 27March 2015.
On 6 February 2015, the Company Directors was advised that the interest of FIL Limited had fallen below 5%.
Biographical details of the directors at the date of this report are shown Further details in respect of the share capital are shown in note 26 to on pages 42 and 43 together.
John Jarvis served as a director until his theconsolidated financial statements which forms part of this report.
retirement at the conclusion of last years Annual General Meeting on 7May 2014.
On 3 December 2014, the Company announced that Rights attributable to the Companys ordinary shares are as set out in Richard Glynn would stand down as Chief Executive Officer in 2015. the Articles and in applicable company law.
Holders of the Companys ordinary shares have: a the right to attend, speak and vote either in Details of directors service contracts, their share interests and other person or by proxy at a general meeting of the Company: and b the details of their remuneration by the Company are contained in the right to participate in any distribution of the Company which includes, Directors remuneration report.
but is not limited to, dividends.
The Chairman and the independent non-executive directors are Listing Rule 9.8.
4 appointed, subject to re-election, for a specified term of approximately The Trustee of the Ladbrokes Share Ownership Trust, which is used in three years, renewable by one additional period of three years and connection with certain of the Companys employee share ownership renewable thereafter at the discretion of the Company.
plans, waives dividends on shares in the Trust not allocated to plan The Board has in place an established procedure for managing, and members.
There are no other items that are required to be disclosed where appropriate approving, any conflicts of interest.
Appointment and replacement of directors Directors authority to issue and purchase shares Directors are appointed to, or removed from, the Board according At the Annual General Meeting held on 7 May 2014, the directors were tothe provisions contained in the Companys Articles of Association authorised to allot ordinary shares up to a nominal value of 86,967, 708 Articles and the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. and were further authorised to make market purchases of up to Acopyofthe Articles is available to view on the Companys website 92,083,455 of the Companys ordinary shares.
No purchases of Company shares were made during the year.
In accordance with the provisions of the Corporate Governance Code, Detailsof shares allotted during the year are shown in note 26 to the all directors, with the exception of Richard Glynn, will stand for election consolidated financial statements.
To the extent the authorities granted or re-election at the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
by shareholders remain unused they remain in effect until the earlier of the Annual General Meeting in 2015 or 30 June 2015.
Directors indemnities and insurance Each of the directors has been provided with a qualifying third-party Corporate responsibility indemnity from the Company which remain in force at the date of The 2014 Corporate Responsibility CR report is available at thisreport.
The Company maintains directors and officers liability www.
com and highlights, with which the following should insurance.
be considered in conjunction, are given on pages 38 to 41.
Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 51 The processes described in the section Financial reporting, internal employment, either in the same or an alternative position, with control and risk management systems on pages 45 and 46 applied to appropriate adjustments being made if necessary.
Employees with CR including Human Rights issues as appropriate, as did the disabilities share equally in the opportunities for training, career practices described on page 44 for ensuring the Board is supplied with development and promotion.
appropriate and timely information and training and for assisting the In late 2013 the Females In Leadership Group was formed to directors to update their knowledge.
In addition to business investigate why females were not progressing to senior grades in presentations regularly made to the Board at which CR was considered thebusiness.
Aproject team was created within Human Resources, as appropriate, the Board conducts an annual CR review and Board wethen joined Opportunity Now being the only betting and gaming members regularly receive CR updates.
CR performance is included in company that are members, and co-wrote our survey with Opportunity business unit accountability systems and remuneration arrangements.
The survey received a good response and wasfollowed up by The Remuneration Committee in determining executive remuneration focus groups to clarify some of the areas raised.
Asteering committee takesinto account CR matters as described in the Directors has been formed, representing all areas of the business and will review remuneration report.
the feedback from the survey and create workable actions.
The risks and opportunities relating to CR in 2014 and going forward Significant agreements that take effect, alter or terminate primarily revolve around the reputation of the Group and the quality of upona change of control following a takeover bid itsbrands.
The agreements between Ladbrokes Group Finance plc LGF, awholly Of particular importance was the promotion of responsible gambling owned subsidiary of the Company, and seven separate banks for the and the protection of children and the vulnerable.
CR also impacted: a provision by the banks of revolving credit facilities of up to 405mon a the performance of the Groups employees on whom the Group relies committed basis provide that the banks may give notice of cancellation for the provision of high quality services to customers: and b the health if a change of control occurs.
On cancellation the amounts drawn and safety of these employees and the customers they serve.
In the context of a takeover bid, theacquirer would normally arrange substitute facilities.
Inaddition, Performance indicators continued to be developed in accordance with LGF issued bonds in March 2010 and June 2014.
The bonds have a Group-wide CR.
No breaches of CR policies and procedures material Put Event that allows bondholders to exercise put options when a to the Group were identified by the Board in 2014. change of control occurs.
The put options allow thebondholders to The identification and management of CR issues, the CR reporting require LGF to purchase the bonds at a price of 101pence.
framework and any associated data has been reviewed by the Amendment of the Companys Articles of Association Companys CR adviser, Carnstone Partners LLP.
The Companys Articles may be amended by the members of the Details of the Groups disclosure of its greenhouse gas emissions are Company by special resolution requiring a majority of at least 75% set out in the Groups strategic report on page 40. ofthe persons voting on the relevant resolution.
Financial risk management Employee policies A description of the Groups financial risk management objectives and The Board values two-way communication between senior policies and its exposure to price, credit liquidity and cash flow risk is management and employees on all aspects of the Companys strategy, contained in note 23 to the consolidated financial statements and forms Company performance, management effectiveness and approach part of this report.
There is a rolling three-year internal communications strategy and Going concern delivery plan which includes interventions such as regular In assessing the going concern basis, the directors considered the management roadshows, virtual strategy briefings, visits to operating Groups business activities, the financial position of the Group as units, responses to the annual colleague opinion survey and updates described in pages 16 to 31 and the Groups financial risk on performance against the Companys Vision and Values.
management objectives and policies as included in note 23 to the consolidated financial statements.
The internal communications channels include a mobile device platform, face to face events, a corporate intranet, phone broadcasting, The directors consider that the Group has adequate resources to SMS alerts, a Company magazine, leadership and line manager continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and that it is briefing packs.
therefore appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its financial statements.
The UK Retail Colleague Forum, which was launched in 2012 as an Annual General Meeting evolution of our Staff Council, provides a further mechanism for This years Annual General Meeting will be held at Deutsche Bank AG, employee dialogue and engagement.
Winchester House, 1 Great Winchester Street, London EC2N 2DB on In addition, those employees who are eligible are also encouraged to 7 May 2015 at 11.00am.
become involved in the Groups performance through participation in share schemes.
The Directors Report and the Strategic Report were approved by the Board and have been signed on its behalf by the Company Secretary.
Throughout the Group, the principles of equal opportunities are recognised in the formulation and development of employment policies.
Adrian Bushnell It is the Companys policy to give full and fair consideration to Company Secretary applications from people with disabilities, having regard to their 25 February 2015 particular aptitudes and abilities.
If an employee becomes disabled, theCompanys objective is the continued provision of suitable Ladbrokes plc Registered Number 566221
