Laird PLC 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Performance Materials We are a leading supplier to global manufacturers of smartphones, IT and telecommunications Revenue Revenue by product segment $604.0m 1.
Signal Integrity 8% 2013, $536.2m 2 2 366.1m 1 6.8% 2 2013,342.8m 1 Underlying operating profit Revenue by market segment 1.
Medical 5% 2 3 54.1m 2 5.0% 2 2013,51.5m Operating margin 14.8% 2013,15.0% Laird PLC 33 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Our Performance Materials division is a leading Revenue growth was driven by strong performances global designer and supplier of an extensive range of in smartphones and mobile LTE 4G infrastructure.
electromagnetic interference EMI shielding materials Automotive applications continue to contribute to and thermal management solutions, supplying the growth.
Gaming consoles were weaker after a very leading industry manufacturers.
These products isolate strong performance in the previous year.
Tablet revenues and protect sensitive electronics from electronic were lower due to reduced share and content, as well as emission interference, allowing them to function and the loss of a supply contract by one of our customers.
connect effectively, as well as improving electronic In April 2014, we acquired 51% of Model Solution, performance through efficient management of heat.
which performed well and provided entry into new Performance Materials captures value by gaining market segments.
Over the year, we opened a new increased customer mindshare through innovation, factory in Vietnam and a design centre in Seoul to reliable fulfilment and speed.
Our focus is on identifying provide additional capacity and design expertise new applications of our product solutions and to a customer which resulted in a number of new expanding our engagement with customers in IT projects and increasing market share with a leading telecoms, smartphones, consumer electronics, medical smartphone customer.
We launched 24 new products and applications in The ever-increasing demand for more portable 2014, which resulted in numerous design wins, including and more powerful electronics and the exponential in the emerging area of wireless charging and NFC growth inconnected devices creates numerous applications in the automotive and medical segments.
challenges for our customers who rely on our Our products also gave us entry into new markets expertise to create innovative solutions tailored to such as safety sensors.
We continue to enhance our their needs.
Our customers include global industry intellectual property portfolio with an increase in patents leaders in our target market segments, including issued in 2014. smartphones, consumer electronics, automotive and industrial applications.
We were awarded Preferred Supplier Status for a leading customer in smartphones and continue to be recognised 4 for Performance Over the year, organic revenue by governments and industry trade groups around the Materials in US$ increased 8.7% to $604.0m world for leading activities in innovation and corporate 2013, $536.2m.
Operating profit grew by 10.8% to social responsibilities.
Boeing awarded us the Silver $89.2m 2013, $80.5m, and operating margin was 14.8% Performance Excellence Award BPEA and in China we 2013,15.0% reflecting the change in product mix.
were awarded the Efficient and Intensive Award by the Total revenue grew by 12.6%, including the contribution large Shanghai Xinzhuang industry Park.
from Model Solution, a South Korean company specialising in prototype design, in which we acquired 51% in April.
2 In Sterling, total revenue grew by 6.8% to 366.1m 2013,342.8m, reflecting the strength of Sterling relative to the US$ which affected translation.
1 3 Underlying profit before tax and earnings per share are stated before Operating profit is stated before exceptional items, amortisation of exceptional items, amortisation of acquired intangible assets, goodwill and acquired intangible assets, gain or loss on disposal of businesses and US capitalised development costs, gain loss on disposal of businesses, acquisition transaction costs.
impact arising from fair valuing of financial instruments and acquisition 4 Organic revenue growth is defined as the increase or decrease in revenue, transaction costs.
year-on-year, with the base revenue for the prior year including revenue 2 Translated at $1.65 which is the average exchange rate over the year from current year acquisitions as if Laird had owned the acquisitions for 2013, $1.56.
the same period in the prior year.
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report Laird PLC 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Protecting critical components How we combined customer service, innovation and reliable fulfilment to drive out counterfeit thermal interface materials and helped our customers re-establish the integrity of their supply chain At our expense, we deployed our In Asia, we discovered that small, engineers to work alongside our local, start-up manufacturers customer to assess the impact were producing imitation thermal and to design an effective repair.
materials and distributing them Looking to the future, we then as Laird products.
Along complex developed additive technology supply chains, buyers were for our thermal products that can seizing the opportunity to make quickly identify genuine material small cost savings.
The problem samples and products from Laird.
went unnoticed until a large Customers now have the ability to telecommunications OEM began gain more control over quality and to suffer system failures.
Not only can maintain the integrity of their did this customer face significant supply chain.
performance penalties and costs to replace the components, it By acting quickly, we ensured also faced concerns over safety, that our customer did not need potential loss of market share and to issue an equipment recall or reputational damage.
Using our Materials Scientists, We built trust and generated we established that the failing customer loyalty.
This customer products had not been made understood how working with by Laird, immediately notified Laird on a small component has our customers, and launched value well beyond the price of an investigation into the source the material.
They have switched of the counterfeit materials.
their entire product allocation in We prepared replacements these applications to Laird and and quickly made them can be sure that their business and available so that our customers reputation is better protected.
Laird PLC 35 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report Laird PLC 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic expansion We work in conjunction with our customers to help them develop market leading products with consistent quality, innovation and speed that few of our competitors can match The opening of this facility Our customers products are so demonstrates our customer complex that they require the strategy in action: it consistently latest innovations in engineering delivers high quality products and manufacturing.
Competition on time, to the highest precision in the consumer device market is engineering standards, regardless so intense that they need the most of production demands and as advanced technology to keep aresult has won us business from them ahead of the market and amajor new customer.
meet the increasing expectations of their consumers.
It took just six months from In 2014, we opened a new facility in signing the lease for this factory to Vietnam to better serve the needs become fully operational and meet of these customers.
This statethe peaks of production demand of-the-art facility manufactures without risk to our customers precision metals and electronic operations.
This is a capability that materials for smartphone and few of our competitors can match tablet manufacturers.
With our and it underpins our well-deserved advanced material engineering reputation for both speed and and machinery at this site our reliable fulfilment.
customers are able to incorporate Furthermore, the location of the latest technology into their this facility allows us to continue designs and get their products diversifying our customer base and to market faster.
Alongside our broadening our geographic market design centre, located in Korea, presence, supporting Lairds we are able to work closely growth from 2014 onwards.
with our customers in the initial development and manufacturing stages and provide the sort of innovation they need to push their designs further.
Laird PLC 37 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report
