Laird PLC 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Board of Directors Currently the Board is comprised of the Chairman, two executive directors and four other non-executive directors, all of whom have the skills and experience appropriate for Lairds business.
Mike Parker has been appointed to the Board with effect from 3 March 2015.
Dr Martin Read, CBE Chairman, MA, DPhil, FIET Appointed to the Board as a non-executive director with effect from 28 February 2014, Martin succeeded Nigel Keen as Chairman in May 2014.
Martin is Chairman of the two Government companies the Low Carbon Contracts Company and the Electricity Settlements Company set up to manage contracts and payments under the electricity market reform programme.
He is Chairman of the Remuneration Consultants Group and a non-executive director of Lloyds of London and the UK Government Efficiency and Reform Board.
Martin was Chief Executive of international IT services company, Logica, from 1993 to 2007 and has served as a non-executive director on the boards of Invensys, Aegis Group, British Airways, Siemens Holdings, Boots and Asda.
He led UK Government reviews on back office operations and IT across the public sector 2009 and management information 2012.
David Lockwood, OBE Chief Executive, BA, FCA, RSA David Lockwood joined Laird on 2 July 2012 and was appointed Chief Executive with effect from 13 August 2012.
David was formerly Vice President Global Defence & Security at BT Global Services and he has experience of international operations, gained from his roles at GPT Marconi, BAE Systems, Intense Limited a photonics high-tech start-up and Thales Corporation.
David chaired the Scottish Governments Technology Advisory Group and, in 2005, was awarded Scottish Entrepreneur of the Year for Technology.
In February 2014, David was appointed as non-executive Chair of Knowledge Transfer Network Ltd, a vehicle which was established in April 2014, to support the work of Innovate UK formerly the Technology Strategy Board the UKs innovation agency which is sponsored by the UK Governments Department of Business, Innovation and Skills BIS.
Jonathan Silver Chief Financial Officer, BA, CA Jonathan Silver joined Laird in 1986 and was appointed to the Board as Finance Director in 1994.
Jonathan was previously Group Treasurer and Corporate Development Manager.
He is a non-executive director of INVESCO Income Growth Trust plc.
As previously announced, Jonathan Silver will be stepping down as a director at the conclusion of the AGM to be held on 8 May 2015.
Paula Bell Senior Independent Director, FCMA, CGMA Paula was appointed a non-executive director and Chairman of the Audit Committee in 2012 and has been Senior Independent Director since 31 August 2013.
During the year, Paula was also a member of the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee.
Paula is the Group Finance Director of John Menzies Plc and prior to this was Group Finance Director of Ricardo Plc.
Paula has extensive commercial and finance experience working in senior roles of large international organisations, built on a 10-year period at Rolls-RoycePlc.
Paula is a Fellow of the Institute of Management Accountants.
Laird PLC 51 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Jack Boyer Non-executive director, BA, MSc, MBA Jack was appointed as a non-executive director in May 2013 and is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit Committee.
He is a non-executive director of Mitie Group plc, where he chairs the Remuneration Committee and is a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
Jack is Chairman of Ilika plc and on the board of the Innovate UK Energy Catalyst.
He sits on the board of the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council and is co-deputy chairman of the Advanced Materials Leadership Council.
He previously held roles as CEO of Automotive Engineering Group TCG and at Goldman Sachs and strategy consultant Bain & Co. Sir Christopher Hum, KCMG Non-executive director, MA Appointed in 2006, Sir Christopher is a member of the Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees.
Sir Christopher retired as Master of Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge in 2012.
Sir Christopher was British Ambassador to the Peoples Republic of China, having previously served as HM Ambassador Warsaw and Deputy Under-Secretary for North Asia and the Pacific, and earlier as Head of the Hong Kong Department of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office.
Professor Michael Kelly Non-executive director, BSc, MSc, PhD, ScD, FRS FREng Appointed in 2006, Professor Kelly is a member of the Remuneration and Audit Committees.
Professor Kelly is Prince Philip Professor of Technology at the University of Cambridge and a Professorial Fellow at Trinity Hall.
He was formerly Chief Scientific Advisor to the Department for Communities and Local Government and was previously executive director of the Cambridge-MIT Institute and Professor of Physics and Electronics at the University of Surrey.
Mike Parker, CBE Non-executive director, BSc, MBA, FEI, FIChemE Mike Parker was appointed a non-executive director with effect from 3 March 2015 and will succeed Paula Bell as Senior Independent Director SID.
He will also be a member of the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Mikes main executive career was in the Dow Chemical Company between 1968 to 2002 where he worked internationally, particularly in North America and Asia, rising to become Chief Executive Officer.
He was Chief Executive Officer of British Nuclear Fuels from 2003 to 2009 and he served as the SID on the Board of Invensys Plc from 2006 to 2013.
Mike is currently SID of publicly quoted company PV Crystalox Plc and a non-executive director of SNC-Lavalin Inc, a publicly quoted Canadian company.
In November 2014, Mike was awarded the recognition of Citizen of Honour for the City of Liverpool.
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report
