Laird PLC 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Wireless Systems We are the preferred supplier to most of the leading global OEM car manufacturers Revenue Revenue by product segment 1.
Infrastructure 18% 2013, $303.6m Antenna 2 2 1 198.8m 2.4% 2 2013,194.2m 1 Underlying operating profit Revenue by market segment $40.5m 1.
Other 4% 2 2 1 24.5m 7.9% 2 2013,22.7m Operating margin 12.3% 2013,11.7% Laird PLC 39 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Our Wireless Systems business is a market leader in from Fiat Chrysler Automobiles and the Platinum Level wireless connectivity, telematics and control systems and Supplier Quality Excellence Certification from Caterpillar.
It is an established global leader in automotive Tasverii Insight for Rail, our WACS software control telematics, where it supplies many of the global original platform, was well received by customers, and won a equipment auto manufacturers.
Wireless Systems also new European rail contract which will go into production supplies connectivity, control and software management in 2015.
This brings the global number of connected platforms to over 5,000 major railways worldwide.
industrial and rail devices to over 5,000.
Over the 3 Over the year, organic revenue for Wireless Systems year, our WACS business moved to an expanded and increased by 8.0% to $328.0m 2013, $303.6m.
improved factory in Warren, Ohio.
4 Operating profit grew by 14.1% to $40.5m In our infrastructure antenna business, the WLAN 2013, $35.5m.
Operating margin improved to 12.3% market continued to demonstrate strength, with growth 2013,11.7%.
being driven by high-density applications such as stadia.
2 In Sterling, total revenue grew by 2.4% to 198.8m The public safety sector continued to be slow, despite 2013,194.2m, reflecting the strength of Sterling our good performance against the competition.
relative to the US$ which affected translation.
Collaboration between engineering teams across 4 Operating profit grew by 7.9% to 24.5m our Wireless Systems businesses, together with our 2013,22.7m.
thermal business, resulted in the successful Range Revenue grew across all Wireless System businesses, Amplified MultiPoint RAMP Bridge project this year.
and, in particular, was driven by a strong performance RAMP Bridge is a rugged, outdoor, long-range wireless inthe automotive segment in telematics M2M.
bridge solution for hospitality, digital signage and other markets, which we won through our products superior Our telematics M2M also invested in an expanded throughput and range and our ability to support them facility in Shanghai to meet its growing order book going asa long-time partner.
The opening of our Brazil facility, scheduled for Q22015, will enhance our ability to service telematics customers inSouth America.
Our M2M applications for medical and Wi-Fi have generated a strong pipeline of projects, and the recently refreshed Bluetooth product range continued to sell well.
We devised a comprehensive Bluetooth solution for a global automotive original equipment manufacturer.
Telematics M2M won a number of prestigious customer awards for partnership and reliable fulfilment, including the Corporate Social Responsibility Award from Ford Motor Company, APAC Supplier of the Year for Logistics 1 3 Underlying profit before tax and earnings per share are stated before Organic revenue growth is defined as the increase or decrease in revenue, exceptional items, amortisation of acquired intangible assets, goodwill year-on-year, with the base revenue for the prior year including revenue.
andUS capitalised development costs, gain loss on disposal of 4 Operating profit is stated before exceptional items, amortisation of businesses, impact arising from fair valuing of financial instruments and acquired intangible assets, gain or loss on disposal of businesses and acquisition transaction costs.
2 Translated at $1.65 which is the average exchange rate over the year 2013, $1.56.
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report Laird PLC 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Connecting the medical world We are making the connected hospital a reality allowing patients to stay connected whether at home or at hospital Healthcare systems around the world This technology cuts down the time are feeling the pressure of growing taken to enter vitals from 10 minutes public health issues and as costs to less than one minute per patient continue to climb there is a need for by automatically transferring patient increased efficiencies.
Robust wireless records and real-time data to the connections and big data analytics Electronic Health Records.
It means play a key role in diagnosing and nurses can roam throughout the monitoring patients and can bring hospital and monitor patients on the efficiencies, scalability and cost the move or from one main station, reductions needed.
receiving alerts and observing data captured each second.
This increases Our embedded Bluetooth Low their productivity and minimises Energy modules and Wi-Fi enabled transcription errors.
In turn, doctors devices are already used widely can make more informed decisions in our other markets so working with accurate and up-to-date alongside our customers in the patient information, leading to better medical market we set out to apply patient outcomes.
this same technology to hospitals.
Developing a fully integrated hospital A fully Wi-Fi integrated hospital does which gathers information from not only liberate doctors and nurses thousands of medical devices created but will allow people to take more many challenges.
We had to create responsibility for managing their own Bluetooth and Wi-Fi modules which health by monitoring their health from would work in the hospitals harsh home and subsequently cutting down RF environment and interoperate the number of patient readmissions.
We also had to ensure the sensitive Our innovations in wireless technology are creating dynamic customer data being transferred was secure.
solutions that anticipate market We were able to develop a Wireless changes and provide our customers Bridge Communications Subsystem with the competitive advantages they and engineer the modules to create a need to stay ahead.
We are applying robust connection in the challenging our proven expertise in existing RF environment.
It is designed to markets to new challenges in order to offer the highest levels of security penetrate new markets and drive our and encryption for Wi-Fi.
for secure, wireless roaming in any hospital network and on any medicaldevice, creating a connected hospital that can gather vast amounts of life-critical data from dozens of locations to one centralised point.
Laird PLC 41 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report Laird PLC 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Laird PLC 43 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Unlocking the power of data We have unlocked the power of data in the rail industry by enabling rail operators to take a birds eye view of their rail yards resulting in significant cost savings productivity problems and safety A railway operator has a vast risks quickly.
User-generated number of cars and locomotives reports allow operators to get that it needs to move around a much better insightinto the the country.
If it can track those location, performance and health assets in real time, it can be of their assets.
This enables more proactive and deliver huge faster trouble shooting, more improvements in productivity.
proactive maintenance and Working with our customers in increased visibility over the the rail industry, including Norfolk safety of operating practices to Southern, one of North Americas drive productivity, cost savings, largest railoperators, we faced safety improvements and a number of challenges.
to develop a software platform that could monitor areas covering This solution is consistent with over eight miles incorporating our strategy to grow in existing 315 miles of track.
The solution had businesses and adjacent markets.
In the It creates an end-to-end solution rail industry, health and safety is that can connect, monitor, paramount and there is no room access and drive critical actions for error.
This platform was initially Our engineers developed a developed for the railways but new software platform called it was designed with enough Tasverii and combined it with versatility in mind to be adapted to our robust wireless technologies.
other applications from factories Using uninterrupted wireless to hospitals where users need connectivity, Tasverii is to monitor their wireless devices abletocollect and store data quickly and efficiently.
in near real-time, enabling the rail yard to identify potential Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report
