01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 79 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Directors Report The Company 1.1 Legal form of the Company Lonmin Plc is a company incorporated in England & Wales, with company number 103002.
It conducts very limited business activities on its own account, and trades principally through its subsidiary undertakings in various jurisdictions.
The material subsidiary undertakings are listed in note 31 to the accounts on page 164.
A branch of Lonmin Plc operates in South Africa, trading as Lonmin Management Services or LMS and which is registered in that country as an external company with company number 1969 00015 10.
The branch and the English company are legally indivisible.
1.2 Amendment of the Articles of Association The Companys constitution, known as the Articles of Association, is essentially a Rob Bellhouse contract between the Company and its shareholders, governing many aspects of the Company Secretary management of the corporation.
It may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
1.3 Rules on Appointment and Removal of Directors Subject to applicable law, a Director may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of shareholders in general meeting following nomination by the Board or a member or members entitled to vote at such a meeting, or following retirement by rotation if the Director chooses to seek re-election at a general meeting.
In addition, the Directors may appoint a Director to fill a vacancy or as an additional Director, provided that the individual retires at the next AGM.
A Director may be removed by the Company as provided for by applicable law, in certain circumstances set out in the Companys Articles of Association for example bankruptcy, or resignation, or by a special resolution of the Company.
All Directors stand for re-election on an annual basis, in line with the recommendations of the Code.
For a full description of the Companys policies in relation to the appointment and replacement of Directors see sections 1.3 of the Corporate Governance Report, on page 55.
Statutory Disclosures 2.1 Employees The Group employed 28,264 people in South Africa, 8 in the United Kingdom and 4 in Canada at the end of the year.
Information on the Groups policies on employee recruitment and engagement can be found in the Sustainable Development Report.
As the Group employs less than 250 employees in the UK, the Company is not subject to the statutory obligation to discuss its policies in relation to employee involvement or the employment of disabled persons.
However, full and fair consideration would always be given to applications for employment from disabled persons, having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities, or continuing the employment of people who become disabled during their career.
2.2 Research and development Group companies continue to focus on research and development in the areas of mineral extraction, processing and refining to unlock new technology opportunities and to extract optimal value from our assets: Detailed characterisation of Saffy ore is currently being carried out to improve PGM recoveries and throughput of the EPL concentrator: Studies are being conducted to improve concentrator recoveries and throughput of the EPL, Rowland and K3 concentrators.
This work is being conducted under the VOMA project: Studies are underway in collaboration with Mintek to improve fine Chrome recoveries: Reagent characterisation is ongoing, as is continuous investigation to improve processing equipment with the objective of further improving concentrator recoveries: Work is underway to improve stability and the availability of the furnaces, including a new design on furnace number 1 and refurbishment of the ancillary equipment on the Pyromet furnaces to ensure reliable back up capacity: Review of the available options on a new SO2 abetment plant that will significantly reduce waste and further reduce the impact on the environment: Ongoing work on a new process aimed at significantly upgrading the PGM concentrates from the BMR leading to an overall reduction in waste, reduction in residue tolling costs and improved PMR efficiencies: Significant progress and implementation of certain technologies to reduce the effluent at the PMR: and Completion of pilot plant trials on the development of a new refining process at the PMR.
Implementation of phase 1 of the project is currently underway and progressing well.
2.3 Greenhouse gas emissions The disclosures concerning greenhouse gas emissions required by law are included in the Strategic Report, on page 44. www.
com Lonmin Plc 80 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Directors Report 2.4 Political donations No political donations were made during the year.
Lonmin has an established policy of not making donations to any political party, representative or candidate in any part of the world.
2.5 Financial instruments Full details can be found in note 20 to the financial statements on page 151 and in A Deeper Look on page 187.
Share Capital and Related Matters 3.1 Share capital and reserves The total share capital and reserves attributable to the Group amounted to $3,233 million at 30 September 2014.
The structure of the issued share capital of the Company at 30 September 2014 is set out in note 24 to the accounts.
In addition to the Ordinary Shares of $1 each, the Companys share capital also comprises 50,000 Sterling Deferred Shares of 1 each, which were issued in 2002 and allotted to a nominee company to comply with the English statutory requirement that a public limited company must have a minimum share capital of 50,000.
These shares do not rank equally with the Ordinary Shares of the Company, and have minimal rights.
The holders consent is not required for changes to the Companys share capital, and they are not entitled to receive notice of, or attend, speak or vote at, any general meeting.
The holders are not entitled to participate in any distribution of income or capital save that, following the distribution of 100,000,000,000 plus the paid-up nominal value of every other share in the capital of the Company, they are entitled to receive an amount equal to the nominal value of their Sterling Deferred Shares.
3.2 Shareholders rights Holders of Ordinary Shares are entitled to: receive all shareholder documents, including notice of any general meeting: attend, speak and exercise voting rights at general meetings, either in person or by proxy: and participate in any distribution of income or capital: subject to applicable law and the Companys Articles of Association.
In general there are no restrictions on the holders ability to transfer their shares or exercise their voting rights, save in situations where the Company is legally entitled to impose such restrictions usually where amounts remain unpaid on the shares after request, or the holder is otherwise in default of an obligation to the Company.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between its shareholders that may restrict the transfer of their shares or the exercise of the voting rights attaching to them, save in relation to the employee benefit trust established by the Company, the Lonmin Employee Share Trust, to facilitate various employee share plans.
The trustee, which is independent of the Company, does not seek to exercise voting rights on the Ordinary Shares held in trust, and a dividend waiver is in place in respect of shares which are the beneficial property of the trust.
For details of the Companys employee share plans, see the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 84 to 113.
No shareholder, or trust relating to an employee share plan, holds securities carrying special rights relating to the control of the Company.
3.3 Powers conferred on the Directors in relation to share capital Subject to applicable law and the Companys Articles of Association the Directors may exercise all powers of the Company, including the power to authorise the issue and or market purchase of the Companys shares subject to an appropriate authority being given to the Directors by shareholders in general meeting and any conditions attaching to such authority.
There were two occasions in the year under review when shareholders delegated powers to the Directors in relation to share capital: at the Annual General Meeting held on 30 January 2014, and at a General Meeting held on 11 September 2014, to facilitate the issue of shares in connection to the proposed Bapo BEE transaction described in further detail on page 43 of this document.
The nature and extent of these authorities are summarised below: Amount of authority outstanding Authority Utilisation during the year at the end of the year 30 January 2014 Power granted at No shares were issued during the year Authority remains outstanding in AGM to allot equity securities with a pursuant to this authority full until the next AGM or, if earlier, nominal value of up to $189.6m 30 April 2015 30 January 2014 Power granted at The Company made no purchases of its Authority remains outstanding in AGM to make market purchases of its own shares during the year full until the next AGM or, if earlier, own shares, up to a maximum of 30 April 2015 56,900,000 shares being approximately 10% of the issued share capital at prices not less than the nominal value of each share being $1 and not exceeding 105% of the average mid-market price for the preceding five business days 01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 81 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Directors Report 3.3 Powers conferred on the Directors in relation to share capital continued Amount of authority outstanding Authority Utilisation during the year at the end of the year 11 September 2014 Power granted No shares were issued during the year Authority remains outstanding in at General Meeting to allot pursuant to this authority.
full until the next AGM or, if earlier, 13,125,436 shares 30 April 2015 Any issue of shares pursuant to this authority are subject to a number of inter-conditional transactions and conditions precedent detailed in the Circular and Notice of General Meeting, the majority of which are expected to be fulfilled by mid-November 2014 11 September 2014 Power granted This authority is limited to the allotment Authority remains outstanding in at General Meeting to dis-apply of shares authorised by the Company at full until the next AGM or, if earlier, pre-emption rights that General Meeting discussed above 30 April 2015 No shares were acquired by forfeiture or surrender or made subject to a lien or charge.
During the year, 1,206,465 Ordinary Shares of $1 each were issued for cash to satisfy the exercise of options or the vesting of awards granted under the Companys employee share plans see note 25 to the accounts.
However, these do not count against the allotment authority summarised in the table as each of the share plans had previously been approved by the shareholders in general meeting.
Transactions, Contractual Arrangements and Post-Balance Sheet Events 4.1 Transactions with Related Parties There was one transaction with a related party during the year, other than those in the ordinary course of business.
In September 2014, a subsidiary company, Western Platinum Limited, made an advance dividend of R242 million to Incwala Platinum Pty Limited Incwala, the Companys principal BEE partner, and committed to make a further advance dividend of R242 million by no later than 31 March 2015.
Incwala owns beneficially more than 10% of the share capital of two material operating subsidiaries, Eastern Platinum Limited and Western Platinum Limited, and is therefore a related party.
Further disclosure is in note 26 to the financial statements.
4.2 Significant Agreements change of control A number of agreements take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid, such as debt facilities and employee share plans.
None of these are deemed to be significant except for the Companys bank debt facilities in the amount of approximately $600 million spread across three separate bilateral ZAR facilities and a syndicated USD facility, which includes seven banks.
These facilities contain provisions under which, in the event that new terms to continue the facility are not agreed within ten days of a change of control in respect of the ZAR facilities and 30 days in respect of the USD facility, the lender is entitled to give notice cancelling the facility and declaring all outstanding loans together with accrued interest to become payable within 15 days of such notice.
The Company does not have agreements with any Director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a change of control, except that certain provisions in some of the Companys long-term incentive schemes may be triggered.
Awards made under the Stay & Prosper Plan crystallise immediately following a change of control, although they only vest and become payable on their normal maturity date three years from the date of grant and are subject generally to the continued employment of the participant.
Directors of the Company are not permitted to hold awards under this Plan.
Awards under the Companys other share plans will vest on a change of control, save to the extent specified by the Remuneration Committee, who will generally take into account the extent to which the performance targets have been met and such other factors as they believe to be appropriate in line with the rules of the relevant plans.
Further information on these plans and other long-term incentives is provided in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 84 to 113.
4.3 Post-Balance Sheet events There have been no material events from 30 September 2014 to the date of this report.
However, the Company entered into a binding agreement with the Bapo in July 2014 in relation to a series of transactions which will enable the Group to meet its BEE targets refer to page 43 and note 30.
The Company currently expects completion of these transactions by 31 December 2014. www.
com Lonmin Plc 82 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Directors Report Reporting, Accountability and Audit 5.1 Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and Accounts The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and parent company Accounts in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors Responsibility Statement can be found on page 120.
5.2 How the Directors discharged their responsibilities in this area The Lonmin Group financial statements are presented in accordance with the IFRSs as adopted by the EU, using the US Dollar as its reporting currency.
Details of the Groups financial risk management are described in note 20 to the accounts on page 151 and in the discussion of Internal Controls and Risk Management in section 8 and 9 of the Audit & Risk Committee Report on pages 71 and 72.
5.3 Going Concern The Directors consider that the Group has adequate financial resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future and that it is therefore appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors have satisfied themselves that the Group is in a sound financial position and that it has access to sufficient borrowing facilities and can reasonably expect those facilities to be available to meet the Groups foreseeable cash requirements.
Further information is provided in note 1 to the accounts on page 125 and A Deeper Look on page 186.
As with previous years, Lonmins capital structure remains robust.
Operating losses in 2012 and 2014 caused by the prolonged strikes have eroded the capital base and this continues to impact on the ability of the business to operate in a highly demanding and competitive environment.
The competing uses and demand for capital has tempered the Directors ability to invest additional capital in existing projects presently.
During the year, Lonmin managed its funding judiciously.
To assist with its ongoing working capital requirements certain cost-cutting programmes have already been implemented.
The positive impact that these actions are likely to have on the Company gives the Directors further comfort over its going concern status.
In their assessment, the Directors have taken the future cash flow requirements of the Company into account, and are of the view that the existing balances, facilities and projected revenue inflows are adequate to meet the going concern requirement.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 83 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Directors Report 5.4 Scope of the reporting in this Annual Report and Accounts The Corporate Governance Report including the Board and Exco biographies, which can be found on pages 48 to 63, the Audit & Risk Committee Report on pages 64 to 73, the Nomination Committee Report on pages 74 and 75, the Safety, Health & Environment Committee Report on pages 76 and 77, the Social, Ethics & Transformation Committee Report on page 78 and the supplementary information contained in the section titled A Deeper Look on pages 174 to 197 are incorporated by reference and form part of this Directors Report.
The Board has prepared a Strategic Report including the Chairmans Letter and the CEOs Letter which provides an overview of the development and performance of the Companys business in the year ended 30 September 2014 FY2014 and its position at the end of that year, and which covers likely future developments in the business of the Company and Group.
For the purposes of compliance with DTR 4.1.
8 R, the required content of the Management Report can be found in the Strategic Report and this Directors Report, including the sections of the Annual Report and Accounts incorporated by reference.
4C R, the information required to be disclosed by LR 9.8.
4 R can be found in the following locations: Section Topic Location 1 Interest capitalised Financial Statements, page 142, note 6 2 Publication of unaudited financial information Not applicable 4 Details of long-term incentive schemes Not applicable 5 Waiver of emoluments by a director Directors Remuneration Report, page 108 6 Waiver of future emoluments by a director As 5 above 7 Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable 8 Item 7 in relation to major subsidiary undertakings Not applicable 9 Parent participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary Not applicable 10 Contracts of significance Directors Report 11 Provision of services by a controlling shareholder Not applicable 12 Shareholder waivers of dividends Directors Report, page 80, section 3.2 13 Shareholder waivers of future dividends Directors Report, page 80, section 3.2 14 Agreements with controlling shareholders Not applicable All the information cross-referenced above is hereby incorporated by reference into this Directors Report.
We have been mindful of the best practice guidance published by DEFRA and other bodies in relation to environmental, community and social KPIs when drafting the Strategic Report.
The Board has also considered social, environmental and ethical risks, in line with the best practice recommendations of the Association of British Insurers.
Management, led by the CEO, has responsibility for identifying and managing such risks, which are discussed extensively in this Annual Report and Accounts and the online Sustainable Development Report.
References in this document to other documents on the Companys website, such as the Sustainable Development Report, are included as an aid to their location and are not incorporated by reference into any section of the Annual Report and Accounts.
5.5 External auditors So far as each current Director is aware, there is no information relevant to the audit of which the Companys auditors are unaware, and each Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any such information and to ensure that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
The Strategic Report, the Directors Report including all sections incorporated by reference and the Directors Remuneration Report were approved by the Board on 9 November 2014.
For and on behalf of the Board.
Rob Bellhouse Company Secretary www.
