Lonmin Plc 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Board of Directors 01.
A Shared Vision 01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 49 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Board of Directors 01.
Ben Magara 47 Chief Executive Officer 03.
Simon Scott 56 Chief Financial Officer Brian was appointed to the Board with Ben joined the Company and Board as Simon joined Lonmin and the Board in effect from 1 November 2013.
Following Chief Executive on 1 July 2013.
He is a September 2010, became CFO in his appointment as chairman on an graduate Mining Engineer from the November 2010 and was Acting CEO interim basis effective 1 May 2014, University of Zimbabwe and has attended during the period 24 August 2012 to Brians appointment as chairman was various management programmes including 30 June 2013.
He is a graduate with confirmed on a permanent basis on the Accelerated Development Programme at accounting and commerce degrees from 21 July 2014.
Brian was formerly Group the London Business School, UK and the the University of the Witwatersrand, and Director, Mining and Technology at Anglo AMP at GIBS, SA.
Ben has extensive mining has also attended the management American where he worked for 36 years.
experience in both underground and surface development program at the University He was also a non-executive director mining as well as soft and hard rock mining.
A South African registered of JSE-listed Anglo American Platinum He also has experience in the energy and chartered accountant, he has held a Limited from May 2010 to 30 September logistics industries.
Ben was the Chief number of financial management roles 2013.
His previous executive roles Executive Officer of Anglo Coal South Africa in South Africa with local and global included four years as Operations and the Executive Head responsible for employers including over eight years Director of Anglo Platinum and working Engineering and Capital Projects at Anglo with Anglo American.
Most recently as COO and subsequently CEO of Anglo Platinum.
Ben is a non-executive director he was CFO of the JSE-listed Aveng Americans global Base Metals business.
of Foskor and was previously a director of Limited, a globally active engineering A graduate in mechanical engineering Anglo American South Africa 2006-2013, and construction group with significant from Wits University and of the PMD was Chairman of Richards Bay Coal involvement in the mining sector.
Simon is programme at Harvard Business School, Terminal and the Eskom 2008 Coal Working both a British and a South African national.
he has career long experience of the Group.
He is also the Chairman of the mining industry, largely gained in Board of Trustees at St Peters Prep School operational roles in South Africa and Foundation.
latterly in other parts of the world, particularly South America.
He is both a British and South African national.
Len Konar 60 Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Karen was appointed to the Board in Jim was appointed to the Board in 2007 Appointed to the Board in 2010, Len has 2005 and is a member of the Audit & Risk, and is chairman of the Remuneration chaired the Audit & Risk Committee since Nomination, Remuneration and Safety & Committee and a member of the Audit July 2010 and is a member of the Nomination Sustainability Committees.
A graduate in & Risk, Nomination and Transformation and Transformation Committees.
Len holds law, with an MBA from Michigan State Committees.
He was appointed Senior degrees in accounting and commerce from University, she spent more than 30 years Independent Director at the 2012 AGM.
South African and U. S. universities.
After working globally with Shell, becoming their An actuary by profession, Jim has extensive qualifying as a chartered accountant, he first female country head in 1983.
After UK and South African business experience, pursued an academic career at the University two years as CEO of Shells global Gas including senior executive roles with of Durban-Westville, before moving into & Power business, she spent five years Prudential UK and Old Mutual, being Group commercial roles.
He now has a broad developing and leading Shells renewable CEO of the latter from 2001-2008.
He is a ranging business career, chairing the boards energy business.
She is a non-executive director of the Financial Reporting Council of leading South African companies including director of British American Tobacco Limited where he chairs the Codes and Exxaro Resources and Steinhoff International where she chairs the Corporate Social Standards Committee and is also a director and serving on the boards of others including Responsibility Committee, a member of of Liberty Group and Liberty Holdings, and Sappi and Alexander Forbes.
A member of the the Pyry board and a member of the chairman of Sun Life Financial.
Jim is a King Committee on Corporate Governance, supervisory board of E. ON.
he is also a member of the Corporate Dutch national.
Governance Forum and the Institute of Directors.
Len is a South African national.
Gary Nagle 39 Non-Executive Director Director Non-Executive Director Gary was appointed to the Board on Appointed to the Board on 2 April 2013, Jonathan was appointed to the Board in 9 September 2013 on which date he Phuti is the CEO of Shanduka Group, 2009, chairs the Safety & Sustainability also joined the Safety & Sustainability Committee.
He has commerce and Lonmins BEE partner, and was nominated to Committee, and is a member of the the Board under a contractual arrangement.
accounting degrees from the University She has a BA in Economics from Rutgers After graduating in jurisprudence and of the Witwatersrand, and qualified as a Chartered Accountant in South Africa University, USA, an MBA from fide Montfort qualifying as a barrister, Jonathan spent 26 University, UK and completed the Kennedy years with Rio Tinto, including nine years in 1999.
Since then he has held a variety School of Government Executive Education service on its board.
His roles at Rio Tinto of appointments within the Glencore program Global Leadership and Public included Mining Director and Chief group, including more than five years as Policy for the 21st Century at Harvard Executive of the Copper and later the CEO of Prodeco, Glencores Colombian University in 2008.
Her executive experience Diamonds & Gold Product Groups.
He is currently CEO of includes financing infrastructure assets and was subsequently CEO of Sappi, the Glencores Alloys Division and is a member of its global management other project finance work in both the US executive chairman of Nikanor and CEO and South Africa.
She joined Shanduka of Extract Resources Limited.
Gary is a South African Group in 2004 as the Managing Director is a British national.
of Shanduka Energy, and became CEO in September 2010.
She was selected as a Global Young Leader in 2007 by the World 10.
Paul Smith 44 Non-Executive Director Economic Forum and listed as one of the Paul was appointed to the Board on 9 September 2013.
He is the Head of Top 50 women in the world to watch in 2008 Strategy and Communications for by the Wall Street Journal.
She is a director of a number of Shanduka Group investee Glencore and sits on its executive capital allocation committee.
A graduate from companies, including Deputy Chair of Oxford University in Modern History, he AIM JSE listed Pan African Resources Plc.
is also a qualified Chartered Accountant.
His career to date has been in investment banking and fund management, before joining Glencore in 2011.
