06 Strategic Report REBUILDING BRIDGES, REINFORCING LONMINS OPERATIONAL SUPERIORITY AND CREATING A BUSINESS THAT IS SUSTAINABLE THROUGH THE CYCLE AND FLEXIBLE TO EXPLOIT OPPORTUNITIES.
THE CONTEXT OUR COMMITMENT SHARED VALUE A strategy to drive value To deliver value for all our Shareholder value will be from outstanding assets, stakeholders by becoming delivered through a focus realise potential and take a superior PGM operator.
on both operational Lonmin to the next level.
01 Strategic Report 07 01 08 Chairmans Letter 10 Chief Executive Officers Letter 12 Our Business Model 14 Our Strategy 23 Market Review 26 Principal Risks and Uncertainties 32 Key Performance Indicators 35 Performance We are on a journey to enhance value for all our stakeholders.
We are determined to do that: enhancing our wealth-creation and investment potential to the benefit of all.
com Lonmin Plc 08 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Chairmans Letter Everything we are now doing, the changes we have introduced, and the plans we have for the future are all focused on creating a sustainable business, benefitting our employees and host communities and critically, driving value for you, our shareholders.
Building long-term sustainable value A Chairmans Letter from Brian Beamish Dear Shareholder, Your Company has experienced a very challenging year, dominated by the five month strike by our majority trade union, which affected the three largest PGM producers, including Lonmin.
Given the scale of the challenges we faced, it is a noteworthy achievement that your company has emerged from these challenges in robust form, ahead of the pack and with confidence for the future.
Notwithstanding the severe disruption and inevitable impact of such a lengthy strike, the market was pleasantly surprised by the way your Company navigated its way through these events.
You can read more about how we did this in Ben Magaras letter, and elsewhere in this report.
The consequence though, at the year end, was that our debt position was healthier than many had anticipated and our key shafts were operating well, in some cases delivering record tonnages.
Given the length of the strike and the serious consequences for our employees and conditions underground, these achievements are testament to the behind the scenes management which allowed us to hit the ground running.
We are now in an exciting position, with a new management structure and a maturing strategy combining to deliver increasingly encouraging results.
Before talking in more detail about key issues in the year, and what lies ahead, I would like to take this opportunity in my first letter as Chairman to pay a warm and heartfelt tribute to my predecessor, Roger Phillimore.
Roger dedicated 17 years to Lonmin, over five of them as Chairman.
His contributions were many, and, given his characteristic dislike for taking credit, often unseen.
It is a fact though that without his decisive leadership in the wake of the Marikana tragedy of 2012 and through the capital-raising which followed, Lonmin might very well not have survived.
He will be a tough act to follow, and I know all our shareholders will join me in wishing him very well for the future.
Karen fide Segundo has decided not to seek re-election at the 2015 AGM.
She has served as a Non-executive Director of the Company since 2005 and has proven to be a stalwart member of the Board during that period.
We are immensely grateful for her insights and contribution, and she leaves with our thanks and best wishes.
Our search for new independent Non-executive Directors, which is reported on in more detail in the corporate governance statement, is well advanced.
It is also now more than a year since your Board welcomed two directors from our largest shareholder, Glencore.
Both have contributed hugely, and their support for our maturing strategic vision is welcome.
When I was given the privilege of becoming Chairman of this business I had a number of priorities but the greatest of them was to support Ben Magara in defining an effective, succinct strategy for Lonmin that will facilitate delivery of our vision and, thus, the success of your Company.
Although the strike dominated the news around Lonmin, in the background Ben and his senior team have been hard at work adapting and developing the strategy for the Company as circumstances evolve, and building on solid work undertaken through 2013.
As you will read further into this report, the effects are already evident, with impressive performances at key shafts, a more streamlined and cost-effective business with production flexibility, and crucially, a focus on value which will allow Lonmin to respond effectively to changing market conditions and drive shareholder value.
Mining profitably, working within our means, and striving for value in every Rand we spend are key to our success, and in delivering value to you, our Shareholders, and to all our stakeholders.
Everything Ben and his team are now doing, the changes they have introduced, and the plans they have for the future are all focused on creating a sustainable business, benefitting our employees and surrounding communities and critically, driving value for shareholders.
Part of our success will rest on issues of wider stakeholder relationships, matters of social responsibility and, above all, employee relations: but we can deliver on none of these without being, first and foremost, w ww ww w.. llo on nm miin n.. c co om m a successful Company which attracts investment and delivers value.
As a PGM miner in South Africa we have responsibilities, challenges and opportunities that few businesses around the world share.
We are fortunate too, that our actions have the power to transform lives for the better in our areas of operation and we can play our part in the wider, ongoing transformation of South Africa, working with government, communities and other entities.
So shareholder value, for this Company, represents not only value for our investors, but value to the lives of tens of thousands of others.
2014 has been a year in which progress has been made with many significant milestones.
Perhaps the most vital of these has been around our responsibilities towards Black Economic Empowerment, or BEE, where significant progress has been made to ensure that the required legislated 26% participation by Historically Disadvantaged South Africans is achieved by December 2014.
There is more detail on this process elsewhere in the annual report.
Aligned to this are the initiatives the Board set for the business in early 2013 around crucial social issues in South Africa.
Although a lot remains to be done, Im encouraged by our focus on progressing these, details of which you can read elsewhere in this report.
Ben Magaras view that these issues are as vital to our success as anything we do operationally is one your Board shares and supports.
We have confidence that 2015 will be another year of significant progress in this area.
This year also saw Lonmin staff and executives giving evidence to The Farlam Commission, the judicial inquiry into the terrible events of 2012 at Marikana.
Your Board has always fully supported Judge Farlam, believing that his commission represents the best chance of identifying the causes and assisting in the healing process for all those affected.
We committed early on not to speak out about Farlam-related issues or comment on the commission, so as not to do anything to undermine the process.
We remain convinced that this was the right choice, but it has meant that we have had to leave a number of unfair allegations unanswered.
It is expected that the judge will deliver his report to President Zuma in early 2015, giving us the chance to engage publicly on some of these issues and to provide a balanced perspective of events and circumstances that is currently missing, particularly from media reports.
We were also subject to inaccurate and mischievous allegations this year about our historic tax position.
These allegations, made by the Alternative Information Development Centre AIDC in South Africa, were wholly false and the Company made this very clear publicly.
At the time of writing, Lonmin is also considering its options in relation to these allegations.
The year has been another tough one for the Platinum Industry, where issues of supply and demand and the role of recycling depressed prices.
Clearly, the South African operating environment as discussed earlier, has been difficult too and exacerbated the situation, although the work we are undertaking to address this through relationship building will help us in future.
In the near term we expect the market to remain difficult, but the medium and longer term fundamentals of PGMs remain solid, and we continue to work hard to be best positioned to take advantage of changing conditions.
To my regret, a dividend is not recommended for the current financial year given the impact of the five month strike on the Companys balance sheet.
Given our reinforced operational excellence, a refreshed management team with the skills and experience to take us to the next level, our attractive asset base and improving global economic circumstances, we can look forward, in my view, to better times ahead.
It has been a very tough, and tragic period for your Company, but I believe it has emerged stronger and can face its future with confidence.
Yours faithfully Brian Beamish Chairman 01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder information Lonmin Plc 09 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Chairmans Letter We are now in an exciting position, with a new management structure and a maturing strategy combining to deliver increasingly encouraging results.
