Lonmin Plc 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Our Business Model Generating value for our shareholders LONMIN EXPLORES, MINES, REFINES AND MARKETS PLATINUM GROUP METALS PGMS PLATINUM, PALLADIUM, RHODIUM, IRIDIUM, RUTHENIUM AND GOLD.
PLATINUM IS OUR PRINCIPAL PRODUCT, AND IN A TYPICAL YEAR IS THE SOURCE OF 60-70% OF OUR REVENUES.
BY-PRODUCTS FROM PGM MINING INCLUDE CHROME, NICKEL, COPPER AND COBALT.
We continue to seek ways to maximise value these with projects such as the tailings retreatment which has resulted in improved PGM recovery rates and increased volumes of chrome produced.
While there will inevitably be short-term volatility in the prices of one or more of the PGMs, we believe that the long-term fundamental economics of these metals remain highly attractive.
OUR FUNDAMENTAL PURPOSE IS TO CREATE VALUE FOR OUR SHAREHOLDERS AND WE REALISE THAT THIS IS ONLY OPTIMALLY ACHIEVABLE COUPLED WITH SOCIAL CAPITAL INVESTMENT.
This can take the form of dividends or other distributions or growth in the value of their investment, or both, as we move through the economic cycle.
We generate value from our operations in four stages: By securing prospecting and mining rights to areas which have PGM mineralisation.
We hold 01 rights to significant areas of the Bushveld Igneous Complex in South Africa, the worlds largest deposit of PGMs and home to around 80% of the worlds known platinum resources.
We maintain a modest and flexible international exploration budget, operating largely in areas of known prospectivity for PGMs when successful, this will provide us with new economic sources of PGMs in other areas of the world, improving our geographical diversity.
By developing these areas into resources and reserves and managing mining 02 operations.
With over 40 years experience in mining PGMs in South Africa, Lonmin has developed superior conventional mining methods and Bushveld Igneous Complex process technology.
By developing industry leading processing and refining techniques.
We were the first in our industry to commercialise the separate treatment of UG2 ore and use 03 our know-how and technology to create value by putting our ore through the full vertically integrated processing chain, producing high purity refined metals for sale.
By maintaining close relationships with key customers, acquiring market intelligence and understanding of market trends which 04 then informs our investment decisions.
In our employee relations we aim to recruit, develop and retain the best via our workplace 05 relationships and the way we work.
o i t a l e R e r u t l u C 01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder information Exploration Processing e c n a n r e v o G Lonmin Plc 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Our Business Model We preserve and protect this value creation potential in five ways: Governance we have created and maintain a robust internal How we create value what we do control and reporting environment, with strong processes for risk identification and mitigation, implemented by a dynamic management team and overseen by an experienced Board of Directors: Culture we are seeking to develop a value based culture where the behaviour of all employees, managers, Directors and others helps promote an ethical, responsible and fair approach to how we do business: Relationships we work hard at establishing relationships with a wide range of stakeholders from employees and their trades OUR AIM: unions, through communities and local government, suppliers, TO CREATE VALUE contractors, customers and other business counterparties, to FOR SHAREHOLDERS, OVER TIME, GREATER national government in its many guises and the providers of our THAN THEIR COST funding lending banks and our shareholders: OF CAPITAL Sustainability we believe that there is only one way to sustain our success, by taking all critical risks into account when we are planning the business.
Working safely, respecting those with whom we work and protecting the environment are all part of our core processes: and Transformation we embrace transformation as a business imperative.
We endeavour to play our full part in addressing historic inequalities and creating the conditions in which current and future generations can succeed in creating a shared purpose.
How we preserve value how we do it How we spend the cash we earn We recognise that our business requires inputs from, and has an effect on, a number of stakeholders.
We see it as crucial that each group feels that their relationship with Lonmin is positive, and that they achieve some net gain, whether financial or otherwise.
The analysis below shows how the $987 million of cash earned in the financial year was distributed: Cash retained for reinvestment 20% Payments to employees 57% Payments to bank lenders 3% Payments to for communities 1% Government taxes 2% Payments to suppliers 17% A significant proportion will be wages paid to contractors.
We estimate around 60% of our costs are labour related.
Shareholders received no dividend during the year, and no final dividend is recommended for 2014.
In 2014 we met costs of 76 cents for every dollar we earned, predominantly in South Africa, and kept another 20 cents for future reinvestment, again predominantly in South Africa.
We spent three cents in every dollar on interest and fees to the banks who lent us money.
Payments for community projects and donations amounted to one cent in every dollar earned.
