Lonmin Plc 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Our Strategy Creating a Lonmin that is sustainable through all cycles WE AIM TO GENERATE VALUE FOR OUR SHAREHOLDERS THROUGH BEING THE SAFEST PRIMARY PRODUCER OF PGMS AND THROUGH GENERATING RETURNS GREATER THAN OUR COST OF CAPITAL OVER TIME, MINIMISING HARM AND CREATING BENEFIT FOR ALL OUR STAKEHOLDERS.
WE REGARD SOCIAL SPEND AS AN INVESTMENT AND A BUSINESS IMPERATIVE.
Lonmin draws significant advantage from its position on two key stock exchanges, a premium listing in London and a secondary listing in Johannesburg.
These provide the Company with excellent access to liquidity in capital markets, a healthy mix of longer and shorter term investors and facilitates international capital inflows into South Africa.
Our Current Asset Base Lonmins current productive operations are all in South Africa.
We also have small projects in Canada, Northern Ireland and Kenya.
Although we will continue to seek further economic PGM resources, our principal asset base is our substantial investment in our major and established mines in South Africa, the worlds premier PGM deposit.
We have a long-life mineral resource over which we have long-term mineral rights granted by the South African Government.
There is significant value in our existing infrastructure and the underground ore reserves that we have developed to be ready for mining.
Lonmin creates value from its existing operations through safe mining, vertical integration and harnessing our industry-leading expertise in processing UG2 ore. Our Business Explore Mine Mill Concentrate Description Explore for potentially Underground mining of Crushing ore brought to Separation of metalliferous economic PGM two reefs, Merensky and surface to the consistency particles from silicate host mineralisation UG2 each approximately of talc, circa 75 microns rock using basic physical 1m thick chemistry Output measurement Mineral Resources Millions of tonnes Millions of tonnes Kilogrammes of PGMs PGM ounces in concentrate Effectiveness measures Increase or replace Tonnes hoisted Tonnes milled PGMs in concentrate kgs Mineral Resources Ore reserves Recovery rate % of contained PGMs recovered Quality measures In situ PGM grade Underground head Milled head grade Concentrate grade and tonnes grade, per ore type grammes per tonne grammes per tonne grammes per tonne Efficiency measures Resources converted Cost per ounce Cost per tonne milled Cost per ounce recovered to Reserves 01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder information Lonmin Plc 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Our Strategy WE ARE FOCUSED ON OUR LONG LIFE ASSETS AND EXISTING INFRASTRUCTURE WHICH WILL SUSTAIN OUR BUSINESS FOR DECADES TO COME Lonmins extensive PGM resources are sufficient to support our business for decades to come: Marikana operations our flagship operation, the source of more than 95% of our current production: Pandora operations a joint venture in which we have a 42.5% interest increasing to 50% in 2015, contributes 5% of our annual production: Marikana Smelter, Base Metal Refinery and Brakpan Precious Metal Refinery has capacity to process and refine our current and future production, offering the potential to smelt and refine third party and recycling material: Limpopo project formerly an operational mine placed on care and maintenance in early 2009.
We have a conditional agreement to sell control of this asset to our Black Economic Empowerment BEE partner, Shanduka: Akanani project a viable resource which offers future optionality with the potential for a long life low cost and highly mechanised operation.
We continue exploration to develop a viable operation: International Exploration projects joint ventures with Vale and Wallbridge exploring PGM mineralisation in the Sudbury Basin in Ontario, Canada, with a pre-feasibility study on an open pit completed: and our Northern Ireland project an early stage exploration opportunity in an area with geological potential for the discovery of PGM deposits.
Refine Refine Smelt Market Base Metals Precious Metals Further separation of metals Chemical and electro-chemical Chemical separation of the Two principal customers matte from silicate host rock separation of base metals individual PGMs contained in for PGMs, both global slag using electricallyfor sale in finished or semiBMR matte and refining to corporations.
Six customers generated heat finished form from PGMs purity of 99.995% or better for for base metals within the matte sale in various finished forms Kilogrammes of PGMs Troy ounces of PGMs Troy ounces of finished metals Troy ounces of finished in smelter matte in BMR matte metals purchased Primary tonnes smelted Recovery rate % of contained PGMs in saleable form Revenues per PGM ounce Recovery rate % of contained PGMs recovered Recovery rate % of contained achieved relative to price PGMs recovered PGMs recovered in spot market Convertor matte grade Base metal Purity % Purity % Quality of product confirmed grammes per tonne PGM % by customer as complying Recovery rate % of contained Recovery rate % of contained with specification PGMs recovered PGMs recovered Cost per tonne smelted Cost per refined ounce Cost per refined ounce Days from delivery of PGMs First pass recoveries % of each to cash settlement metal recovered Throughput time www.
com Rowland MK2 K4 Pandora E4 Newman Merensky Lonmin Plc 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Our Strategy All our current Mining operations are located in the The Bushveld Igneous Complex Bushveld Igneous Complex BIC in South Africa.
The BIC extends approximately 350 kilometres east Zimbabwe to west and approximately 250 kilometres north to south.
It underlies an area of some 65,000 square kilometres, spanning parts of the Limpopo, North Botswana West, Gauteng and Mpumalanga provinces.
Limpopo Akanani Our Marikana mining operations are situated on the Marikana Western Limb of the Bushveld.
We mine both the Rustenburg Upper Group 2 UG2 and Merensky PGM-bearing Johannesburg reefs.
The locations of our shafts at Marikana both South Africa current and future are shown below.
Map of Marikana operations MK3 Shaft K5 Shaft Pandora Deeps MK2 Shaft Pandora Shallows K4 Shaft Saffy Shaft Rowland Shaft E3 Incline Shaft Hossy Shaft K3 Shaft E2 Incline Shaft E1 Incline Shaft Newman 1 Shaft Incline Shaft Shaft 4B Incline Shaft Split reef Mined out areas Shaft lifecycle of Marikana mines Saffy 2014 Newman K3 UG2Sub Incline Saffy 2013 E2 E1 W1 Build-up Steady-state Wind down High Cost & Capital Requirement Low Unit Cost Increased Unit Cost and Sustaining Capital Karee Westerns Easterns Pandora We have an extensive project pipeline which provides us with a range of options including extending the life of our maturing shafts, expanding production to fill existing infrastructure or growth options, allowing us to take advantage of changing market conditions.
We have eleven mine shafts at various stages of their life cycle, from those in the early stages of ramp up to those in the latter stages of their operational life.
To bring the early stage operations to economic maturity requires focus and capital discipline and investment.
deepening w Ro land K3 4B 1B Saffy progress Reef Production % of Capacity 01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder information Lonmin Plc 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 01 02 Relationships with all stakeholders especially employees Our Strategy is the key which will allow us to unlock further potential.
01 02 Our Markets Our PGMs are used globally in a range of applications: Autocatalysts a vital component in the reduction of emissions from internal combustion engines, principally powering cars, vans and heavy duty vehicles, but also extending to ships, trains, motorcycles and even lawnmowers: Jewellery platinum is a pure, rare and eternal metal for jewellery and is securing a position as the metal of choice in the bridal market: Industrial PGMs are used in a range of ways in the manufacture of everyday goods including flat screen televisions, mobile phones, glass manufacturing, medical applications and in petroleum, oil and chemical refineries: and Investment demand interest continues for platinum, palladium and rhodium as investment metals, either in physical form as coins and bars or indirect holding in the form of physically-backed Exchange Traded Funds ETFs.
Our Strategic Priorities In 2013 we began a fundamental review of our business.
Throughout and after the subsequent five month strike in 2014 we took the opportunity to adapt our thinking.
This has developed into the strategy, which takes into account the Board initiatives laid out in early 2013 around social and community issues as well as operational ones and comprises the following four pillars: Operational Excellence Enhance Balance Sheet Strength Our People and Relationships Our Corporate Citizenship Agenda 1 Operational Excellence 1.1 Safety Safety comes first in everything we do.
We strive to be the industry leader in safety and we believe that Zero Harm is achievable.
This starts with the safety and wellbeing of our employees and extends to everything we do including minimising the environmental impact of our operations.
We believe that integrating our operational and sustainability strategies will enable us to deliver on our goal of Zero Harm.
Meeting the expectations of our stakeholders will allow us to deliver on the expectations of our shareholders.
The two are absolutely interlinked.
Lonmin believes that the days when many of these social issues were described as soft, set against the hard issues of operations, are gone.
Our ability to make sustained profits rests as much on our employee and community relations as it does on how well we mine.
Without one, we cannot achieve the other.
com Lonmin Plc 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Our Strategy 1 Operational Excellence continued 1.2 Priorities Our highest short term priority is our excellent Marikana operations which are some of the best in the industry, in terms of quality, safety and performance.
We are also the industry leader in UG2 mining and processing technology, an increasingly important part of the ore mix mined in the industry.
Within our mining operations, we will strive to achieve balance between our eleven shafts.
Some are smaller, older shafts in the latter stages of their operational life and highly cash generative whilst some are larger, newer, still ramping-up to full potential and are therefore not currently at maximum capital efficiency and operating cost.
Profitability and returns are crucial.
We mine for value, not just for volume.
Where volume might help deliver this in future, we aim to have the flexibility to do so with minimal expenditure, but given the present PGM market, we believe efficiency and cash is king in the short term.
We are ensuring that our newer assets reach the most efficient and profitable points they can in terms of costs, production and efficiency before the older shafts reach the end of their lives.
Over the past 18 months, we have closely looked hard at our Marikana operations, reviewing assets, practices, systems and operating models.
We launched a comprehensive review of our assets to address asset utilisation, reduce the total cost of ownership, improve capital efficiency and productivity and therefore profitability and cash flow with the aim that Lonmin improves the quality and consistency of its earnings and reduces cost per ounce in the medium term, whilst prudently managing risk through all cycles.
We acknowledged that our assets compete for the limited amount of available capital.
We are actively pursuing a process of allocating capital to projects that we believe will provide no less than 15% returns, taking account of risk and we are reducing capital expenditure in line with cash generation.
As a result of the review, we concluded that our Marikana portfolio utilisation can be further optimised and our return on the limited capital invested, enhanced.
Utilisation of shaft hoisting capacity is too low and our concentrator, smelting and refining capacity is greater than required for the volume of output from mining.
This coupled with low productivity and a high fixed cost base presents an opportunity for Lonmin to improve profitability.
1.3 Actions In light of priorities set out above the actions being taken will fall under the following headings: Marikana asset flexibility Value Benefits Additional Projects 1.3.
1 Marikana asset flexibility We have instituted new operating philosophies at old shafts in decline to maximise cash generation and minimise expenditure, specifically at E1, E2, E3 and Newman.
We have identified excess labour in the shafts which we are deploying into productive roles at K4 and elsewhere.
We are accelerating improvement initiatives through theory of constraints at our big, low cost shafts of the future to increase and sustain shaft hoisting performance and improve capital efficiency.
K3, 4B, Rowland, Saffy and Hossy shafts will benefit from this.
Saffy ramp up profile was delivered in line with 2013 promises despite the strike.
We have driven the optimal ramp up of the shaft by maintaining 18 months of available ore reserve to support the required extraction rate, putting stoping crews in place ahead of schedule and improving crew efficiencies.
We have deployed a highly skilled business improvement team to identify and eliminate bottlenecks and improved infrastructure to support planned production levels.
Hossys long term plan has been adversely impacted by numerous capital deferrals over its life resulting in increased unit costs.
We had already identified it as a high-cost marginal shaft.
As we resumed operations following the strike, it was important to safely ramp up as quickly as possible.
The significant attendance we saw across the entire business enabled us to restart all the shafts.
However, we also discussed with the unions the fact that Hossy was at risk in view of its high cost nature and productivity issues.
The excellent rate of production we have demonstrated illustrates the early success of the collaborative effort.
The additional capital required to develop the Hossy shaft to the level where we would see costs come down significantly is currently unaffordable and must rank behind other projects in attractiveness.
As our highest cost and therefore most vulnerable shaft, Hossy has been the focus of our efforts to reduce costs and we are carrying out a full technical review of the shafts long term prospects while instituting targeted interventions to reduce real unit costs as follows: discarding the XLP mining method and continuing with hybrid mining whilst increasing the volume of production: reviewing the contractor model at the shaft: driving efficiency improvement projects and reviewing shaft overheads and right sizing the operation to 100,000 tonnes per month from a name plate capacity of 120,000 tonnes per month.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder information Lonmin Plc 19 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Our Strategy 1 Operational Excellence continued 1.3 Actions continued 1.3.
1 Marikana asset flexibility continued K4 shaft offers the best brownfield replacement and growth optionality for Lonmin.
We placed it on care and maintenance in 2012 as market conditions deteriorated but in line with Saffy and Hossy, K4 will be the next shaft to benefit from our new approach.
We are now placing a dedicated team into K4 to look at how we can begin to prepare K4 for an effective ramp up in due course without requiring excessive capital.
We will use the excess productive labour from other shafts.
It is likely that we will see some preparation activity at K4 during the 2015 financial year.
We will continue to mine our opencast pit as long as this makes economic sense and it is likely to deplete by December 2015 at current extraction rates.
We decided to defer the restart of the Number One UG2 concentrator in order to match concentrator capacity to mining output.
Capital spend for 2015 has been reduced by 38% from the $400 million outlined in 2012 to $250 million in line with cash conservation while maintaining production of around 750,000 Platinum ounces equivalent.
2 Value Benefits The savings we anticipate, denominated in Rand, as most of our expenses are incurred in Rand, are targeted over the next three years to amount to more than R2 billion.
Operating Model Cost Savings We anticipate cost savings of around R600 million to come from a review of our contractor model: redeployment of employees and contractors: freezing some recruitment: and natural attrition.
Additionally we expect continuous procurement cost savings through the Total Cost of Ownership project.
Productivity and Efficiencies We expect value benefits arising from productivity and efficiencies improvements.
This includes half level optimisation of key shafts and our focus on stoping crew efficiencies.
Process Operations We have a number of initiatives within our processing operations which are anticipated to yield benefits.
This includes reducing our metals in process pipeline and continued processing recovery improvements through the bulk tailing treatment project.
This project which was delayed as a result of the impact of the strike on capital spend, is progressing and is anticipated to deliver near term returns.
Our cost reduction programme is delivering in numerous areas.
We have seen wins from our centralised procurement work, supported by strong management information systems and a robust internal controls environment.
This also benefits from the changes in our operating philosophy of planning earlier, taking action earlier and thus being less reactive.
This was particularly demonstrated by the way we were able to minimise the impact of the lengthy strike and the subsequent safe and exceptional ramp up.
A significant proportion of our costs are fixed, adding to the operational gearing of the business.
Aside from the uncontrollable effects of metal prices and foreign exchange, our profitability is therefore closely linked to our productivity, capital efficiency and cost management.
3 Additional projects We plan to utilise the excess capacity we have through increased purchase of concentrate and third party tolling to improve process capacity utilisation.
We intend to leverage customer relationships to optimise revenues generated from our basket and pursue collaboration in market development.
We are examining risk sharing partnerships that would benefit from Lonmins competitive skills, expertise and excess smelting and refining capacity and industry leading processing technology.
2 Enhance Balance Sheet Strength We plan to preserve a conservative balance sheet with access to sufficient funds to finance both ongoing operations and prudent and efficient capital expenditure.
Our excellent project pipeline should not be funded by bank debt which should be used sparingly, principally to fund working capital fluctuations.
Our ability to re-invest in our asset base is therefore contingent on our own profitability.
Importantly part of our savings from cost and capital efficiency has to go into social investment as this has proven a business imperative.
Going forward we recognise that there will be a need to balance our shareholders need to receive a dividend and the need for capital and social spend.
com Lonmin Plc 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Our Strategy 3 Our People and Relationships The unprecedented five month strike has refocused our energy on rebuilding relations with employees and their representative trade unions.
In the wake of the strike we have continued to reach out to our employees and all unions, through meetings and structured workshops aimed at ensuring that any issues can be dealt with swiftly and without recourse to industrial action.
The relationships with our employees and their representative trade unions are critical to our success.
They form the central part of how we conduct our business and an acknowledgement of their respective roles in ensuring a sustainable operating environment.
We are increasing our efforts to communicate directly with employees and to reclaim our role as the primary source of communication.
This direct engagement with employees through the existing line management structures and the periodic communication forums, forms part of the way we work and the basis of creating empowered, high performance teams.
Through the leadership development and team effectiveness training programmes, we continue to develop our managers capacity to manage this new form of direct engagement.
In addition we have initiated a relationship building programme.
This programme has culminated in the Relationship Charter, which outlines our aspirations of the nature of relationship that will be built with the unions and measures that are being implemented to give effect to the Charter.
The Charter presents a real opportunity to strengthen relations with trade unions inter alia through constructive and regular engagements using our union engagement structures such as the Future Forum.
More information around the relationship charter we have developed to guide this process can be found under the Performance Section of this report.
We have established a lean, focused management team Our new operating model increases cohesion, execution and accountability: The operating philosophy promotes operational excellence, knowledge sharing, collaboration and consistency.
The resultant structure is lean and flatter: Absolute focus on building relationships and building the trust of our employees whilst asserting our role as managers and employer: We have created a Business Support Office BSO, reporting to the CEO but with reach across the entire Company.
Our aim is to drive greatest value from every area of our business, and ensuring we are spending the right amount in the right areas.
The BSO will also build on the work we have done on costs, bringing a single minded focus on our relentless drive to save money and develop a monitoring system to maximise efficiency: Rolling out a comprehensive culture change programme to support the delivery of the strategy: and We will continue to review structures across the business on a unit by unit basis for strategic fit and effectiveness.
Management has begun to drive through the strategic actions from the asset review and we are seeing encouraging results.
The solid ground-work that we have done over recent months underpins the excellent traction we have gained and should enable us to realise future opportunities.
We have made major changes to our top team in order to create a cohesive business with empowered operating teams.
We have an experienced and skilled middle management team and they now have been given a greater say and control over their various areas which is already bearing fruit.
The reshaped management team is now more focused on value and delivery.
The new structure will enable us to utilise the skilled resources we have across the mining and processing operations and develop a common culture.
This provides for our employees growth and development with great benefits to Lonmin.
Our new approach is also improving our ability to attract, develop and retain the best talent.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder information Lonmin Plc 21 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Our Strategy 4 Our Corporate Citizenship Agenda 4.1 Stakeholder Engagement The importance of genuine and robust stakeholder engagement and relationship building has become increasingly apparent over the past decade, given the need to understand stakeholder expectations and communicate on key issues transparently, consistently and in a timely manner.
We have identified and prioritised our stakeholder groups and individuals and allocated relationship owners to each grouping.
Our aim is to rebuild and protect Lonmins relationships with all and critical stakeholders who have a significant ability to impact Lonmins operations and investment case.
The renewed focus and energy on stakeholder engagement acknowledges the role of partnerships in confronting the challenges plaguing the industry.
Functional partnerships between Government, organised labour and community leaders are essential if we are to create the necessary environment for a sustainable future.
4.2 Corporate Communications and Reputation Management The tragic events of August 2012, the protracted strike of 2014 and the media hype surrounding the Farlam Commission of Inquiry have all impacted negatively on the Lonmin brand.
Our reputation is, and will continue to be, shaped by what we do and not by what we say.
This principle underlies our approach to all stakeholder engagement.
The role of communications has been critically examined, specifically with respect to rebuilding trust externally as well as internally between management and employees, and creating an environment of peace and tolerance.
This renewed focus on communication, transparency and genuine engagement led to several structural changes in a bid to align the Company and our stakeholders to a shared vision of a sustainable and profitable Lonmin through all cycles and minimise business interruptions.
4.3 Social licence to Operate Maintaining our social licence to operate through securing the trust and acceptance of communities and stakeholders is material as they host our operations.
This is achieved through: stakeholder engagement to ensure social expectations are understood and managed: community investment initiatives to address social issues: transformation initiatives to meet the governments social and economic development goals: ethical business practices that include a commitment to upholding human rights: and corporate and community partnerships.
This is very much work in process and is based on an acknowledgement that trust must be restored and communities healed.
Our community investment focus ties into the direct and indirect impact we have on our labour sending areas and local communities, who host our operations, and the reliance we have on them.
The long-term feasibility of mining operations relies upon the well-being of these communities.
Conversely our business has a finite life span and we are responsible for enabling the continued sustainability of these communities after our operations conclude.
Through education, health and infrastructure programmes we aim to address the challenges faced in the Greater Lonmin Community GLC, which were partially created from the legacy of migrant labour to the mines and the historical inequalities of economic opportunity.
Our programmes provide us with a pipeline of skilled local employees and increased procurement from the local community.
Lonmin is supportive of and commits to participate in the South African governments National Development Plan NDP.
The NDPs priorities include raising employment through faster economic growth and improving the quality of education, skills development and innovation.
4.4 Human Rights Lonmin is committed to providing a working environment that upholds international standards for human rights in alignment with our internal values and Business Code of Conduct.
The Human Rights Policy, which has been in place since 2009, is aligned to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour Organisation, and the Principles of the International Council on Mining and Metals.
The commitments contained in the policy have been incorporated into the Lonmin Sustainable Development Standards.
Human rights are communicated to employees and contractors during training and induction programmes and mandatory annual refresher training.
These sessions inform attendees of their rights, expectations, standards and mechanisms to report grievances or incidents, which include a toll free ethics hotline service.
Incidents of human rights violations are recorded and investigated where possible.
In 2014, there were 16 reported cases related to intimidation were reported to the South African Police Service.
Suppliers are subject to a process of review against a range of environmental, safety and social responsibility criteria before they are formally registered as vendors.
Contractual agreements with suppliers contain clauses pertaining to human rights requirements.
Suppliers are screened for all new vendor applications.
In the past two years, the Company has overcome various challenges, particularly in the area of security on the property.
We have implemented a formal Security Risk Management Policy and Security Code of Conduct early in 2014 and this process has been informed by the human rights principles enshrined in the UN Global Compact and international best practice.
All of our security personnel are trained in our security policies and in human rights and ethical behaviour.
com Lonmin Plc 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Our Strategy EXCELLENT ASSETS, A NEW STRATEGY, SIGNIFICANT CHANGE HOW WE WILL DELIVER VALUE AND CREATE A PREDICTABLE AND SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS.
CEO Ben Magara has set significant changes in the way we go forward as a business: A streamlined and reconstituted Exco model which cuts duplication, remove silos, empowers middle management to deploy their industry-leading skills and ensures greater senior executive focus on key areas, adding agility and efficiency.
An organisation that is able to deliver a shared, clear vision with all stakeholders.
The need for a relentless focus on mining for value striving for profitable ounces first without destroying long-term flexibility and returns.
The need to build in production flexibility at low cost, allowing Lonmin to respond quickly to changing market conditions without weakening its balance sheet.
Exploiting our excellent asset base, using cash we generate, whilst maintaining a continued forensic focus on costs, cash conservation and productivity.
The initiatives around social and community issues, laid out by the Board in early 2013 these remain our focus and are business imperative.
They go to the heart of so much of what we do.
Relationships with employees and other stakeholders are the key allows us to unlock the potential of the Company.
All of this work is now well underway, and yielding results: our focus now is on keeping the momentum and embedding delivery credibility.
The long term fundamentals of the PGM market remain solid and Lonmin is well positioned for improvement when it comes.
We have put a bold cost reduction and productivity improvement programme in place so that the business is sustainable through all cycles and profitable in the near-term.
In summary, the whole Lonmin strategy can be summarised by the following pictorial diagram of our house with key pillars.
OUR VISION We dig to improve lives The PGM supplier, investment, partner and employer of choice Creating shared value for all stakeholders Our A superior PGM producer Focused on returns And cash-generating business Investment Reduction in total cost per PGM oz Target 15% IRR Positive FCF post capital expenditures Case Operational Excellence Our People Corporate Strategy Corporate Citizenship A place where people Review to optimise business Zero Harm Contribute and improve lives are energised processes and systems Attracting, developing and Financing strategy to Genuine Stakeholder Improved productivity retaining the best talent support the business engagement STRATEGIC PILLARS Collaborative and Significant cost reduction Diversifying profit pools Community value proposition flat structures Accountable Leadership, Maximise profitability and Optimised operating model Beyond compliance empowered teams shareholder returns Strengthen employee and Corporate activity Innovation and technology Corporate communication union relationships opportunities Ramp up Saffy Managers reclaiming their roles Optimised business plan Education Hossy Review Union relationships Value creation opportunities Health Immediate K4 Improving living conditions Infrastructure ACTIONS Crew efficiency ESOP Blast performance Recoveries High quality Mineral Resource, Zero Harm is achievable Robust mediumto The power of shared Our BIC mining methods and long-term PGM industry purpose I am because BELIEFS process technology fundamentals you are UBUNTU Employee Self Worth Integrity, Honesty and Trust Respect for others High Performance Transparency Our VALUES ZERO HARM in SAFETY HEALTH and ENVIRONMENT
