01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder information Lonmin Plc 23 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Market Review Market Review and Outlook AS THE MARKET CONTINUES TO DESTOCK, PLATINUM PRICES SHOULD BEGIN TO APPRECIATE AND THE PLATINUM MARKET TO RECOVER.
Overview Market Outlook 2015 During the year under review the platinum price The platinum-group metals continue to offer solid, has fallen short of market expectations.
Significant captive demand through increasing global vehicle destocking by mining companies during the longest sales and tighter emissions standards, not to mention strike in platinums history, not to mention the growth robust demand in industrial applications and strong of platinum ETF products in South Africa, should emerging growth in platinum jewellery in India.
have led to higher prices than prevail today.
Therefore, as the market continues to destock, platinum prices are expected to begin to appreciate However, speculative investment positions have been and the platinum market to recover.
The market and long for some time constraining upward price prices remain vulnerable to asynchronous global movement leaving platinum largely range bound economic growth and further Rand weakness.
During the last two weeks of September a strengthening dollar combined with Supply uneven global economic trends resulted in significant Supply in 2014 million ounces liquidation and price depreciation.
Region 2014 2013 Variance Nonetheless, as investors have shifted from relatively South Africa 2,903 4,227 31.3 % overweight to underweight in platinum, the health of Zimbabwe 378 406 6.9 % market fundamentals is expected to exert greater North America 358 355 0.7% influence on future price recovery.
Platinum sales contributed 64% of our Total 6,740 8,028 16.1 % turnover.
Palladium was the second highest contributor to the revenue basket with the 212,500 ounces sold Source: SFA Oxford constituting 17% of Lonmins income.
Combined sales of rhodium, ruthenium and iridium contributed Mine supply from South Africa contracted by a further 11% and Gold and Base Metals made up 1.3 million ounces year on year mostly due to the the balance.
However, sales for the year are expected to reduce the loss to around 0.8 million PGM Prices ounces as producers destocked the pipeline during this time.
Outside of South Africa supply remained Despite the five month strike experienced by the three mostly flat with a decline in Zimbabwe due to the largest PGM producers both platinum and rhodium temporary closure of Bimha mine as a result of ground prices are lower in Dollar terms compared to the same conditions.
Recycling in automotive grew by 3.2% period under review in 2013. but was offset by the decline in jewellery recycling.
The average price of platinum was $1,426 per ounce Net recycling is estimated to come in at around 1.0% in the year to September compared to $1,537 per growth year on year.
The reduction in metal prices in ounce 7% lower for 2013, while rhodium lost just calendar Q4 is expected to act as a reduced incentive $7 on average.
com US$ oz Total cash costs $ 4E oz Lonmin Plc 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Market Review Demand in 2014 Automotive catalyst demand continues to improve marginally for all of the three primary PGMs.
The recovery of this sector remains ahead of global GDP growth in most geographies and coupled with ever tightening tailpipe emissions legislation has underpinned the fundamentals of the metals.
In addition, platinum jewellery and other industrial sector demands have remained relatively supportive.
2014 Platinum Demand 2014 Palladium Demand 2014 Rhodium Demand 8.3 million ounces 10.0 million ounces 1.1 million ounces Jewellery 3% Other 1% Other 4% Other 5% Non-road Engines 2% Non-road Engines 1% Glass 6% Medical & Biomedical 3% Dental 4% Electrical 1% Automotive 38% Glass 4% Electrical 10% Chemical 7% Electrical 2% Chemical 7% Chemical 5% Petroleum 2% Automotive 76% Automotive 82% Jewellery 37% Source: SFA Oxford Platinum Palladium Rhodium Autocatalyst Autocatalyst demand is This is the dominant demand Automotive requirements for 1 & non-road anticipated to grow by 4.3% sector for palladium and is rhodium continued to recover engines compared to 2013 mainly forecast to be 6.4% higher steadily.
The lean NO trap X due to higher PGM loadings than 2013 due to light duty containing rhodium is favoured 2 associated with Euro 6 and vehicles in China up 9.3% in small cars to remove NO.
and growth in US vehicle sales of 4.9%.
Jewellery Chinese retailers estimate 2014 Demand for palladium jewellery Though rhodium is used to platinum jewellery sales to grow is forecast to decline by 16.9% coat platinum jewellery in 3 by 5.3%.
India is estimated to in 2014 due higher metal prices.
some markets the demand, grow by 25% and USA growth remain constant but small.
is also expected to be robust.
Investment in ETFs grew by During the year in review The rhodium ETF added Investment 17.3% since September last palladium ETFs grew from 36,000 ounces closing at year rising to 2.75 million 2.0 million ounces to 2.8 million 130,000 ounces at the end ounces at 30 September 2014. ounces mostly due to the two of September 2014.
Most of the growth came from South African ETFs launched the ABSA SA ETF.
Demand grew at 3.3% in N A N A Petroleum line with new refinery expansion.
Demand for big bulk polymers Demand contracted as Chemical and plastics lead to a growth of other less expensive metal around 4.8% for platinum in is substituting palladium in the manufacturing processes.
Demand remained flat Demand contracted as other less Electrical during 2014. expensive metal is substituting palladium in this category.
Demand for display glass N A Demand for display glass has Glass has given rise to several given rise to new plants in new plants in Asia increasing Asia increasing requirements by 33%.
Demand grew in line with Demand grew in line with Medical & global GDP growth.
Biomedical 1 SFA Oxford Platinum Standard September 2014 2 LMC Automotive 3 Platinum Guild International 01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder information Lonmin Plc 25 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Market Review Products enabled by Platinum Group Metals Automotive Transport Industrial Catalytic Converters Crucibles for crystal growth Fuel Cells Vessels and Channels for Glass production Petroleum Refining Glass Fibre Antilock braking systems Production in Nitric Acid Airbag Initiators Acetic Acid production in Cativa process Engine Management systems Production of paraxylene Aircraft Turbines Production of polyethelene terephthalate Sensors Production of Caustic Soda Spark Plugs Production of cyclohexane for nylon Production of speciality silicones Synthetic Rubber Thermocouples Environmental Medical Air purification panels Aural & Retinal Implants Ethylene Absorber Pacemakers & Defibrillators Water treatment Catheters & Stents Neuro-modulation Cancer Treatments Neural Implants for Parkinson's Disease Dental Electronics Jewellery Other Uses Multi-Layer Ceramic Capacitors Computer Hard Disk Drives Fountain pens Electrodes and Other Electronics Glassware Glaze Razor Coating Smoke and Carbon Monoxide Detectors Aircraft Spark Plugs Forensic Staining Silicones Strengthening Collaboration on Market Development During 2014 the industry continued with its collaborative effort to promote the use of platinum in jewellery.
The significant growth in India can be ascribed to the perseverance of select South African mining industry participants including Lonmin and the vision of committed jewellery partners in the region.
Further, more intensified efforts should see the Indian jewellery market grow from strength to strength in the near term.
In addition, the industry has also comprehensively joined forces and are working together to establish and launch a new industry body that will focus on educating and promoting the market on the value of holding platinum as an investment.
