Lonmin Plc 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Executive Committee 01.
A team dedicated to the future of Lonmin 01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 51 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Executive Committee 01.
Ben Magara 47 Chief Executive Officer 02.
Simon Scott 56 Chief Financial Officer 03.
Johan Viljoen 55 Chief Operating Officer Biography included overleaf on page 49.
Biography included overleaf on page 49.
Johan joined Lonmin in August 2014 and brings with him extensive experience in the mining industry, having worked for almost 38 years in operational management and executive leadership roles with Goldfields, Anglo American and Anglo Gold Ashanti.
Johan is a mining engineer by background.
He holds a BSc in mining from the University of Johannesburg and has attended various management programmes including the Executive Management Program at the Kellogg Business School as well as many other mining and management related qualifications.
Johan is a South African national.
Ben Moolman 53 Head of Business 06.
Lerato Molebatsi 45 Executive Vice President, Vice President, Strategic Business Support Office Communications and Public Affairs Transformation Ben joined us in August 2014 to head up our Lerato joined Lonmin in September 2013 Barnard joined Lonmin in October 2005 as newly established Business Support Office, having worked at the Department of Labour a Group Manager, Communications and the primary purpose of which is to drive the since September 2011 as their Deputy Director External Affairs and was promoted to implementation of our strategic initiatives.
Prior to joining the Executive Vice President, Human Capital Ben comes to us from Glencore where he Department of Labour, Lerato worked in senior and External Affairs in September 2009, at initially joined them as General Manager of executive positions at Sanlam, Old Mutual and their Alloys business and, within a short Alexander Forbes.
She holds a Bachelor of Arts which time he was also appointed to the Exco.
In September 2013, Barnard period of time, was appointed Managing degree in Psychology from the University of assumed responsibility for Transformation, Director of their platinum division.
Prior to Johannesburg and a Post Graduate Diploma this, Ben worked for Lonmin in a variety of in Rural Policy Development Policy and human settlements and mining charter compliance.
He previously worked in operational management positions, latterly Management from the University of senior management positions in a range of as the head of our mining operations.
She has also attended the sectors for a number of companies is a mining engineer by profession and holds Senior Management Development Programme including Sentech, the South African Rail a BSc in Engineering Mining from the at the University of Stellenbosch.
Lerato has Commuter Corporation and the National University of the Witwatersrand and several considerable experience in labour dynamics, Lottery Operator UTHINGO.
He holds a management qualifications obtained at community engagement, government and various international institutions.
Lerato will be responsible for BA Phil from Urban Pontifical University, an MA Licentiate from Gregorian University South African national.
corporate communications, media and public and an EDP from Pretoria.
Barnard is a relations, stakeholder management, South African regulatory affairs and community South African national.
Lerato is a South African national.
Abey Kgotle 43 Executive Vice Senior Management Team Changes Head of Sustainability and Development, President, Human Resources Shanduka Resources Abey joined Lonmin in April 2008 as Senior Lonmin Plc is delighted to welcome Johan Thandeka was nominated by Shanduka.
He held Viljoen to the management team as our Chief She works with Shandukas investee several roles including Executive Manager Operating Officer COO, a seasoned mining companies advising on transformation External Affairs and Executive Manager engineer and leader at this pivotal time.
He was appointed and broad-based empowerment.
She COO replaced two existing roles: the Executive holds a social sciences degree from Executive Vice President Human Resources Vice President EVP Mining and EVP Processing.
the City University of New York and an in September 2013.
Prior to joining Lonmin, The change will better align the functions and he worked in executive human resources MBA from Henley Business School.
help with the creation of a common culture and She began her career working with roles at GrafTech South Africa, City of knowledge sharing across all our operations.
various government institutions, Johannesburg, Samancor Manganese and After 25 years with the Lonmin Group, Albert developing strategy and policy for small Denel.
Abey has extensive experience in Jamieson, Chief Commercial Officer left the and medium enterprises, and then joined human resource management, labour company in December 2014.
His experience and the retail banking side of Standard Bank.
relations, community investment and corporate knowledge has been invaluable over Thandeka is a South African national.
He holds a Bachelor the years and we thank him for the significant of Social Sciences from the University of contribution that he has made.
the North West and a Masters Diploma in Human Resource Management.
Abey The EVPs for Mining and Processing, Mark is a South African national.
Munroe and Natascha Viljoen, who can be very proud of their time with Lonmin, both having played key roles in delivering solid operational performances in the most difficult of circumstances left during the year to pursue new opportunities.
The EVP for Strategic Business Transformation, Barnard Mokwena will be leaving us at the end of December.
He has played a pivotal role in defining our transformation journey.
We are grateful for their achievements and we wish them all the very best for the future.
It gives us great pleasure to welcome Ben Moolman back to Lonmin to head our Business Support Office.
He is no stranger to us having previously served as the head of our mining operations.
We believe that people make the difference and are certain that if we focus on people, results, safety and sustainability: we will deliver a better future for all our stakeholders.
