Strategic report Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 18 Our brand highlights Our brand Driving reappraisal My Plan A This year, we engaged over 330 0,0 0,00 00 0 customers in a wide range of on nline nline Plan A activities including our Shwopping Facebook app and registering for our Big Beach Clea an an- -u up p.. achieve their goal.
These dynamic women Patrick Bousquet-Chavanne represent and celebrate the unique and Executive Director, diverse women of modern Britain.
Marketing & Business Development The campaign, which launched in Overview September and March on social media Intelligence and innovation.
Quality and first, followed by print media with billboard style.
A rich history and an extraordinary backing, achieved remarkable recognition global reach.
These are some of the of 52% at its peak and led to an 89% attributes that make M&S unique.
Our sell-through of the top items.
Web videos aim this year was clear: to reassert M&S of the Leading Ladies reminded our as a brand of style and substance in GM, customers that we cater for diverse and to showcase the quality, innovation personalities and tastes.
The posters and and provenance of our Food.
In order magazine inserts were powerful symbols to stand out in both a competitive of M&Ss heritage and quality.
We dont marketplace and our customers minds, believe that anyone else could have it is crucial that we are consistent in assembled such a strong line-up.
We aim to deliver a holistic brand experience that spans our Our festive campaign products, our sub-brands, our marketing For our Christmas TV campaign we and, critically, our in-store environments.
revived the popular Magic & Sparkle We have a broad range of customers.
franchise, a rm favourite with customers.
But within that we have clear customer And for the first time, we combined Food groups, and we worked hard this year to and GM in one campaign.
With the Emphatically M&S remain relevant to each one of these nations mindset still prudent, people Our brands have distinct identities groups via compelling and relevant went into Christmas with the desire to to make them emphatically different, targeted marketing initiatives.
So the campaign was a rich while remaining emphatically M&S.
Even though we fantasy, with fashion at its core, based Carolyn Murphy and David Gandy are have over 34 million customers, there are on our favourite fairy tales, starring Rosie the faces of M&S Collection, and many more people who we should Huntington-Whiteley and Helena Rosie Huntington-Whiteley is now the appeal to.
If the past year has been Bonham Carter.
The ad was one of our face of Autograph.
about restating our values to core strongest, with recognition peaking at customers, next year is about 83%.
The campaign dovetailed with our reactivating a love for M&S among lapsed festive food: many products had a M&S is modern, customers and attracting new ones.
sprinkling of Magic & Sparkle of their own, from our Glitter Juice with drinkable Leading campaigns stylish and has glitter to our Whisky Gold Scottish Our Leading Ladies campaign by Annie Smoked Salmon topped with gold ecks.
Leibovitz is a powerful expression of what something for todays M&S stands for.
Arranged in Many new roads Leibovitzs signature life-style tableau, the Marketing was simpler in the past.
images featured in uential British women was only one way to shop in a store of achievement wearing M&S from M&S Customer Feedback and only a limited number of media Oscar-winner Emma Thompson to through which to advertise.
Now, many Olympian Nicola Adams and Baroness roads lead to M&S, 24 7, 365 days a relationship with customers has Lawrence of Clarendon.
We have to be present wherever changed: our marketing today is in background, they share one common our customers are: on the high street, on interactive, multifaceted and nuanced, attribute: an uncompromising drive to computers and tablets, on social media and our new M&S.
The nature of our Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements and other information Strategic report Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 19 Leading Ladies overseas As well as running in the UK, our Leading Ladies Socially yours camp paig gns featured in 10 of We spent over 20% of o ou ur i r in nt te er rn nati atio on na al l a ag gs sh hiip p our Christmas digital s st to or re es s, f, fr ro om Pa m Par riis t s to Pr o Pra ag gu ue e marketing budget on a an nd S d Siin ng ga ap po or re t e to S o Sh ha an ng gh ha aii.. social media for the first time, helping us achieve record levels of customer awareness.
Our Pass the Parcel M&S en V M&S en Vogue ogue Facebook game saw A As s p pa ar rt of a t of a p par art tn ner ership with customers pass C Cond ond N Nas ast t, th the e e ed ditors-in- 1.7 million virtual parcels chie chieff of m of maga agaz zine ines, s, via their mobile phone.
iin nc cllu ud diin ng V g Vo og gu ue a e an nd d GQ, c choose hoose th their eir f fa av vo our urite M&S Over four million people p pr ro od du uc cts t ts to o fe featu atur re e in a Pick received news of our of th of the M e Mo onth s nth se ec cti tio on in their Valentines Day offers m ma ag ga az ziin ne es, w s, wiith a c th a crossover on lingerie, food and to to M M& &S S.. c co om m.. owers through social media.
Our plan for the future Our marketing activity will seek to excite our regular shoppers, entice lapsed shoppers and recruit future shoppers across all product categories.
We will ensure that M&S communicates in a relevant and inspirational way with Make T Make Today Delic oday Delicious our core customers.
O Ou ur M r Ma ak ke T e To od day ay D fide elicious ffo ood od campaign campaign highligh high ted Our store environments M& M&S a S as s th the e d fide es sti tin na ation for will continue to improve eve ever ryd yday ay eve even nts, s ts, su uch as to re ect our brand pi picnics cnics, b, barbecues arbecues and reappraisal and Sund Sunday ro ay roa as sts.
com publishing platform to deliver an authoritative brand point of view.
Harnessing our brand power disparity will drive sales and enhance Staying relevant M&Ss reach into customers households shareholder value.
It is crucial that M&S remains a modern is exceptional: we sell everything from and contemporary brand, both in the UK Trust in our brand fashion and furniture to food, owers and and overseas.
We must attract the Plan A underpins the trust our customers energy.
Consistency in brand execution customers of the future to ensure our have in M&S.
So we want to make it as across all products and media is long-term growth.
In order to achieve easy as possible for them to get involved.
We are working hard to this, we constantly talk to our customers Our aim is to engage one million M&S close the gap in brand perception and study trends across the world to customers in Plan A activities by 2015 between GM and Food and harness the help us give them what they want.
Through same brand power across our whole business, we are continually adapting projects like our Shwopping clothes business.
The same goes for our stores.
how we do things to t in with changing recycling initiative, we will run a We are working to bridge the disparity desires, media consumption and continuous programme of Plan A between our agships and our smaller lifestyles.
This way, we ensure that we marketing activity encouraging regional stores that too often lag in stay relevant.
