Strategic report Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 4 Marketplace Overview How this has affected M&S shopping in store and expect the It is crucial that we listen to our Subdued spending continued to affect exibility offered by click and collect customers to understand what they the retail sector this year, and saw deep services they want to purchase what expect from us and how the economy is levels of promotion, particularly in the they want, when and where they want it.
M&S responded to We responded with our new website, Customer Insight Unit CIU listens to this promotional landscape by offering which focuses on delivering a better and analyses responses from 18,000 more promotions than in previous years.
browsing experience, as well as an customers a week and combines market However, the emphasis on treats played improved buying process, as explained research with customer feedback to to our strengths.
Whether they were after on page 26. monitor the national mood.
a new pink coat, a special meal or Our priority markets of India, China, the cushions to refresh the home, customers Middle East and Russia have all seen Market overview were constantly recognising the quality GDP growth.
The rise of the middle class The UK economy is improving.
in these markets has rmly established Domestic Product is predicted to grow When it came to clothing, people were shopping malls as the key vehicle for by 2.7% in 2014, while house prices have spending more money on our better international trade, with the landscape increased by 8.5% in a year.
In ation is and best ranges.
This tted in with our dominated by large shopping mall falling and employment is rising.
Just 14 strategy of emphasising the quality, style operators who have specialist insight months ago, consumers were concerned and heritage of our clothes.
The and expertise of the markets in which about a triple-dip recession.
Now, customer and fashion press feedback on they operate.
This has driven our a genuine recovery feels like a more our new ranges was extremely positive.
international strategy of working with realistic possibility.
partners to open agship stores in prime As a result, there has been a steady Consumers are taking greater pleasure malls and key shopping locations.
increase in consumer con dence over in food and cooking.
They have become Another emerging trend is the growth of the last year and people have started to more curious about different foods and the lingerie market in the Middle East feel that the worst is over.
But the are looking to experiment and for that and India, which is expected to grow by increase in con dence is not yet little extra indulgence.
This did not 30% and 54% respectively by 2017.
We translating into a complete turnaround in translate into extravagant spending, but responded with our first standalone consumer behaviour.
Spending remains contributed to the trend of consumers Lingerie & Beauty store.
Despite glimpses of happier demanding more if they were going times ahead, people remain levelto spend their money, they wanted The Eurozone is also on the turn.
Indeed, although con dence is something special in return.
Customers growth opportunity in our other priority higher than it has been for years, it is still are also willing to spend a little more on market, Western Europe, lies in the in negative territory.
There are two main special events.
We responded with rapidly expanding online clothing market.
newness and innovation, and more We responded with a bricks and clicks special occasion foods than ever before.
strategy, which focuses on agship First, people realise that we are not out stores that deliver brand presence The internet has changed the way of the woods yet.
Consumer debt is still supported by a strong online offer.
An increasing number high, the governments austerity food is as unique internationally as it is of customers are using online as a programme could run for another six in the UK, and the growing demand in source of inspiration and research before years and wage growth has only just Western Europe for convenience food they purchase in stores or online.
They caught up with in ation.
People shops opens up new opportunities for are looking for editorial fashion and recognise that the current low interest Food store growth.
lifestyle guidance, and want a seamless rates will not last for ever.
brand experience wherever they choose Second, the downturn has made to browse and buy.
Customers also like consumers warier and more alert than they were.
They are telling themselves that they wont be led into trouble again.
Consumer con dence index They blame the banking crisis on reckless extravagance and the notion 0 of consequence has taken root in the national psyche.
As a result, shoppers -5 are being more considered and -10 consumers are being more cautious -15 with their money.
-20 They are prepared to spend, but they -25 seek real value and real quality.
When they do splash out, it is on targeted -30 treats and celebrations.
-35 Source GfK Nov 12 Dec 12 Jan 13 Feb 13 Mar 13 Apr 13 May 13 Jun 13 Jul 13 Aug 13 Sep 13 Oct 13 Nov 13 Dec 13 Jan 14 Feb 14 Mar 14 Apr 14 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements and other information Strategic report Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 5 How we have responded Business area Impact Response Clothing Consumers s ta tar rg get ete ed d W We e lliis st te en ned to our customers and The overall clothing market grew their purcha ase ses s fo foc cu us se ed th d t e relaunch of our in value terms but slowed in carefully.
Th hey wa ey want nte ed d W Wo ome men ns swear on style, quality and volume terms as shoppers were to be sure th they we ey were re d fide es siig gn n. W. We upgraded 70% of our more measured in their getting a go oo od b d ba alla ance nce ffa ab br riic cs s, a, added more luxurious nishes spending.
Whilst con dence of value and q d qu ua alliit ty y, a an nd i d im mp pr roved our better and best offer levels were up on last year, this and looked t d to o p pu ur rc ch ha ase se w wiith m th mor ore leather, silk and cashmere.
did not translate to strong sales better and b d be es st t W We b e bro rou ug ght more clarity and distinction on the high street, although items.
t to o o ou ur s r sub-brands to make them more signs of improvement in the c com omp pelling and easier to shop, which clothing market started to come h ha ad a g d ood response from our through.
The wellre received relaunch was also a accompanied by a new, more i inspirational store concept.
Food C Co on ns su um me er rs s s st tiill ll wa w nted value from their Our Food business had another very In ation fell to o b be ello ow t w th he B e Ba an nk k d da ay y- -t to o- -d day s ay sho hop but were also treating strong year as customers were drawn of Englands t ta ar rg get of 2 et of 2% fo % for r t th he emse msellv five es s mor m e, with millions by our top quality, competitively priced the first time in ove n over fo r four ur s sp plliittt tiin ng g th the eiir r weekly shop between food and offers that continue to deliver years, giving house households holds a a l lo ow w- -c co os st t d discounters and restaurant-quality food at home.
Our welcome reprie rieve five fr fro om m h hiig gh h- -q quality convenience more indulgent festive range resulted the squeeze o on n t th he eiir r o op pe er rat a ors such as M&S.
in our biggest Christmas ever.
Food d T The mainstream excitement and newness of our ranges price growth s upermarkets in the continued to delight customers.
was among m iddle continued to those to fall.
At the s same time, people s st ta ar rt te ed e d ating out more.
com C Consumers across the UK now expect to Our new agship, M&S.
com, launched The UK online retail market grew by 16% be able to browse, shop and collect their in the spring and was built around the in 2013 and is forecast to grow by a goods anytime e, a an ny y p pllace ace, a, an ny yw wh her ere e.. c cu us st to om me er r, w, wiith ove th over r t two years of further 17% this year.
2013 was the year The distinction n ex ext te ensive testing with of the mobile, with twice as much spent between store e h hun undreds of existing via mobile devices in December 2013 shopping and a and nd potential customers.
online shoppiing ng T Th he i e ndustry-leading is becoming s sit ite i e s designed to increasingly d deliv eliver a joined-up blurred.
ex exp perience, whether v vie iewe w d on a desktop, t ta ab bllet or mobile phone.
Brand Brands had to b be b e bo olld fide er i r in th n the eiir r O Ou ur b r bo olld Le d Lea ad diin ng L g La adies campaign Despite the improving economy, messaging.
After years of austerity, reasserted our quality credentials while consumers wanted to buy brands on consumers wanted a touch of also bringing some excitement back to which they knew they could rely.
Our Christmas Social media TV ad rekindled customers love of became an Magic and increasingly Sparkle.
We integrated increased the part of many use of social peoples media in our lives.
