Strategic report Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 28 International highlights International International revenue Growing our presence 1.2bn 6.2% overseas Stores 455 37 net new stores Territories 54 3 new markets Overview Our operation in China is moving in the Over the year, sales in our International right direction, although the performance business rose by 6.2% to 1.2bn, driven of our 15 stores has been mixed.
We by strong growth in our priority markets saw strong results from our Hong Kong of India, Russia, China, the Middle East stores and our agship Shanghai stores and Western Europe.
We opened 55 continued to perform well.
In April, we new stores, and now trade from 455 announced plans to focus on our stores in 54 territories.
Our strategy centrally-located Shanghai stores and to remains one of delivering capital-light open agships in other cities, including expansion in a manner appropriate to Beijing and Guangzhou.
We also each individual market, whether through announced plans to nd a local partner franchise agreements, partnerships or to support this roll-out in a country as Bricks and clicks wholly-owned stores.
We aim to offer our diverse as China, local knowledge and Our international bricks and customers consistent store environments experience is key.
clicks strategy offers wherever in the world they shop.
We also customers the best of online Sales in the Middle East grew by 2.6%.
carefully edit our product ranges to suit and physical retailing.
Our In February, we unveiled our largest each market.
eight European websites international store, a 72,000 sq ft agship have high conversion rates, A strong, international team in Kuwait.
This year also saw our first while our site on TMall in We have structured our international store in Lebanon and a new agship China receives positive team to give us a better understanding of in Cairo.
All three stores were opened customer service reviews.
our markets and better control of our with our long-term franchise partner, product catalogue.
The team has Al-Futtaim Group, which operates 25 focused on improving the stores across eight markets.
We also worked with another key franchise responsiveness between our overseas partner, FIBA, which operates 100 M&S stores and the UK.
stores, on the modernisation of our Todays international leadership team has Europeyskiy store in Moscow.
Overall, a stronger overseas background than in we aim to increase the proportion of our previous years.
Between them, the team international revenue that comes from speak 14 languages and have worked in franchised stores, as part of our strategy 32 markets.
Priority markets The Netherlands and France were the Our performance in Asia remains strong.
M&S Den Haag is focus of our European growth, where We continue to grow ahead of the sales rose by 3.9%.
We opened our competition in India, where we saw a beautiful store, largest continental European store in a double-digit like-for-like growth.
Over prime location in The Hague, which the year, we opened 10 Indian stores includes an M&S Cafe and in-store with an even better through our partnership with Reliance Bakery.
We also opened our fourth full Retail, taking our total number of stores line store in Paris in the Beaugrenelle Food Hall and the to 38.
In November, we announced plans mall, with our largest Food Hall outside to double our Indian presence by 2016, of the UK and Ireland.
Our presence in clothes are lovely.
which will make it our biggest France will grow strongly.
M&S Customer Feedback agreement with Relay France will see us Twitter open 10 Food stores at key travel locations in Paris by 2018, while our Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements and other information Strategic report Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 29 Bandra UNICEF In November, we opened We launched our first ever our largest store in India in International tastes co-ordinated fundraising Bandra, Mumbai.
Ranges We have expanded our challenge with UNICEF to in the 35,000 sq ft store fresh food offer so raise money from our include our exclusive Savile customers from Prague international stores.
Row Inspired collection of to Hong Kong can buy mens suits.
We will open around 20 35,000 sq ft Food Stores in Paris over the next three years which will make France our largest food market outside the UK.
Lingerie and Beauty We sell more clotted We opened our first cream in our Kalverstraat standalone Lingerie & Store and more crumpets Beauty store in Saudi Arabia and curries in our with our long-term franchise Beaugrenelle, Paris, store partner, Al Hokair.
than anywhere else in our global store network.
Our plan for the future We will open 250 international stores over the next three years focusing on priority markets: India, China, Russia, the Middle East and Western Europe.
We will strengthen our relationships with existing franchise partners and build relationships with new ones.
60% of openings over the next three years will be franchise stores.
We will expand in Western Europe with a bricks and clicks approach by opening agship stores, supported by Food stores and an online offer.
partnership with SFH Invest will see Doing the right thing Strong partnerships over 20 stores open by 2021.
Due to our broad reach, we cant take a We know that the infrastructure in some one size ts all approach to Plan A of our emerging markets and the Sales improved in the Czech Republic across all our territories.
So we adapt it challenges of entering new markets and Greece following action to address to suit local markets.
By establishing a could affect our ambition to be a leading the stores performance.
We are minimum set of criteria in each location, international, multi-channel retailer.
Local reviewing our store portfolio in Central we can work towards our environmental knowledge and strong partnerships are and Eastern Europe to ensure we are in and ethical goals in a realistic way with therefore essential.
Thats why we work the right locations in key cities.
Some of our leading closely with our trusted overseas strategic review of our stores in the campaigns, like clothes recycling, will partners, who know the markets and Republic of Ireland, where the economy be rolled-out internationally.
Our can take decisive action should remains challenging, we took the dif cult employability programme, Marks & Start problems arise.
We remain International, runs in certain stores and committed to the business and will invest suppliers factories overseas.
in our remaining stores, and open a new agship in Limerick in 2016.
