Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements and other information Go Gov five er rn nan anc ce e M Ma ar rk ks a s an nd S d Sp pe en nc ce er G r Gr ro ou up p p pllc c A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po or rt a t an nd d n na an nc ciia al s l st ta at te em me en nt ts 20 s 201 14 4 7 79 9 Other disclosures Directors Report 16,921,571 shares under the terms of the United Kingdom Marks and Spencer Group plc the Company is the holding Employees Save As You Earn Share Option Scheme at prices company of the Marks and Spencer Group of companies the between 203p and 319p.
With our rich heritage, M&S occupies a unique place 105,356 shares under the terms of the ROI Employees Save in Britain and is regularly voted as one of the UKs most trusted As You Earn Share Option Scheme at the price of 292p.
Since we opened our first penny bazaar in Leeds Restrictions on transfer of securities 130 years ago, quality and innovation have remained the driving There are no speci c restrictions on the transfer of securities in force behind our business and they run through everything the Company, which is governed by its Articles of Association we do.
They are what make the M&S difference across the and prevailing legislation, nor is the Company aware of any 54 territories in which we operate.
agreements between holders of securities that may result in For information on our social, environmental and ethical restrictions on the transfer of securities or restrictions on voting responsibilities, please refer to our Plan A Report, available rights.
Variation of rights The Directors Report for the year ended 29 March 2014 Subject to applicable statutes, rights attached to any class of comprises pages 36 to 77 and 79 to 83 of this report together share may be varied with the written consent of the holders of with the sections of the Annual Report incorporated by at least three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of reference.
As permitted by legislation, some of the matters that class, or by a special resolution passed at a separate normally included in the Directors Report have instead been general meeting of the shareholders.
included in the Strategic Report pages 1 to 35 as the Board Rights and obligations attaching to shares considers them to be of strategic importance.
Speci cally, Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, any these are: resolution passed by the Company under the Companies Act Future business developments throughout the Strategic 2006 and other shareholders rights, shares may be issued Report and indicated by : with such rights and restrictions as the Company may by Research and development page 22, and ordinary resolution decide, or if there is no such resolution or Risk management pages 15 to 17. so far as it does not make speci c provision as the Board as fide ned in the Articles may decide.
Subject to the Articles, the Both the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been Companies Act 2006 and other shareholders rights, unissued drawn up and presented in accordance with, and in reliance shares are at the disposal of the Board.
upon applicable English company law, and the liabilities of the directors in connection with that report shall be subject to Powers for the Company issuing or buying back its the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
Other own shares information to be disclosed in the Directors Report is given At the 2013 AGM, the Company was authorised by shareholders in this section.
to purchase in the market up to 10% of its issued share capital, as permitted under the Companys Articles.
No shares have Pro t and dividends been bought back under this authority during the year ended The pro t for the financial year, after taxation, amounts to 29 March 2014.
This standard authority is renewable annually 506.0m last year 444.8m.
The directors have declared and the directors will seek to renew it once again at the 2014 dividends as follows: AGM.
It is the Companys present intention to cancel any shares it buys back, rather than hold them in treasury.
Ordinary shares m Paid interim dividend of 6.2p per share 100.0 The directors were granted authority at the 2013 AGM to allot last year 6.2p per share relevant securities up to a nominal amount of 134,566,483.
That authority will apply until the conclusion of the 2014 AGM.
Proposed final dividend of 10.8p per share 176.0 At this years AGM shareholders will be asked to grant the last year 10.8p per share directors authority to allot relevant securities i up to a nominal Total ordinary dividend, 17.0p per share 276.0 amount of 136,089,559 and ii comprising equity securities last year 17.0p per share up to a nominal amount of 272,179,119 after deducting from such limit any relevant securities allotted under i, in The final ordinary dividend will be paid on 11 July 2014 to connection with an offer of a rights issue, the Section 551 shareholders whose names are on the Register of Members Amount, such Section 551 amount to apply until the at the close of business on 30 May 2014. conclusion of the AGM to be held in 2015 or, if earlier, on 28 September 2015.
Share capital The Companys issued ordinary share capital, as at 29 March A special resolution will also be proposed to renew the 2014, comprised a single class of ordinary share.
Details of directors powers to make non pre-emptive issues for cash in movements in the issued share capital can be found in note 24 connection with rights issues and otherwise up to a nominal to the financial statements.
Each share carries the right to one amount of 20,413,434.
A further special resolution will be vote at general meetings of the Company.
proposed to renew the directors authority to repurchase the Companys ordinary shares in the market.
This authority will be During the period, 18,359,782 ordinary shares in the Company limited to a maximum of 163 million ordinary shares and sets were issued as follows: the minimum and maximum prices which will be paid.
1,332,855 shares under the terms of the 2002 Executive Share Option Scheme at prices between 270p and 352p.
Governance M Ma ar rk ks a s an nd S d Sp pe en nc ce er G r Gr ro ou up p p pllc c A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po or rt a t an nd d n na an nc ciia al s l st ta at te em me en nt ts 20 s 201 14 4 8 80 0 Other disclosures continued Interests in voting rights such a US Note may require the Company to prepay the Information regarding interests in voting rights provided to the principal amount of that US Note: Company pursuant to the Financial Conduct Authoritys FCA The 1.325bn Credit Agreement dated 29 September 2011 Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs is published on a between the Company and various banks contains a Regulatory Information Service and on the Companys website.
provision such that, upon a change of control event, unless As at 29 March 2014, the following information has been new terms are agreed within 60 days, the facility under this received, in accordance with DTR5, from holders of noti able agreement will be cancelled with all outstanding amounts interests in the Companys issued share capital.
The information becoming immediately payable with interest: provided below was correct at the date of noti cation, where indicated this was not within the current financial year.
It should The 100m Bilateral Facility dated 16 May 2013 between the be noted that these holdings are likely to have changed since Company and Lloyds Bank expiring May 2015 contains a noti ed to the Company.
However, noti cation of any change is provision such that, upon a change of control event, unless not required until the next applicable threshold is crossed.
new terms are agreed within 60 days, the facility under this agreement will be cancelled with all outstanding amounts Ordinary shares % of capital Nature of holding becoming immediately payable with interest: Capital Research & Mgt 49,634,565 3.07 Indirect Interest The amended and restated Relationship Agreement dated 1 The Wellcome Trust 47,464,282 3.01 Direct Interest 1 February 2012 originally dated 9 November 2004 as William Adderley 48,541,640 3.00 Direct Interest amended on 1 March 2005, between HSBC and the Company and relating to M&S Bank, contains certain 1.
Date of noti cation was not in the 2013 14 financial year provisions which address a change of control of the Disclosures were also received from BlackRock Inc and Legal & General during the year notifying the Company that they no longer held a noti able interest.
Upon a change of control the existing rights and obligations of the parties in respect of M&S Bank continue Deadlines for exercising voting rights and HSBC gains certain limited additional rights in respect Votes are exercisable at a general meeting of the Company in of existing customers of the new controller of the Company.
respect of which the business being voted upon is being heard.
Where a third party arrangement is in place for the supply Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy or, in relation to of financial services products to existing customers of the corporate members, by corporate representatives.
The Articles new controller, the Company is required to procure the provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms of not less termination of such arrangement as soon as reasonably than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the practicable whilst not being required to do anything that meeting or adjourned meeting.
However, when calculating the would breach any contract in place in respect of such 48-hour period, the directors can, and have, decided not to arrangement.
Where a third party arrangement is so take account of any part of a day that is not a working day.
terminated, or does not exist, HSBC gains certain exclusivity rights in respect of the sale of financial services products Signi cant agreements to the existing customers of the new controller.
Where the There are a number of agreements to which the Company is Company undertakes a re-branding exercise with the new party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of controller following a change of control which includes using control of the Company following a takeover bid.
Details of the any M&S brand in respect of the new controllers business signi cant agreements of this kind are as follows: or vice versa, HSBC gains certain termination rights exercisable at its election in respect of the Relationship The 400m Medium Term Notes issued by the Company on Agreement: and 30 November 2009, the 300m Medium Term Notes issued by the Company on 6 December 2011 and the 400m The Company does not have agreements with any director Medium Term Notes MTN issued by the Company on or employee that would provide compensation for loss of 12 December 2012 to various institutions and under the of ce or employment resulting from a takeover, except that Groups 3bn Euro Medium Term Note EMTN programme provisions of the Companys share schemes and plans may contain an option such that, upon a change of control event, cause options and awards granted to employees under such combined with a credit ratings downgrade to below subschemes and plans to vest on a takeover.
investment level, any holder of a MTN may require the Board of directors Company to prepay the principal amount of that MTN: The membership of the Board and biographical details of the The $500m US Notes issued by the Company to various directors are given on pages 36 and 37 and are incorporated institutions on 6 December 2007 under section 144a of the into this report by reference.
Details of directors bene cial US Securities Act contain an option such that, upon a and non-bene cial interests in the shares of the Company are change of control event, combined with a credit ratings shown on pages 70 and 74.
Options granted under the Save downgrade to below sub-investment level, any holder of As You Earn SAYE Share Option and Executive Share Option such a US Note may require the Company to prepay the Schemes are shown on pages 68 to 69.
Further information principal amount of that US Note: regarding employee share option schemes is given in note 13 to the financial statements.
The $300m US Notes issued by the Company to various institutions on 6 December 2007 under section 144a of the Steve Sharp stepped down from the Board as Executive US Securities Act contain an option such that, upon a Director, Marketing following the AGM on 9 July 2013, however, change of control event, combined with a credit ratings continued to work in the business as Creative Director until downgrade to below sub-investment level, any holder of Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 81 28 February 2014.
Patrick Bousquet-Chavanne was appointed provisions as fide ned by section 234 of the Companies Act Executive Director, Marketing and Business Development 2006 were in force during the year ended 29 March 2014 and following the AGM on 9 July 2013, having previously been remain in force, in relation to certain losses and liabilities which Director of Strategy Implementation and Business the directors or Group Secretary may incur to third parties in Development.
Andy Halford, who joined the Board on the course of acting as directors or Group Secretary or 1 January 2013, was appointed Chairman of the Audit employees of the Company or of any associated company.
Committee in June 2013, following the retirement of Jeremy Employee involvement Darroch.
Andy Halford has also been appointed as a member We remain committed to employee involvement throughout of the Remuneration Committee with effect from 1 May 2014. the business.
Employees are kept well informed of the Alison Brittain joined the Board as a non-executive director on performance and strategy of the Group through personal 1 January 2014 and was appointed as a member of the Audit brie ngs, regular meetings, personal letters home, email and Committee with effect from 11 March 2014.
Vindi Banga, who broadcasts by the Chief Executive and members of the Board joined the Board on 1 September 2011 will replace Steven at key points in the year to all head of ce employees and store Holliday as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, when management.
In addition many of our store colleagues can join Steven steps down from the Board following the AGM on the brie ngs by telephone to hear directly from the business.
These types of communication are supplemented by our The appointment and replacement of directors is governed by employee publications including Your M&S magazine, Plan A the Companys Articles, the UK Corporate Governance Code updates and DVD presentations.
More than 3,500 employees 2012 the Code, the Companies Act 2006 and related are elected onto Business Involvement Groups BIGs across legislation.
The Articles may be amended by a special every store and head of ce location to represent their resolution of the shareholders.
Subject to the Articles, the colleagues in two-way communication and consultation with Companies Act 2006 and any directions given by special the Group.
They have continued to play a key role in a wide resolution, the business of the Company will be managed by variety of business changes.
the Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company.
The 19th meeting of the European Works Council EWC The Company may, by ordinary resolution, declare dividends established in 1995 will take place in September 2014.
This not exceeding the amount recommended by the Board.
Council provides an additional forum for informing, consulting Subject to the Companies Act 2006, the Board may pay interim and involving employee representatives from the countries in dividends, and also any xed rate dividend, whenever the the European Community.
The EWC includes members from financial position of the Company, in the opinion of the Board, the Czech Republic, Greece, Bulgaria, France, Netherlands, justi es its payment.
Croatia, Slovenia, Romania, the Republic of Ireland and the UK.
Appointment and retirement of directors The EWC will have the opportunity to be addressed by the The directors may from time to time appoint one or more Chief Executive and other senior members of the Company on directors.
The Board may appoint any person it considers issues that affect the European business.
This will include the appropriate to be a director, so long as the total number of Directors of International and Multi-channel and the Director of directors does not exceed the limit prescribed in the Articles.
Plan A, which all have an impact across the European Under the Articles any such director shall hold of ce only Community.
until the next AGM and shall then be eligible for election.
Directors and senior management regularly attend the National The Articles also require that at each AGM at least one-third BIG meetings.
They visit stores and discuss with employees of the current directors must retire as directors by rotation.
All matters of current interest and concern to both employees and those directors who have been in of ce at the time of the two the business through meetings with local BIG representatives, previous AGMs and who did not retire at either of them, must speci c listening groups and informal discussions.
The retire as directors by rotation.
In addition, a director may at any business has continued to engage with employees and drive AGM retire from of ce and stand for re-election.
However, in involvement through a scheme called The BIG Idea.
On a line with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012, all directors quarterly basis the business poses a question to gather ideas will stand for annual election at the 2014 AGM.
and initiatives on a number of areas including how we can Directors con icts of interest better serve our customers.
Several thousand ideas are put The Company has procedures in place for managing con icts forward each time and the winning employee receives an of interest.
Should a director become aware that they, or their award and the chance to see how this is implemented by the connected parties, have an interest in an existing or proposed Company.
transaction with Marks & Spencer, they should notify the Board Share schemes are a long-established and successful part in writing or at the next Board meeting.
Internal controls are in of our total reward package, encouraging and supporting place to ensure that any related party transactions involving employee share ownership.
In particular, around 24,000 directors, or their connected parties, are conducted on an employees currently participate in Sharesave, the Companys arms length basis.
Directors have a continuing duty to update all employee Save As You Earn Scheme.
Full details of all any changes to these con icts.
schemes are given on pages 105 to 107 in Note 13 to the Directors indemnities Financial statements.
The Company maintains directors and of cers liability We have a well established interactive wellbeing website, called insurance, which gives appropriate cover for any legal action planahealth.
com, a completely bespoke website and service brought against its directors.
The Company has also granted designed exclusively for M&S employees.
It gives any employee indemnities to each of its directors and the Group Secretary the opportunity to access a wealth of information, help and to the extent permitted by law.
Qualifying third party indemnity Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 82 Other disclosures continued support.
We cover all areas of wellbeing, from healthy eating affect the operations of the Group, none are considered to be and exercise to help in overcoming issues such as stress, essential, with the exception of certain warehouse and logistic financial challenges, achieving a positive work-life balance and operators and suppliers providing services in connection with problems with sleeping.
Via this service, employees can the Companys e-commerce platform.
access our personal support teams for counselling, Groceries Supply Code of Practice physiotherapy and our personal health coach.
The Groceries Supply Chain Practices Market Investigation The response has been excellent with 20,000 employees Order 2009 Order and The Groceries Supply Code of visiting the site, making personal pledges to improve a speci c Practice GSCOP impose obligations on M&S relating to health or wellbeing issue.
Employees are able to interact with relationships with its suppliers of groceries.
Under the Order one another, post information about clubs and groups in their and GSCOP, M&S is required to submit an annual compliance area, and can gain access to information about corporate report to the Audit Committee for approval and then to the projects which link to their personal health pledges.
Of ce of Fair Trading and Groceries Code Adjudicator.
We maintain contact with retired staff through communications M&S submitted its report to the Audit Committee on 15 May from the Company and the Pension Trust.
Member-nominated 2014, covering the period from 1 April 2013 to 31 March 2014. trustees have been elected to the Pension Trust Board, In accordance with the Order, a summary of that compliance including employees and pensioners.
We continue to produce report is set out below.
a regular Pensions Update newsletter for members of our final M&S believes that it has complied in full with GSCOP and the salary pension scheme and the M&S Retirement Plan.
Order during the relevant period.
Aside from a dispute referred Equal opportunities to below, which has now been resolved, only one supplier has The Group is committed to an active equal opportunities alleged breaches of the Order GSCOP during the reporting policy from recruitment and selection, through training and period.
Communications between M&S and the supplier are development, performance reviews and promotion to ongoing and the complaint has not been escalated to the Code retirement.
It is our policy to promote an environment free from Compliance Of cer.
discrimination, harassment and victimisation, where everyone M&S operates systems and controls to ensure compliance with will receive equal treatment regardless of gender, colour, the Order and GSCOP including the following: ethnic or national origin, disability, age, marital status, sexual orientation or religion.
All decisions relating to employment The terms and conditions which govern the trading practices will be objective, free from bias and based solely relationship between M&S and those of its suppliers that upon work criteria and individual merit.
The Group is supply groceries to M&S incorporate GSCOP: responsive to the needs of its employees, customers and New suppliers are issued with information as required by the the community at large.
We are an organisation which uses Order: everyones talents and abilities and where diversity is valued.
M&S has a Code Compliance Of cer as required under the We were one of the first major companies to remove the default Order, supported by our in-house Legal department: and retirement age in 2001 and have continued to see an increase Employee training on GSCOP is provided, including annual in employees wanting to work past the state retirement age.
refresher programmes and new starter training.
Our oldest employee is 87 years old and joined the business A formal dispute between M&S and a grocery supplier arose at age 80.
In April 2014, the Company once again featured in under the Order GSCOP during the previous financial year The Times Top 50 Places for Women to work and considers 2012 13.
During the reporting period 2013 14, that dispute this highlights how equal opportunities are available for all.
was resolved and no other formal disputes arose.
Employees with disabilities Total Global M&S Greenhouse Gas Emissions 2013 14 It is our policy that people with disabilities should have full and fair consideration for all vacancies.
During the year, we continued 2013 14 000 tonnes to demonstrate our commitment to interviewing those people with disabilities who ful l the minimum criteria, and endeavouring Direct emissions scope 1 169 to retain employees in the workforce if they become disabled Indirect emissions from energy scope 2 339 during employment.
We will actively retrain and adjust their Total statutory emissions scope 1 2 508 environment where possible to allow them to maximise their Transport, energy, waste and business travel 58 potential.
We continue to work with external organisations to scope 3 provide workplace opportunities through our innovative Marks & Total gross emissions 566 Start scheme and by working closely with JobCentrePlus.
The Marks & Start scheme was introduced into our distribution Carbon intensity measure per 1,000 sq ft of 30 centre at Castle Donington in 2012 13, where we worked with sales oor Remploy to support people with disabilities and health Deductions for 'green' tariffs and carbon offsets 566 conditions into work.
Total net emissions 0 Essential contracts or arrangements The Company is required to disclose any contractual or other Calculated based on operational control in accordance with WRI WBCSD GHG Reporting Protocols Revised edition and 2014 DECC DEFRA Guidelines.
This is the first year that arrangements which it considers are essential to its business.
GHG emissions have been calculated for all M&S activities globally.
We have a wide range of suppliers for the production and distribution of products to our customers.
Whilst the loss of, or disruption to, certain of these arrangements could temporarily Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 83 Political donations adopted by the EU.
Under company law the directors must not No political donations were made during the year ended approve the financial statements unless they are satis ed that 29 March 2014.
Marks & Spencer has a policy of not making they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group donations to political organisations or independent election and the Company and of the pro t or loss of the Company and candidates or incurring political expenditure anywhere in the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, world as fide ned in the Political Parties, Elections and the directors are required to: Referendums Act 2000.
Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Going concern consistently: In adopting the going concern basis for preparing the financial Make judgements and accounting estimates that are statements, the directors have considered the business reasonable and prudent: activities as set out on pages 1 to 35 as well as the Groups State whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the EU have principal risks and uncertainties as set out on pages 16 to 17. been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed Based on the Groups cash ow forecasts and projections, the and explained in the financial statements: and Board is satis ed that the Group will be able to operate within Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis the level of its facilities for the foreseeable future.
For this unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will reason the Group continues to adopt the going concern basis continue in business.
in preparing its financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Auditors records that are suf cient to show and explain the Companys Towards the end of 2013 the Company conducted a tender of transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the Statutory Auditor contract.
More information on the tender the financial position of the Company and the Group and to process can be found on page 47.
Following the tender enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the process the Board took the decision to recommend Deloitte Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 LLP as the Companys new Statutory Auditor.
Resolutions to and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the appoint Deloitte LLP and to authorise the Audit Committee IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking 2014 AGM.
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the Annual General Meeting maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
The AGM of Marks and Spencer Group plc will be held at Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and Wembley Stadium, London on 8 July 2014 at 11am.
The Notice dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation of Meeting is given, together with explanatory notes, in a in other jurisdictions.
Each of the directors, whose names and booklet which accompanies this report.
functions are listed on page 36 of the Annual Report, con rm Directors responsibilities that, to the best of their knowledge: At Marks & Spencer, quality is not something that is merely The Group financial statements, which have been prepared in added on to the end of a process, it is embedded throughout accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and to ensure that each stage re ects the standards we and our fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and pro t of stakeholders expect.
This also applies to the Annual Report.
the Group: The Board is of the view that the Annual Report should be The Strategic Report and the Directors Report contained in representative of the year and provides the necessary this report includes a fair review of the development and information for shareholders to assess the Groups performance of the business and the position of the Group, performance, business model and strategy.
This is not together with a description of the principal risks and achieved by merely reviewing the final document at the end of uncertainties that it faces: and the preparation process.
The Board ensured their requirements This Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and were clear from the outset and communicated to all who input understandable, and provides the necessary information for and assist with the preparation of the document.
shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business The Board advised that the narrative reports should re ect its model and strategy.
considered view of the information investors and other users of the report needed, and should avoid being promotional in Disclosure of information to auditor nature.
The narrative reports in the front and the financial Each director con rms that, so far as he she is aware, there is statements in the back of the report must be consistent and no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors the teams work closely together to achieve this.
For an are unaware, and that each director has taken all the steps that independent opinion, the Board also requested that the Audit he she ought to have taken as a director to make him herself Committee review the report and provide feedback.
This can aware of any relevant audit information, and to establish that be found on page 46. the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
The directors are also responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company The Directors Report was approved by a duly law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for authorised committee of the Board of Directors on each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared 22 May 2014 and signed on its behalf by the Group and Company financial statements in accordance Amanda Mellor, Group Secretary with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as London 22 May 2014
