Strategic report Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 24 UK stores highlights UK stores Total UK portfolio Inspiring our customers 798 Premier 12 Major 59 High Street 232 Outlet 48 M&S Simply Food owned mply Food owned 185 M&S Simply Food mply Food franchised ised Overview New concept stores Our priority over the last year has been We have focused on retailing basics to 262 to ensure that we offer the very best help create uncluttered stores in a shopping experience to the 20 million two-phase modernisation programme.
UK average weekly rage weekly people who shop with us each week.
We footfall Phase one is now complete, and we are know that our stores must inspire and currently implementing the second phase.
impress everyone who enters them.
But Our top 70 stores now have refreshed 19.5m we also know that we dont have long Womenswear departments, and we are the average customer shopping in our 2.9% introducing revamped Footwear, Womenswear department spends 24 Menswear and Beauty departments.
Thats why we have improved the look and feel of our stores, By introducing high-impact entrance sharpened up our merchandising and zones highlighting the latest trends and improved our levels of customer service.
most popular lines on catwalk-style displays, we are inspiring our customers Store portfolio from the moment they enter.
We are As the high street evolves and showcasing our food better in store, technology continues to change bringing theatre to our Food Halls shopping habits, we have focused on with cooking demonstrations and maximising the convenience and Event Zones.
We have improved the presentation Our roll-out of M&S Simply Food stores of the clothes on display and given them enables us to grow market share while more space.
Our sub-brands are gaining a presence in towns where we complementing, rather than competing are under-represented.
We opened 11, with, each other, helping our customers taking our total number of wholly-owned nd what is right for them.
Collection, we have created a distinct We also opened a number of larger full edit of each of our hero departments.
line stores on retail parks, including Our new look Coat, Dress and Skirt Durham, Bexhill and Fareham in shops have proved very popular, as has Hampshire.
Store openings and the Cashmere shop, which we introduced extensions added 260,600 sq ft to 225 stores this year and is now in a total of 335.
We know that seven out of of space.
I like the space and 10 women shop alone and our customers Technology means that we can extend have told us they are looking for helpful displays its so easy the product catalogue of all our stores, advice and guidance about purchases.
Our popular Shop We have ensured our displays are to nd the out ts within Your Way service enables customers to coordinated and well-accessorised with use all of our owned stores as order and bags and shoes, and there are more each of the brands.
collection points for our entire product mannequins and out t suggestions on M&S Customer Feedback range.
Some 321 stores are equipped display throughout the store.
with 1,500 iPads and 40,000 store employees have the skills to sell from Service Over 60,000 assistants have completed our new website to maximise Our customers tell us that they want to be our Notice Me programme, aimed at selling opportunities.
served by engaged and knowledgeable giving customers the personal touch.
employees when they shop at M&S, Around 10,000 Womenswear employees which is why we have increased training.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements and other information Strategic report Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 25 An M&S welcome The new Welcome Zones in our stores aim to inspire How our stores use customers from the second technology they walk in.
The areas Our Shop Your Way showcase the latest trends service gives our and our most popular lines.
customers exibility, whether they are ordering PACK products at home for We have developed four key collection in-store or priorities for our stores that using our Browse and underpin the changes we Order in-store screens for Customer satisfaction are making: Presentation, home delivery.
In its first year, around Availability, Cross-selling 680,000 shoppers lled out and Service, and Technology has our weekly in-depth Knowledge.
PACK is also enhanced our In Touch satisfaction survey.
They tell central to our employee initiative, ensuring our us they are noticing and liking training programme.
store employees are the differences in our stores.
Through our Knowledge 680,000 to Share app, customerfacing employees can improve their know-how of M&S products.
Our plan for the future We will continue to roll-out our new store format.
Refreshed Menswear departments will be in our top 70 stores by Christmas, while new Beauty departments will reach another 100 stores.
Love Shwopping Shoppers can expect to As part of our popular see new products Shwopping initiative with in-store more often.
Oxfam, over the last two years our customers and We will ensure that the employees brought a total quality of our space of 7.8 million items of improves as high streets clothing into our stores evolve and technology to be resold, reused or changes shopping recycled, worth 6.1m.
We plan to open around 368,000 sq ft of new 6.1m owned space in 2014 15. attended our inaugural Fashion Camp last The work going on behind the scenes to four sustainable M&S Simply Food stores summer to learn about the changes we overhaul our supply chain has given store and are introducing aspects of our had made, and the second phase of this employees more time to serve customers.
Cheshire Oaks store one of the worlds training will take place this summer.
Moving to a push allocation system, largest green stores into new openings.
Internal communication has also whereby stock is replenished Throughout M&S, employees remain improved.
We introduced a new app for automatically, has freed up sales oor actively involved with local charities.
In our retail team to use on store visits to employees while also leading to improved September, all our Cafs and Food Halls ensure we are always looking at our availability and fewer mark-downs.
took part in Macmillan Cancer Supports stores from a customers point of view.
Worlds Biggest Coffee Morning, Sustainable stores and engaged By collating feedback for the store contributing 800,000 of the total 1.2m employees manager on presentation, availability, M&S helped raise for the charity In the seven years since it launched, service and knowledge, we can be sure this year.
Plan A has become part of the rhythm customers get a consistent experience.
and routine of our store development programme.
We are currently piloting Strategic report Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 26 M&S.
com Sales Transforming our business 800.1m 22.8% Weekly site visitors 5.5m 7.8% Mobile and tablet sales increase 99.4% product images that are 50% bigger, the Laura Wade-Gery site brings our brand to life with bold Executive Director, imagery and regularly updated editorial Multi-channel E-commerce content.
We have also introduced a range of interactive services to create a Overview richer buying experience.
We are This has been a landmark year for M&S providing clearer, more consistent as two world-class infrastructure product information and offering a better projects went live: our new M&S.
com view of stock availability, which is website and our 900,000 sq ft refreshed every 15 minutes and live at distribution centre at Castle Donington.
checkout, ensuring customers can buy Both developments represent major with con dence.
milestones on our journey to becoming an international, multi-channel retailer.
Unlike the previous website which ran They also highlight the rapid pace of on an Amazon platform, M&S.
com is change that is running through M&S.
As now wholly run by us, giving us Style Adviser we completed this transformative work, complete control over presentation Our Style Adviser service allows we continued to see a very strong and delivery options.
customers to create a personal online performance from our website, with pro le.
Once created, they will be sales rising 23%, ahead of the market.
Each of our customers shops our treated to recommendations to suit Our online business now accounts for website in a multitude of ways, whether their shape, style and personality.
16% of our General Merchandise sales, they are buying something via their up from 13% last year, and we have over desktop computer or browsing on a 5.5 million visitors to our UK site each tablet at home.
We have designed the week.
Our multi-channel strategy site to be exible and to cater for their focuses on meeting customers needs as many needs, both now and in the future.
shopping habits change and technology Feedback about M&S.
Multi-channel shopping customers and industry experts has presents us with enormous growth been extremely positive.
opportunities and we will put our customers at the heart of our offer as we The website has been built to allow us adapt and change.
Whether customers to make continual improvements as our are shopping in-store, online or with business develops, exing and adapting tablets and mobiles, we want to offer to future requirements and our warehouses.
This move to a single-tier them an inspiring, convenient and customers needs.
network will provide us with a modern, service-driven experience.
exible infrastructure designed precisely Castle Donington for our needs.
Our new agship The new website is only half of the story M&S.
com is our agship: not just our it is backed up by our new distribution Growth opportunities biggest store, it is also the best centre at Castle Donington, which We know that we can signi cantly expression of todays M&S and a 24 7 opened in May 2013. increase the number of people who shop window to our products and style via M&S.
Of the 34 million people The fully automated centre will build its perspective.
The industry-leading site, who shop in our stores every year, capacity ahead of peak trading this which went live in February, was built around 6.7 million also shop using our Christmas, when it will be capable of around the customer, following over two website.
Whilst 8.3 million of our processing 750,000 items a day.
years of development and testing.
customers do not shop online at all, that still leaves over 19 million M&S Castle Donington forms part of our As well as including an improved search customers who shop online but are yet ongoing plan to replace 110 smaller function, better browsing options and Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements and other information Strategic report Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 27 Shopping by out t With around 40% of our customers shopping for Taking the tablets out ts, the new site has a Just under 30% of our number of features to help online sales are made them put these together.
40% through iPads and These include Style With other tablets, up from recommendations, where just 5% two years ago.
shoppers can browse by trend, occasion or as a The peak time for tablet A strong point of view personalised usage by our customers M&S.
com is about more recommendation.
is between 8pm and than selling our products it 9pm.
is about sharing our point of view.
Our specialist editorial Weve launched a team provides stimulating dedicated tablet content on the websites platform and updated Style & Living editorial hub.
versions of all our mobile sites and apps.
We will continue to develop these as shopping habits evolve.
Our plan for the future Our delivery times will become faster as we continue to leverage the ef ciencies of Castle Donington.
We will continue to foster in-house innovation through our Kalverstraat Digital Lab, seeking to Our bricks and clicks develop first-to-market multi-channel strategy e-commerce extends overseas.
opened a new concept We will continue to edit store showcasing our latest M&S.
com and publish digital innovations on inspirational content, Kalverstraat in Amsterdam, re ning and extending which features the worlds the sites content to first Virtual Rail.
We will continue our international growth through both local language sites and deliveries from M&S.
They represent signi cantly more with us, appreciating Donington employees through Marks & our biggest opportunity for growth.
the extended hours and reach of the Start Logistics, the extension of our New websites can typically take some internet, alongside the social and Marks & Start employability scheme, months to settle and we deliberately traditional shopping experience of our which helps people with disabilities and slowed down marketing activity during stores.
It is therefore a crucial tool for health conditions into work.
This was re ected in driving sales.
Business resilience the post-launch performance during Q4.
Doing the right thing With M&S.
com, we have migrated from As our website settles in the coming M&S.
com now includes a range of the third-party Amazon platform to our months, we aim to build growth again symbols that highlight products with Plan own, bespoke platform, which puts us and we are well set up to capitalise on A qualities, for example where a product fully in control of how the site functions this opportunity.
is Fairtrade or uses sustainable materials, and evolves.
Our 24 7 command centre But the site is not merely an extra helping customers make informed constantly manages the customer channel, it is also a way of increasing decisions.
In partnership with Remploy, experience from end-to-end and ensures loyalty and spend per head: customers we recruited over 110 of our Castle the site runs smoothly at all times.
who shop both online and in-store spend
