Strategic report Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 6 How we create value The M&S difference The M&S difference Understanding our customers Competitive advantage With our rich heritage, M&S occupies a We listen to and closely monitor how our Our clothing and food is developed unique place in Britain and is regularly customers are feeling and how the wider especially for us, and our customers voted as one of the UKs most trusted economy is impacting their spending cannot buy them anywhere else a brands.
Since we opened our first penny decisions.
This way we can ensure that business model which makes us unique.
bazaar in Leeds 130 years ago, quality the products and services that we sell We have had an innovation culture since and innovation remain the steering force remain relevant to customers needs.
Our we went into business in 1884 and behind our business and they run Customer Insight Unit CIU is a dedicated it ensures our products always stand out.
They are what in-house team that listens and talks to We believe that encouraging innovation make the M&S difference across the 54 around 18,000 customers every week among our employees from our clothing territories in which we now operate.
through research and focus groups.
We designers and food technologists, to our also have a constant dialogue with our 1.8 visual merchandisers and customer million Facebook fans and 318,000 Twitter assistants gives us a point of difference followers.
By understanding customers over our competitors.
everyday lives today, we can also anticipate how their needs and habits might change in the future.
Our business model What we have The M&S Products Reaching Value outputs difference customers Shareholder equity Customer Food Supply chain Shareholder return and market 1,253 stores 2,706.7m 6,400 273.6m insight food products 17.0p per share Click and collect Strategy 10 websites Debt total Clothing borrowings Total UK tax Catalogue 12,300 Innovation contribution 2,103.8m clothing products 831m Capex Own brand Home National and model international 710m 7,700 Community furnishing products Employees investment Customer 85,813 service 14.2m Beauty Diverse locations Suppliers High streets 3,300 3,000 Smart beauty products logistics Retail parks Employee reward Franchise and JV partners 1,410.9m Petrol station Financial M&S Bank 26 forecourts planning joint venture with HSBC Natural Resources Railway stations 10 566,000 t of CO e Risk 2 Airports Training & banking products management 33 kWh sq ft development of energy M&S Energy Hospitals working with SSE 49 litres per 1,000 1.5 days Social sq ft of water per year for every purpose 2 Customer Assistant Raw materials energy tariffs Plan A 100 commitments 145m net bene t Total UK Tax Contribution is split between taxes ultimately borne by the Company of 372m corporation tax, customs duties, employers NIC, business rates and sundry taxes and taxes collected on behalf of the government of 459m PAYE, employees NIC, VAT, excise duties and sundry taxes.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements and other information Strategic report Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 7 Reaching our customers M&S has over 3,000 product, raw have.
This year, our employees and Our store network covers a diverse material and service suppliers with customers helped to raise a total of range of locations from UK high streets current social compliance assessments 4.2m for local charities and diverted and retail parks to our international covering many aspects of human rights 4 million pieces of clothing from being agships on key shopping streets and listed on the Supplier Ethical Data thrown away through our Shwopping malls.
Our M&S Simply Food stores in Exchange SEDEX.
city centres and travel locations ensure standing members of the UK-based Plan A affects every decision we make: we are in the most convenient places for Ethical Trading Initiative ETI and Global it forces us to think and do things our customers.
We are improving our Social Compliance Programme.
The scheme has grown operations behind the scenes to ensure work with our partners and suppliers signi cantly since we launched our initial that the business is as ef cient as to assess performance and enact sustainability commitments in 2007 and possible: from our tills to our distribution corrective actions against our Global has gone from being prescriptive to network to our web platform.
Read more on our being instinctive within the business.
com website, sourcing principles To nd out more about the progress as well as our vast 900,000 sq ft marksandspencer.
we made this year and our new distribution centre at Castle Donington, Keeping all our shareholders informed Plan A commitments, visit which forms part of the radical reshaping of the progress we are making is marksandspencer.
Both will fundamental to achieving our goals.
improve our ability to reach our Returns to shareholders Since August 2012, we have held 10 customers faster and in whatever way is Our dividend policy remains unchanged: investor and analyst events in the UK and most convenient for them.
to remain progressive with payouts to overseas.
All the information shared shareholders broadly twice covered during these events is available for our Robust financial management by earnings.
Through our Dividend private shareholders to see on We believe that having the correct Re-investment Plan, shareholders can marksandspencer.
systems and processes in place is as automatically use their cash dividend to important as rm cost management As well as training our employees to the purchase additional shares in M&S.
when it comes to managing our nances.
highest standards, we always make sure Ongoing improvements in IT, availability that M&S colleagues are kept up to date Plan for growth and buying are key factors in helping us with developments in the business.
They Creating shareholder value relies on mitigate cost increases.
Our funding are also able to connect with each other having a clear plan for growth.
Our approach is similarly disciplined.
Future via our Yammer internal social network.
three-year strategy to become an growth is funded through existing cash international, multi-channel retailer has We hold regular events with members of ows, a policy which supports our put us in a strong position for the future.
the print and broadcast media to ensure commitment to maintain an investment As we look towards the next chapter in that our customers are kept abreast of grade credit rating.
our story, we will continue to strengthen developments in our business via the press.
our business, listen to our customers, Strong relationships move into new markets and evaluate Social purpose Working closely with our suppliers is the ones in which we operate.
M&S cares deeply about the communities hugely important to us these in which we operate and our stores are relationships underpin the trust in our often community hubs.
We collaborate with them on encourage volunteer work by our every step of a products journey to employees and open our stores for ensure that we have a healthy, ef cient charity events.
We work hard to engage and mutually-bene cial relationship.
our customers in Plan A the more we involve them, the greater impact we will
