Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 36 Board of directors Robert Swannell Marc Bolland Alan Stewart I Chairman Chief Executive Of cer Chief Finance Of cer Appointed: Appointed: May 2010 Appointed: Oct 2010 Chairman in Jan 2011, Experience: Marc Experience: Alan brings non-executive director in joined M&S from extensive corporate Oct 2010 Morrisons where, as finance and accounting Experience: Robert is a CEO, he successfully led experience in highly Chartered Accountant the development and competitive industries as and Barrister.
He implementation of its varied as retail, travel and possesses a wealth of knowledge of many different long-term strategy, turning around the business.
Alan joined M&S from the aircraft leasing business sectors, banking and the City acquired Prior to this, Marc built up signi cant consumer company AWAS Aviation Capital, where he was over a 33-year career in investment banking and marketing and international experience at Chief Financial Of cer.
Alan previously spent nine extensive government and regulatory experience Heineken NV, which he joined in 1987.
He was years in investment banking at HSBC before from roles with BIS, the Take-Over Appeal Board appointed to Heinekens Board in 2001, with joining Thomas Cook in 1996, where he held a and the FCA.
His signi cant board experience responsibility for global marketing and the regions number of senior roles including Chief Executive covers a diverse range of industries including retail, of Western Europe, the USA, Latin America and of Thomas Cook UK and Group Chief Financial private equity and real estate.
His leadership in the North Africa, becoming Chief Operating Of cer Of cer of Thomas Cook Holdings.
Following area of governance promotes robust debate and in 2005.
As CEO, Marc continues to work with his appointment as Group Finance Director of drives a culture of openness in the boardroom.
He the Board in developing and implementing WH Smith plc in 2005, Alan played a central role was previously Senior Independent Director of both our strategy to become an international, in improving the Groups financial performance.
British Land and 3i Group and Chairman of HMV.
He was previously a non-executive director of Other roles: Non-executive director of the Other roles: Non-executive director of Manpower Games Workshop Group plc.
Shareholder Executive, Chairman of the Governing Inc USA, Honorary Vice President of UNICEF UK Other roles: Alan will join Diageo plc as Body of Rugby School, Trustee of Kew Foundation.
and Director of the Consumer Goods Forum.
Committees: Nomination Chairman Committees: Nomination Patrick BousquetJohn Dixon Steve Rowe Chavanne Executive Director, Executive Director, Food Executive Director, General Merchandise Appointed: Oct 2012 Appointed: Oct 2012 Experience: Steve Marketing and Business Experience: John has a Development joined M&S in 1989 and wide range of retail and progressed through a Appointed: July 2013 product experience Experience: Patrick variety of roles within joined M&S in September acquired from across the store management business.
John began his before moving to Head 2012 as Director of career with M&S in store management in 1986 Strategy Implementation and Business Of ce in 1992.
He has acquired considerable before moving to Paris, where he spent three years experience from senior positions across the Development and has played a key role in creating in various commercial roles at M&Ss European the new marketing strategy for Womenswear.
Steve spent 12 years in Clothing and continues to lead the transformation of M&Ss stores and Paris Head Of ce.
He joined the UK General Merchandise, during which he held a Head Of ce as a Food Buyer before progressing to number of roles including Head of Merchandising, in-store environment and the publishing strategy Category Manager for Fresh Produce.
Patricks extensive experience of prior to his appointment as Director of Home in held a range of senior roles including Executive 2004.
He was appointed Director of Retail in 2008 the consumer goods industry was built up over a Assistant to the Chief Executive, Director of career spanning more than 25 years, with 15 spent and Director of Retail and E-commerce in 2009, in senior global brand management positions in M&S.
He became brie y reverting to Director of Retail in 2011 before Director of Food in July 2008 and was appointed his appointment to the Board in 2012.
London, Paris and New York.
He joined Este Executive Director, Food in 2009, moving to Lauder in 1989 as Vice President and General Other roles: Director, Strategic Board of the New Executive Director, General Merchandise in West End Company.
Manager of Aramis International and was October 2012. appointed to Lauders executive committee in 1998.
He was Group President of the Este Lauder Companies from 2001 to 2008.
Other roles: Non-executive director of Brown-Forman Inc. Laura Wade-Gery Jan du Plessis Vindi Banga I Executive Director, Senior Independent Non-executive director I Multi-channel Director Appointed: Sept 2011 E-commerce Appointed: Experience: Vindi has Appointed: July 2011 Senior Independent extensive consumer Experience: Laura has Director in Mar 2012, brand knowledge and considerable retail and non-executive director in global business consumer experience, Nov 2008 experience, acquired including signi cant Experience: over 33 years in senior e-commerce knowledge acquired from her Considerable business and brand experience roles within the consumer goods industry at previous roles at Tesco plc, including Chief having sat on the boards of several leading Unilever plc, including President of the Global Executive Of cer of Tesco.
companies across a range of industries.
Jan was Foods, Home and Personal Care businesses and Laura continues to drive the improvement and formerly Chairman of British American Tobacco as a member of the Executive Board.
Vindi was modernisation of our e-commerce and plc and a non-executive director of Lloyds Banking previously Chairman and Managing Director of multi-channel capabilities.
He was Group Finance Director of Hindustan Lever Limited.
He is the recipient of the non-executive director of Trinity Mirror plc and has Richemont, the Swiss luxury goods group, until Padma Bhushan, one of Indias highest civilian held a variety of roles at Gemini Consulting and 2004 and Chairman of RHM from 2005 until its honours.
takeover by Premier Foods in 2007.
Jan is a South Other roles: Partner at Clayton Dubilier & Rice, Other roles: Trustee of Royal Opera House African Chartered Accountant.
non-executive director of Thomson Reuters, Board Covent Garden Limited, Member of the Other roles: Chairman of Rio Tinto.
member of B&M Retail and a member of the Prime Governments Digital Advisory Board and a Committees: Audit, Nomination, Remuneration Minister of Indias Council of Trade and Industry.
Committees: Audit, Nomination, Remuneration Chairman Designate Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 37 Board diversity We launched the Board diversity policy in 2012 with the intention of ensuring that diversity, in its broadest sense, remains a central feature of the Board.
Alison Brittain Miranda Curtis This year, the Board has taken some positive I I Non-executive director Non-executive director steps towards broadening the diversity of both Appointed: Jan 2014 Appointed: Feb 2012 the Board and our senior management.
Our Experience: Alison Experience: Miranda Board Diversity policy on page 51 sets out our brings signi cant brings a wealth of ambitions with regard to diversity and what this financial and commercial experience of the means for our business, customers and experience combined international consumer stakeholders, as well as the progress we with considerable and technology sectors continue to make against those ambitions.
knowledge of running and extensive knowledge customer facing retail branch networks.
She was of the global broadband cable industry.
During The tables and graphics below provide a visual previously Executive Director for Retail Mirandas 20-year career with Liberty, she led the outline of our board diversity in terms of gender, Distribution and a Board Director at Santander companys investments in digital distribution and range of experience and length of tenure.
Prior to this she worked at Barclays for content operations across Continental Europe and almost 20 years, holding various senior roles Asia-Paci c, most notably in Japan.
She was Board gender diversity including Director of Barclays and Woolwich previously a non-executive director of National Female Male Retail Networks and Managing Director of Express Group plc.
She is a Other roles: Chairman of Waterstones, 100 71% 62% member of the FCAs Practitioner Panel.
Alison non-executive director of Liberty Global, board attended university in Scotland and the USA and member of both the Institute for Government and 38% has an MBA from Cambridge Universitys Judge the Royal Shakespeare Company, Deputy 29% 17% Institute.
Chairman of Garsington Opera and Vice Chair of Other roles: Group Director of Lloyds Banking African girls education charity, Camfed.
0 Executive Group NonGroups Retail Division.
Committees: Nomination, Remuneration Board executive Committees: Audit, Nomination How is our board gender diversity improving?
Andy Halford Martha Lane Fox Women on the board I I Non-executive director Non-executive director 40% 31% 29% Appointed: Jan 2013 Appointed: June 2007 23% 30% Experience: Andy Experience: Martha 21% brings invaluable brings extensive 20% international, consumer experience in the 10% and digital experience, as successful operation of well as a strong finance online and consumer March 1 3 July 1 3 March 1 4 July 1 4 background.
Her previously Chief Financial Of cer of Vodafone input continues to challenge and in uence the Group plc and a member of the Board of development of our multi-channel strategy.
Martha Board experience Representatives of the Verizon Wireless was UK Digital Champion until 2013.
He joined Vodafone as Financial co-founded lastminute.
com in 1998, taking it public Consumer Director of Vodafone Limited in 1999, becoming in 2000 and selling it in 2005.
Martha was awarded Financial Director for the Northern Europe, Middle a CBE in 2013 and was appointed a crossbench 1 00% East and Africa Regions in 2001.
He was peer in the House of Lords in March 2013.
Retail previously Chief Financial Of cer of Verizon Other roles: Chancellor of the Open University, Wireless in the US and Group Finance Director of Chair of Go On UK, MakieLab, Founders Forum for 93% East Midlands Electricity plc.
Andy is a former Good and the Governments Digital Service Chairman of The Hundred Group of Finance Advisory Board, co-founder and chair of Lucky Finance Directors in the UK.
He is a Fellow of the Institute Voice, non-executive director of MyDeco.
com and of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
the Womens Prize for Fiction, founder of charitable 36% Other roles: Member of the Business Forum on foundation Antigone and patron of AbilityNet, E-commerce & technology Tax and Competitiveness Reprieve, Camfed and Just for Kids Law.
Committees: Audit Chairman, Nomination, Committees: Audit, Nomination Remuneration 43% Steven Holliday Amanda Mellor International I Non-executive director Group Secretary and Head Appointed: July 2004 of Corporate Governance Experience: Steve has Appointed: July 2009 Non-executive Board tenure Other roles: extensive knowledge of Non-executive director corporate business and 01 year of Kier Group plc.
has held a variety of senior executive and 12.
5% boardroom level roles 13 years within the challenging utility and oil and gas industries.
He spent 19 years with Exxon and was 37.5% an executive director of British Borneo Oil and Gas before joining National Grid as Group Director, UK 36 years and Europe in 2001, becoming CEO in 2006.
His international experience includes four years in the 25% US and he has developed business opportunities 69 years in countries including China, Brazil, Australia and Japan.
Having served as a non-executive director 25% for over nine years, Steve will leave the Board following the AGM in July.
Other roles: Group CEO of National Grid, Chairman of the Board of Trustees of homeless charity Crisis and Vice Chair of Business in the I Independent Community.
Committees: Audit, Nomination, Remuneration Chairman
