Strategic report Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 10 Our plan in action Three years of transformation This year we have made signi cant progress in transforming M&S from a traditional British retailer into an international, multi-channel retailer.
The changes that we have made to our ranges, our stores and our website as well as to our infrastructure behind the scenes mean that we are well-placed for the future.
Trusted for special occasions Focus on the UK We had a record Christmas Turn to page 18 in Food, with sales up 6.1%, including our biggest ever Vibrant stores day at 63m.
We sold We are currently rolling out 1.3 million Christmas phase two of our store puddings and one in four refurbishment programme, families enjoyed an M&S giving customers clearer, turkey on Christmas Day.
better-merchandised and more exciting stores.
Radically different Turn to page 26 and signi cantly better, its the best representation of what Convenience and exibility M&S stands for today.
The Online sales rose by 23% this site contains a range of new year as customers increasingly features and functions.
chose the convenience and exibility of shopping with us via their computer, tablet or mobile phone.
Our multichannel strategy allows customers to shop with us anytime, anyplace, anywhere.
23% The Hague In February we opened a International 51,700 sq ft agship in The Turn to page 28 Hague.
The store, which sells extensive food and Extending our reach clothing ranges, forms part This year we opened our of our bricks and clicks largest international store strategy in the Netherlands.
in Kuwait, our first store in It sits alongside our Dutch Lebanon and our biggest site, marksandspencer.
our Kalverstraat multichannel store in Amsterdam and a series of food stores.
Youth employment We know that the high level Plan A of youth unemployment is one marksandspencer.
com plana2014 of the biggest issues facing the country.
Through our A global plan Make Your Mark scheme, we Plan A is not just about the are giving young people the UK.
We are now carbon con dence and skill sets neutral in all our ownthey need to make the operated and joint venture all-important first steps on locations worldwide.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements and other information Strategic report Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 11 M&S on the catwalk Quality and style e We participated in London Fashion Week for the first time this Customers are resp pondin onding g year, with a preview of our 2014 Best of British Autumn to the improved quali alit ty y a an nd d Winter Womenswear collection.
The 54-piece collection was style of our clothing g r ra an ng ges es well received by the fashion press.
and we returned ou ur r Womenswear sales s to growth for the rs st t time in three years.
Style & Living Castle Donington Style & Living is the Having a sleek multiindependent editorial section channel business is as of our new website, offering much about what goes customers everything from on behind the scenes Editors Picks of all the latest as what happens trends to style guides and on-screen.
At the start in-depth articles.
of the year we opened one of the UKs largest fully mechanised e-commerce distribution centres in Castle Donington.
Fresh food overseas Multi-channel We now have 10 Food stores Customers in 9 international overseas, with plans to open territories can buy M&S more in key travel locations in products from in-language, major cities, meaning that local currency websites.
It is more customers can enjoy part of our plan to roll-out fresh M&S food every day.
our multi-channel strategy to more countries.
10 Plan A products Fundraising Over half of all the Our employees and customers have raised 4.2m this products we sell now have year through various fundraising initiatives and charity at least one Plan A events, including a 24-hour bike relay and participation attribute to them, either in the Worlds Biggest Coffee Morning.
relating to the materials they are made of or to the processes by which they were manufactured.
