Strategic report Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 22 Food highlights Food Food revenue Trust and innovation 5.1bn 4.2% Market share 3.9% 0.1% pts Number of new lines 1,643 Choice and convenience Steve Rowe We are a food specialist, not a Executive Director, supermarket.
Our products are made Food exclusively for M&S and this unique position means they are not comparable Overview with the rest of the market.
Rather than Our mission in Food is simple: to delight joining the race to the bottom on price, and excite our customers with high we can focus on developing top-quality quality, good value products.
We have ranges that are competitively priced, had a very strong year, with sales up whilst ensuring our farmers get a fair deal 4.2%.
The Food division has seen 18 too.
Stand-out promotions, like our 3 for quarters of positive like-for-like sales 10 on meat and sh and 3 for 6 on deli growth and our customer satisfaction items, offer customers M&S quality at ratings are at an all-time high.
the Christmas period, our market share peaked at 4.7%.
Although in ation is The market dynamics are working in our falling and there are signs of economic favour.
People are shopping more locally recovery, consumers budgets remain and more regularly 41% of our Food under pressure.
Equally, customers customers shop for tonight.
We have have told us they still want a touch of introduced more products to more adventure in the food they eat, and they stores, and around 110 stores now stock want to treat themselves on special our full range M&S customers dont occasions.
We have made M&S food have to sacri ce choice for convenience.
From rice wine to pickle brine more relevant to our customers, more The result is that we are seeing more Our experts have hand-picked over often.
Our promotions are well targeted customers shop with us more often.
We 100 international food brands for and our shelves are stocked with new are growing signi cantly faster than the us to sell exclusively at M&S, from and exciting foods that customers love.
overall food market and we plan to open fragrant Japanese rice wine to 150 new M&S Simply Food stores over American pickles in brine that An extensive range the next three years.
With a catalogue of over 6,400 products, we offer everything from everyday Innovation essentials to special occasion food.
Our innovation is unrivalled 20% of our This year, more people turned to us to products were new this year.
Our team of help deliver Christmas and we saw 35 product developers scour the world record sales.
We had more festive for exciting new products.
This year, we I trust M&S food show-stoppers than ever before, and the have introduced customers to the 800 new Christmas products included completely and they Achacha, a Bolivian tropical fruit, and the our Sugar Plum Christmas Pudding, with Tiddly Pomme, the worlds smallest its hidden centre of Armagnac-soaked are always coming apple.
We also became the first major plums.
With a 38% market share, we are UK retailer to sell wine from Macedonia the established market leader in party up with exciting and Georgia.
We expanded our healthy food and sold 5.5 million packs during the food offer with Delicious & Nutritious, a new things.
At the same time, our range of salads and atbreads inspired Simply M&S range of everyday essentials M&S Customer Feedback by Middle Eastern and Asian avours.
continues to grow accounting for 11% And in a nod to the American trend, our of total sales.
Grill range included Posh Dogs barbecue hotdogs, which were a summer hit, selling 926,000 units.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements and other information Strategic report Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 23 Shoppers love to Dine In Popular products Our Dine In deals, offering As the nation celebrated restaurant-quality food at the birth of the future king, home, remain popular, our Prince George with 800,000 couples commemorative biscuit tin enjoying our 20 Valentines was in our stores within 24 Day menu.
hours of his name being announced.
We sold 800,000 223,000 Supporting British farmers Milk Pledge Plus guarantees a fair price to our farmers, and rewards them for their animal welfare standards.
We donated 150,000 to support farmers in the ood affected areas, and commissioned a review of the impact on British farming, led by Sir John Beddington.
Farming for the Future, run with our suppliers, helps young people get into farming.
Our plan for the future We will accelerate the opening of standalone food stores, both in the UK and overseas.
New ranges Our customers told us they We will continue to wanted to try a wider variety develop new and of meats, so we launched a exciting products, new range of game, which including frozen recipe included rabbit, wood dishes for the first time.
pigeon and pheasant, and Our store environments we were the first retailer to will continue to improve, sell whole wild red grouse.
with more theatre and the roll-out of our Tasting Kitchens.
We will extend our dominance in healthy eating categories.
Suppliers training and work experience placement Trust and provenance We have embarked on a number of opportunities for young unemployed Trust is key to us, and we know the projects to restructure our supply base, people.
In turn we are asking them to importance of provenance to our aimed at improving our ef ciency and extend the call to action to their own customers.
We were the only major our margins without compromising suppliers, therefore creating a multiplier retailer to be untouched by the product quality.
One of the projects model through the supply chain.
We traceability issues surrounding the ensures we utilise our factories better, continue to develop innovative packaging horsemeat issue and pride ourselves on while another is a review of our aimed at reducing our footprint, and we being able to trace our meat back to the processes.
We are making progress on were the first retailer to offer 100% water eld in which the animals were reared ef ciency: over the year availability rose free packaging for all ower bouquets our meat is tested to check breed and by seven percentage points.
Not only will this save over lineage, not just species.
Each year our 500,000 litres of water a year, but each product audit team tests 20,000 Doing the right thing bouquet takes up 25% less space, so products, checking the provenance of Ninety of our suppliers have already we can deliver more owers using everything from olive oil to Manuka honey.
signed up to create more vocational fewer lorries.
