Strategic report Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 20 General Merchandise highlights General Merchandise GM revenue Quality and style 4.1bn Level Womenswear market share 9.7% 0.4% pts Lingerie market share 27.1% 0.3% pts Menswear market share 11.6% Level Kidswear market share 6.4% Level 83% of our dresses have sleeves.
We John Dixon have also introduced Dress and Coat Executive Director, shops into every store, from agships to General Merchandise market town stores.
This contributed to dress sales rising 78% and coat sales Overview rising 29% during the year.
The strategy we outlined in May 2013 was to refocus our GM business on the values Clearer brands that make us famous: quality and style.
Customers found our sub-brands dif cult After a year of exciting changes, our to shop.
So we re ned them to give them customers are noticing the difference in more distinct personalities.
We launched the fabrics, t and nishes of our clothing.
M&S Collection, which replaced M&S Lingerie Our strategy is bearing fruit.
In the fourth Woman and became an umbrella brand As the market-leader, our share of the quarter our clothing division saw positive for our Classic and Limited ranges.
In Lingerie market is three times that of like-for-like sales growth for the first time streamlining the brands, we reduced our nearest competitor.
We have listened hard to product overlap by 10%.
Our sub-brands collaboration with Rosie Huntingtonwhat our customers want and have are now more relevant to our customers, Whiteley remains the best-selling increased the amount of new products who are far clearer about what they Autograph line in the sub-brands on sale.
Around 45% of our Womenswear stand for.
range was new this year, helping us return our Womenswear business to Our Limited range of trend-led fashions growth.
We have faced a challenging and our casual Indigo range both had consumer economy and a highly fantastic years, with sales up 64% and promotional high street, and we are 21% respectively.
looking for an improvement in We extended our commitment to British performance.
But we have a clear clothing and manufacturing with the strategy, and this year we have taken launch of our Best of British collection.
great strides in implementing it.
Every item is designed and made in the Quality, style, design UK, celebrating the best in domestic Details matter.
Our well-received design and craftsmanship.
Womenswear relaunch last September In Menswear, we also introduced a was about ensuring that every feature of tailoring service in our Marble Arch store, our garments demonstrated improved which will be rolled out to other stores.
We introduced more noble fabrics, M&S is great quality at Mens suits now take in price points from upgraded our seams to give a neater 50 to 799, demonstrating our breadth a good price and the nish and introduced more innovation.
recent ranges are so Quality, desirability and con dent style are A strong team at the heart of all we do.
As the countrys much more stylish.
We have signi cantly bolstered the senior biggest clothing retailer, our shoppers GM team that work alongside me and M&S Customer Feedback expect nothing less.
These attributes have Belinda Earl, our Style Director, and made been re ected in our new store format key appointments to our product, buying and our successful Leading Ladies and design teams to ensure that we have Based in Hong Kong, they oversee marketing campaign.
the right talent in place to take us our GM sourcing in the region and will We have listened to customers.
We have also made additions to increase our direct sourcing operations response to their feedback, we have our supply chain team overseas, including as we look to speed up our supply chain improved availability of smaller sizes and appointing two new Sourcing Directors.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements and other information Strategic report Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 21 M&S Studio Listening to our @ Fashion Street We opened a new creative suppliers This years innovations space in the heart of We now survey 22,500 The No Peep design on Londons Shoreditch at the workers in our clothing our womens shirts has British School of Fashion, supply chain in India, Sri a hidden placket and giving our design teams a Lanka and Bangladesh four concealed extra button vibrant new location where times a year via their mobile to prevent gaping.
they can draw inspiration for phone keypads, and ask new capsule collections, like local-language questions on Hi Heel Hosiery features our Best of British range, and issues including working a secret pad to relieve develop innovative ideas.
conditions and job foot pain from wearing satisfaction.
Our Gym Slim range gently attens and atters to help increase con dence in the gym.
Our Easy Close Ultimate Non-Iron school shirts feature riptape fastenings to help younger children get ready for school.
Our plan for the future We will continue to build on our design and quality credentials, with the ongoing improvement of our sub-brands.
We will improve ranging T Th he interactive Home to ensure we are O Ou ur new Home store offering our customers c co oncept transforms the way the best choice at all of we d we isplay products and our stores, as well as fe featu a res a host of interactive online.
s se ervices on giant tablets.
We will improve T Th he 70 stores with the new ef ciency and availability H Ho ome concept are seeing through changes to our s sa ales 10% ahead of the rest supply chain and of th of e estate.
We will work to improve margins by building our design, trading and sourcing capabilities.
10% Availability ethical High Street Clothing retailer.
However, we investigated the possibility As part of an ongoing overhaul of our We are working with the Better Cotton of moving to a free range model and systems, we have changed how we send Initiative and WWF towards 50% found this was not feasible, so we clothing to stores.
We now centrally sustainable cotton and have committed stopped selling products containing manage and replenish stock, which has to having traceability on all principal raw angora wool and have completely led to GM availability improving by 2.3%.
materials by 2020. removed it from our supply chain.
We will now begin implementing new GM We regularly revisit our policies to make Listening to customers systems that will support our growth sure they adhere to our Plan A goal to We recognise the importance of listening to plans for the next decade.
always do the right thing.
Following our customers to ensure that we continue customers concerns about the Trust, traceability and ethics to provide the products they want.
Every production of angora wool, we Our customers trust us to source our month, we survey 55,000 shoppers to help conducted additional visits to the farms clothing ethically and we want to have understand how our customers think and our suppliers buy from.
We found no the best supply chain traceability of any encourage our shoppers to share their evidence that our strict animal welfare retailer in the world were delighted to suggestions with us.
policy had not been adhered to.
have recently been named the UKs most
