Our Strategy In Action Marstons strategy is based upon a clear returns-led focus.
Our Group strategic objectives remain sustainable growth, reduced leverage over time and maximising return on capital.
The potential for acquisitions is regularly assessed and reviewed against the consistently strong returns achieved through organic investment in the Groups programme of new-build pub-restaurants.
Strategy in Action - Case Study #1 OPERATING A HIGH THEATRE OF FOOD QUALITY PUB ESTATE Pizza Kitchens introduced into our Two for One pub restaurants.
Pizzas are cooked from scratch, fresh to order and front and centre within the pub, not behind closed doors.
The Garden Grill Company menu, ordered, prepared and served from the outside kitchen and bar area offers BBQ style food that consumers can customise from the choices available.
We have also launched an authentic ice cream parlour that offers consumers an at bar ice cream experience.
Building new pub-restaurants For more information: Since 2009 we have opened over 100 pub-restaurants offering family dining at Visit us at www.
These pubs generate high turnover, typically averaging 27,000 per week with a food sales mix in excess of 50%.
Good site selection has generated consistent returns on investment, extended our trading geography to include southern England and Scotland and created significant value for shareholders.
We opened 27 pub-restaurants in 2014, creating 1,500 jobs and expect to open at least 25 in both 2015 and 2016, with sites also being acquired for longer-term development.
The trading style of our new-build pub-restaurants is described in more detail within the Destination section that follows on the next page.
Innovation and investment in community pubs We pioneered franchise-style agreements in 2009 to improve customer experiences and enhance earnings in our community pubs.
In 2014, the success of pub franchising was demonstrated through the award of the British Franchise Associations Young Franchisee of the Year to a Marstons licensee.
Franchise-style agreements now operate in 535 Taverns pubs with our aim being to convert most of the remainder by 2016.
Strategy in Action - Case Study Franchise-style agreements differ significantly from traditional tenanted and leased models.
The pub operating model is directed by Marstons, the INNOVATION AND INVESTMENT agreements do not include rent of payments for beer and, risks to the licensee are reduced.
In our view, therefore, it is unlikely that the introduction of IN COMMUNITY PUBS market rent only options as recently proposed by Parliament will have a The Best in Glass perfect serve training programme ensures drinks material impact on pubs in our Taverns estate.
are delivered to the desired high quality standard each time they are ordered in any of our pubs.
Disposal of smaller wet-led pubs Masters of Cask showcases Marstons brewing expertise, talking We disposed of 388 pubs and other assets during the year generating about our Master Brewers and the ingredients and processes that go proceeds of 144 million, and anticipate generating a further c70 million of into creating our cask ales.
proceeds in 2015, mainly from disposals in Taverns.
Technology In a number of our community pubs we have invested in technology to improve the customer experience.
This includes interactive touchscreen TVs that display our own Pub TV, digital advertising at till points and at bars and booths that allow customers to play their own music in and an interactive juke box that links to customers mobiles.
For more information: Visit us at www.
co. uk 10 Marston's PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 3 #2 OPERATING A RANGE # OFFERING VALUE FOR OF PUB BRANDS, MONEY, GOOD FOOD AND FORMATS AND FLEXIBLE DRINK, AND EXCELLENT BUSINESS MODELS SERVICE Destination Value Our Destination pubs offer family dining at reasonable prices, with excellent Our customers want great experiences at affordable prices.
Good pubs offer Strategy in Action - Case Study service in a relaxed pub environment.
We operate two principal brands outstanding value and customers are using pubs on more occasions, Marstons Two for One, and Milestone Rotisserie.
The food sales mix of this including breakfast and coffee shop visits.
In addition, the proportion of the business is 57%.
total eating-out market represented by pub-restaurants is increasing and we expect this trend to continue to provide opportunities for growth.
Premium pubs and bars Good food Our Pitcher & Piano bars and Revere pubs offer premium food and drink in Our pubs offer a broad appeal to families, females, mature customers, and, attractive town centre and suburban locations.
In 2014 the introduction of build your own burgers converted three pubs to Revere in 2014, and expect three conversions in 2015, and burritos proved popular with customers: pizza kitchens, ice-cream with the acquisition of new sites targeted for 2016. parlours and garden grills added theatre and broadened our menu offers and, interest in healthy menu options increased.
Taverns Our community pubs include franchised pubs, managed pubs, and tenancies.
This year, in our managed and franchised pubs we served over 30 million meals, Over the next 2-3 years we expect that most of our Taverns pubs will be 67 million pints of beer, 3 million bottles of wine and 5 million cups of coffee.
operated under our franchise model.
Typically, these are wet-led pubs although food sales are growing and represented 24% of sales in 2014.
A great drinks range In 2014 we introduced 25 new Marstons beers.
These included the Revisionist Leased pubs Craft Beer range, Shipyard IPA, collaboration beers with Status Quo and Elbow, These distinctive pubs benefit from a greater degree of independence and and Pedigree New World Ale.
We improved our wine offer through a new supply committed licensees.
The leased model, with longer-term assignable agreement with Rothschild Wines and signed new spirit contracts in the period.
agreements, attracts skilled entrepreneurs who build value through developing their own businesses.
We contribute through our expertise in attracting the Our aim is to build on great experiences and to remain at the forefront of right lessee, dealing in a fair manner, and providing business support.
In 2014 we created a youth board in partnership with The Sun newspaper to help create The Pub of The Future.
We look forward to Marstons Inns developing the ideas which arise from this forum over the coming year.
We offer high quality accommodation in 44 pubs within the Destination and Premium segment.
In total, we have around 700 rooms including those in four Excellent service lodges operated directly by us, with three new lodges planned to be built in 2015.
The foundations for great service are our people: training and development continues to be important in maintaining our high quality service and standards.
Strategy in Action - Case Study We are proud of our investment in training and development.
In 2014 we created 400 apprenticeships and delivered around 20,000 training days.
Our keyholder training programme offers our pub employees a clear career development path, YOUNG and our Brewing business offers comprehensive training to our sales, customer service and brewing teams.
FRANCHISEE This investment produces results.
Our employee satisfaction score of 79% OF THE is very high compared to other retailers and, in our pubs, our customer satisfaction scores continue to improve and we are outperforming YEAR our competitors.
Aaron Stewart, franchisee at the Fairways, Sheffield In October 2014 we won the Best Pubs & Bars Employer large group and the Rufford, Mansfield category award in the Caterer.
coms Best Employers in Hospitality Awards won the bfas HSBC Young 2014, based on employee votes.
In our Brewing business our Customer Service Franchisee of the Year team were awarded a Customer Service Excellence award, as well as Emma Award 2014.
Gilleland receiving the industry accolade of All Parliamentary Beer Group Brewer of the Year.
We were also delighted to receive the Publicans Morning Advertiser Best National Cask Ale Supplier award.
For more information: Further customer service enhancements are expected following the Visit us at www.
co. uk introduction of a new EPOS system in 2015.
Marston's PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 11 Our Strategy In Action continued 4 # LEADERSHIP IN THE BEER MARKET Many beer drinkers have become bored by conventional big beer brands and the market has fragmented with more interest in provenance, choice and Strategy in Action - Case Study taste.
Growing demand for premium beers reflects this trend and the increasing importance of it when eating out in pubs.
BRAND EXTENSION AND We have benefited from these trends with our wide portfolio of beers from COLLABORATIONS our five breweries, a national distribution network and local approach to our Pedigree New World Pale Ale - A contemporary English beer crafted beer brands.
This strategy is successful: one in five premium bottled ales and from heritage.
one in six premium cask ales in the UK are Marstons brands.
Over the last five Piledriver Rockin All Over The World!
Inspired by the re-release of years volume has grown by 30% in premium bottled ale and by 9% in the album Piledriver, Status Quo collaborated with Wychwood premium cask ale.
Brewery to brew a rockin hop bomb of a beer!
Hobgoblin Gold was launched in June 2014.
Carrying the Hobgoblins In 2014 we were awarded Tesco 2014 Category Supplier of the Year ahead of moniker, this golden beer appeals to both existing Hobgoblin larger, multinational suppliers in other grocery categories.
As category leaders, consumers and to those buying into the brand values, but desiring we work hard with our customers to improve the overall performance of the lighter refreshment.
category and through both the Cask Ale Report and the Premium Bottled Ale Report provide valuable insight into current and future trends.
co. uk Our marketing activity reflects the inherent character of our brands: This year Marstons Pedigree renewed its sponsorship as The Official Beer of England Cricket: by contrast, Hobgoblin is widely renowned as the Unofficial Beer of Halloween.
Regionally, we support local brands through sponsorships of events including the New Forest Show, the Henley Regatta and the Keswick Jazz Festival.
Our reputation as a leading brewer, packager and distributor resulted in us securing brewing contracts for both Tetley and Thwaites beers.
Furthermore, following the 7 million investment in the bottling line at Marstons Brewery in Burton upon Trent, we contract bottle and distribute for a significant number of other brewers nationwide.
Strategy in Action - Case Study AWARD WINNERS Marstons were awarded the winners of the Best Pubs & Bars Employer large group category in the Caterer.
coms Best Employers in Hospitality Awards 2014.
The award recognises the Company as a leading hospitality employer.
Emma Gilleland received the industry accolade of the All Parliamentary Beer Group Brewer of the Year.
Marstons has won Best National Cask Ale Supplier in the 2014 Publicans Choice awards.
co. uk 12 Marston's PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
