Market Overview UK pub market OPERATING IN We operate pubs and bars under different business models managed, franchised, THREE ATTRACTIVE tenanted and leased in one business division.
This maximises our operating flexibility and ensures that we are better placed to apply our consumer insights MARKETS throughout the business.
We invest in new-build pub-restaurants which meet increasing demand for informal dining, We operate in the eating-out and drinking-out markets and align our community pubs to the through our pubs and the UK on-trade and off-trade: and we changing needs of todays pub export to 59 countries worldwide.
reviewing and researching the markets in which we operate and seeking feedback from our customers to better understand their needs.
This informs our innovation and development initiatives that improve our standards, service and range to gain market share.
Like-for-like LFL sales growing ahead of market Eating out Marstons vs Peach Pubs outside M25 2 Year Trand Like-for-like LFL sales growing ahead of market Our pubs offer a variety of eating-out 3% Marstons vs Peach Pubs outside M25 2 Year Trand options and experiences from snacking and grazing to Sunday roasts.
We aim to 2% 3% offer great value and high levels of 1% 2% service in a traditional pub environment.
Our research and 0% 1% development teams -1% monitor trends 0% and behaviours to -2% Oct 2012 Jan 2013 Apr 2013 Jul 2013 Oct 2013 Jan 2014 Apr 2014 Jul 2014 -1% ensure that our Dest & Prem vs Peach Food Led food offers remain Taverns vs Peach Wet Led -2% Oct 2012 Jan 2013 Apr 2013 Jul 2013 Oct 2013 Jan 2014 Apr 2014 Jul 2014 attractive to Dest & Prem vs Peach Food Led customers.
Taverns vs Peach Wet Led Premiumisation driving beer market and Marstons Premium ale 2014 vs 2010 Premiumisation driving beer market and Marstons 10% Premium ale 2014 vs 2010 Brewing 10 8% 10% 8 We have a permanent range 10 6% of 22 cask beers and brew 8% 6 8 over 40 guest ales every 6% year on a seasonal basis.
4 6 XXX Over 1 in 5 bottles of ale 2 1% sold in the UK are Marstons 4 XXX 7% 71% beers and our premium 0 Premium ale Marstons vs. PCA Marstons vs. PBA Marstons premium 2 1% cask and bottled ales share of total ale mix of total Marstons ale 7% 71% beer market continue to outperform the 0 PCA Premium Cask Ale Premium ale Marstons vs. PCA Marstons vs. PBA Marstons premium PBA Premium Bottled Ale share of total ale mix of total Marstons ale market.
beer market PCA Premium Cask Ale PBA Premium Bottled Ale 4 Marston's PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Trends Impact Response The importance of the pub to the UK consumer Whilst pubs continue to close, those that offer a Our success is built on providing pubs that remains very strong and there is increased demand compelling reason to visit will survive and succeed.
people want: new-build pubs that match the for pub-restaurants offering value and quality, and These include pubs that offer a more familyneeds of our customers in a particular location: community pubs being the place for socialising, friendly or female-friendly environment or the a range of operating formats that allow us drinking and eating.
Pubs have increased their right combination of quality and value food and maximum flexibility in determining the service share of the eating-out market and the UK drink offer.
Those that are not able to compete style and product range: a rolling refurbishment drinking-out market is showing signs of recovery effectively tend to be the smaller wet-led pubs programme ensures that our estate remains particularly in premium drinks consumption.
which lack the position or scale to be viable attractive.
In addition all of our tenanted and However, there continues to be polarisation businesses for Marstons: they have also suffered leased pub agreements comply with the Pub between the success of well invested pubs in most from the Governments taxation and Industry Framework Code of Practice and we good locations with a clear offer and the weaker legislative changes in recent years.
Marstons has are currently reviewing the latest Government performance of under-invested pubs in poor long argued that fair, sustainable rents and a response to the consultation paper.
Our locations, and this has been exacerbated by partnership approach are vital for the success of franchise agreements enable us to take greater increased political and economic pressures in tenanted and leased pubs.
control of the retail offer and standards allowing recent years.
This has resulted in the reduction of the franchisee to focus on sales and share in the the population of pubs in the UK in total, but the profits generated.
Those pubs that are no pubs that remain are of significantly higher quality.
longer viable are sold and the proceeds re-invested in improving the quality of our estate.
To understand the habits of the younger generation we recently launched the Pub of the Future Board.
Trends Impact Response The UK eating-out market has grown by 2.8% in Being thrifty and seeking value deals is now the We seek to understand our customers needs the last year the strongest since the start of the norm and customers have greater choice in a through focus groups, customer experience recession.
Although consumer confidence has more diverse and competitive leisure landscape.
This has led us to develop started to return, and with it customers disposable spite of an eye on the budget, when customers go programmes designed to improve the customer income, eating-out habits have changed.
out they like to treat themselves with the experience such as Know your Customer and Consumers are more discerning in their desire for occasional indulgence and whilst the frequency of Best in Glass training.
In addition, our food and great service, high quality food and drink and visits has fallen the average spend per visit is up.
drink innovation focuses not only on the product value for money.
The influence of the US in dishes, but also service style, promotions and A change in consumer eating habits is leading to a flavours and the desire to customise ones own merchandising.
Masters of Cask aims to drive shift in traditional mealtimes and a rise in grazing meal remains, as well as a more casual approach to awareness of Marstons 180 years of brewing and snacking throughout the day.
experience, our Master Brewers and the Customers are seeking more from their leisure ingredients and processes that go into creating One of the biggest challenges facing pubs in the activities, including when eating out, and they our cask ales.
future is how to attract the younger customer want to understand the story behind their group the Millennials who have grown up eating The Garden Grill Company menu meets the experience, whether its the dishs provenance or and drinking in a wide range of outlets.
They eat growing demand for BBQ and smoked foods and the influence of the Companys heritage on the and drink out more often, yet their spend per visit pizza ovens have been introduced into more of whole experience.
is lower than the average pub customer.
our pub-restaurants to broaden the appeal.
For that occasional treat, we have launched an ice cream parlour serving Beechdean Dairy ice cream and introduced more indulgent dessert ranges.
For more information: Visit us at www.
co. uk Trends Impact Response The total beer market in the UK, which has been The current switch to off-trade is expected to Our five breweries and six brand families enable consistently declining in total volume, returned to continue apace.
Cask continues to recruit new Marstons to react and develop the portfolio growth in 2014 driven by a year of strong sales drinkers from other beer categories and brand and around these growth categories.
PBA and cask growth in the off-trade for home consumption.
category innovation is attracting more shoppers to and craft beers place Marstons at the heart of Whilst a modest growth indicator is unlikely to the PBA category.
Seen as experiential and locally nationally available local beers.
Our own brands represent a change in the trend for total beer sales produced, Marstons is in a strong position to and more collaborative beers with Status Quo there are certain categories of beer where sales are exploit these trends.
Piledriver, American brewer Shipyard of Maine increasing: specifically premium lager and USA and Help for Heroes have been successful premium ale.
Drinking at home remains a value in responding to the trend.
equation for consumers based on quality as well as price.
The value of the Premium Bottled Ale PBA market in the off-trade now stands at 460 million.
This is forecast to increase to 1 billion by 2020.
The volume of beer consumed in pubs has remained under pressure, however the market for cask ale remains resilient.
Marston's PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 5
