Board of Directors Roger Devlin Ralph Findlay Andrew Andrea Carolyn Bradley Rosalind Cuschieri Robin Rowland Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Length of Public Government service on Board company Operational Retail Finance regulatory Name Position as at 4 10 2014 Independent experience experience experience experience experience Curriculum Vitae Roger Devlin Chairman 1 year and 1 month Chairman of Gamesys, SIS and Porthaven Nursing Homes Chair of Nomination Committee Independent Non-executive Director of the Football Association Previously a Non-executive Director of National Express and RPS Group Ralph Findlay Chief Executive Officer 18 years Appointed to the Board as Finance Director in 1996 becoming CEO in 2001 Qualified Chartered Accountant and Treasurer Previous roles held at Geest Plc and Bass Plc Chair of Council and Pro Chancellor at Keele University Andrew Andrea Chief Financial Officer 5 years and 6 months Joined the Company in 2002 Qualified Chartered Accountant Previous roles held at Guinness Brewing Worldwide and Bass Brewers Limited Carolyn Bradley Non-executive Director Appointed 1 October 2014 Former UK Marketing Director at Tesco Previously a Trustee of the DrinkAware Trust Rosalind Cuschieri Non-executive Director 8 years Chief Executive of Genius Foods Limited A R R Former Commercial Director of Warburtons Limited Previously responsible for off-trade marketing at Scottish & Newcastle Plc Robin Rowland Non-executive Director 4 years and 1 month Executive Chairman of YO!
Sushi Limited A R Non-executive Director at Caff Nero Group Limited and 'Tortilla' Previous roles held at Restaurant Group Plc and Scottish & Newcastle Plc Peter Dalzell Managing Director of 2 years Joined the Company in 1995 following roles as a licensee and pub company operator Marstons Inns and Taverns Previously Operations Director for Marstons Inns and Taverns Chairman of MIT Charitable Trust Neil Goulden Senior Independent Director 6 years and 6 months Chairman of The Responsible Gambling Trust and Access Sport A R Chair of Remuneration Committee Chairman of Affinity Sutton Housing Group Member of The Low Pay Commission Previous roles at Gala Coral Group, Compass Group Plc and Chef & Brewer Nick Backhouse Non-executive Director 2 years and 8 months Senior Independent Director of Guardian Media Group plc A Chair of Audit Committee Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants Previous senior management positions in the pub, leisure and financial sectors Catherine Glickman Non-executive Director Appointment to commence Group HR Director of Genus Plc on 1 December 2014 Former Group HR Director at Tesco Member of the Institute of Personnel and Development Anne-Marie Brennan Company Secretary Appointed Company Secretary in 2004 22 Marston's PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Peter Dalzell Neil Goulden Nick Backhouse Catherine Glickman Anne-Marie Brennan A Managing Director Senior Independent Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Company Secretary Audit Committee Marstons Inns Director Nomination Committee and Taverns R Remuneration Committee Length of Public Government service on Board company Operational Retail Finance regulatory Name Position as at 4 10 2014 Independent experience experience experience experience experience Curriculum Vitae Roger Devlin Chairman 1 year and 1 month Chairman of Gamesys, SIS and Porthaven Nursing Homes Chair of Nomination Committee Independent Non-executive Director of the Football Association Previously a Non-executive Director of National Express and RPS Group Ralph Findlay Chief Executive Officer 18 years Appointed to the Board as Finance Director in 1996 becoming CEO in 2001 Qualified Chartered Accountant and Treasurer Previous roles held at Geest Plc and Bass Plc Chair of Council and Pro Chancellor at Keele University Andrew Andrea Chief Financial Officer 5 years and 6 months Joined the Company in 2002 Qualified Chartered Accountant Previous roles held at Guinness Brewing Worldwide and Bass Brewers Limited Carolyn Bradley Non-executive Director Appointed 1 October 2014 Former UK Marketing Director at Tesco Previously a Trustee of the DrinkAware Trust Rosalind Cuschieri Non-executive Director 8 years Chief Executive of Genius Foods Limited A R R Former Commercial Director of Warburtons Limited Previously responsible for off-trade marketing at Scottish & Newcastle Plc Robin Rowland Non-executive Director 4 years and 1 month Executive Chairman of YO!
Sushi Limited A R Non-executive Director at Caff Nero Group Limited and 'Tortilla' Previous roles held at Restaurant Group Plc and Scottish & Newcastle Plc Peter Dalzell Managing Director of 2 years Joined the Company in 1995 following roles as a licensee and pub company operator Marstons Inns and Taverns Previously Operations Director for Marstons Inns and Taverns Chairman of MIT Charitable Trust Neil Goulden Senior Independent Director 6 years and 6 months Chairman of The Responsible Gambling Trust and Access Sport A R Chair of Remuneration Committee Chairman of Affinity Sutton Housing Group Member of The Low Pay Commission Previous roles at Gala Coral Group, Compass Group Plc and Chef & Brewer Nick Backhouse Non-executive Director 2 years and 8 months Senior Independent Director of Guardian Media Group plc A Chair of Audit Committee Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants Previous senior management positions in the pub, leisure and financial sectors Catherine Glickman Non-executive Director Appointment to commence Group HR Director of Genus Plc on 1 December 2014 Former Group HR Director at Tesco Member of the Institute of Personnel and Development Anne-Marie Brennan Company Secretary Appointed Company Secretary in 2004 Marston's PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 23 Corporate Governance Report continued Board agenda and activities during the year The Board has a forward agenda of scheduled matters for consideration to ensure sufficient time is devoted to key business matters at the appropriate time.
The agenda itself is reviewed on a regular basis and the agenda for each meeting, agreed between the Chairman and the CEO, is sufficiently flexible to accommodate the addition of any specific matters as required.
Board papers are circulated in advance of each Board or Committee meeting to ensure that Directors have sufficient time to review them before the meeting.
Standing items and regular reports cover the Companys financial position, risk management and regulatory compliance.
Updates on activities across each operating division and performance against targets are reported to the Board in a monthly summary of key business operations.
Other items considered during the year include: Customer Focus and Leadership and Business Operations Strategy People Development Governance Shareholder Focus Retail systems investment Annual strategy day People, culture and Board evaluation report Review of results succession presentation announcements Major food and drink Annual plan People, culture and Terms of reference for all Dividend proposals supplier proposals succession strategic committees action plan Beer company take home Property update and lodge Board succession Fair, balanced and Going concern review business development understandable review of Annual Report and Accounts Health and safety review Retail marketing Group risks and risk AGM preparation management Corporate and social Financing proposals Assessment of key business Shareholder feedback responsibility and financial controls Annual insurance renewal Regulatory and statutory compliance Review of new product Pensions update and development Pension Scheme accounts Capital structure, dividend policy In addition to regular strategic discussions, the Board holds an annual strategy day offsite.
This enables the Board to conduct an in-depth review of strategy and its implementation.
This year the Board also considered the opportunities for food and pub community development, property management and increased branding.
Presentations are received from a number of senior managers enabling Non-executive Directors to challenge, discuss and debate with presenters.
Board and Committee meeting attendance We operate Committees of the Board to deal with specific issues under the Code, each with its own terms of reference which are regularly reviewed and updated.
Reports from each Committee can be found on pages 28 to 43.
The table below shows each Directors attendance throughout the year: Name Board Nomination Audit Remuneration Andrew Andrea 9 9 Nick Backhouse 9 9 4 4 3 3 1 Carolyn Bradley Rosalind Cuschieri 9 9 4 4 3 3 3 3 Peter Dalzell 9 9 Roger Devlin 9 9 4 4 Ralph Findlay 9 9 4 4 Neil Goulden 9 9 4 4 3 3 3 3 2 Lord Hodgson 4 4 1 1 1 1 Robin Rowland 9 9 4 4 3 3 1 Carolyn Bradley was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2014.
2 Lord Hodgson retired from the Board on 21 January 2014.
24 Marston's PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Effectiveness Board composition At the date of this report, our Board comprised nine Directors.
In addition to the Chairman, Roger Devlin, there are five Non-executive Directors and three Executive Directors.
As highlighted in last years Board evaluation, the Committee undertook a review of the Boards long-term succession planning and recruitment process.
Once the Boards needs were identified, the external agency Warren Partners were engaged to assist in the search for suitable new Non-executive Directors.
The Chairman then worked with Warren Partners to identify a shortlist of suitable candidates for the Nomination Committees consideration.
Carolyn Bradley was appointed as a Non-executive Director on 1 October 2014.
Carolyns extensive marketing experience and knowledge of the retail consumer facing industry complements the skills, experience and knowledge already present on the Board.
The Board also appointed Catherine Glickman as a Non-executive Director.
Catherine brings HR experience from a retail background to the Board and her appointment takes effect from 1 December 2014 at which time she will also join the Remuneration Committee.
Lord Hodgson retired from the Board in January 2014 and Rosalind Cuschieri has announced her intention to retire from the Board following the 2015 AGM.
We consider all of our Non-executive Directors to be independent and the following chart portrays the balance of the Board as at the date of this report.
Composition of the Board Chairman: 1 Executive Directors: 3 Independent Non-executive Directors: 5 Male: 7 Female: 2 Commitment Significant commitments of the Directors held outside of Marstons are disclosed prior to appointment and on an ongoing basis where there are any changes.
Actual and potential conflicts of interest are regularly reviewed.
The Articles of Association allow the Board to authorise potential conflicts of interest and to impose any limits or conditions it sees fit.
All of our Directors are required to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge their responsibilities effectively and this is reviewed as part of the annual evaluation process.
Evaluation The Code recommends that an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees is conducted annually and that this process is externally facilitated at least every third year.
This year the evaluation process was carried out internally, having been externally facilitated last year 2012 13.
The evaluation involved a questionnaire designed to review Board constitution and conduct, development of the Board agenda and succession planning.
The review of the Committees focused on their performance throughout the year, whether the agendas covered their remit and the effectiveness of their communications with the full Board.
The Chairman prepared a report for the Board on its effectiveness and that of its Committees.
The report identified a number of specific action points: topics were identified for future presentations: it was agreed to strengthen the process of providing updates on the output from previously received presentations and proposals: and it was agreed to increase the number of site visits.
The Board is of the opinion, supported by the Nomination Committee, that each Director continues to make an effective and valuable contribution and demonstrates commitment to his or her role.
Marston's PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 25 Corporate Governance Report continued Training and development It is the Chairmans responsibility for ensuring that Directors continually update their skills, knowledge and familiarity with the Company.
The Chairman has conducted development reviews with each Director as part of the Board evaluation exercise and no specific training needs were identified.
The Company provides the resources to meet development requirements for individual Directors as and when required and it will continue to review development initiatives for Directors.
All Directors receive a tailored induction programme on joining the Board.
Carolyn Bradleys induction programme included scheduled meetings with key personnel, a number of pub site visits, a brewery tour and a comprehensive company information pack.
The information pack covers all relevant statutory and regulatory guidance notes.
During the year the Board visited a number of managed pubs and the brewery at Burton: meeting with local management to further its understanding of operational matters.
The meeting held at Burton provided the opportunity for a tour of the new bottling line.
Meetings were also held at advisers offices, including those of the Companys new financial PR advisers, providing an opportunity for Board members to meet with advisers.
The remaining Board meetings were held at the Head Office in Wolverhampton.
Individually, the Non-executive Directors also spent time with senior managers visiting managed and tenanted pubs and our regional breweries.
There are regular opportunities for the Directors to meet with senior management at Head Office, in the pubs and breweries to maintain and deepen their understanding of our business.
The Company Secretary advises the Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters.
All Directors have access to her advice and services.
If necessary, Directors may seek independent professional advice at the Companys expense in the performance of their duties.
Election and re-election Shareholders will consider the election of Carolyn Bradley and Catherine Glickman at the AGM and they will be subject to annual re-election thereafter.
All other Directors offer themselves for re-election at each AGM.
Details of each Director serving on the Board at the date of this Report are set out on pages 22 to 23 and, with the exception of Rosalind Cuschieri, shall be set out to shareholders in the papers accompanying the election and re-election resolutions for the AGM.
Diversity Policy The way we manage our pubs, breweries and brands reflects the preferences of many different consumer and customer types: it is therefore vital that our management of the business has appropriate regard for diversity when making decisions.
The Board, through the CEO, takes overall responsibility for diversity and equality below Board level.
We have a code of behaviour which is communicated throughout Marstons: to behave with Fairness, Integrity, and Transparency.
We have a Whistleblowing Policy intended to ensure that concerns can be raised without adverse effect on the reportees career and development at Marstons.
Further details of Marstons approach to diversity and succession planning can be found on the website www.
co. uk responsibility  Accountability and internal control Fair, balanced and understandable assessment In accordance with the Codes requirement that the Board should consider whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable comprehensive reviews are undertaken at regular intervals throughout the year-end process by senior management.
The preparation of this document is coordinated by the Company Secretariat team with significant input from the Finance team and Group-wide support from other contributing personnel.
The Board receive drafts of the Annual Report and Accounts to allow sufficient time to review and provide an opportunity for challenge and discussion, ahead of approving the final documents.
In addition, the external Auditor reviews the consistency between the narrative reporting and financial disclosures.
Internal controls The Board is responsible for the Companys systems of internal control and risk management and reviewing their effectiveness.
The Executive Directors are responsible for its implementation.
The systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk.
By their nature, such systems provide only a reasonable and not absolute defence against material errors, losses, fraud or breaches of the law.
Control environment The key features of the internal control system are: A clearly defined management structure operating within a framework of policies and procedures covering authority levels, responsibilities and accountabilities.
A detailed formal budgeting process for all Group activities, with the annual Group budget and projections for future years being formally approved by the Board.
Established procedures for planning, approving and monitoring capital expenditure and major projects.
Board approval is needed for all major investment, divestment and strategic plans and programmes.
At each meeting the Board reviews financial and non-financial progress towards the Companys goals.
An internal audit function that scrutinises internal controls and conducts audits on controls associated with key risks of the business, and which recommends improvements.
For more information on control of risks see: Marston's Risk Management Framework on page 13 26 Marston's PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Compliance In 2013 Marstons set up a Compliance Committee chaired by the Corporate Risk Director, in order to monitor all areas of legal compliance across the Company.
The Committee is responsible for maintaining a register of legislation appertaining to Marstons activities, and seeking confirmation of compliance from management on a regular basis.
Breaches in compliance will be reported by the Committee to the Board: in addition the Committee will report its operations biannually to the Board.
The Committee meets quarterly, and includes representatives from across the business, in order to consider any emerging areas of legislation or challenges to existing compliance.
Remuneration Information on the Remuneration Committee, its membership and activities is given in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 31 to 43.
The report includes the current Directors Remuneration Policy as approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
The Report also comprises the Annual Report on Remuneration and this is subject to an advisory vote at the 2015 AGM.
Shareholder relations Engagement with our shareholders is essential to ensure a greater understanding of, and confidence in, the medium and longer-term strategy of the Company and in the Boards ability to oversee its implementation.
An investor relations programme is in place between the Executive Directors and institutional shareholders, fund managers and analysts.
The CEO and CFO meet with Private Client Fund Managers in a number of locations on a quarterly basis.
Matters such as strategy, performance, management and governance are discussed within the constraints of information already made publicly available.
The Board considers it important to understand the views of shareholders and issues which concern them.
At least twice each year, it receives written feedback from analysts and institutional shareholders on their meetings with Executive Directors.
During the year the Chairman and Senior Independent Director met with some of the Companys major institutional investors.
The Company Secretary oversees communication with private individual shareholders on behalf of the Board.
The Annual Report and Accounts is the principal means of communication and the Companys website is an important method of communication for the majority of its shareholders providing comprehensive share price information, results presentations, financial calendars and announcements.
The AGM provides all shareholders with the opportunity to communicate directly with the Board of Directors.
Recent trading performance and developments in the business are presented prior to the formal business of the meeting.
Shareholders are invited to ask questions during the meeting, which is followed by an opportunity to meet with the Directors and senior managers of the business on an informal basis.
The senior management team are available for shareholders to speak to before and after the meeting.
All of our Directors attend and the Chairman of the Board and each Committee will be available to answer shareholder questions during the formal business of the meeting.
We intend to call a poll for all resolutions to be considered at the 2015 AGM.
This follows best practice guidelines and allows all shareholders, present in person, by proxy or unable to attend, to vote on all resolutions in proportion to their shareholding.
The Company will release the results of voting, including proxy votes on each resolution, on its website on the next business day at www.
co. uk investors and announce them through an RNS.
Details of the 2015 AGM are set out in the separate Notice of Meeting.
Marston's PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 27
