AGGREKO AT A GLANCE Aggreko is a world-leading provider of mobile modular power, temperature control and energy services.
We are working at the forefront of a rapidly changing energy market and are focused on solving our customers challenges to provide cost-effective, exible and greener solutions across the globe.
Read more on page 06 Our global reach Rental Solutions 80 195 6,000 6,659MW Power Solutions Countries Sales and Permanent Average MW on hire Sales and service centres employees excluding hybrids service centres Notable events managed in 2018 Ryder Cup Paris, France Winter Olympics 2018 Pyeongchang, South Korea Super Bowl Minnesota, USA Commonwealth Games 2018 Gold Coast, Australia Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 02 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Rental Solutions Power Solutions We provide power, heating We provide power, heating and cooling to emerging markets and cooling in developed for customers with longer-term power needs.
Our customer requirements tend to revolve Industrial PSI Utility PSU around smaller, short-term Comprises medium-term projects Longer-term projects projects and key events.
for industrial customers, as well providing power to national as shorter-term rental contracts.
Revenue Revenue Revenue 822m 424m 342m 52% of Group revenue 27% of Group revenue 21% of Group revenue Operating pro t Operating pro t Operating pro t 105m 71m 43m 48% of Group operating pro t 32% of Group operating pro t 20% of Group operating pro t PSU revenue excludes pass-through fuel.
Key sectors % of revenus Key sectors % of revenue 100% of revenue is derived 1.
Oil & gas 39% construction 18% from national utility customers.
Other 8% Read more on page 24 Read more on page 25 The longer-term opportunity for Aggreko: an energy market in transition We are anticipating and responding We have developed speci c applications to the megatrends of Decarbonisation, and tools to help our customers adapt Decentralisation, Digitalisation and to the energy transition.
Demographic change in our markets.
Our strategic priorities are designed to ensure We have identi ed the opportunities these that we make the most of these changes, and trends present, playing to our established strength we are investing in our capabilities accordingly.
in providing modular, temporary power and to the Read more about our strategy on page 10 new skills we are developing.
We offer maximum and our marketplace on page 08 fuel exibility, using gas, diesel, renewable fuel sources and microgrid and storage solutions.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 03
