20 Assura plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategy at a glance Strategic priority Performance in 2018 28.8% growth in investment property Drive development opportunities to support rental The market is becoming increasingly competitive Focus to 1,732.7 million.
butour strong brand and reputation as a long-term We have a deep understanding of the economic dynamics 1.70% rental growth from rent reviews Investment managers to focus on asset enhancement investor in the sector mean we are well placed to ofhealthcare real estate.
By building on the knowledge and settled in the period.
expertise of our team and engagement with our healthcare Total Property Return of 9.7%.
Continue to seek growth opportunities through partners we believe we can generate superior Total Property Read more about acquisitions, and purchase and leasebacks.
Return through a strategic focus on a highly attractive market.
our stakeholder engagement from page 26 Delivered two newly constructed, Complete developments currently on site.
Further changes to the organisational structures Expertise bespoke GP-led medical centres.
Bring our development pipeline through to live schemes.
orpolicies of the NHS could lead to delays in further Our strong reputation for innovation derives from our bespoke Engaged with senior NHS leaders and Promote benefits of investment in primary care investment in primary care infrastructure.
However, designs for our medical centres.
Our designs have an emphasis politicians to support transforming infrastructurefor the NHS.
recent policy statements suggest an increasing role on flexibility and adaptability to ensure that the buildings can primary care.
Work with emerging STPs to identify development opportunities.
adapt to the changing NHS agenda.
Read more about our market on page 10 All developments completed during Continue investment in new developments that incorporate Sustainable development and building design is an Sustainability theyear achieved Very Good innovation in respect of sustainable solutions and technology.
area of constant change and we seek to be fully up We pride ourselves on our commitment to the highest BREEAM rating or better.
Further investment in our teams development.
todate with the latest technologies and innovations.
possiblestandards in sustainability, the personal development Completion of our first ultra low-energy Failure to recruit, develop and retain our team with the ofour teams and our role in spearheading investment in development.
right skills and experience may weaken our ability to socialinfrastructure.
New staff development programme deliver against our strategic priorities.
EPRA Cost Ratio reduced to 13.0% Seek further opportunities to expand the portfolio.
Maintaining cost discipline as the business expands Effectiveness and weighted average cost of debt Continue to promote the Company to a wide shareholder will be crucial in ensuring that we continue to reduce We are committed to supporting the NHS in tackling the major reduced to 3.12%.
base and a diverse group of debt funders.
our overall EPRA Cost Ratio.
underinvestment in UK primary care property and utilising our EPRA EPS increased to 2.5 pence.
We have been successful in securing both equity and skills and capital in achieving this.
We have the right team to Total Accounting Return of 11.0%.
debt capital for supporting the expansion of the business source and manage these opportunities and the right plans although there is no certainty that future expansion toleverage our teams skills to maximum advantage.
willbe supported in the same way.
We believe the fundamentals of the business remain very strong and attractive to both equity and debt funders.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information www.
com 21 Priorities in 2019 Key risks 28.8% growth in investment property Drive development opportunities to support rental The market is becoming increasingly competitive Focus to 1,732.7 million.
Read more Key performance indicators page 22 Principal risks and uncertainties page 34
