In 2018, we made good progress Operational and across the Group in achieving our strategic highlights strategic objectives.
During the year, BAE Systems Type26 frigate was selected for the Commonwealth of Australias Hunter Class nine-ship Future Frigate programme with the contract which provides the framework for the design and build of the ships being signed in December.
The Type 26 was also selected as the design forCanadas Surface Combatant programme, reinforcing its position as one of the worlds most advanced anti-submarine warships.
The contract with the Government of the State of Qatar for thesupply of 24Typhoon aircraft and nine Hawk Advanced JetTrainer aircraft, along with a bespoke support and training We were awarded a $376m 295m contract package, became effective inSeptember upon receipt of the bythe US Army for the development phase firstcontractual payment.
Deliveries of the first Hawk aircraft ofthe Mobile Protected Firepower programme, areexpected to commence in 2022 and the first Typhoon to deliver a rapidly deployable and highly agile aircraftin 2023. armour-protected light combat vehicle.
The first four UK F-35 Lightning II aircraft arrived at RAF Marham in June and initial operational services The US-based Intelligence and Security business secured were stood up.
Additionally, the integration of the seven new task orders valued at approximately $320m F-35 onto the new HMS Queen Elizabeth aircraft 251m to provide motion-imagery analysis, training and carrier commenced, and the first F-35 deck landing research support services to the USintelligence community.
was successfully completed in September.
BAE Systems 08 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Chief Executives 13 review Group strategic 18 framework Segmental 43 review In June, BAE Systems and industry teammate Iveco Defence Vehicles were competitively selected for During the year agreement was reached theUSMarine Corps Amphibious Combat Vehicle 1.1 withthe Saudi Arabian government to continue programme phase.
We have commenced work to provide support services for Typhoon aircraft ontheproduction contract for an initial 30 vehicles in service with the Royal Saudi Air Force.
worth$198m 155m, with options for a total of204vehicles worth up to $1.2bn 0.9bn.
The UK Combat Air Strategy announced in July is a significant milestone for our Air sector and sends a strong signal of intent about the UKs commitment to retaining aleading position in Combat Air.
The strategy will enable long-term planning in a key strategic part of the business as UK government and industry jointly invest in cutting-edge, next-generation combat air systems.
The Tempest programme has been launched in support of the strategy.
Our Advanced Precision Kill Weapon System APKWS During the year we secured the full 1.6bn contract isexperiencing growing demand in both the US and for delivery of the seventh Astute Class submarine, internationally, with awards totalling nearly $400m 314m and a further 1.3bn of funding on the Dreadnought inthe year, and we continue toramp-up production capacity programme from the UK Ministry of Defence.
towards an annual production levelof 25,000 units.
