Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information Corporate Investment Banking Wealth Management Integrated solutions for our CIB clients We are an established leader of investment management services in Georgia Bank of Georgia has been active in asset and wealth management since 2005.
Accommodating 1,528 local and international clients from 76 countries worldwide, our Wealth Management business provides private banking services to high-net worth individual clients and offers investment management products internationally through representative offices in Eastern Europe, the Middle East and the UK.
Our superior service, along with local economic stability, business friendly environment, favourable tax regime, and confidential nature of banks in Georgia, provides our clients with the unique opportunity to invest in Georgia and many foreign customers find this proposition very attractive.
The Bank believes that its Wealth Management franchise can benefit by focusing on the distribution of local debt.
The Bank is a leading corporate lender in the country with deep sector knowledge and local expertise.
Our corporate In May 2017, we held the first regional conference of Wealth AUM banking business is characterised by outstanding flexibility in meeting our corporate clients needs and offers the most Management in Tbilisi.
The event aimed to introduce Georgia GEL billion Number of customers comprehensive range of products and services in the country.
We are proud to accommodate c. 2,500 businesses in as a regional hub for private banking services.
The prospects Georgia and play our part in developing various sectors of the economy such as trade, energy, industry and tourism, and challenges of making Georgia a regional banking centre were among others.
Corporate banking additionally serves as the countrys leading trade finance business and provides discussed within the framework of the conference, including the 1,528 leasing services through the Banks wholly-owned subsidiary, Georgian Leasing Company GLC.
In 2018, GLC was investment climate in Georgia, as well as the countrys economy 2.3 assigned a Long Term Issuer Default rating of B with a positive outlook by Fitch Ratings.
In 2018, we sponsored a number of events 76 in Georgia and abroad.
We plan to continue to actively support 22.3% y-o-y We are at the forefront of capital markets development in Georgia.
We aim to leverage our superior knowledge regional events in the future.
Number of countries and capital markets capabilities in the Georgian and neighbouring markets both in terms of reach and the expertise that we have accumulated during the past several years through our corporate advisory, debt and equity capital market research and brokerage practices united under Galt & Taggart, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Group.
Our brokerage business serves regional and international markets, including hard-to-reach frontier economies.
Our macro and sectoral research currently covers various sectors of the Georgian economy and developments taking place in regional economies.
Galt & Taggart also publishes an extensive quarterly report on macroeconomic developments in BNB the Georgian economy subscription to the research on www.
In October 2018, Galt & Taggart, in partnership with the London Stock Exchange, organised a Georgia Investor Day in London which welcomed Well capitalised SME bank in Belarus representatives of the Georgian private and public sectors and investor community.
The event aimed to better acquaint both existing and potential investors with Georgias attractive investment climate, thriving economic and business environment, stable regulatory system and successful businesses.
In 2019, Global Finance Magazine named Galt & Taggart Best Investment Bank in Georgia for the fifth consecutive year.
On 31 May 2018, Cbonds, one of the leading news agencies for financial data analysis and processing, named Galt & Taggart Best Investment Bank in Georgia 2018 for the third consecutive year.
Gross loan book Client deposits GEL billion Market share GEL billion Market share JSC Belarusky Narodny Bank BNB offers individual and business banking services to SMEs and middle-income retail banking customers in Belarus.
BNB was one of the first 28.8% 30.3% privately-owned commercial banks in Belarus, 2.8 3.5 established in 1992.
BNB targets wider retail 14.4% y-o-y 0.5% y-o-y penetration through digital channels.
Includes Wealth Management Gross loans and Client deposits, respectively.
Market shares by loans and deposits to legal entities, respectively.
09 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 10 Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information With regard to the Board, we invited two new Of course, challenges remain.
Although poverty is receding, independent members to join us in 2018 Vronique the gap between rich and poor increases.
Growing McCarroll and Andreas Wolf.
You can find their biographies inequality often has political implications in democracies on page 114.
They are both heavily involved in the digital and needs to be addressed by both the Government financial world a clear priority for us.
Vronique is and the banking sector.
Director of Digital Strategy with the French telecom operator Orange, and Andreas is leading the scale-up On the political front, 2018 saw the election of a new of the banking subsidiary of Raisin, a leading European President Salome Zurabishvili the first female FinTech company.
Both also bring significant banking President of Georgia.
Although the presidency is a experience, Vronique in risk management and Andreas largely symbolic role, the election was hotly contested in lean and digital transformation.
Vronique is also our and Zurabishvili won in the end, but only after a vigorous second female Board member the number that we had campaign.
On the positive side, one notes that Georgia promised to reach and which we would like to exceed enjoys a free press and lively democratic debates.
the negative side, indications of dissatisfaction from a large part of the electorate bodes for highly contested Our Board stands today at eight non-executive members parliamentary elections in 2020.
We must not forget a good number to conduct vigorous strategic and that Georgia has already seen a peaceful change of operational discussions.
The Board members have government in 2012 and has already demonstrated an a wide range of experiences and backgrounds that ability to change governing parties without a break-up facilitate rich debate, as each member contributes his in the political process.
Fortunately for economic growth, or her knowledge from their own area of competence the pro-business policies of both parties and their view Chairmans and expertise.
This diversity supports the ethos of strong of foreign policy, remain remarkably similar.
It is that corporate governance that is an essential part of the consistency and stability that have underpinned the Boards mandate.
We encourage critical opinions, which growth of the economy over the last decade.
Statement we feel are an essential part of good governance and too easily overlooked when things are going well.
We are able Georgia continues to aspire to join the European Union Neil Janin to reach consensus on major decisions after weighing the and NATO.
In both cases, the process is more important contributions from all members.
My role as a Chairman than the destination.
However, an overwhelming Chairman of the Board is to set an agenda, foster discussions, frame percentage of the population supports the move towards the issues, and encourage a search for optimal solutions.
integration with Europe and this is also supported by the Dear Shareholders, European Union and the United States.
It is a delicate As I did when I was Chair of BGEO Group, I will say a word balance that Georgia has played well thus far.
Russian This is my first letter writing as the Chairman of the The Group is currently entering a new era.
It is learning on the economy and Georgias political environment.
tourists can come to Georgia visa-free and their numbers Board of Directors of Bank of Georgia Group PLC with to operate as a flexible, technology-enabled information continue to increase every year up 23.8% in 2018. it being an independent entity.
This time last year, the business.
It is changing its culture from an , Georgia has continued its decade-long track Moreover, Russian businesses can operate in Georgia as Group was still part of the BGEO Group.
In May 2018, based organisation to one where its people are developing record of strong economic performance, with a 4.7% real freely as any other.
Georgia enjoys low corruption levels, the shareholder-approved demerger of BGEO Group was and contributing both ideas and services.
It is refocusing GDP growth in 2018 with similar expectations for the free press, economic growth and democracy and often completed, creating two independent entities Bank of on the needs of its clients.
In summary, it aims to become next few years.
This performance evidences that Georgia ranks as high in all aspects as major Europeans countries.
Georgia Group and Georgia Capital.
As a result of the a more entrepreneurial growth organisation.
has a resilient economy capable of weathering conflicts Georgias continued progress on the path of democracy demerger, Irakli Gilauri, former CEO of BGEO Group, in neighbouring countries, volatility in commodity prices, and economic growth represents a very attractive risk moved to lead Georgia Capital and Kaha Kiknavelidze Archil and the Board have agreed on the following mandate: and general global crises.
This resilience is undoubtedly to reward opportunity for investors.
Moreover, Bank of became the CEO of the newly-independent Bank of due to the economic reforms that successive governments Georgia, with the strength of its balance sheet, focus Georgia Group.
Develop a long-term growth strategy, ensuring that have put in place in order to create a business-friendly on RAOE, commitment to Georgia and long track record Bank of Georgia Group has the leading position in environment.
Moreover, the present government has of strong governance, is an ideal investment vehicle.
We are grateful to Kaha for steering us successfully Georgia not just in terms of financial profitability, worked hard to promote good and competent governance through the transition period following the demerger.
but also in innovative developments, digital leadership, in the country.
Additionally, the National Bank of Georgia Thanks to his steady leadership, the Group continued to and regional wealth management whilst maintaining strives to enhance corporate governance and reduce Neil Janin produce solid results for the year and this is presented in its sound risk management practices: systemic risks in the sector.
In the case of our Group, these Chairman more detail further on in the report.
Play a prominent role in the Georgian market and efforts took the form of support and encouragement 27 March 2019 that, although stepping down from his role as CEO, economy ensuring sustainable development for when we announced our decision to clearly separate the Kaha will remain as an adviser to the organisation.
both our institution and the country: and Banking and Investment Businesses of the BGEO Group 3.
Work with the Executive Management team to a move that made sense for us and for Georgia.
In January 2019, Archil Gachechiladze was appointed model what an agile and entrepreneurial culture is and as the new CEO of the Group.
He is familiar with the spread this culture to the entire organisation.
In short, On the foreign policy front, the Deep and Comprehensive institution, having previously led the corporate bank and we aim to make talent development a top priority Free Trade Agreement DCFTA signed with the European our investment bank, Galt & Taggart, both successfully.
Union and the Free Trade Agreement with China are Most recently he served as CEO of Georgian Global already contributing to economic growth.
Georgia is Utilities GGU, the Georgian water utility and renewables The whole Board and I commit to doing everything we can working year after year to stand out in the region with business, where he proved to be an excellent business to ensure Archil succeeds.
political stability and economic performance and become builder, dealmaker and leader.
We believe that he will bring a regional hub in terms of trade, transport, logistics these qualities to the Group.
We are confident that he and tourism.
The IMF, the EBRD and other development has the vision, entrepreneurialism and leadership, both finance institutions have positively spoken about Georgia internally and in the marketplace, that will ensure Bank and consider the country to be a bright star in this part of Georgia continues to be innovative and distinguished of the world.
11 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 12 Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information 44,000 clients now benefiting from SOLOs lifestyle Over the medium term, we will focus on managing our banking proposition.
We moved from a product-focused capital ratios c. 200 basis points over the minimum to a client-centric approach and, going forward, we regulatory requirements.
I was also very pleased, in March will strengthen this focus on client centricity.
We are 2019, to successfully price a US$100 million offering of increasingly incorporating customer feedback into our Additional Tier 1 Capital notes to further improve our products and services in the shortest timeframe possible, capital base.
thus building our focus on driving customer satisfaction as a key core competency.
During the last 12 months, the banking sector in Georgia has been working with the NBG to implement a number of We also continued to deliver strong progress in the regulatory changes, which we agree with, relating to retail Corporate Investment Banking CIB business, and lending lending.
Namely, caps on payment-to-income and loangrowth is now more balanced between Retail and Corporate to-value ratios have been updated and the GEL 100,000 Investment Banking.
Customer lending in CIB grew by 15.9% limit, below which the loans must be issued in Georgian year-on-year.
In addition, we have made further progress Lari, increased to GEL 200,000.
In addition, Basel III in reducing concentration risk in CIB by decreasing the capital adequacy requirements have been put in place.
concentration of our top ten corporate borrowers to only All of these changes have now been introduced with the Chief 9.8% of our lending portfolio.
This stronger lending growth expectation that Georgian banks will shift towards local in CIB has also supported much improved net fee and currency lending to corporates, the SME sector and commission income, which, during 2018, increased by 17.4% the mortgage sector, and further fide-dollarise their Executive and has contributed to almost 30% growth in profit before balance sheets.
non-recurring items and income tax.
Officers As a result of the recent policy changes, we anticipate Our increasing focus on lending in the mortgage segment growth rates in the unsecured consumer sector to and to finer margin corporate and SME clients has moderate, although we continue to expect to deliver Statement however led to a negative mix effect on overall loan yields solid growth in mortgages, particularly Lari mortgages and on the net interest margin, which was reduced by 80 and SME lending.
Overall, with the strong rates of growth Archil Gachechiladze basis points year-on-year to 6.5%.
This shift in product already delivered in 2018, we now expect customer lending mix, which we expect to continue during 2019, improves growth for the medium to long term to be within our Chief Executive Officer our asset quality metrics and, particularly in the case of 15-20% expected growth range, with lending growth the mortgage portfolio, reduces the risk-asset and capital expectations over the next 12 months to be closer I have recently joined Bank of Georgia Group as CEO, currency reserves to a record US$3.3 billion in December intensity of our lending growth.
This enables us to support to 15%.
This is expected to be supported by further having previously served in Georgia Capital, which itself 2018.
Since the year-end, the NBG has continued to the Groups return on equity and superior profitability strong levels of economic growth in the country and was part of the same group until not long ago.
In my first accumulate reserves, which now total US$3.5 billion.
Individual product loan yields have continued underpinned by the Government accelerating capital letter to you I would like to say a few words about last Perhaps most significantly, the country recorded its first to remain broadly stable, and we expect this trend to expenditure, which we expect to have a high private sector years performance, the environment in which we operate ever current account surplus in the third quarter of 2018 continue into 2019.
Costs remain well controlled, and the investment multiplier.
and the organisation which I am honoured to be serving.
an extremely positive macroeconomic development Banking Business delivered positive operating leverage of for Georgia.
It was also a positive development recently 2.9 percentage points in 2018.
In 2018, the Bank introduced At the 2019 Annual General Meeting, the Board intends to During 2018, the Group delivered another period of strong when Fitch Ratings upgraded Georgias credit rating project Lean, which has already started to improve back recommend a final dividend for 2018 of GEL 2.55 per share balance sheet and fee income growth, combined with an upgrade that we hope will soon filter through to office procedures, and contribute to end-to-end process payable in British Pounds Sterling at the prevailing rate.
superior profitability, achieved as a result of excellent Bank of Georgias credit rating.
optimisation in the mortgage business.
Over the last This represents a payout ratio of 30% well in the range franchise growth and good cost management in both 12 months, the cost to income ratio has improved from of our dividend payout ratio target of 25-40% and a 4.5% the Retail and Corporate Investment Banking businesses.
Strong franchise growth in Retail Banking led to more 37.7% in 2017, to 36.7% in 2018.
This focus on delivering increase over the dividend paid after the Demerger.
For the full year, the Groups revenues totalled GEL than 24.2% customer lending growth and 32.8% client positive operating leverage will continue, leading to further 1,030.4 million, an increase of 14.5%, and profit before deposit growth year-on-year.
On a constant currency expected improvements in our cost to income ratio.
Overall, the Group has delivered another year of strong non-recurring items and income tax increased by 25.1% to basis, customer lending growth was still strong at 22.3% franchise and earnings growth.
The returns continue to GEL 494.7 million.
The Groups capability to deliver strong year-on-year.
The Retail Bankings clear focus over the Asset quality continues to improve, reflecting our be high and the Group remains very well positioned to Return on Average Equity continues, and ROAE exceeded last few quarters has been on growing the mortgage and good lending discipline and the ongoing strength of the continue to deliver good momentum and high returns.
25% for the full year, compared to a medium-term target SME portfolios more rapidly than the unsecured consumer economy.
The full year cost of credit risk ratio was 1.6%, In particular, I expect to deliver this progress at the same of more than 20%.
lending portfolios, and loan originations in these portfolios a significant improvement from 2.2% in 2017.
The NPLs to time as we have a clear focus on the common values that have been extremely strong.
Over the last 12 months, gross loans ratio was 3.3% at the end of December 2018 unite all key stakeholder groups in Bank of Georgia: our From a macroeconomic perspective, Georgia continues the mortgage portfolio increased by 48.8%, while SME 50 basis points lower than a year ago.
The coverage customers, employees, management and shareholders.
to produce strong real GDP growth 4.7% in 2018 portfolio growth totalled 25.1%.
ratios remain robust and we expect asset quality and primarily driven by private sector investments, with credit metrics to remain strong over the medium term, Sincerely yours, inflation remaining well contained at 1.5% in December Our customers are increasingly becoming more particularly as our product portfolio mix shifts more 2018, which is comfortably below the National Bank demanding, as convenience becomes ever more important.
towards higher quality lending portfolios, such as the Archil Gachechiladze of Georgias NBG medium-term target of 3.0%.
The It was therefore pleasing to see the Retail Banking client mortgage portfolio.
Chief Executive Officer Governments prudent macroeconomic policies continue base continue to expand, reflecting the success of the 27 March 2019 to serve the country well, and the economy has remained Banks digital penetration growth and the increased use The Groups capital and funding position remains strong.
extremely resilient to pressures in neighbouring countries of more cost-efficient remote channels.
As a result, the The NBG Basel III total capital adequacy ratio increased This Strategic Report as set out on pages 01 to 101 and to some volatility in regional financial markets.
Retail Bank now has more than 2.4 million customers by 70 basis points during the fourth quarter 2018 to was approved by the Board of Directors on 27 March an increase of more than 125,000 customers over the 16.6%, and the NBG Basel III Tier 1 capital adequacy 2019 and signed on its behalf by Hard currency income has been strong for the country.
Our fully transformed, user-friendly, ratio was 12.2%.
Our capital ratios are comfortably ahead Especially strong has been revenue from tourism, totalling multi-feature mobile banking application, mBank, has of our regulatory minimum requirement.
We continue to Archil Gachechiladze US$3.2 billion during the year and reaching almost 20% had nearly 600,000 downloads during the last two years.
generate significant levels of internal capital as a result Chief Executive Officer of GDP.
Solid external inflows have enabled the NBG In addition, we comfortably exceeded our targeted of both the Banks high return on average equity and 27 March 2019 to continue to buy US Dollars and accumulate foreign 40,000 SOLO clients by the end of 2018, with over the improved risk asset intensity of our lending growth.
13 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 14 Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance Statements Information Global top-reformer Georgia is an open and resilient emerging market.
The country maintains its global top-reformer status in pro-business measures from the World Bank.
Currently, efforts are directed towards fully integrating the Georgian economy into the global economy in order to fully reap the benefits from the comprehensive reforms that the country undergoes.
Ease of Doing Business index ranks Georgia in 2019 In starting a business In protecting In registering property Overall ranking minority investors nd nd th th 2 2 4 6 th Up from 9 in 2018, ahead of Norway, the US and the UK Source: World Bank Doing Business Economic Freedom Index Corruption Perceptions Index ranked Georgia in 2019 in 2018 th st 16 41 Industry and Ahead of the Italy, Slovakia and Croatia Unchanged from 2018, ahead of Luxembourg, and leads the Eastern Europe and Central Asia region Chile and Sweden Market Overview Source: Heritage Foundation Source: Transparency International 2018 15 Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Bank of Georgia Group PLC 16
