BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report 1 2018 Strategic Highlights Contents Execution of strategy Strategic Report We have invested in our Signature and Ontic core businesses, and BBA Aviation at a glance 01 further improved the performance of the ERO business, the disposal Our businesses 02 process of which is ongoing.
Further, this has all progressed within Q&A with Mark Johnstone 04 theparameters of our re-defined capital allocation policy.
Business model 08 Fortifying and strengthening the network Strategy & KPIs 10 During the year we acquired EPIC, a leading fuel and fuel-related Signature 12 services supplier to an extensive FBO network of privately owned Ontic 18 independent FBOs.
EPIC fortifies and strengthens the Signature Group Finance Directors Review 22 network, adding fuel volumes to our buying capability and reducing our Signature 2018 performance 25 credit card transaction fees by bringing in house our jointly branded fuel Ontic 2018 performance 28 card and extending its penetration across the Signature customer base.
Resources and Relationships 30 We also added St Thomas Jet Center in the US Virgin Islands to the Financial matters 38 Signature network and Gary International Airport, Chicago as a Select location.
The acquisition of Firstmark Corp, a US aftermarket services Risk management 42 business with a portfolio of complementary licences, enhances and Non-financial Information Statement 47 grows Ontic, adding 70 skilled people at two US East Coast locations.
Going Concern 48 We completed five further Ontic licence acquisitions in the year.
Viability Statement 49 Investing in Signature Directors Report We have continued to enhance our existing FBO network including Corporate Governance Report 50 adding a sports charter terminal at Miami, opening our new FBO facility Board of Directors 52 and hangars at Nashville in return for a lease extension and securing Executive Management 54 alease extension at Atlanta with the development of a new terminal.
TM Directors Remuneration Report 66 Overtime we will roll out to major US airports our ELITE Class offer Additional Disclosures 93 forefficient transfers through our FBO to and from commercial flights.
We launched our new customer service-led, fully integrated, FBO Directors Responsibilities Statement 95 management system which seeks to enhance the customer experience Consolidated Financial Statements and increase returns on our real estate.
This, and other investment Independent Auditors Report 96 intechnology and processes, will reduce complexity and increase our Consolidated Income Statement 103 operational flexibility.
A renewed focus on customer segmentation Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 104 andrevenue optimisation will also deliver over the medium term.
Consolidated Balance Sheet 105 Cash generation Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 106 The core Signature and Ontic businesses have continued Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 107 todemonstrate their strong cash generative characteristics.
Werefinanced our Revolving Credit Facility and executed Accounting Policies of the Group 108 asuccessfulinaugural bond offering.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 116 Company Balance Sheet 171 Company Statement of Changes in Equity 172 Accounting Policies of the Company 173 Notes to the Company Financial Statements 175 Subsidiaries and Related Undertakings 182 Five Year Summary 189 Alternative Performance Measures 190 Shareholder Information 195 Signature Line Service Technicians prepare to attach a customer aircraft to a Lektro electric tug.
Each tow team completes apre-tow inspection checklist before each movement.
