1.3 BHP at a glance: What we do We employ over Who work in over 1 62,000 has been around for employees and contractors 90 133 years 1 locations worldwide In FY2018 We paid With a total economic We continue to take action 1 contribution of on climate change, US$7.8 billion 1 despite a US$33.9 billion globally in taxes, 1 1% increase in royalties and other payments operational greenhouse gas emissions from FY2017 $ BHP operations Evaluation Development Extraction Rehabilitation and exploration and processing and closure We invest in studies, trials and infrastructure with We extract and process We close our operations We invest in discovering the goal of creating the new resources, to meet commodities, safely through one or a combination maximum value from and sustainably.
of rehabilitation, ongoing the needs of future resources.
management or in consultation with the community a transition to an alternative use.
Marketing and Supply We sell our products, procure suppliers, organise freight and manage market risks to maximise value.
For more information about our economic contributions, download our Economic Contribution Report from bhp.
For more information about our sustainability goals and performance, download our Sustainability Report from bhp.
1 All figures include data for Continuing and Discontinued operations.
8 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 1.4 About BHP 1 1.4.
1 Our strategy Our strategy is to own and operate large, long-life, low-cost, expandable, upstream assets diversified by commodity, geography and market.
Consistent with this strategy, our plan to create long-term value is focused on six key areas: Cost efficiencies: Since 2012, our annualised productivity gains exceed US$12 billion.
The combination of our simplified 1 Focused on portfolio, streamlined systems, large scale and connected workforce ensures we are well positioned to deliver approximately US$1 billion in additional productivity gains by the end of FY2019, with strong further gains momentum carried into FY2020.
Technology: We will continue to integrate and automate our value chain to unlock resource and drive a step 2 change in safety, volume and cost.
We have accelerated high-value initiatives across mine autonomy, Improves safety, decision automation and precision mining.
We have proving grounds to fide-risk and trial technology costs and unlocks solutions in real conditions.
resource Our diverse portfolio allows us to adapt technology developed for one commodity to other areas of the business.
For example, our integrated remote operations centres were first deployed in Western Australia Iron Ore, providing an advanced control room that allows us to optimise our production supply chain.
The same approach has now been established or is in the process of being established at our other operated Minerals assets, such as coal and copper.
Latent capacity: Our latent capacity options are about unlocking untapped production with minimal risk.
We have 3 Attractive returns, replenished our suite of latent capacity opportunities to optimise and debottleneck our existing mine, rig, port, rail and processing facilities.
That means we can achieve more production, limited risk or replace production from our existing infrastructure, for lower cost.
The Caval Ridge Southern Circuit CRSC project in Central Queenslands Bowen Basin is a good example of a latent capacity project that is starting to take shape.
The CRSC will effectively link the Peak Downs Mine to the coal handling preparation plant at the neighbouring Caval Ridge mine with a new conveyor system, and in doing so, take advantage of unutilised capacity at the prep plant.
The plant uses the latest coal processing technology to run very efficiently, and by linking the plant to the mining fleet at Peak Downs, will enable the business to maximise the effectiveness of both operations.
Were able to do this with minimal risk as we are able to draw on our knowledge of other BHP assets in designing and building the conveyor system.
Future options: We have a pipeline of potential growth projects that could create significant shareholder value over 4 the long term, in particular in conventional oil, copper and coal.
This includes the Mad Dog Phase 2 Worked for value, project, which has the potential to produce up to 140,000 gross barrels of crude oil per day, and the timed for returns Spence Growth Option.
In the first 10 years of operation, incremental production from the Spence Growth Option is expected to be approximately 185 kilotonnes per annum ktpa of payable copper in concentrate and 4 ktpa of payable molybdenum, with first production scheduled for FY2021.
Exploration: We are focused on finding new oil and copper deposits through targeted exploration.
Production 5 of these commodities is declining, while demand is forecast to increase.
Focused on petroleum In Petroleum, we have made discoveries in four out of the six prospects tested over the past two years, and copper across two key basins.
We have also secured more than 100 highly prospective blocks in the Gulf of Mexico, and acquired the Trion discovered resource in Mexico after a competitive process.
Onshore US: On 27 July 2018, we announced that we had entered into agreements for the sale of our entire interest 6 in the Eagle Ford, Haynesville, Permian and Fayetteville Onshore US oil and gas assets for a combined Exit to maximise consideration of US$10.8 billion payable in cash less customary completion adjustments.
Both sales value and returns are subject to the satisfaction of customary regulatory approvals and conditions precedent.
We expect completion of both transactions to occur by the end of October 2018.
The effective date at which the right to economic profits transfers to the purchasers is 1 July 2018.
BHP Annual Report 2018 9 Olympic Dam in South Australia is a multi-mineral orebody containing uranium oxide, copper, gold and silver.
10 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 1.4.
2 Our Operating Model 1 We have a simple and diverse portfolio of tier one assets around the world, with low-cost options for future growth and value creation.
Our assets are high quality, largely located in low-risk locations and have strong development potential.
Our Operating Model Assets Petroleum Minerals Australia Minerals Americas Coal, copper, iron ore, nickel Coal, copper, iron ore, potash Petroleum Operated assets Non-operated assets Operated assets Operated assets Non-operated assets Shenzi Atlantis Western Australia Iron Ore Escondida Antamina Angostura Mad Dog Queensland Coal BMA and BMC Pampa Norte Cerrejn Pyrenees Bass Strait New South Wales Energy Coal Jansen Samarco Macedon North West Shelf Olympic Dam 1 Onshore US Nickel West Marketing and Supply Functions Leadership In addition to having the right assets in the right commodities, Marketing and Supply: Our commercial businesses are responsible we also create value through how we operate our assets.
for optimising our working capital and managing our inward and outward supply chains.
Our Marketing business sells our Our Operating Model allows us to leverage integrated systems products, gets our commodities to market and supports and technology, replicate expertise and apply high standards strategic decision-making through market insights.
Supplys of governance and transparency.
role is to source the goods and services we need for our Our Operating Model includes: business, sustainably and cost effectively.
Assets: Assets are a set of one or more geographically proximate Functions: Functions operate along global reporting lines operations including open-cut mines, underground mines and to provide support to all areas of the organisation.
Functions onshore and offshore oil and gas production and processing have specific accountabilities and deep expertise in areas such facilities.
We produce a broad range of commodities through as finance, legal, governance, technology, human resources, these assets.
Our operated assets include assets that are wholly corporate affairs, health, safety and community.
owned and operated by BHP and assets that are owned as a joint Leadership: Our Executive Leadership Team ELT is responsible venture and operated by BHP.
BHP also holds interests in assets for the day-to-day management of the Group and for leading that are owned as a joint venture but are not operated by BHP.
the delivery of our strategic objectives.
Asset groups: We group our assets into geographic regions in We disclose financial and other performance primarily by order to provide effective governance and accelerate performance commodity.
This provides the most meaningful insight into the improvement.
We do this through sharing and replicating best nature and financial outcomes of our business activities and practice, combining efforts to take advantage of our scale and facilitates greater comparability against industry peers.
Our oil and gas assets are grouped together as one global Petroleum asset group, reflecting the operating environment in that sector.
This allows us to share best practice and promote new technology across our portfolio.
1 On 27 July 2018, we announced that we had entered into agreements for the sale of our entire interest in the Eagle Ford, Haynesville, Permian and Fayetteville Onshore US oil and gas assets.
3 Managing performance and risk Corporate strategy and planning Risk controls we put controls in place over material risks and periodically assess the effectiveness of those controls.
Our corporate planning process is designed to deliver our strategic Risk materiality and tolerability evaluation we assess the objective, which is to position BHP to leverage our values, materiality of a risk based on the degree of financial and capabilities and competitive resources to meet the evolving needs non-financial impacts, including health, safety, environmental, of markets and to create sustainable long-term value.
community, reputational and legal impacts.
We assess the To achieve this, we aspire to have the best capabilities in the tolerability of a risk based on a combination of residual risk natural resources industry and apply these capabilities to a and control effectiveness.
portfolio of world-class assets in the most attractive commodities.
We apply established processes when entering or commencing Informed by our strategy, our annual corporate planning process new activities in high-risk countries.
These include risk assessments is fundamental to creating alignment across BHP: it guides the and supporting risk management plans to ensure potential development of plans, targets and budgets to help us decide reputational, legal, business conduct and corruption-related where to deploy our capital and resources.
exposures are managed and legislative compliance is maintained.
Plans are assessed at the Group level to balance the goal of For information on our principal risks, refer to section 1.6.
4. maximising the value of our individual assets with the goal of For information on our risk management governance, refer creating value and mitigating investment risks at the portfolio to sections 2.13.1 and 2.14. level.
We evaluate the range of investment opportunities and aim to optimise the portfolio based on our assessment of risk Capital discipline and returns.
We then develop a long-term capital plan and Our Capital Allocation Framework is the framework by which we guidance for the Group.
assess decisions relating to the most efficient deployment of capital.
Assessment and monitoring We put capital to work to: We review our strategy and portfolio against a constantly maintain our plant and equipment to support safe and efficient changing external environment to capture and manage emerging operations over the long term: opportunities and risks.
Our strategy is cascaded through our keep our balance sheet strong, to give us stability and flexibility planning processes.
Long-term scenario planning is used to evaluate through the cycle: our preferred commodities and portfolio of assets, to help us reward our shareholders by paying out at least 50 per cent of our identify new opportunities and to test the robustness of our Underlying attributable profit in dividends.
strategy over a range of possible outcomes.
We also use signals We then look at what would be the most valuable risk-adjusted use tracking to monitor near-term trends and events.
Signals also support actions to position BHP to benefit from potential new for any excess capital that remains after these three priorities are met, and decide whether to: opportunities and to mitigate risks, while helping to inform major portfolio investment decisions.
further reduce our debt: return more cash to shareholders through additional dividends Risk management or share buy-backs: Identifying and managing risk and opportunity are central to invest in growth, either through projects within our asset portfolio achieving our strategy and creating long-term value.
or through exploration or acquisitions, provided the investment We embed risk management in the critical business activities, will create more value on a risk-adjusted reward basis than a functions, processes and systems of our assets through the share buy-back.
following mechanisms: Risk assessments we regularly identify and assess known, new and emerging risks.
Our Capital Allocation Framework Operating productivity Capital productivity Net operating cash flow Maintenance capital Strong balance sheet Minimum 50% payout ratio dividend Excess cash Additional Acquisitions Balance sheet Share buy-backs Organic development dividend amounts Divestments Maximise returns and value 12 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 1 Case study South Flank: Creating sustainable value The Boards approval of the South Flank project in the central The mine design has engineered out over 400 potential Pilbara, Western Australia was the culmination of a three-year causes of significant safety events, meaning a safer workplace project assessment that involved experts from across for the estimated 2,500 construction and 600 ongoing our business.
operational jobs that will be created.
Barriers such as requirements for physical strength and extensive manual The US$3.06 billion South Flank project was assessed by handling have been eliminated to support the hiring reference to our Capital Allocation Framework.
The decision of a diverse workforce.
also took into account environmental, health and safety, water, Indigenous and community considerations.
The mine design also makes the most of new technology, including a conveyor that will generate its own power as The project is expected to produce high-quality iron ore it carries ore to be processed.
Autonomous drills and trucks for more than 25 years, starting in CY2021.
Our view is that will improve both safety and productivity.
population growth and increasing development in emerging economies will continue to drive demand for steel over Environmental and community considerations were also that period, with infrastructure for renewable energy a key important inputs into the project design.
Dumps and roads factor in future commodity growth.
South Flanks high-quality were moved to minimise the impact on ghost bats and ore will be in particular demand as it requires less processing, invertebrate fauna.
The project team worked in consultation produces steel of more reliable quality, and produces with the Banjima People, the traditional owners of the land, less pollution.
to identify sensitive environmental and ethnographic and cultural sites.
This engagement is ongoing, and the mine Throughout the project design and assessment, BHPs design will be reassessed to minimise impact on culturally thinking was informed by our commitment to delivering significant sites.
sustainable value to all our stakeholders.
As always, safety and productivity were prioritised.
The design team used innovative 3D design tools that enable designers to spot potential clashes, bottlenecks or safety issues more readily than with traditional paper-based designs.
