STRATEGIC REPORT AT A GLANCE AVI'S INVESTMENT APPROACH 1 Shareholders money is principally invested in 36% companies with three key features: They have high-quality underlying assets and Underlying discount to net asset value strong balance sheets Their shares trade at discounts to net asset value There is likely to be an event that will narrow the discount Number of investments of which 16 are held in Japanese Special Situations 39 see page 16 See information on AVI Page 18 1 Refer to Glossary on page 88 for further details.
THE INVESTMENTS COMPARATOR BENCHMARK Investments are principally made in three types The return of the portfolio is compared with the of company: MSCI All Country World ex-US Total Return Index Investment Holding Companies with net income reinvested.
Investment Companies The comparator benchmark the benchmark is Asset-backed Companies used for performance measurement purposes.
The The Investment Manager can invest anywhere in the Investment Manager is not required to follow the sector world.
In practice, they find most opportunities in or geographic allocations of the benchmark and, as Europe and Asia.
such, British Empire Trusts portfolio will likely differ significantly from the benchmark.
See Investment See Chart Managers Review Page 18 Page 5 PERFORMANCE FEES Over the past ten years, the Company has produced a The Investment Manager charges 0.7% of net assets.
compound average annual net asset value total return There is no performance fee.
The Companys total of 10.0% versus 9.0% from the MSCI All Country annual costs known as Ongoing Charges are 0.87% World ex-US Total Return Index in Sterling terms.
of net assets for the year to 30 September 2018.
It is possible that, in the future, there will be periods of underperformance when compared with the benchmark but, over the longer term, the Board believes that the Investment Managers style of investment will provide higher-than-average returns for investors.
See Key See Investment See Key Performance Managers Performance Indicators Review Indicators Page 10 Page 19 Page 10 02 British Empire Trust plc | Annual Report 2018 Strategic Investment Financial Shareholder Report Review Governance Statements Information DIVIDENDS DISCOUNTS AND BUYBACKS The Investment Manager focuses on capital growth.
The Companys shares have been trading at a discount The Company has either maintained or increased to their net asset value.
The Company manages the its ordinary dividends for the past 30 years, and volatility of the discount through a policy of buying back expects to continue to do so in the future.
In exceptional circumstances, a special dividend may be paid.
See Chairmans See Chairmans Statement Statement Page 6 Page 6 GEARING The Company is geared by its Debenture Stock and We expect that long-term returns also by Loan Notes that were issued in January 2016 and November 2017. on equities will exceed the cost of debt and it is expected that the portfolio will be fully invested, provided there are attractive opportunities in our universe.
Joe Bauernfreund Chief Investment Officer See Chairmans Statement Page 6 GOVERNANCE AND RISK ACCOUNTS The Company has a Board of Directors which is The Company has net assets of 941.7m and gross responsible for oversight of the Investment Manager investment income of 22.6m.
and also the risks and controls operated by the Company.
The aim is to secure attractive returns without undue risk.
See Strategic See See Financial Report Governance Statements All figures are as at 30 September 2018, Page 10 Page 36 Page 51 or for the year ended on that date, except where stated otherwise.
British Empire Trust plc | Annual Report 2018 03
