STRATEGIC REPORT OUR STRATEGY AT A GLANCE Generate profitable Realise global growth in our opportunities core markets Increase our participation in growing categories Generate more revenue from outside our and channels through investing in our brands, core markets, either by selective acquisition or innovation and commercial execution new partnership or distribution agreements What we achieved in 2018 What we achieved in 2018 Successfully navigated the Soft Drinks Industry Levy SDIL In Brazil we have continued to invest for the long-term.
in the UK and Sugar Sweetened Drinks Tax SSDT in Ireland Bela Ischia is now fully integrated and has expanded our through the breadth of our portfolio and strength in low and geographic and channel coverage.
We have utilised our group no sugar variants.
capability to launch easier to use, more affordable innovation Successfully offset cost ination through a combination of to expand our participation in the concentrates category.
revenue management initiatives and cost efficiency.
Delivered Fruit Shoot revenue growth in the USA with Launched new, premium ranges of Robinsons that have increased presence for the multi-pack format in the scale returned the brand to revenue growth and market value grocery channel.
Listed London Essence Company premium mixers and Relaunched J2O with new, improved packaging and liquids.
sodas in targeted cities including Amsterdam, New York Supported by a major marketing campaign featuring Mojo and Singapore.
Increased revenue from innovation in small, fast growing, categories such as Natural Energy Purdeys and unsweetened sparkling water Aqua Libra.
The year ahead The year ahead Continue to invest in recent innovation launches to ensure Invest in Fruit Shoot in the USA to drive scale in the the best possible chance for long-term success.
Leverage our low and no sugar portfolio to maximise the Expand distribution of premium adult brands into new opportunity arising from the SDIL in the UK and SSDT international markets.
Combine our group and local capability to bring new Maximise the value of our partnership with Pepsi.
products to market in Brazil.
Continue our revenue management initiatives and cost efficiency focus.
Read more Read more see pages 20-21 see pages 22-23 18 WWW.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Step-change Build trust and our business respect in our capability communities Ensure we have a great team to achieve Through our A Healthier Everyday sustainability our vision and the right infrastructure programme with a focus on healthier people, to deliver our growth ambitions healthier communities and a healthier planet What we achieved in 2018 What we achieved in 2018 Our Leeds factory investment was completed with two A 16% reduction in average calories per 250ml serve across new PET lines and an on-site warehouse installed and our global portfolio, compared to 2017 with absolutely no fully operational.
Further progress was made at our Rugby factory with three A 14% reduction in manufacturing carbon emissions relative new can lines fully operational and the on-site warehouse to production compared to 2017. nearing completion.
Signed up to the UK Plastics Pacts 2025 targets including achieving 30% recycled PET content.
The year ahead The year ahead Complete the installation of three new PET lines and an Deliver our 2019 KPIs across each of our A Healthier aseptic production line in our Rugby site.
Complete the installation of a combined heat and power Develop our 2025 A Healthier Everyday strategy, establishing plant and on-site high bay warehouse at Rugby.
stretching new sustainability goals for the business, including Close the Norwich site and transfer production to our Rugby, science-based targets.
Launch our three-year strategic partnership with Diabetes UK.
Overall, complete the business capability programme and optimise the supply chain network to prepare for delivery of the cost benets in 2020.
Read more Read more see pages 24-25 see pages 26-27 BRITVIC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 19
