STRATEGIC REPORT Brand Highlights BURBERRY IS ONE OF THE MOST VALUABLE LUXURY BRANDS IN THE WORLD BRINGING OUR PRODUCTS TO LIFE Over the year, we evolved the way we communicated withour customers, introducing several exciting new collaborations across product, brand and experiences.
Wealso refreshed our digital platforms with more curatedand editorialised content, generating increased customer engagement.
CASE STUDY: In December, we launched a limited-edition DANNY SANGRA FROM DOODLE TO BAG capsulecollection created in collaboration with Chinese In August 2017, we commissioned artist Danny Sangra to Canadianactor, singer and model Kris Wu.
Inspired by create a special portfolio of artworks for us, entitled Now hisown personal style, the collection included a trench Then.
He took our vintage adverts and made them his own coatwithprints of Kriss personal tattoos and a rucksack as he described it with indiscreet streams of consciousness embroidered with his song lyrics.
To coincide with the and commentary.
We featured his illustrations on our launch of the collection, Kris released a song titled B. M. Instagram.
During the September 2017 show, Danny took Burberry Made, which shares references to the musicians over our Snapchat account, capturing his experience of experiences with us as a fashion house.
theshow, and doodling live over images of the runway andmodels.
We also collaborated with Russian designer Gosha Rubchinskiy on a limited-edition capsule.
Inspired by youth Danny also conjured up three illustrated worlds for culture and the legacy of British football in Russia, the consumers to explore on our Burberry app.
Inspired by the collection of caps, coats, jackets and shirts was a remix of spirit of eclecticism of Britain, the spirit of travel and the the past and present, featuring our iconic Vintage check.
ever-tricky British weather, Dannys doodles were made available to insert into pictures taken on digital phones.
EXPERIENCES MATTER TO LUXURY CONSUMERS They could also add 2D doodles by attaching them to From physical to digital, every touch point contributes to various objects.
Consumers were encouraged to share their the experiences consumers have of the Burberry brand.
screenshot on social media, which appeared in a Burberry check frame.
Our app won the award for best app in the During the year, we installed a life-size hot air balloon and Drapers Digital Awards 2018. pop-up store in the departure lounge of Heathrow Terminal 2.
The experience offered dedicated iPads and Burberry The collaboration with Danny extended to product in post boxes for travellers to create and print their own November and December with Doodle events in selected Burberry postcards and post them to friends and family.
stores, where Danny made custom-made tote bags on Our balloon installation also appeared in Dubai in 2018 with request for customers.
During these events, Danny also the newly launched Belt bag.
transformed the windows and interiors of our stores with his drawings, in celebration of the creative inspiration According to Interbrands 2017 report behind Burberrys new collection of Doodle reversible totebags.
14 STRATEGIC REPORT 16 STRATEGIC REPORT Brand highlights OUR TWO RUNWAY SHOWS ARE OUR We also hosted 57 global screenings of the show around theworld.
In addition we collaborated with social media BIGGEST BRAND MOMENTS OF THE YEAR, platform Snapchat to create a new rainbow-themed PROVIDING A PLATFORM FOR OUR Snapchat lens, giving users the chance to wear the rainbow COLLECTIONS AND THE EXPERIENCES check cap that featured in our collection.
SURROUNDING THEM For the February 2018 show, we offered a capsule collection of reissued pieces from the brands archive.
This SEPTEMBER 2017 was made available to purchase through Show to Door, an Our September 2017 collection was inspired by British immediate, around-the-clock London delivery service from social portraiture.
Alongside this we held a travelling art online retailer Farfetch.
exhibition titled Here We Are, featuring 200 works by th some of the 20 Centurys most celebrated social and We introduced a dedicated playlist on Apple Music to mark documentary photographers.
The photographs explored our well-established association with music.
This featured theBritish way of life and character.
more than 200 tracks which defined some of the brands most memorable moments over the last 17 years, as well The collection and exhibition were revealed across two asexclusive interviews with some of Burberrys most floors of the magnificent former courthouse, Old Sessions prominent musical collaborators, including Tom Odell, House, in London, which opened its doors for us for the James Bay and Paloma Faith.
first time since its restoration.
Guests were seated on aneclectic selection of furniture from garden seating Luxury clients are enthusiastic and take their to bus-shelter benches throughout the space, with clothespersonally.
Fashion is part of who they are to walls leftbare to show the history of the almost theworld.
Bybuilding a relationship with the client, we 250-year-old building.
areentertaining and sometimes challenging them.
We areproviding context to our designs with experiences, The exhibition was co-curated by Lucy Kumara collaborations and digital content.
MooreandAlasdair McLellan, and featured work from renowned photographers like Dafydd Jones and Brian Judy Collinson, Griffin.
In London alone, the exhibition attracted more than Chief Merchandising Officer 22,000 visitors.
It also went on display in other key cities, including Hong Kong and Paris.
We also created an Old Sessions House guide on our Burberry app.
This was fully interactive, enabling users toexplore the different rooms and learn about the photographers through video, audio and 360 content.
FEBRUARY 2018 As part of our February 2018 show, we championed LGBTQ communities and celebrated diversity and inclusion.
The LGBTQ rainbow, an emblem for optimismand inclusiveness, featured prominently acrossthe collection, and we were proud to introduce anew rainbow check.
We collaborated with United Visual Artists UVA to reimagine its work Our Time for the show.
On loan from the Museum of Old and New Art MONA in Australia, the installation investigates the subjective experience of the passing of time, and served as the backdrop to the show, which was attended by 1,200 guests.
17 STRATEGIC REPORT 18 STRATEGIC REPORT Brand Highlights WE WANT TO ENSURE THAT OUR We also look at other media to surprise and excite our customers.
In September 2017 we collaborated with artist, CONTENT IS NOT JUST RELEVANT designer and pro-skater Blondey McCoy.
He created an FORSOCIAL MEDIA, BUT MADE artwork for us on the largest paintable wall in London, SPECIFICALLYFOR IT situated near our show venue.
In November 2017, he alsocreated three hand-painted murals exclusively for With over 51 million social media followers globally, across Burberry.
These provided excellent content, not just for us 13 unique platforms, 24 accounts and 11 languages, our but for our customers, who went to the murals and created Burberry brand has outstanding digital reach.
We capitalise their own social media posts from the walls.
on this using data and analytics to connect our customers with relevant content.
Our brand energy is built on creative content such as capsules, projects and collaborations.
In the digital age, Digital innovation is always at the forefront of our plans consumers engage visually and often.
They expect, so we asthe first access point to any brand is online.
During the deliver, continuous innovative content.
year, we relaunched our website, burberry.
com, which provides continually updated exciting new content.
sarah manley, Chief Marketing Officer To inspire customers with our creativity and storytelling on the Burberry app, we flexed the apps interactive functions, such as the tap to reveal function, to see video content and GIFs as a part of our product storytelling.
This brought the stories to life in an entertaining and engaging way.
Readers could then purchase the products immediately after reading the story.
