Our business at a glance ConvaTec is a MedTech business, focused on the chronic care market, with leading positions in advanced wound care, ostomy care, continence and critical care and infusion devices.
110 Our Purpose Countries where We exist to improve the lives of the people we touch.
our products are Our Vision To be recognised as the most respected and successful MedTech marketed and sold company worldwide.
Our Mission We drive for excellence in all we do anticipating and addressing our customers needs with advanced technologies and best-in-class products and services.
Our strategy We aim to drive sales and earnings momentum by leveraging our portfolio of differentiated products and our leading positions in structurally growing markets.
Our refreshed execution model is focused on four strategic drivers: Simplify, Innovate, Segment and Invest.
Simplify Innovate Segment Invest Read more about our strategy on pages 28 to 31.
Group reported revenue by geography 1.
APAC: 8% $139.4m 9,400 Group reported revenue by franchise Employees around 1.
Advanced Wound Care: 32% $587.5m the world 2.
Infusion Devices: 15% $268.3m 02 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 No.
1 Our position in six We market and sell our products through our four franchises detailed below.
markets Global leader Silver dressings, alginate and gelling fibre dressings, Advanced Wound Care Ostomy Care hydrocolloid dressings and AWC Devices, accessories and disposable infusion sets for Advanced wound dressings services for people with a insulin pumps and skin care products for the stoma a surgically-created management of acute and opening where bodily waste is chronic wounds resulting from discharged, commonly resulting US leader ongoing conditions such as from causes such as colorectal diabetes and acute conditions cancer, inflammatory bowel Intermittent catheter retailer resulting from traumatic injury disease and bladder cancer.
and fecal management systems and burns.
Key brands: Key brands: AQUACEL, AQUACEL Ag, Esteem, Esteem, Natura, AQUACEL Ag Foam, Natura, Stomahesive, AQUACEL Ag Advantage, Durahesive, InvisiClose Avelle System, DuoDERM, and me Sensi-Care and Aloe Vesta Continence & Critical Care Infusion Devices CCC Disposable infusion sets for Products and services for people diabetes insulin pumps, similar with urinary continence issues pumps used in continuous related to spinal cord injuries, infusion treatments for multiple sclerosis, spina bifida conditions such as Parkinsons and other causes, and devices disease and a range of products and products used in intensive for hospital and home care units and hospital settings.
Key brands: Key brands: GentleCath, Flexi-Seal, inset, comfort and neria UnoMeter and me 9,400 9 Corporate responsibility CR Our overall approach to CR is aimed at supporting the fulfilment of our Purpose.
Read about how we do this throughout this report and Manufacturing in our Corporate Responsibility Report which is available on our website at www.
plants Improving the lives of the people we touch ConvaTec Group Plc Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 03 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
