02 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 FRESNILLO TODAY AT A GLANCE Our goal is to maintain the Groups position as the worlds largest primary silver company and Mexicos largest gold producer.
Following a decade of consistent and successful progress, we are now focused on consolidating our growth and advancing our pipeline in order to deliver further growth in the years ahead.
Our continuing success is a tribute to the long-term nature of our strategy, the skills and dedication of our people and the ongoing support of our stakeholders.
WHAT WE DO We seek to create value for stakeholders across precious metal cycles, focusing on high-potential silver and gold projects that can be developed into low cost, world-class mines.
EXPLORE DEVELOP OPERATE 1 2 3 Continuous, sustained exploration is Before we decide to develop a new We have seven mines currently in the engine that drives our business.
mine, we check its potential against operation and continue to invest in We invest across all price cycles, seeking a set of strict criteria, including mineral infrastructure improvements, new out ore deposits in order to expand our content and associated costs.
This technologies and new working practices resource base and replenish reserves.
means that only those projects with to maximise the efficiency of each one.
the potential to create value across OUR COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE OUR COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE precious metal price cycles are developed into operating mines.
Several concessions in Mexico: a team Competitive cost performance against of talented, dedicated geologists: our industry peers: all-in sustaining cost OUR COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE rigorous approach to prospects, with on a life-of-mine basis significantly lower only those that demonstrate a minimum Strictly applied viability criteria including than current and projected market prices potential of 150 moz of silver or 2 moz rates of return and high environmental for gold and silver.
of gold advancing: strict criteria on ore and social impact standards: a district grades, metallurgical recoveries and consolidation strategy that creates environmental impact.
synergies across our prospects and projects, reducing capex requirements: in addition to synergistic benefits from our membership of the Peoles Group, with common requirements across a number of service areas creating opportunities for costs to be shared: in-house teams for engineering and construction.
See our business model on pages 20-21.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 03 FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRECIOUS METAL VALUE CHAIN OUR INVESTMENT CASE Fresnillo has established a reputation for a strong balance sheet, high quality assets, low cost and flexible operations, a disciplined approach to development and sustainable business practices.
Exploration for These qualities are the foundation for our long-established track mineral resources record of creating value through growth and returns.
STRONG BALANCE SHEET DISCIPLINED APPROACH OUTCOME: TO DEVELOPMENT OPERATIONAL FLEXIBILITY, OUTCOME: INVESTMENT ACROSS PRICE LONG-TERM PROFITABLE GROWTH Development and CYCLES, SHAREHOLDER RETURNS All decisions to proceed with a construction of new mines Our healthy cash position and low development project are based on leverage ratio enable us to invest stringent viability criteria covering in profitable growth, optimise areas such as rates of return and high operations and deliver solid returns to environmental and social impact shareholders.
We set delivery timelines in 2018 totalled US$668.7 million, and budgets to meet production while we invested US$172.8 million Mineral extraction and targets in the context of market in exploration activities and paid beneficiation conditions, and maintain control dividends of US$298.1 million.
by carrying out engineering and construction activities.
Our Juanicipio See the Financial Review on pages 85-97. project will be approved for development in due course and we Smelting and refining HIGH QUALITY ASSETS look forward to construction activities OUTCOME: beginning later in 2019, with operations LONG-TERM VISIBILITY DELIVERING commencing in 2H 2020.
LONG-TERM RETURNS Brokers With approximately 1.8 million hectares SUSTAINABLE of surface land, we pursue a district BUSINESS PRACTICES consolidation strategy that leverages OUTCOME: local knowledge and shared infraBuyers ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP, structure.
At the end of 2018, our SOCIAL LICENCE TO OPERATE, portfolio of low cost gold and silver ETHICAL CULTURE mines, high potential development Our commitment to sustainability projects and advanced exploration underpins our ability to create value prospects comprised over 2,204.0 SUSTAIN for all our stakeholders and ensure 4 moz of attributable silver resources operational continuity.
We strive to and 39.1 moz of gold resources.
Fresnillo is a business focused on the understand and respect the needs long term.
We operate responsibly of local communities, prioritise local See our Review of Operations on pages at all times and work hard to ensure 44-65. goods, services and employees, the highest standards of health and improve our health and safety record safety, environmental stewardship and in the light of our recent unacceptable LOW COST AND FLEXIBLE governance.
At the same time, we support performance, and minimise our OPERATIONS our local communities and maintain a impact on the environment.
OUTCOME: strong culture of ethical behaviour.
HEALTHY MARGINS, AGILITY See our Social and Sustainability Review ACROSS PRICE CYCLES on pages 66-84.
OUR COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE Our quality assets enable us to deliver Extensive understanding of the profits across precious metal price economy, culture and communities in cycles.
At each mine, we maximise Mexico: a track record of adopting best potential by customising mine plans, practices domestically, which meet our leveraging technology and sharing own high standards as well as those of personnel, expertise and plant international business.
Never complacent, we continue to seek and implement new ways to improve efficiency, optimise material and energy consumption, and maintain our position as a low-cost producer.
Read more about our strategy and performance on pages 24-27.
