2 Galliford Try plc Our businesses at a glance Three strong businesses, led by an effective Group Our businesses span housebuilding, regeneration and construction.
Each business is led by its own management team.
Devolved responsibility enables them to make faster and more efficient decisions, within our overall Group strategy and governance framework.
Our businesses work together to achieve our vision, with common values underpinning everything we do.
Linden Homes Partnerships & Regeneration Linden Homes develops high-quality homes for first-time buyers and families.
We have a strong presence in the South and East of England, with a growing footprint in the North and the Midlands, and the potential for further expansion.
Our sites are in good locations, close A top UK A leading UK to transport links and local amenities.
housebuilder regeneration specialist We create sustainable developments by building homes which complement Key strengths Key strengths their surroundings, while maximising Disciplined approach to Distinctive platform, the benefits of internal standardisation.
producing quality homes, combining contracting, Where the market requires, we have a with predominantly regeneration and mixedstandard layouts.
proven ability to create bespoke designs.
Ability to deliver bespoke National scale and proven Business review p30 products on suitable sites.
track record of delivery and quality.
10 strong business units, with potential for further Long-term partnerships with geographical expansion.
Homes England, the Greater London Authority, private Committed to high levels rent clients and a significant of customer satisfaction.
number of active developing Registered Providers.
Revenue Expertise in extra care markets.
947m 1% Revenue 475m 44% Our business Strategic review Business review Governance Financial information Annual Report and 3 Financial Statements 2018 Our vision Our values To be leaders in the Excellence, Passion, Integrity construction of a and Collaboration.
Partnerships & Regeneration Construction Partnerships & Regeneration is our Construction operates nationwide, specialist regeneration business, which primarily under the Galliford Try and carries out contracting, land-led solutions Morrison Construction brands.
network of regional offices is a key advantage, enabling us to deploy our We have excellent relationships with national strength using a local approach.
Homes England and the Greater London Authority and provide contracting The business is organised into three A major national services to local authorities and divisions: Building, Infrastructure and contractor Registered Providers, while working in PPP Investments.
These include facilities joint venture to develop mixed-tenure management, telecommunications, Key strengths projects, providing private housing for dry lining and our national piling National presence with sale on regeneration-led sites.
We use specialists, Rock & Alluvium.
the Linden Homes brand to differentiate Building serves a range of clients across Strong client relationships, our developments and draw on Linden based on collaborative the UK, with a substantial presence in Homes retail expertise to deliver these working.
We work with clients in the projects successfully.
public and regulated sectors, in particular Presence on numerous Our ability to provide development the health, education and defence major frameworks solutions across all tenures and work markets.
We also serve commercial clients, with public sector and with clients as contractor, developer and mainly in the South East and the Midlands.
investor distinguishes us from others.
Infrastructure carries out civil engineering Revenue We have a strong track record of delivery projects.
We have strong positions in key and a growing national footprint.
sectors such as transport including road, 1,687m rail and airports, water and wastewater, 11% and flood alleviation.
Business review p33 PPP Investments PPP Investments delivers major building and infrastructure projects through public private partnerships.
The business leads bid consortia and arranges finance, making equity investments, and manages construction through to operations.
