04 GENUS AT A GLANCE PRODUCING SUPERIOR BREEDING ANIMALS THROUGH GENETIC IMPROVEMENT WHAT WE DO Genus is a world-leading animal genetics characteristics that help them to Examples of desirable characteristics company.
We continuously develop produce higher-quality meat and milk include feed efficiency, disease better pigs and cows for farmers, more efficiently and sustainably.
resistance, protein and fat content, byselecting animals with desirable andfertility.
1 1 REVENUE OPERATING PROFIT INCLUDING JOINT VENTURES 248M 95M 211M 26M Porcine Porcine Bovine Bovine 1 Excludes Research and Development revenues and costs.
SERVING PORK, DAIRY AND BEEF FARMERS GLOBALLY PIC owns over 10 pure-bred pig lines, PORK housed in two strategic nucleus facilities located in the US and Canada.
These Our porcine genetics animals are multiplied and then crossbusiness PIC sells genetically bred in over 400 predominantly subsuperior sows, boars and contracted multiplication units located semen, to breed pigs with around the world.
PIC boars are also desirable characteristics for housed in about 400 boar studs globally, pork production.
PIC also where semen is collected for distribution provides technical services to customers and multiplication herds.
and advice to farmers, to maximise the performance PIC genetics are sold under the PIC of our breeding animals.
brand through direct sales channels and strategic partners.
ABS produces genetically elite bulls in DAIRY AND BEEF the US, Europe and Latin America and also sources bulls from third-party Our bovine genetics business, breeders.
The most elite bulls graduate ABS, sells bull semen and to one of ABSs six production studs, embryos, which are delivered where their semen is collected for through artificial insemination distribution as a frozen straw of semen to breed dairy and beef cattle or used to create embryos.
with desirable characteristics for milk and beef production.
ABS genetics are sold globally through ABS also provides semen direct sales channels and strategic sexing, IVF, reproductive partners under the ABS brand.
However andother technical services in the UK and France, they are sold to farmers, to maximise under the long established Genus and theperformance of our Bovec brands, respectively.
Genus plc | Annual Report 2018 S TR ATE G I C C OR P OR AT E F I NAN C I AL AD D I T I O final 05 R E P OR T G O V E R NAN C E S TAT EM EN T S IN F OR M AT I ON HOW WE DO IT We analyse animals DNA and look for offspring, in a continuous cycle.
We We also own technology that enables us markers that are linked to desirable distribute these genetically superior to screen and process semen for characteristics.
We then select animals animals to our customers in the form of desirable traits, such as gender, and with the strongest genetic profile and breeding animals, semen or embryos.
license-in technology to make precise, breed them to produce even better desirable gene edits to animals DNA, which we are employing in our product development programmes.
INVESTING TO STRENGTHEN OUR POSITION m 100 75M 80 Invested in 2018 60 40 1 Research & Development 20 2 Capital Expenditure Acquisitions & Investments 0 13 14 15 16 17 18 1 Includes IntelliGen capitalised development expenses.
2 Includes biological asset cash movements and finance lease payments.
Sales presence in 35 2,000 150M 1 2 Countries Customers MPEs For more information see pages 06 to 07 Sales presence in 75 5 0, 0 0 0 18M 3 Countries Customers Cattle inseminations and embryotransfers For more information see pages 06 to 07 1 Including through franchises, distributors and joint ventures.
2 MPEs refers to market pig equivalents, a standardised measure of our customers production of slaughter animals that contain our genetics.
