Greggs at a glance Becoming the customers favourite for food-on-the-go Greggs is a strong and trusted brand that goes way back.
Our purpose Behind the golden puff pastry and freshly made However, to become the customers favourite for food-on-the-go, sandwiches weve always been committed to we knew that we had to get people thinking and feeling differently doing the right thing.
Way back in the sixties we about us.
To achieve this we put our customers at the heart of started with our free pie n peas suppers for older our strategy residents in Gateshead.
Today were just as keen for Greggs to have a positive impact on peoples lives.
With ownership of our supply chain and ambitions Our vision: To become the customers to grow to over 2,500 shops nationwide, we are in a unique position to make good, freshly prepared favourite for food-on-the-go.
Our target market Greggs is a brand for everyone.
We work hard to evolve our offer and keep pace with changing customer demands and behaviour, using insight from our award-winning loyalty app, Greggs Rewards, and our dedicated customer insight team.
Our operations Ownership of our supply chain means that we can make good, freshly prepared food accessible to everyone at great value in an extremely competitive market place.
By managing our own logistics operation, we can remain focused on the customer, delivering what our shops and customers need.
Our market locations The world has changed in a short space of time: the way we shop and our food-on-the go eating habits have too.
Weve been quick to react, by building on our existing estate of shops to take Greggs where our customers want us to be and can now be found in retail parks, shopping centres, industrial estates, office parks, roadside locations and key transport hubs, including motorway service stations, petrol forecourts, train stations, tube stations and airports.
Our home delivery trial means that we may soon be able to bring Greggs to your door too.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 6 Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts Business Model What we do Where we operate What we offer Manufacturing Delivery Shopping Travel Quality Convenience Shops Support Work Leisure Value Service Strategy Great tasting, freshly Best customer Competitive First class prepared food experience supply chain support teams Read more on page 10.
Risks and uncertainties Organisational Brand Technology Regulatory capacity reputation compliance Read more on page 36.
Positive impact Customer Responsible Community Environment People health sourcing We encourage We care about We share our We aim to use We are committed healthier food-onwhere our ingredients success with the energy efficiently to creating a great the-go choices come from people around us and minimise waste place to work Read more on pages 18 to 25.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 7
