Strategic Report Business at a glance Our sectors Revenue and profit growth with high returns in all sectors.
Financial highlights Products which protect people Process and assets at work.
Specialised 185m 17% interlocks that control critical processes safely.
Instruments that Revenue of Group revenue Safety detect flammable and hazardous gases.
Explosion protection and pressure relief systems, and corrosion monitoring products.
43m 18% 1 Adjusted operating profit of Adjusted 1 operating profit Read more p18 Products that save lives protect Infrastructure infrastructure and enable safe 349m 33% movement.
Firedetection systems, smoke detectors, Revenue of Group revenue Safety specialist fire suppression systems, people and vehicle flow solutions, security systems and elevator safetyproducts.
73m 31% 1 Adjusted operating profit of Adjusted 1 operating profit Read more p22 Products which enhance the quality of life forpatients and Medical 284m 26% improve quality of care delivered by providers.
Devices that assess Revenue of Group revenue eye health, assist with eye surgery and primary care applications.
Critical fluidic components used by medical diagnostic OEMs and 67m 28% laboratories.
Sensor technologies 1 Adjusted operating profit of Adjusted used in hospitals to track assets and 1 operating profit support patient and staff safety.
Read more p26 Products and technologies for analysis in environmental Environmental 259m 24% safety and life sciences markets.
Market-leading opto-electronic Revenue of Group revenue & Analysis technology and sensors.
Flow measurement instruments and gas conditioning products.
Products for environmental data recording, 55m 23% water quality testing and water 1 Adjusted operating profit of Adjusted distribution network monitoring, 1 operating profit and UV water treatment.
Read more p30 1 Adjusted operating profit before central administrative costs and after share of associate.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 safer | cleaner | healthier 3
