02 | Colleagues Investing in our colleagues We are committed to continued investment in the things that allow us to attract, retain and reward talented colleagues.
yourcareer Over 90% of our customer facing colleagues moved up at least one level in the yourcareer framework in 2018, designed to provide colleagues with a clear career path.
Yourcareer, with emphasis on digital and renewals commercial training, remains a key focus for 2019 see page 42.
Weekday only shifts All full time customer facing colleagues who previously worked evenings and weekends have the option of working weekday only shifts now and over 99% do!
The shifts were introduced as a result of feedback about work life balance.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Built for growth | 03 T he advisor was extremely helpful, polite and friendly and resolved my Having the opportunity to attend issue straight away.
I work in Quality the Women in Data event was Assurance in a call centre and invaluable and important.
The thought she was fantastic!
event was very inspiring and M y personal highlight is when the Retail Customer supported by a great experience.
shifts got changed to no more late Khomotso Moleke, OUTsurance nights or weekends fantastic.
Biqing Wang Pricing Analyst Colleague response from feedback at recent Colleague Roadshows Support future growth Reward and recognition Over 3,200 4Cs Awards nominations were made in 2018 for colleagues and teams who went above and beyond whats expected to help our customers, colleagues and communities see page 42.
Weve added two new categories for 2019 to recognise our digital champions.
2018 Wellbeing We have invested in an extensive Wellbeing programme and have over 65 Wellbeing Champions and dedicated communication channels to guide colleagues to advice, support and initiatives that promote healthier, happier lifestyles see page 45.
82% of our Colleagues know how to get the information they need 1 to support their wellbeing.
Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 04 | Customers Live chat Natalie Claims support Natalie How can I help you?
Type message here... B est price.
Website easy to use, very straightforward.
Registered an account and documents received in 5 minutes.
Digital user F ound the online account easy to set up and navigate.
I was able to make changes to policy online without the need for calls.
App user F rom start to finish, Hastings has been understanding, helpful and kind.
Theyve handled this very well and made sure I was ok throughout.
The lady on the phone was very nice and helpful.
Claims Customer Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Built for growth | 05 Improving our service and digital proposition Our differentiated business model Technology driven is built for how customers want to MyAccount buy and manage their insurance, Enhanced functionality has been launched during 2018 enabling all of the which supports our ambitious most common policy changes to be made online.
Digital customer contacts growth plans.
have exceeded telephone contacts since May 2018, with the digital proportion continuing to increase.
Were committed to being enabling customers to both report Mobile app straightforward for customers a claim digitally and then track its We have introduced our with the best digital proposition progress online.
26% of total loss new mobile app enabling enabling customers to interact claims are now being settled customers to manage their with us how they choose, through our end to end digital policy, access breakdown combined with the launch of total loss tool.
details and notify us of a enhanced capability and leading claim, with additional technology to ensure we can give Anti-fraud functionality to be customers a better price.
We continue to invest in our launched in 2019. anti-fraud capability to tackle Electronic claims notification fraud and pass on the savings We have launched an electronic to our customers, with action 150,000 claims notification system and taken against 99 ghost broking Number of downloads digital claims tracking capability, rings in 2018.
Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 06 | Company Driving our vision and generating value Our ongoing investment in data and digital capability is at the core of the Companys ability to operate efficiently and effectively, and our ongoing investment initiatives will support future growth to generate value for all stakeholders.
Smart mobility Living Lab Operational highlights Becoming a founding member of the three year shared research programme which will develop, test and validate Guidewire the impact of new road transport technologies, ensuring We successfully completed the roll out of Guidewire with we are at the forefront of technological advancement.
100% of car and home policies now going through our next generation core platform.
This investment in the future will Strong capital position provide operating cost efficiencies and enables the We achieved our 1.0x net debt leverage multiple target during development of more digital and online functionality.
2018 and the Groups Underwriting business maintained a strong solvency ratio of 161%.
Our highly profitable and Bond cash generative business will fund investment in our digital The Group successfully launched its inaugural investment capabilities, support organic growth and allows us to project grade bond, with a seven year 250m issue in May 2018 an increase in our future dividend payout ratio to 65% to at a 3.0% fixed rate of interest which provides longer term 75% of adjusted profit after tax.
certainty of funding and interest cost.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Built for growth | 07 Our performance Increase in gross Increase in adjusted Continued growth of Loss ratio within written premiums operating profit live customer policies target range 958.3m 190.6m 2.71 million 75.0% 2017: 930.8m 2017: 184.1m 2017: 2.64 million 2017: 73.0% Increase in profit Increased share of UK Stable expense Continuing growth after tax private car insurance ratio in net revenue 130.6m 7.5% 14.4% 756.4m 2017: 126.7m 2017: 7.3% 2017: 14.0% 2017: 715.6m See page 22 for more information on, and page 175 for reconciliations of, our key performance indicators Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 08 | Community Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Built for growth | 09 Helping our communities Investing in the local community We focus our efforts locally or with In 2018 we raised over 54,000 to support our four local charity partners individual organisations so we can and gave 7,700 hours of practical or professional advice or support through see the difference we make today our community days.
We also hit our 1m milestone for monies raised through our and for the future.
Helping our InsurePink brand that donates 10 per policy to help the Pink Ribbon communities through practical, Foundation, a grant making trust, that funds projects and provide financial professional and financial support.
support to UK breast cancer charities.
Education initiatives Mentoring local students to Be the Change O n last years programme I was asked if I Be the Change gives colleagues the opportunity would be happy to take on an additional to make a difference to the education and career paths student who was struggling at school, of Year 9 students from two secondary schools, one each wouldnt communicate with her mentor, and in Bexhill and Leicester.
Over 940 students have taken part only wanted to talk to me.
Her story and the in the programme since it launched in 2015 and over 210 colleagues have been business mentors, with many trust she placed in me made me realise how returning year after year.
vital this programme is to allow students who are struggling with individual issues.
It helps them navigate their journey through the education process to develop, gain confidence, improve and be themselves.
Gary Chalmers, User acceptance tester Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc
