Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Group at a Glance Supplying to and located in global markets, the Group serves customers from facilities in Australia, France, India, Scandinavia, the UK and the USA, building an increasing presence in international markets, where countries are upgrading or improving their infrastructure as their economies grow.
A key feature of the Groups chosen markets is the influence of heightened levels of regulation and health and safety considerations on development and growth.
All of our products are designed to strict specifications and tested according to applicable standards.
Infrastructure Products Infrastructure Products Galvanizing Roads Utilities Services Our Roads segment designs, manufactures Our Utilities segment provides industrial The Galvanizing Services division offers and installs temporary and permanent flooring, plastic drainage pipes, security corrosion protection services to the steel safety products for the roads market fencing, steel and composite products fabrication industry with multi-plant together with intelligent transport systems for a wide range of infrastructure markets facilities in the UK, France and the USA.
which provide information to road users.
including energy creation and distribution, We principally serve the UK market, with rail, water and house building.
For more information see page 16. an international presence in selected geographies.
For more information see page 14.
For more information see page 12.
Hill & Smith Zoneguard temporary barrier protecting Composite stair treads for use at the new Great Wolf Galvanized steel gates awaiting collection from Joseph a section of the M1 M3 Gateway project in Brisbane, Lodge waterpark in Scotsdale, Arizona, USA.
Percentage of 2018 revenue of Percentage of 2018 underlying Employees by geographical 637.9m shown by location of the operating profit of 80.1m shown location operating site by location of the operating site UK 45% UK 2,023 UK 37% USA 36% USA 1,252 USA 51% ROW 19% ROW 1,072 ROW 12% hsholdings.
