02 Overview 2018 Highlights This agreement represents an exciting opportunity for Hilton to broaden its offering in a growing segment of the market and meet our customers demands for Hilton to supply them with a range of innovative, high quality vegetarian products.
We look forward to seeing the positive effects of our tried and tested business model on this relationship, which will be supported by our flexible and versatile approach to meeting local requirements.
Philip Heffer Chief Executive Officer of Hilton Hilton has agreed to enter into a Hilton agrees to purchase jointventure agreement with Dalcos 50% shareholding in shareholders, which includes an option for the remaining 50% of Dalcos shares leading vegetarian in 2024.
This agreement completed We are pleased to have signed inJanuary 2019 following competition manufacturer, this joint venture agreement with authority clearance.
Hilton and look forward to the Dalco Food B. V. This agreement with Dalco enables benefits and expertise that this  expand its offering brings to our business and that Dalco is a leading vegetarian in the fast-growing vegetarian market.
product manufacturer based in Oss, we can bring to Hiltons business.
Hilton will provide its manufacturing the Netherlands.
It will enable us to expand our expertise and capital resources to enable Dalco to expand its range into thenext operations and continue to generation of vegetarian products focus on giving our customers servicingnot only Dalcos existing the right choices at competitive customers but also Hiltons customer base.
I value the mutual respect About Dalco: and cultural similarities which Dalco Food B. V. was established will provide a strong base for by the Wagemakers family in 1975. a successful joint venture.
Today Dalco develops and supplies vegetarian productsto a broad range Marian Wagemakers of customers worldwide from its two Chief Executive Officer of Dalco facilitieslocated inthe Netherlands.
For more information visit: www.
com press-releases Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 03 Launch of fresh convenience foods in Central Europe Sandwiches, wraps, baguettes andgarlicbread launched in 2018 Pizzas relaunched Building extension due to open in 2019 Ready meals, soups and hummus duetolaunch in 2019 Construction of new factory in Brisbane, Australia 2 Factory size 43,000m Hiltons biggest factory to date duetoopen ahead of schedule inQ3 2019 2 A total plot size of 78,000m Capacity of more than 85,000 tonnes year Space for 23 high speed production lines More than three million packs of meat will be produced inan average week Capability to produce and pack 900sausages per minute without anyhuman contact Fully automated warehouse with 14robots receiving 100 pallets of rawmaterials per hour and picking anddespatching more than 80 pallets per hour More than 6,000 roof-mounted solar panels The second largest privately-owned rooftop solar power installation in Australia 1.84 MegaWatt rating supplying around 50% of the sites total power requirements Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018
