HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 2 HomeServe at a glance HomeServe at a glance HomeServe is an international home repairs and improvements business which provides people with access to tradespeople and technology to help them run their homes more easily.
HomeServe was founded by Richard Harpin, our CEO, 25 years ago in the UK.
We developed our Membership model in partnership with utility companies, and expanded into France, North America, Spain and Italy.
Our key source of current growth is North America, where the acquisitions of Utility Service Partners Inc. in 2016 and the policy book of Dominion Products and Services Inc. in 2017 are boosting strong organic performance.
In 2017 we created four global business lines to expand our business model.
Together with our developing Home Experts business we are now present in the UK, USA, Canada, France, Spain, Italy, Portugal, Brazil, Mexico, Argentina, Chile and Columbia.
Our business segments Our primary reporting segmentation is by geography.
Norwalk North America Canonsburg Fast growing Membership business with Chattanooga c. 550 utility partners together with an HVAC business.
Read more about North America on page 38 Our first 25 years fide-merged from South Staffordshire Renewed customer focus following French business launched Water and listed as HomeServe customer service issues in the UK as a joint venture with Veolia 2001 2004 2012 1993 2003 2007 Entered the USA Acquired Reparalia in Spain Took full ownership of France joint venture.
HomeServe founded as a joint venture with South Staffordshire Water HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 3 HomeServe at a glance Our 4 global business lines: Membership Home Experts Subscription-based home assistance for On demand, online marketplace to find homeowners covering plumbing, heating, vetted and reviewed local tradespeople electrical, locks, glazing, pest control and for a broad range of home repairs and technology.
HVAC Smart Home A complete solution to the installation, Development and distribution of repair, maintenance and financing of technology to enable home automation, heating, ventilation and air conditioning.
including LeakBot, smart thermostats and connected boilers.
UK Well established Membership business.
Leading the Groups LeakBot opportunity and progress in HVAC with acquisition of Help-Link in 2017.
Read more about the UK on page 36 France Well established Membership business with two major partners: entry into HVAC market with acquisition of Electrogaz in 2017.
Walsall Read more about France on page 40 Lyon Madrid New Markets New business development and innovation activities including our Italian associate with Edison Energia and Spain our Home Experts businesses, Checkatrade in the UK and Habitissimo in Spain.
Opportunities to expand into new Well established Membership business and a Claims geographies.
business providing repair services for B2B clients.
Read more about New Markets on page 44 Read more about Spain on page 42 Acquired 70% stake in Habitissimo, in Spain, as part of Launched LeakBot 125m equity Gained 100% control the Home Experts strategy.
in the UK placing of Checkatrade 2017 2016 Acquired Utility Service Acquired initial 40% stake Joint venture with Acquired the Dominion Partners Inc. USP in in Checkatrade as part Edison Energia in Italy Products and Services North America of the Home Experts Inc. DPS policy book in strategy North America
