IP GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Q&A WITH THE CEO 2018 has been a year of consolidation following the Touchstone acquisition in late 2017.
While market conditions for AIM-listed small-cap companies were challenging, there was significant commercial progress in many of our companies and as a result we retain a high level of confidence in the portfolio.
Alan Aubrey Chief Executive Officer excellent commercial progress from a number of companies.
Tissue Regenix announced that its subsidiary CellRight Technologies entered into an agreement to allow Arthrex, Inc. to distribute its proprietary BioRinse bone portfolio throughout Europe, Can you summarise 2018s underlying with the initial focus on the UK.
Avacta Group signed a Q financial performance?
development alliance with LG Chem Life Sciences worth up At a headline level, the Groups Hard NAV and Hard to $310m including $180m across upfront, near-term A NAV per share reduced by approximately 6% during payments and development milestones.
A major contributor to this was the performance of our quoted portfolio, which was impacted by weaker stock Can you explain the exceptional charge markets, particularly AIM, as well as certain company-specific Q relating to goodwill?
issues, the biggest of which was Diurnal.
Shares in Diurnal fell Our results for the period reflect an exceptional after its drug Chronocort did not meet the primary endpoint A non-cash charge relating to the impairment of in a Phase 3 study in congenital adrenal hyperplasia CAH.
goodwill in respect of historic acquisitions of 203.2m.
The We and the company are optimistic that the drug remains majority of this goodwill came about as a result of the approvable, given some very positive outcomes using other accounting impact of the nil-premium, all-share acquisition of measures in the Phase 3 study, and that premium pricing is Touchstone Innovations plc, as well as other historic still possible.
Including Diurnal, the Groups quoted portfolio acquisitions including Fusion IP plc.
In the current fell 43% in 2018, against a 19% decline in the performance of macroeconomic climate and given the streamlining changes the FTSE AIM index.
On the other hand, a number of our we have made to the business this year, coupled with recent portfolio companies carried out significant private financings portfolio performance, we have impaired the vast majority of that resulted in a combined valuation uplift of 71.2m, goodwill on our balance sheet.
This non-cash accounting resulting in a net portfolio fair value loss for the year of charge does not impact the Groups headline performance 48.4m.
We feel that those headline numbers do not reflect measures of Hard NAV and Return on Hard NAV, which have the strength and quality of IP Groups portfolio or the always excluded goodwill and other intangible assets.
commercial progress seen in the year from a number of our key assets that are emerging as the leaders in their respective How confident are you feeling about fields.
Finally, 2018 saw a four-fold increase in realisations, Q IP Groups portfolio?
which contributed to the strong closing gross cash balance of 219.0m.
We have never been more confident about the A portfolio.
There was significant progress in many of our You mention commercial progress in the portfolio companies during the year that, in our view, is yet to be Q what were some of the highlights?
Oxford Nanopore has commented publicly on significant increases in its order book Oxford Nanopore Technologies, Ceres Power and and the attractiveness of capital markets, while First Light A WaveOptics all signed partnerships with blue chip Fusion has stated that it aims to demonstrate fusion using its companies further validating their respective technologies.
It should also be noted that a particular, Ceres Power signed agreements with Chinas number of our therapeutic assets are approaching key Weichai Power and Germanys Robert Bosch.
In the private inflection points.
The Board therefore remains very portfolio, NASDAQ-listed Amgen invested 50m into Oxford supportive of managements actions to demonstrate that the Nanopore Technologies while WaveOptics agreed a portfolio can generate significant returns for stakeholders.
partnership with, and investment from, Goertek, a global This will allow the Group to sustainably fulfil its mission of leader in the design and manufacturing of high-tech supporting outstanding science from around the world from consumer electronics.
In the quoted portfolio, there was the eureka moment through to maturity.
indd 2 12 04 2019 17:08:58 26347 12 April 2019 5:08 pm Proof Six BUSINESS OVERVIEW 2018 looks to have been a good year for realisations How are your US and Australasian Q is this an area of continued focus?
In 2018 the Group saw a four-fold increase in cash We have made good progress in North America with A A proceeds from the realisation of investments to portfolio companies attracting $30m of external 29.5m 2017: 6.6m.
This came from 14 separate investment and achieving several significant milestones companies, spread evenly across the sectors and comprising during the year.
The team also attracted a significant a mix of quoted and private capital.
The largest disposals strategic investment into the US business that was led by a were from interests in Veryan Medical Limited, Abzena plc, privately held blue-chip family office based in the US.
We Getech Group plc and Concirrus Limited.
As the Groups consider these co-investments to be a great endorsement of portfolio matures, this is something that will remain a key both our model and attractiveness of the portfolio and future focus providing, of course, that valuations make sense.
In Australasia, the Group completed its first two investments Is the integration of Touchstone now complete?
Q from partner universities The University of New South Wales and Monash University in late 2018.
On the capital side, the Yes, it is.
Following the transfer of the Technology A Group continued to work with Hostplus, one of Australias Transfer Office to Imperial College London which largest superannuation funds with over AU$34bn in funds occurred on 28 February 2019 and the surrender of the lease under management, and through the AU$100m IP Group on Touchstone Innovation plcs former head office in Central Hostplus Innovation Fund which participated in financings for London agreed on 22 March 2019, the integration is now Oxford Nanopore Technologies and Ultrahaptics in 2018. substantially complete from an operational perspective.
We anticipate annual cost synergies of more than 8m resulting from the combination of IP Group and Touchstone What are your plans in Greater China?
Q Innovations versus the pre-integration cost base of the two We hosted our second Global Deep Tech Forum companies.
The former Touchstone and IP Group portfolio A conference in Hong Kong and Shanghai last year companies are being managed in the UK by our Life Sciences where 22 of our portfolio companies introduced their and Technology partnerships that were formed in the year.
technology and business to hundreds of attendees from the While there has been a level of further reduction in the fair Greater China area.
As a result of those introductions, many values of some of the former Touchstone companies to of our portfolio companies have secured investment and better reflect their stage of development, the combined business partnerships in Greater China, including Oxford portfolio is now well-balanced by sector and contains a Nanopore, Ceres Power, Mirriad Advertising and Creavo number of opportunities for significant future value growth.
The Group considers Greater China to be strategically important and will continue to facilitate On the subject of the larger combined portfolio, how market entry, business partnership and investment Q many companies are you now actively focusing on?
discussions with relevant Chinese partners for our portfolio companies.
We feel there is a good range of companies from earlyA stage to mature and good coverage across all sectors.
The Technology and Life Sciences partnerships in the UK What impact could Brexit have on IP Group?
Q have reviewed the combined portfolio and are focusing the At the time of writing, the outcome of the Brexit majority of their attention and resources on a smaller group A process remains a source of uncertainty.
We have of around 60 companies in total, representing 87% of the assessed the potential impact of Brexit on the Group in portfolio value.
Nearly half of the value of the portfolio is in conjunction with our advisers and believe that the most the top ten assets and the Groups holdings in these significant short-term potential impact to the Group may be businesses are valued at a total of 561.2m 2017: 573.8m.
capital markets volatility and the resultant impact on The total value of the Groups portfolio companies excluding valuations and the availability of capital to the Groups multi-sector platforms, organic investments and fide minimis portfolio.
At the portfolio level, the most commonly-cited holdings is now in excess of 5bn, or almost 6bn including potential impacts for our companies arise from potential the two significant multi-sector platform companies in which changes to regulations particularly for life sciences the Group has a holding Oxford Sciences Innovation plc and companies, supply chain, hiring retaining talent and Cambridge Innovation Capital plc 2017: 4bn, 5bn.
Please financing, all of which are likely to be more prevalent in a see the Top 10 holdings graph on pages 4 to 5 in the At a hard Brexit scenario.
We continue to closely monitor the Glance section.
situation for both short-term and longer-term impacts at the Group and portfolio company level.
The number of new companies formed in 2018 has Q fallen are you concerned about your pipeline?
Lots of companies are highlighting sustainability The Group deployed capital into nine new companies Q and ESG matters.
Can you tell me about IP Groups A or projects during the year 2017: 21, five of which plans here?
were sourced from the UK, two from the US and two from Sustainability has always been at the heart of IP Australasia 2017: 10, 11, nil.
Our focus is always on finding the A Groups business model.
Through the businesses that best science-based opportunities available, and we therefore we back and build, we aim to address some of the worlds expect to see some fluctuation in the number of new most pressing challenges in areas such as disease prevention companies formed in any given year.
Through our various and mitigation, the transition to a less carbon intense energy collaborations and relationships with premier research world and in productivity improvement.
IP Group therefore universities and other research centres around the world, we has a wider impact than purely financial, providing benefit to access commercialisable IP from institutions that have society and the economy.
This is a focus for the Group in published over 15% of the worlds Top Research and so 2019 and you can read more on our efforts here on pages 6 consider our pipeline of opportunities to be very strong.
