Strategic Report ITV at aGlance ITV, as an integrated producer broadcaster IPB, creates, owns and distributes high-quality content on multiple platforms globally.
We also continue to diversify our business through the opportunities presented from consumers willingness to pay for great content and to engage with ITV as a trusted brand.
Broadcast & Online We operate the largest family of commercial channels in the UK and deliver our content throughlinear television broadcasting and on demand via the ITV Hub.
The ITV family of channels attracted a total share of viewing ITV broadcasts a wide variety of SOV of 23.2% in 2018 up 7% year-on-year, the largest audience content on its family of free-to-air of any UK commercial broadcaster.
Our main channel is the largest channels and the ITV Hub.
Our commercial channel in the UK, delivering 98% of all commercial investment in programming is primarily audiences over five million.
funded by television and online Our free-to-air digital channels provide more targeted advertising revenue.
We sell all of our demographics for advertisers, such as 1634s, ABC1s, Men, key demographics across 13regional and Housepersons with Children, and consist of ITV2 and ITV3, licences and more targeted advertising the twolargest digital channels in the UK, ITV4, ITVBe, and on the ITV Hub.
ITV grew total viewing CITV.
ITV2 is the most watched digital channel for 16-34s and across its channels and platforms by 16-24s.
It is also ahead of Channel 4, Channel 5 and BBC Two 3% year-on-year in 2018. for 16-24s.
We also have high denition HD versions of our digital channels available on pay platforms.
In addition to linear broadcast, ITV delivers its content across multiple platforms.
This is either through our over-the-top OTT service the ITV Hub, available on 28 platforms including ITVs website itv.
com, pay providers such as Virgin and Sky, and through direct content deals with services such as Amazon, Apple and Netflix.
We are in the concluding phase of talks with the BBC to establish Direct to Consumer astrategic partnership to bring BritBox, a new SVOD service, ITV generates revenue directly from to UK audiences.
BritBox UK will provide an unrivalled collection consumers through subscription of British boxsets and original series all in one place.
video on demand SVOD on the ITV Hub, competitions, live events, ITV already has the ITV Hub which is a SVOD service where gaming apps, merchandise and pay subscribers have access to ad-free content, the ability to per view events, driving value from download catch up content and EU portability.
consumers increasing willingness Our joint venture with the BBC, BritBox US, provides an ad-free to engage with brands.
SVOD service in the US and Canada offering the most comprehensive collection of British content available in these countries.
BritBox US subscribers continue to grow steadily, exceeding 500k in 2018.
We also hold an equity stake in a British content SVOD service, Cirkus, inthe Nordics, Germany, Austria and Switzerland.
23.2% 9.2% 28m 81m share of viewing for the ITV share of commercial impacts registered users on Direct to Consumer revenue Family in 2018 2017: 21.7% for 1634s on ITV2 2017: 8.3% the ITV Hub 2017: 21m in 2018 2017: 65m 4 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information ITV at aglance ITV total revenue inc. internal revenue ITV adjusted EBITA Broadcast & Online Broadcast & Online 2,096m 555m ITV Studios ITV Studios 1,670m 255m ITV Studios We have built significant scale in key creative markets around the world, creating and producing programmes and formats that return and travel, namely drama, entertainment and factual.
ITV Studios UK is the largest commercial producer in the UK.
ITV Studios UK We produce programming across a diverse range of genres ITV Studios creates and produces such as drama, entertainment and factual entertainment content in the UK and internationally for ITVs own channels, as well as for other UK broadcasters across 12 countries, while our such as the BBC, Channel 4, Channel 5 and Sky.
distribution business, Global Entertainment, and the distribution arm of Talpa, Talpa Global, sell finished programmes and formats worldwide.
ITV America is underpinned by the production of unscripted ITV America content.
However, we have been growing our presence in the scripted content market, using our strong cash flows to produce high-prole dramas with the potential to travel and build international appeal.
We sell to over 30 broadcasters and platform owners across the US.
ITV Studios also operates in the Netherlands through Talpa ITV Studios Media, Germany, France, Italy, Australia, the Nordics, and Rest of World the Middle East.
Talpa produces and distributes entertainment formats while the other businesses increasingly produce scripted content, as well as unscripted content, for local broadcasters in these regions and OTT platforms.
This content is either created locally or are formats that have been created elsewhere by ITV, primarily the UK and Talpa.
Global Entertainment, ITVs distribution business, owns Global the rights to ITV programmes and formats and acquires Entertainment third-party content, distributing this to other broadcasters and platforms internationally.
Within this business, we also finance productions for ITV and third parties to acquire global distribution rights.
8,900 hrs 50 labels 57 ITV formats of original content produced in 12 different countries supplying sold in 2018 and delivered in 2018 over 200 channels or platforms 2017: 62 ITV formats 2017: 8,400 hours 5
