18% 8% 12 STRATEGIC REPORT At a glance A SNAPSHOT OF JUPITER Delivering growth through investment excellence.
WHAT WE DO As an active fund manager, we aim to deliver longterm investment outperformance, after all fees to our clients.
This helps us to grow our assets under management and increase our revenues and profits, allowing us to invest for continued growth.
WHO WE SERVE Jupiter manages mutual funds, segregated mandates and investment trusts on behalf of individuals and institutions.
We access individuals principally through our distribution partners.
CLIENTS DISTRIBUTION JUPITER PARTNERS Individuals Investment strategies including ISAs, Fund of funds, Platforms, delivered via: personal pensions, Global financial institutions, Mutual funds: general accounts Advisers, Wealth managers, Unit Trusts Life companies Institutional investors SICAVs including pension Segregated mandates funds, sovereign wealth Investment trusts Flow of product Direct retail book WHERE WE OPERATE: EXPANDING OUR INTERNATIONAL PRESENCE We are a leader in the UK mutual fund market and have a growing presence in our chosen European and Asian locations.
While the UK remains the primary location for our clients, our diversification strategy has led to a significant increase in clients from other locations.
The graphic below shows the changing geographic mix of AUM.
Jupiter office Agency relationship UK Europe 2018 2018 2013 2013 75% 18% www.
com 88% 75% STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 4% 3% 3% 1% 13 OUR VALUES Our primary responsibility is to our clients, who entrust their savings to our management.
We aim to protect and 83 grow their assets and provide an excellent service.
Investment professionals in London Every employee can make a difference to Jupiter.
We value individual talent HOW WE DO IT: and independent thought and seek to give freedom to employees to deliver OUR PEOPLE AND CULTURE to their best.
We do this within a team framework where respect, high We believe that freeing talented individuals standards and innovation are key to pursue their own investment styles to our highperformance culture.
provides the best outcomes for clients and is a key differentiator for Jupiter.
With We aim to make a positive contribution no house view to constrain them, our to society as managers of other peoples fund managers seek the best investments money.
We seek to do so by increasing through fundamental analysis, with a focus the value of our clients savings, in the on good stewardship.
Our fund managers way we run money and overseeing are organised into strategy teams, so they ethical behaviour in the companies in can share ideas and information, while which we invest.
retaining individual accountability for their funds performance.
We believe that living by our values enables Jupiter to be a profitable and sustainable company which provides 439 A SINGLE OPERATING longterm returns to clients, employees and shareholders.
PLATFORM Other employees, of which 35 are located in Europe and Asia, We continually invest to ensure our providing incountry support for our operating model is scalable, efficient and international business growth.
fit for purpose as our business evolves.
Asia RoW SPLIT OF AUM BY ASSET CLASS 2018 2018 2013 2013 4% 3% 2 42.7 29.4 billion billion 1 Alternatives Equities Fixed Income Multi Asset 2013 2018 1 Alternatives includes Cash Fund of 70m in 2013.
2 Numbers exclude private clients AUM.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
