02 JUST GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 At a glance Leaders in our markets.
We positively disrupt markets where we can become a leader, deliver great outcomes for customers and achieve high-quality returns for shareholders WE ARE A SPECIALIST IN OUR CHOSEN MARKETS SERVING FOUR DISTINCT GROUPS Trustees and scheme sponsors: Individuals: Providing Providing member security and retirement income fide-risking pension liabilities People who have built up pension savings throughout their career and want a guaranteed income, flexible Defined benefit pension schemes fide-risking their income or a combination in retirement.
liabilities by securing member benefits with an insurance contract.
MARKET VALUE OF DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PENSION ADDRESSABLE MARKET SAVINGS 600 billion 1 trillion Homeowners: Corporate clients: Solving Accessing property wealth problems for companies People aged 60 who want to access wealth locked We develop scalable retirement-focused solutions up in their property.
for banks, building societies, life assurance companies, pension scheme trustees, other corporate clients PROPERTY WEALTH OWNED BY PEOPLE AGED 55 and for their customers, clients and members.
3.0 trillion STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 03 Competitive position: WITH PRODUCTS AND SERVICES A leader Developing Services Benefit AND competitive position Justs innovative approach using individual Defined Benefit fide-risking medical underwriting in this segment Solutions DB delivers better prices for trustees.
Solutions for pension scheme trustees to reduce the financial risks of operating pension schemes and increase certainty that members pensions will be paid in the future.
marketed 1 By using our unrivalled intellectual property, products Guaranteed Income Just provides an individually tailored solution for Life GIfL providing customers typically with doubleA solution for individuals couples who want digit percentage increases in income the security of knowing they will receive a compared to standard products.
Justs Flexible Pension Plan has been Flexible Pension Plan FPP developed to enable people with modest A solution for a customer wanting to retain pension savings access to an affordable greater flexibility for their pension savings service.
The FPP can be used in conjunction and enabling irregular withdrawals.
with GIfL, enabling customers to mix and match to meet their needs.
Justs Care Plans can be tailored to the Care Plans individual and offer a tax-efficient A solution for people moving to residential solutionto making payments to care who want the security of knowing a residentialcare providers.
regular payment will be made to the care provider for the rest of their life.
Just currently provides a range of lifetime Lifetime Mortgages LTM 1 Reported in our mortgages enabling people to meet a Solutions designed for people who want to Insurance segment.
variety of needs in later life.
release some of the value of their home.
Services Benefit AND competitive position HUB Group HUB offers an innovative approach that Our professional services and distribution provides affordable regulated advice to business delivering technology, broking and people with modest pension savings.
HUB advice solutions for corporate clients and also delivers face-to-face nationwide pension schemes.
We also provide regulated adviceat a time and place to suit the financial advice on how people should use client, and enables pension schemes to pension savings, or release some of the deliver efficient and robust scheme-led Professional value from their home.
2 services Support for organisations wanting to deliver Provides a range of business services whole-of-market shopping around services tailored to the needs of the organisation, to source retirement income products for ranging from consultancy and software 2 Reported in our Other their customers, employees or pension development to fully outsourced customer segment.
service delivery and marketing services.
