Strategic Report At a glance WE ARE KIER GROUP We offer our clients access to specialist expertise supported by a breadth of capabilities.
Our vision Our values Our vision is to be a world-class,  focused company that invests in, builds, We work together: we consult to reach the maintains and renews the places where rightsolution and achieve more as a team.
Enthusiastic What we do We make things happen: we are resourceful problem-solvers, who enjoy what wedo and We create spaces and places that generate getthejob done.
Forward-thinking How we deliver We look ahead: we positively challenge the waywe do things to excel, and wecare about We bring specialist knowledge, sector-leading ourclients and customers and the service experience and fresh thinking to create weprovide.
Go online to find out more at www.
co. uk Our corporate website has key information covering our sector capabilities, markets, corporate responsibility and investor relations.
2 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Our business today Our four operating divisions are transitioning to a new reporting format focused on three market positions.
This change supports the way the Group works with clients and underpins complementary capabilities.
PROPERTY RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION SERVICES Revenue 218m Revenue 374m Revenue 2.0bn Revenue 1.8bn Operating profit 34.0m Operating profit 25.9m Operating profit 41.9m Operating profit 93.0m Our focus tomorrow From 1 July 2018, financial reporting will be under three key market positions.
INFRASTRUCTURE BUILDINGS DEVELOPMENTS SERVICES & HOUSING Top three infrastructure The UKs leading regional builder with A top three provider of player in the UK with a number one key positions in education, health and affordablehousing andrelated position in UK strategic highways on numerous frameworks maintenance services.
A top property trader and developer Revenue Revenue Revenue c. 2bn c. 2bn c. 1bn Turn to pages 6 to 7 Turn to pages 8 to 9 Turn to pages 4 to 5 for more information.
Our key market sectors Power & Bioscience Education Health Highways Housing Property Transport Utilities Energy Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 3
