STRATEGIC REPORT Group at a glance Man Group is an active investment Our five investment engines manager with a broad range of house numerous investment teams strategies across investment styles, who benefit from the strength of Man asset classes and geographies.
FUM by product category $bn Investment engines Absolute return Man AHL Man AHL is a diversified quantitative investment 28.9 manager that has been a pioneer in the application Total return of systematic trading since 1987.
Man AHL applies scientific rigour and cutting-edge technology and 22.5 execution to a diverse range of data in order to Multi-manager solutions build systematic investment strategies, trading over hundreds of global markets.
13.5 Systematic long only Man Numeric 24.7 Man Numeric is a quantitative manager invested in almost every equity market in the world.
The Discretionary long only investment engine employs disciplined and 18.8 systematic investment processes, underpinned by a robust bottom-up, fundamental approach, Structured products offering both long only and alternative strategies.
0.1 Man GLG Man AHL Man GLG is a discretionary investment engine, Man Numeric offering a diverse range of alternative and long Man GLG only investment strategies across equity, credit, Man GPM Man FRM fixed income and multi-asset approaches.
It increasingly leverages Man Groups broader quantitative techniques and technology as part of its fundamental investment and efficient execution processes.
Man GLGs experienced investment teams are encouraged to think independently, while sharing and debating ideas, unconstrained by a house view.
FUM by manager $bn Man GPM Man GPM focuses on investments in private Man AHL markets, broadening Man Groups offering into 26.2 less liquid assets such as real estate, private credit and infrastructure.
Launched with the acquisition Man Numeric of Aalto Invest in 2017, Man GPM is focused on 32.1 sourcing investment opportunities offering attractive risk-adjusted returns.
Man GLG 34.2 Man FRM Man GPM Man FRM is an alternatives investment specialist, 2.5 deploying investment and advisory services within institutional portfolios.
Man FRM provides a full Man FRM service offering to clients, ranging from advisory 13.5 work to customised and commingled portfolio solutions, as well as a leading, technologically innovative managed account platform.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 2 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Offices around the world Global headcount Our global sales team provides clients with one point 16 1,435 of contact across Man Group.
at 31 December 2018 This one key contact understands the clients investment objectives and engages in close dialogue with our investors to York understand their particular Oxford London needs and constraints.
Boston Tokyo Liechtenstein Dublin Stamford Pfffikon New York Shanghai Guernsey Charlotte Hong Kong Sydney Montevideo Our investment engines and sales are supported by Man Groups robust infrastructure and technological capabilities, enabling us to maintain our position at the forefront of the asset management industry and allowing us to evolve and adapt with our clients needs.
Regulatory capital surplus Net tangible assets The Groups strong finances and capital base gives us $265m $629m flexibility to grow the business.
at 31 December 2018 at 31 December 2018 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 3
