Strategic report At a Glance The UKs leading hard landscaping manufacturer Our objective is to create integrated landscapes which promote wellbeing to the benefit of everyone.
So, whether it is through fairly traded stone, providing products which alleviate flood risks, enabling our business partners to share in our success or creating innovative street furniture that protects us from attack, we proudly strive to make our world a better place.
What we do Responding to the wider market Marshalls is a complete external Marshalls seeks to understand the long-term drivers of market and product growth.
landscaping, interior design, paving Through detailed market analysis, we continue to drive new product development, and flooring products business from particularly in the areas of New Build Housing, Water Management, Street Furniture planning and engineering, to and Rail.
Product development focuses on meeting consumer needs and increasing guidance and delivery.
the speed and efficiency of product installation.
Our investment case Growth agenda Strong market position Target acquisitions Proven record of sustained growth Wide market reach targeting growth The acquisitions of both CPM and with 5-year CAGR growth in revenue areas including New Build Housing, Edenhall will enable the Group to of 10 per cent and PBT of 37 per cent.
Road, Rail and Water Management.
offer a broader product choice that Wide-ranging mineral reserves with the complements our offering in targeted Marshalls Stone Standard quality mark.
growth areas of Water Management and New Build Housing.
Revenue Operating profit margin CPM Acquired 19 October 2017 491.0m 13.2% Edenhall 14% 6% Acquired 11 December 2018 Read more about our strategy Read more about our markets Read more about our acquisitions on pages 18 and 19 on pages 12 and 13 on page 11 Diversified group Strong asset base Sustainability Serving Public Sector, Commercial The Group has a sustainable business and resources and Domestic end markets.
These have plan and has set KPIs for the key areas Well invested manufacturing plants with historically proved to offer security of this plan.
Sustainability and corporate continuing emphasis on high quality due to their counter-cyclical profiles.
responsibility are key elements of the maintenance, technology improvements Marshalls culture.
Capital investment shareholder value is a key part of of 29.2 million in 2018.
Public Sector and Commercial Self help capital investment in 2018 ROCE % of Group revenue 17m 23.3% 30.7 million over the last 3 years like-for-like basis 66% revenue growth of 20% in 2018 Read more about how we operate as a Read more about how we are improving Read more about self help capital sustainable business on pages 34 to 37 our digital offering on page 22 investment in Howley Park on page 10 Marshalls plc 04 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Innovation and Where we operate new products Unique national network of manufacturing sites and quarries The continued focus on innovation and ensures proximity to customers new product development ensures we focus on manufacturing and materials and an efficient logistics footprint.
Number of new product ranges 67 launched in the current innovation cycle Read more about our investment in research and development on page 28 Marshalls Landscape Culture The Groups core values of leadership, Mineral Products excellence, trust and sustainability underpin our culture along with our Street Furniture key objective of doing business responsibly.
The corporate culture is CPM embedded into our engagement with stakeholders.
Premier Mortars Health and safety Edenhall 61% reduction in working days lost since 2015 % Design Space Read more about our sustainability Administration strategy on pages 34 to 37 Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 05
