SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT HIGHLIGHTS CONTINUED Through the internalisation of the human resources strategy, RISKS TO THE BUSINESS the focus remains on the harmonisation and embedding of Inability to recruit healthcare practitioners to meet enhanced human resources processes and practices.
This business demand internalisation is achieved through the standardisation of Poor clinical outcomes and services processes where possible, sharing of best practice, and Medical malpractice liability system integration.
The Human Resources HR function is Reputational damage thereby positioned as an enabling partner delivering visible, Delayed new nursing qualifications framework, causing credible and value-adding services to the business where a gap in the education pipeline required on a continuous basis.
Ageing nursing workforce and noticeable trend of earlier Employee recruitment and retention retirement of nursing professionals The talent supply of scarce skills remains on the strategic Ineffective management teams agenda of the Group and is regarded as a key enabler of Poor staff engagement and wellness reaching the goals of the Patients First strategy.
The everFraud and ethics failures increasing risk of not obtaining the right skills in the future RISK MITIGATION due to a variety of reasons, is clearly evident in a global context.
This has urged the Group to take deliberate and Extensive training and skills development programmes proactive action in building a secure talent pool in the areas Governance of suitable selection processes with focus where necessary.
on skills assessments, employment references and verification of credentials The globalisation of relevant human capital management Targeted sourcing and recruitment initiatives, with a processes will continue to put emphasis on talent metrics strong focus on agile sourcing techniques ensuring that and measurable data across divisions, which enables the best fit candidate talent is channelled to appropriate identification of trends and risks to be addressed proactively.
vacancies, supported by a seamless hiring process The implementation of an integrated human resources Proactive international recruitment programme management system has gained momentum and line supplementing anticipated medium-term skills gaps managers and employees alike are positively impacted.
Tailored retention strategies, supporting the retention of Further rollout of additional modules is scheduled to be priority audiences within each business unit phased in over a three-year period.
Succession planning and or career management The Groups workforce composition is provided in Figure 2. initiatives within scarce skills disciplines, ensuring AR Controllable employee turnover rate is provided on page 71, proactive development of high-performing employees indicating an increase across all divisions.
Although not a with potential to supervisory and leadership roles significant increase, the reasons for employee turnover are Deployment of integrated talent strategies in support of monitored in a rigorous manner and themes are proactively core business areas addressed to minimise the loss of employees.
With the everEmployee engagement and satisfaction monitoring increasing shortage of qualified staff, we are experiencing through standardised process increased competition in the market place for quality staff.
As a result, emphasis is placed on retention and effective POLICY, APPROACH AND utilisation of available skills.
To address this, various measures PERFORMANCE are in place with the aim to be regarded as an employer The human capital environment is strongly supported of choice: regular engagement, offering attractive working by policies and best practice guidelines and is governed conditions, career development, a consistent performance to ensure compliance to achieve best practice globally management system, fair remuneration practices.
The and to minimise possible risks within the human resource divisions turnover rate by age group and gender, new environment.
employees versus employee terminations and return to SDR work after maternity leave are provided in the Sustainable Development Report, available on the Companys website.
72 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT HIGHLIGHTS FIGURE 2: WORKFORCE COMPOSITION Switzerland Southern Africa UAE 2016 2017 2018 Total: 32 884 Total: 32 625 Total: 31 504 Calendar year Mediclinic Southern Africa received formal performance Training and skills development reviews.
At Hirslanden, 100% of employees received The Group continues to invest significantly in training and formal performance reviews during the year: and at skills development to maintain and improve quality service Mediclinic Middle East, 81% of employees received formal delivery.
The Groups commitment to provide quality care for performance reviews.
its patients can only be ensured if its staff have appropriate, evolving skill sets, which is reflected in the number of Succession planning and career management learning initiatives undertaken each year.
The percentage Strong leaders have proven to be of great value to the of payroll invested in training and skills development by each business and therefore resources have been invested AR of the Groups operating divisions is provided on page 71. to embed sufficient succession planning and career management towards key functional roles across the Performance management business.
This will proactively enhance and develop A consistent performance management system is applied leadership.
Succession planning is standardised on an throughout the Group, which allows us to identify and manage organisational level in all three operating divisions and a the training needs of individual employees, and to discuss Group talent review is performed annually.
Performance tracking discussions take as well as high-performing individuals with potential are place on a continuous basis throughout the Group.
There is identified and supported through tailored development a dedicated commitment to optimise the quality of these initiatives.
An inter-division development programme which discussions where expectations regarding performance and offers a series of secondments across divisions has been development are shared and personal development plans designed to help these individuals excel at Mediclinic.
These discussions also provide the programme is currently implemented at organisational opportunity to translate the organisational strategic goals level for talent with the potential to be successors to a key to individual employee objectives, activities and deliverables.
position in their own division or across divisions within the Mediclinic Southern Africa continuously enhances the support larger Group.
The programme aims to provide priority talent provided to line managers.
There is an e-learning tool which either critical talent or high performers with potential, the helps new and existing managers to enhance their knowledge opportunity to gain cross-division exposure.
All divisions about the process in a self-paced manner.
have received the programme with great enthusiasm and Formal performance reviews are conducted on a bi-annual the Group is proud to continue to grow this development basis.
During the past 12 months, 88.3% of employees at opportunity to the benefit of all.
MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 73 9 120 16 832 6 932 1.60 9 402 1.14 16 848 6 375 1.00 9 635 16 068 5 801 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT HIGHLIGHTS CONTINUED Employee remuneration, recognition Employee engagement and benefits In 2015, Mediclinic, in partnership with Gallup, introduced the Your Voice employee engagement programme across The Group remunerates employees in a manner that all operating divisions to measure levels of engagement, supports the achievement of the Groups vision and identify gaps at a departmental level and support line strategic objectives, while attracting and retaining scarce managers in developing action plans to address concerns.
skills and rewarding high levels of performance.
This is achieved through establishing remuneration practices that Overall, the Group achieved a 77% 2017: 71% participation are fair, reasonable and market-related while at the same rate in the Your Voice survey and 40% 2017: 36% time maintaining an appropriate balance between employee of employees showed high levels of engagement, as AR and shareholder interest.
The 2017 Your Voice survey identified driven organisation, the Group rewards employees for predominant strengths and opportunities in terms of the achieving strategic objectives as well as individual personal employee engagement levels of Mediclinic.
Benefits to employees may include a continued to perform well on the foundation elements of retirement fund and medical aid scheme.
The Group further employees knowing what is expected of them and having covers the liability insurance for medical staff and other the appropriate materials and equipment to perform at work.
employees where liability insurance is required.
Managers who are eligible to receive variable remuneration receive Labour relations short-term incentives and senior management receive a The Group believes in building sound long-term relations combination of short and long-term incentives.
The Groups with its employees and employee representatives, which management remuneration structures consist of a fixed supports its goal of being the employer of choice in the guaranteed base salary and benefits and a variable shorthealthcare industry.
This is measured by the Your Voice term and long-term incentives component.
employee engagement survey and continuous assessment of the Groups employment conditions.
Employee benefits and the value they add to the overall employment proposition are key factors in attracting and The Group respects and complies with the labour legislation retaining high-calibre staff.
Details of benefits offered are SDR in the countries in which it operates and ensures that the included in the Sustainable Development Report.
internal policies and procedures are evaluated regularly to accommodate continual amendments to relevant legislation.
Employee health and safety The employee relations policies of the operating divisions, The Group recognises the role it has to play towards which deal with matters relating to misconduct, incapacity employee wellness and believes in promoting employee of employees and the disciplinary and grievance procedures, health and reducing absenteeism.
The Group is committed are communicated to new employees as part of their onto supporting the overall well-being of employees and boarding process and are also available to all staff to ensure recognises the importance of employee wellness in the that employees are aware of the avenues to put forward workplace, building a more caring culture for its employees grievances, should they have the need to.
by applying sound wellness practices.
Details of trade union membership throughout the Group SDR Health and safety policies and procedures are in place is provided in the Sustainable Development Report.
across the Group to ensure a safe working environment for the Groups employees, patients and its visitors.
The health and safety of the Groups employees are essential and contribute to the sustainability of quality care to patients.
The programmes and procedures implemented by the various business units to mitigate health and safety risks are SDR outlined in the Sustainable Development Report.
74 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT HIGHLIGHTS MATERIAL ISSUE 2: MINIMISING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS HIGHLIGHTS Since January 2014, the entire Hirslanden electricity supply has been generated from 100% sustainable electricity Mediclinic International was included in the global A List for leadership and performance by corporate environmental action, showing leadership on water in the CDP Water Disclosure Project Total consumption and intensity per bed day sold for both energy and water decreased in Mediclinic Southern Africa, with Mediclinic Middle East and Hirslandens consumption remaining stable WHY THIS IS IMPORTANT TO LINK TO GROUP STRATEGY THE BUSINESS Improve efficiencies The Groups main environmental impacts are the utilisation KEY STAKEHOLDERS of resources, predominantly energy, through electricity Employees and doctors consumption and water, and the disposal of healthcare risk Suppliers waste.
The Group is fully aware of the need to use resources Governments and authorities responsibly and is committed to minimising its environmental impacts to every extent possible.
Community Patients The Group recognises the risks that regulatory changes, environmental constraints and climate change present to its RISKS TO THE BUSINESS operations.
Potential impacts include rising costs, reduced Business interruptions due to water shortages access to facilities, interruptions in service, and incidents Business interruptions due to electricity supply of extreme weather events as a result of climate change Increased operational costs due to cost of electricity, placing additional stress on operations.
Additionally, climate water and healthcare risk waste change can lead to water shortages especially in the UAE Reputational damage and in Southern Africa and weather-induced pandemics and disease outbreaks which can cause high mortality rates.
RISK MITIGATION However, the Group also believes that using resources Implementation of appropriate environmental responsibly can be a source of strategic advantage for the management systems certified by an internationally Group, allowing it to manage and contain its operating costs recognised body, where appropriate and to ensure ongoing access to water and energy supplies.
Implementation of the Corporate Sustainable Water Management Strategy in Southern Africa Mediclinics patients are always its first priority, but without Environmental impact assessments for new building natural resources, especially water, Mediclinic would not be projects where required able to provide a service to its patients.
The Group takes its policies to reduce its impact on the environment very Introduction of renewable energy sources, such as seriously and is constantly investigating new opportunities solar photovoltaic systems, in order to reduce energy to reduce its impact on the environment.
consumption and costs MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 75 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT HIGHLIGHTS CONTINUED KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS POLICY, APPROACH AND Unless indicated to the contrary, all environmental data PERFORMANCE reported is for the 2017 calendar year included in the CDP Effective environmental 2018 submission, with the prior year data for the 2016 management system calendar year included in the CDP 2017 submission.
This is to ensure the accuracy of the data reported and to align the The Group Environmental Policy, available on the Companys reporting to the annual submission of reports to CDP.
com, aims to minimise Mediclinics environmental impacts and guides the identification and TOTAL CO EMISSIONS KG BED DAY management of all risks and opportunities relating to water 2 PER CDP 2017 use and recycling, energy use and conservation, emissions and climate change, and waste management and recycling.
12kg Switzerland Mediclinic is committed to ensuring that its environmental CDP 2016: 13kg management systems and practices are aligned with Southern Africa 112kg international best practices to safeguard its reputation and CDP 2016: 117kg provide assurance regarding the environmental quality, 220kg UAE safety and reliability of Mediclinics processes and services.
CDP 2016: 226kg Environmental impact assessments are performed for all new building projects when required by legislation.
WATER USAGE KL BED DAYreduced All 17 Hirslanden hospitals are registered as CO 2 PER CALENDAR YEAR businesses by the Energy Agency of the Swiss Private Sector on behalf of the Swiss Federal Office of Energy.
0.649kl Switzerland This achievement recognises the contracted commitment 2016: 0.629kl to reduce CO2 emissions within the operations.
The 0.594kl Southern Africa implemented measures are being monitored annually.
2016: 0.652kl All Mediclinic Southern Africa hospitals are ISO 14001 trained, UAE 1.523kl 2016: 0.654kl follow the same environmental management practices and are subject to annual internal audits.
During the year, ISO 14001 gap audits were conducted at 38 Mediclinic ENERGY CONSUMPTION GJ BED DAY Southern Africa hospitals, achieving an average score of PER CALENDAR YEAR 80%.
Adhering to the system procedures and processes Switzerland 0.458gj has a direct impact on consumption as well as the group 2016: 0.474gj bed day carbon emissions and is expected to reduce the likelihood and magnitude of the risk.
At year-end, 42 of Mediclinic 0.318gj Southern Africa 2016: 0.327gj bed day Southern Africas 52 hospitals are ISO 14001 certified by an external assurance provider.
1.202gj UAE 2016: 0.991gj bed day Mediclinic Middle East undertook a number of environmental initiatives and environmental events and rolled out policies which support the Group Environmental Policy.
WASTE RECYCLED PER CALENDAR YEAR It has initiated the EHS strategy, with the aim of obtaining 586 tonnes Switzerland ISO 14001 certification of all its facilities in the future, and will 2016: 550 tonnes be implementing further energy saving initiatives as part of Southern Africa 1 172 tonnes Mediclinic Middle Easts overall strategic objectives during 2016: 1 283 tonnes next year.
196 tonnes UAE 2016: 72 tonnes The intensity measures of CO emissions, water usage and energy 2 consumption per bed day are not appropriate for the UAE, and not comparable with that of Southern Africa and Switzerland, as the total emissions, water usage and energy consumption include only five hospitals and 23 clinics with only outpatient consultations i. e. no bed days.
The extreme weather conditions in the UAE also negatively impact its energy and water consumption, which is being managed through various initiatives.
Mediclinic Middle East has begun working towards a comprehensive energy and water reduction plan for the year ahead to decrease overall consumption.
76 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT HIGHLIGHTS indirect emissions from the consumption of electricity Reduction of carbon emissions scope 2 emissions : The Carbon Disclosure Project CDP is a global initiative indirect emissions from suppliers, which in the healthcare measuring companies around the world, their reporting on industry will refer mainly to pharmaceutical, bulk oxygen greenhouse gas emissions and climate change strategies.
It is and waste-removal suppliers scope 3 emissions : and regarded as a global leader in capturing and analysing data non-Kyoto Protocol greenhouse gas emissions such as that record the business response to climate change, including Freon, which is used in air-conditioning and refrigerant management of risks and opportunities, absolute emissions equipment.
With the assistance of external consultants, levels, performance over time and governance.
Participation these emissions data were converted into a carbon and disclosure of the results are voluntary.
The project was dioxide equivalent CO e using recognised calculation 2 launched in South Africa in 2007 in partnership with the methods, emission factors and stating assumptions National Business Initiative, in which JSE-listed companies made, where relevant.
Mediclinic has participated in the project since 2008, initially only in respect of Mediclinic Southern The Groups main environmental impacts are the utilisation Africa.
Limited information on Mediclinic Middle East has of resources and waste which have a direct effect on also been included since 2010, although it still remains an carbon emissions.
Items listed in the aspect register relating initiative focusing mainly on Mediclinic Southern Africas data.
to regulatory compliance, healthcare risk waste, water, Mediclinics CDP reports can be obtained on the CDP website electricity, paper, hazardous waste and gases not only could at www.
net, with the most recent reports also available have a significant impact on the environment, but also informs on the Companys website at www.
strategy on climate change related risks and opportunities.
The operating divisions of the Group measure, with the The carbon emissions per division, reported per calendar SDR assistance of external consultants, its carbon footprint using year, are reported in the Sustainable Development Report, the GHG Protocol and includes, in varying degrees: as summarised in Figures 3 to 5. direct emissions, which in the healthcare industry will refer mainly to the emissions of anaesthetics gases scope 1 emissions : FIGURE 3: TOTAL CARBON EMISSIONS HIRSLANDEN PER CALENDAR YEAR 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Scope 1: Direct emissions 7 332 7 163 6 743 7 349 6 317 Scope 2: Indirect emissions from purchased electricity 365 419 389 389 837 Scope 3: Indirect emissions from supply chain, business travel and waste removal 5 102 102 84 n a TOTAL CO e tonnes 7 702 7 684 7 234 7 822 7154 2 CO e bed day kg 15 14 13 13 12 2 Intensity The scope 2 indirect emissions have risen due to the integration of Klinik Linde into the division.
Klinik Linde has been using so called grey electricity electricity from unknown sources.
This sort of electricity can be derived from nuclear energy or coal power stations.
In FY 2019 Klinik Linde will change its electricity supply to guarantee the whole division uses nuclear and fossil-free electricity.
MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 77 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT HIGHLIGHTS CONTINUED FIGURE 4: TOTAL CARBON EMISSIONS MEDICLINIC SOUTHERN AFRICA CDP 2017 CDP 2018 2016 2017 CDP 2014 CDP 2015 CDP 2016 CALENDAR CALENDAR ACTIVITY 2013 14 FY 2014 15 FY 2015 16 FY YEAR YEAR Scope 1: Direct emissions 21 869 22 999 23 841 24 687 24 193 Scope 2: Indirect emissions from purchased electricity 151 156 154 035 159 571 156 781 149 109 Scope 3: Indirect emissions from supply chain, business travel and waste removal 35 062 33 382 36 037 49 488 47 270 Non-Kyoto Protocol emissions 6 952 6 419 3 966 5 236 2 841 TOTAL CO e tonnes 215 039 216 834 223 415 236 192 223 413 2 CO e full time employee 13.567 13.326 13.273 14.026 13.680 2 CO e square meterage 0.335 0.320 0.313 0.299 0.274 2 CO e bed day kg 115 111 111 117 112 2 FIGURE 5: TOTAL CARBON EMISSIONS MEDICLINIC MIDDLE EAST CDP 2015 CDP 2016 CDP 2017 2014 15 FY 2015 16 FY 2016 17 FY Scope 1: Direct emissions 1 158 1 731 5 594 Scope 2: Indirect emissions from purchased electricity 12 038 12 148 19 892 Scope 3: Indirect emissions from supply chain, business travel and waste removal 4 449 3 464 4 722 Non-Kyoto Protocol emissions 726 621 3 476 TOTAL CO e tonnes 18 371 17 964 33 684 2 CO e bed day kg 246 226 220 2 Intensity Since the CDP 2017, the Mediclinic Middle East figures include the Al Noor business, whereas in previous years it only included the Dubai business, and therefore not directly comparable with that of previous years.
Energy efficiency Responsible water usage Electricity is the main contributor to our carbon footprint There are various measures in place to minimise water and all our divisions are taking steps to reduce their consumption: including reclaiming water, monitoring hot electricity consumption intensity through the adoption of water consumption and installing water meters and control ISO 14001 management standards, leading to improved sensors.
operational efficiency of technical installations, introduction In South Africa, the Western Cape region has experienced of various new energy-efficient and renewable technologies the worst drought in history, driven by a prevailing weak La and changes in staff behaviour regarding energy use.
This has resulted in water restrictions The direct and indirect energy consumption per division, and threat of water cuts in the Western Cape region.
The for the periods as specified therein, is reported in the threat of prolonged dry weather could last up to three years.
"78 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT HIGHLIGHTS The City of Cape Town has indicated a ""possible failure of dam systems in 2018"" if there is a below average winter rainfall."
Climate change predictions for the Western Cape indicate continued warming, drying and windier conditions going forward.
Water disruptions have increased in the last five years in South Africa and Namibia.
A Corporate Sustainable Water Management Strategy was developed in 2016 and implemented the same year.
The strategy includes actions to mitigate and address various risks associated with the water management crisis in Southern Africa, and especially the water crisis in the Western Cape.
Mediclinic Southern Africa actively engaged with public policy makers and other stakeholders in the Western Cape region, and also embarked on extensive employee and patient awareness campaigns on water conservation, which all contributed to the decline in water consumption during the year.
Recognising the divisions initiatives, Mediclinic South Africa received global A List status for water conservation by the prestigious CDP in 2017.
The total volume of water withdrawn from water utilities throughout the Group, for the periods as specified therein, is SDR reported in the Sustainable Development Report.
Safe waste and hazardous waste management Stringent protocols are followed to ensure that refuse removal within the Group complies with all legislation, regulations and by-laws.
The Group regards the handling of waste in an environmentally sound, legal and safe manner as its ethical, moral and professional duty.
During the reporting period, there were no incidents at the Groups facilities or offices leading to significant spills.
MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 79 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT HIGHLIGHTS CONTINUED MATERIAL ISSUE 3: BEING AN ETHICAL AND RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE CITIZEN HIGHLIGHTS Anonymous independent ethics lines at all operating divisions A three-year compliance monitoring programme was developed to enhance the existing compliance culture Hirslanden supports Mercy Ships, an international charity which operates the largest non-governmental hospital ship in the world Contributed R5m to the South African Department of Healths Public Health Enhancement Fund In partnership with the public health sector, Mediclinic Southern Africa performed over 100 pro bono procedures on public patients Group where ethical values are displayed on a day-to-day WHY THIS IS IMPORTANT TO THE basis.
It encourages staff to be vigilant and transparent for BUSINESS any suspicious or unethical behaviour.
These policies provide Governance and corporate social responsibility are integral clear guidelines and frameworks to assist in achieving set to Mediclinics approach to running a sustainable, long-term objectives, for example, compliance with applicable laws and business.
In line with the Groups vision of being preferred regulations.
The policies are communicated to all relevant locally and respected internationally, it: employees and where necessary training is provided.
The enhanced training and awareness of Group policies are enforces good corporate governance standards planned for the year ahead.
throughout the organisation: acts as a responsible corporate citizen: LINK TO GROUP STRATEGY builds constructive relationships with its local stakeholders: Although not directly linked to any particular Group strategic and priority, governance and corporate social responsibility acts as a valued member of the community in the regions are regarded as key enablers and the basis from which the where it operates.
The Group has entrenched a range of policies, processes and standards to support the Groups governance and KEY STAKEHOLDERS Corporate Social Investment CSI programmes and Suppliers provide a framework of the standards of business conduct Healthcare funders and ethics that are required of all operating divisions, Governments and authorities directors and employees within the Group, such as the Community Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Enterprise-wide Risk Management Policy, Fraud Risk Management Policy, RISKS TO THE BUSINESS Regulatory Compliance Policy and the Anti-bribery Policy.
Fines, prosecution or reputational damage Adherence to these policies is monitored through the various Inability to continue business due to legal and regulatory risk management and assurance initiatives implemented non-compliance or changes in regulatory environment throughout the Group.
Non-adherence to these policies is Financial and reputational damage caused by poor immediately highlighted as a corrective action and addressed governance and ethical practices and inadequate risk accordingly.
The Group risk management department management regularly monitors the status of these corrective actions.
Reputational damage at local community level due to inadequate community involvement These policies are intended to create a culture within the 80 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT HIGHLIGHTS KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS CALLS TO ETHICS LINES CONTRIBUTION TO CSI INITIATIVES 21 CHF2.3m Switzerland Switzerland 2017: 20 2017: CHF2.5m 97 R29.3m Southern Africa Southern Africa 2016: 202 2017: R27.5m 10 AED1.0m UAE UAE 2017: 6 2017: AED992 000 Six high-priority cases were reported to the Groups ethics lines during the year, all of which were investigated and closed.
TRANSFORMATION SOUTH AFRICA Percentage black 72.1% INVESTMENT IN CAPITAL PROJECTS 2017: 71.2% employees AND NEW EQUIPMENT OPERATING DIVISIONS 29.4% Percentage black 2017: 27.7% management Switzerland CHF47m employees 2017: CHF74m R423m Southern Africa 2017: R766m RISK MITIGATION Visible ethical leadership UAE AED358m Regular fraud and ethics feedback to management, the 2017: AED188m Board and relevant Board committees Ethics lines available to all employees and external parties, with reported incidents monitored and investigated INVESTMENT IN REPLACEMENT Established Group risk management and compliance OF EQUIPMENT AND PROPERTY department and internal audit function UPGRADES OPERATING DIVISIONS Compliance risks assessed as part of risk management CHF82m Switzerland process, with regular internal self-assessments, with 2017: CHF89m necessary advice and support by the company secretarial and legal departments R634m Southern Africa 2017: R515m Compliance consultant appointed to implement compliance framework and monitor compliance maturity AED31m UAE Monitoring of corporate social investment initiatives 2017: AED57m by senior management, with feedback to the Clinical Performance and Sustainability Committee EXPENDITURE ON REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE OPERATING DIVISIONS CHF40m Switzerland 2017: CHF37m Southern Africa R219m 2017: R275m AED42m UAE 2017: AED39m MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 81 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT HIGHLIGHTS CONTINUED POLICY, APPROACH AND Cost of healthcare PERFORMANCE The Group contributes in various ways to a sustainable healthcare system by, inter alia, focusing on efficiency and Ethics cost-effectiveness, conducting tariff negotiations in a fair The Groups commitment to ethical standards is set out in and transparent manner, expanding facilities based on need, the Groups values, and is supported by the Group Code and actively participating in healthcare reform.
of Business Conduct and Ethics the Code and AntiThe Group is focused on streamlining and centralising its bribery Policy, available on the Companys website.
The procurement processes to improve efficiency and costCode provides a framework for the standards of business effectiveness.
During the reporting period, good progress conduct and ethics that are required of all business divisions, was made on a range of international procurement initiatives directors and employees.
The Code is available to all staff including: and is included in new employee inductions.
the classification and matching of products used across The Group adopts a zero-tolerance policy to unethical all its operating divisions to compare prices and drive business conduct, including bribery, fraud and corruption.
procurement strategies: Any employee or external stakeholder is able to report better prices through pooling of capital equipment any wrongdoing throughout the Group on a confidential purchases across the three divisions: basis to the ethics lines.
All reports are dealt with in a volume bonus agreements with key capital equipment non-discriminatory manner and any person making use suppliers: and of the independent ethics lines has the option to remain direct importing and distribution of more cost-effective anonymous.
Any form of retaliation against an employee surgical and consumable products.
AR or other person making a report in good faith shall not be Refer to the Chief Executive Officers Review, Our Strategy, tolerated.
A dedicated ethics contact person per division is Progress and Aims, as well as the Divisional Reviews for available to deal with matters pertaining to the Code.
The initiatives to improve cost-effectiveness.
number of calls received through the Groups ethics lines AR is indicated on page 81.
All complaints are investigated in Supply chain management accordance with the Code.
Over the years, the majority of In order to deliver its services, Mediclinic is dependent on a calls were of a grievance nature.
Only in exceptional cases large and diverse range of suppliers, who form an integral has information been received that has led to the discovery part of the Groups ability to provide quality hospital care.
of unethical, corrupt or fraudulent behaviour.
Mediclinic believes in building long-term relationships with The Groups Anti-bribery Policy governs the granting and suitable suppliers and establishing a relationship of mutual acceptance of gifts, hospitality and entertainment, which trust and respect.
Regular meetings are held with suppliers will only be approved if it is acceptable business practice, to ensure continuity of service.
The Group relies on its there is a proper business case and no potential to adversely suppliers to deliver products and services of the highest affect Mediclinics reputation.
quality in line with Mediclinics standards.
Various other criteria play an important role in selecting suppliers, such as: The Groups Fraud Risk Management Policy facilitates the compliance with applicable international and local quality development of controls for the prevention of fraud and standards, price, compliance with appropriate specifications corruption.
Feedback on ethics and fraud is provided to the suited for the Groups markets, stability of the organisation Audit and Risk Committee at every meeting, with regular and the relevant equipment brand, good-quality and costfeedback to the Clinical Performance and Sustainability effective solutions, support network, technical advice and Committee.
Further details regarding the Groups management of these AR The availability of products and services is imperative in matters are included in the report on Risk Management, enabling the Group to deliver quality care to its patients, Principal Risks and Uncertainties and the Audit and Risk and therefore an important criterion in its supplier selection Committee Report.
Though not always the case, this often leads to local suppliers being preferred, which adds to better and faster service delivery and knowledge of local laws and regulations, particularly with regard to pharmaceutical products.
82 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT HIGHLIGHTS line with country-specific legislation.
There were no material Maintain high-quality healthcare information security or data privacy incidents reported infrastructure during the year under review.
To ensure a safe and user-friendly environment for both its The Group ICT Steering Committee is supported by the patients and employees, the Group strives to provide highGroups Information Security Architecture Committee, quality healthcare facilities and technology, focusing on consisting of the information security officers of the capital investments, maintenance of facilities and optimal Group and the operating divisions.
The proceedings of use of facilities.
As a result, the Group continuously invests in this committee are informed by information security capital projects and new equipment to expand and refurbish best practices sourced from Gartner, ISACA, CoBIT 5, its facilities and the replacement of existing equipment, as AR ITIL, ISO27001 and the South African King IV Report on well as on the repair and maintenance of existing property Corporate Governance.
and equipment refer to figures on page 81 and to the Chief Executive Officers Review, the Divisional Reviews and Our Further details on the Groups ICT investments are included AR Strategy, Progress and Aims.
in the Chief Executive Officers Review included in the Annual Report.
Hospitals are high-risk environments in which complex treatment processes are executed using sophisticated Support of external training equipment and techniques.
The process of external institutions accreditation ensures that international standards are adhered to in all aspects of hospital operations.
For more details on The Group is committed to educational development within CSR accreditation, please refer to the Clinical Services Report, all three of its operating divisions and provides financial available on the Companys website at www.
and other necessary support towards advancing healthcare education.
Information security Respecting human rights Mediclinic is committed to conducting its business in accordance with all applicable data protection laws as may The Group is committed to conducting its business in a apply from time to time in the various operating divisions.
manner that respects and promotes the human rights Maintaining and respecting the privacy of our employees, and dignity of all those within its sphere of influence and directors, patients, affiliated doctors, suppliers and avoids involvement in human rights abuses throughout its stakeholders remains a priority.
Mediclinic has reaffirmed its operations and relationships.
This commitment is entrenched commitment to protect the personal data of its stakeholders in the Groups Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which by embarking on a group-wide data privacy project to align is further supported by the Groups commitment to: and ensure compliance with relevant data protection laws, avoid and not contribute to any indirect adverse human as may be applicable in the various countries of operation, rights impacts that are directly linked to the Groups including the European Unions General Data Protection operations or services by its suppliers or other business Regulation GDPR, widely regarded as the gold standard relations: for data protection.
The Group Privacy and Data Protection respect patients rights, including but not limited to Policy has been aligned to the GDPR standards and various privacy, confidentiality, dignity, no discrimination, full initiatives are underway to ensure that core components information on health status and treatment, a second are legally compliant by 25 May 2018, which is the date the opinion, access to medical records, self-determination GDPR will come into effect.
The project will be rolled out to and participation, refusal of treatment and the right to the rest of the Group thereafter while ensuring that other complain: applicable data protection laws are also complied with.
value diversity and equal opportunities for all in the Information security policies and controls are in place workplace: and throughout the Group regulating, inter alia, the processing, not tolerate any form of unfair discrimination, such as use and protection of own, personal and third-party access to employment, career development, training information.
This is further entrenched through ongoing user or working conditions, based on gender, age, religion, training, security awareness programmes and certification nationality, race ethnic origin, language, HIV AIDS status, courses in information security.
Flows of personal data across family status, disability, sexual orientation or other form country borders are dealt through formal arrangements in of differentiation.
MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 83 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT HIGHLIGHTS CONTINUED rigorous and comprehensive review of its transformation Modern slavery and human traffi cking strategy.
A review of the current structure and content of The Mediclinic modern slavery and human traffi cking diversity management interventions throughout the company statement, which is available on the Company website at is underway.
This process will yield a more structured www.
com, sets out the steps Mediclinic has approach and an important outcome would be an engaged taken to prevent any form of modern slavery and human workforce wherein inclusivity is the ultimate goal.
traffi cking, which includes any direct form of forced labour or child labour in its business, or indirectly through its supply Mediclinic Southern Africas new fi five-year employment chain.
During the year, Mediclinic has developed additional equity plan was submitted to the Department of Labour in steps to strengthen its position in monitoring slavery and November 2017.
The summarised employment equity report SDR human traffi cking activities, in order to ensure that it is not EEA2 is included in the Sustainable Development Report.
taking place in its supply chains.
The number of black employees increased year-on-year from Diversity 71.2% to 72.1% of total employees: and black management representation increased from 11% in 2006 to 29.4% in The Group values diversity and provides equal opportunities 2018 2017: 27.7%, based on Mediclinic Southern Africas in the workplace, a matter which has received signifi cant employment equity report referred to earlier.
focus by the Nomination Committee during the year.
The diversity representation by race, gender and age of the Corporate social investment CSI Groups most senior governing bodies, as well as direct reports to members of those governing bodies, are provided The Group contributes to the well-being of the communities AR in the Nomination Committee Report and the Corporate within which it operates by investing in ongoing initiatives Governance Statement in the Annual Report.
Please also that address socio-economic problems or risks, and it SDR refer to the Sustainable Development Report for further has established itself as an integral member of these information in this regard.
communities, enriching the lives of many communities throughout Southern Africa, Switzerland and the UAE.
Broad-based black economic empowerment B-BBEE South Africa The Groups CSI activities are structured around the improvement of healthcare through training and education, Mediclinic Southern Africa forms an integral part of the sponsorships, donations, staff volunteerism, public private political, social and economic community in South Africa initiatives and joint ventures.
Many of the Groups initiatives and is committed to sustainable transformation as part of relate to providing training and to the fi financial support of its business strategy.
Mediclinic Southern Africas Executive training.
Due to the socio-economic conditions in Southern Committee is responsible for ensuring that the appropriate Africa, the majority of the Groups CSI contributions are by focus is placed on the companys commitment to the Mediclinic Southern Africa.
development and implementation of sustainable B-BBEE AR initiatives.
Mediclinic Southern Africa has embarked on a The CSI spend per division is provided on page 81.
84 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION The Board and management team of Mediclinic are committed to maintaining strict principles of corporate governance and the highest standards of integrity and ethics, which is embedded in our corporate culture and values.
Our corporate governance structures support the eff ective delivery of Mediclinics strategy and are focused on building and maintaining a sustainable business and supporting our commitment to be a responsible corporate citizen in every country and community in which the Group operates.
In the Corporate Governance Statement that follows, feedback is given on the governance framework, Board meetings and the principal activities of the Board, the composition and diversity of the Board and measures to ensure the Boards accountability to our wider stakeholders.
Every director demonstrated their commitment to Mediclinic throughout the year, through their meeting attendance and the high quality of their contributions at those meetings.
An external evaluation of the Board was conducted during the year by Lintstock, the outcome of which is detailed herein.
With the announcement of the appointment of Dr Ronnie van der Merwe as CEO successor to Mr Danie Meintjes from 1 June2018, and the appointment of Dr Muhadditha Al Hashimi and Dr Felicity Harvey as independent non-executive directors during 2017, the Nomination Committee and the Board continue to demonstrate their commitment to succession planning and targeting diverse pools of talent from which to recruit the right individuals.
Further, as referred to in AR my statement on pages 6 to 9, the continued involvement of Mr Meintjes as a non-executive director from 1 August2018 is considered by the Board to be in the best interests of the Group, its shareholders and other stakeholders in view of the wealth of knowledge and experience he has in diff erent capacities gained over 30 years at Mediclinic.
GOVERNANCE The key elements of our governance structures include: managing our business in a sustainable manner: ensuring AND good clinical outcomes and quality healthcare: upholding strict principles of corporate governance, integrity REMUNERATION and ethics: maintaining eff ective risk management and internal controls: engaging with our stakeholders and responding to their reasonable expectations: and off ering our employees competitive remuneration packages based on the principles of fairness and aff ordability.
CSR further details of which are included in this Annual Report, as well SDR as the Clinical Services Report and the Sustainable Development Report available on the Companys website at www.
I remain confi dent that the Board, supported by an eff ective management team and an eff ective governance structure, is well placed to continue to drive longterm value for stakeholders and maintaining Mediclinics leading position in the international healthcare market.
Dr Edwin Hertzog Non-executive Chairman MEDICLINIC MEDICLINIC MEDICLINIC | ANNU | ANNUAL REPOR AL REPORT 20 T 2018 18 85 85 BOARD OF DIRECTORS The committee memberships of the directors provided herein are as at the Last Practicable Date, being Wednesday, 23 May 2018.
DR EDWIN HERTZOG MR DANIE MEINTJES MR JURGENS MYBURGH Non-executive Chairman Chief Executive Offi cer Chief Financial Offi cer Nationality: South African Nationality: South African Nationality: South African Committee memberships: Clinical Performance Committee memberships: Clinical Performance Committee membership: Investment Committee and Sustainability Committee, Investment and Sustainability Committee, Investment Mr Jurgens Myburgh was appointed as an Committee Chair, Nomination Committee Committee executive director and Chief Financial Offi cer of Chair Mr Danie Meintjes was appointed as an executive the Company on 1 August 2016.
Prior to joining director and Chief Executive Offi cer of the Dr Edwin Hertzog was appointed as the the Mediclinic Group, he served as Chief Financial Company on 15 February 2016.
Prior to the non-executive Chairman of the Company on Offi cer at Datatec Limited, an international combination of the businesses of the Company 15 February 2016.
Prior to the combination information and communications technology then Al Noor Hospitals Group plc and Mediclinic of the businesses of the Company then group, which operates in over 60 countries, and International Limited in 2016, he served as the Al Noor Hospitals Group plc and Mediclinic before that, worked at The Standard Bank of Chief Executive Offi cer of Mediclinic International International Limited in 2016, he served as a South Africa Limited as Executive Vice President Limited from 2010.
He has served in various director of Mediclinic International Limited of Investment Banking.
management positions in the Remgro group, from 1983 and as the Chairman from 1992.
As Quali cations: Mr Myburgh holds an Honours before joining the Mediclinic Group in 1985 as the a specialist anaesthetist, he was commissioned degree in Accounting from the University of hospital manager of Mediclinic Sandton.
He was by the then Rembrandt group now Remgro Johannesburg B. Comm.
Hons : and is a appointed as a member of Mediclinics Executive in 1983 to undertake a feasibility study on the quali ed Chartered Accountant with the South Committee in 1995 and as a director in 1996.
He establishment of a private hospital group, and African Institute of Chartered Accountants.
was seconded to serve as a senior executive three years later, in 1986, Mediclinic International of the Groups operations in Dubai in 2006, Limited then Medi-Clinic Corporation Limited and appointed as the Chief Executive Offi cer was listed on the JSE.
He was appointed as the of Mediclinic Middle East in 2007.
He serves as fi first managing director of Mediclinic International a non-executive director of Spire Healthcare Limited upon its establishment in 1983.
He Group plc from 2015, from which position he served as executive Chairman of Mediclinic from will retire on 24 May 2018.
He will retire from his 1992 until August 2012 when he retired from position as Chief Executive Offi cer on 1 June 2018 his executive role, but remained on the Board and, subject to re-election as a director of the as non-executive Chairman.
He also serves as Company at the AGM, will continue to serve as an the non-executive deputy Chairman of Remgro executive director until 31 July 2018 and as a nonand is a past Chairman of the council of the executive director with eff ect from 1 August 2018.
Quali cations: Mr Meintjes holds an Honours Quali cations: Dr Hertzog holds a Bachelor of degree in Industrial Psychology from the Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery MB, ChB : a University of the Free State: and completed the Fellowship of the Faculty of Anaesthesiologists Advanced Management Program at Harvard SA and a Doctor of Philosophy Ph.
Dr Hertzogs non-executive directorship of Remgro, as reported above, constitutes his other signifi cant commitments for the purposes of Provision B.
3.1 of the UK Corporate GovernanceCode.
86 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS MR DESMOND SMITH DR MUHADDITHA AL HASHIMI MR JANNIE DURAND Senior Independent Director Independent Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Nationality: South African Nationality: Emirati Nationality: South African Committee memberships: Audit and Risk Committee membership: Clinical Performance Committee Memberships: Investment Committee Chair, Nomination Committee and Sustainability Committee Committee, Nomination Committee Mr Desmond Smith was appointed as an Dr Muhadditah Al Hashimi was appointed as Mr Jannie Durand was appointed as a independent non-executive director of the an independent non-executive director of the non-executive director of the Company on Company on 15 February 2016.
Prior to the Company on 1 November 2017.
Prior to the combination of combination of the businesses of the Company member of the board of trustees and the Audit the businesses of the Company then Al Noor then Al Noor Hospitals Group plc and Mediclinic and Compliance Committee of the University of Hospitals Group plc and Mediclinic International International Limited in 2016, he served as an Sharjah, and a member of the board of trustees Limited in 2016, he served as a non-executive independent non-executive director of Mediclinic of the UAE Nursing and Midwifery Council and director of Mediclinic International Limited from International Limited from 2008 and as the lead the UAE Genetics Diseases Association.
He joined the Rembrandt group in 1996 and independent director from 2010.
He was the is the campus director of Higher Colleges of was appointed as the Chief Executive Offi cer of Chief Executive Offi cer of the Sanlam Group Technology Sharjah Women's College in the UAE.
Remgro Limited in 2012, which holds a 44.56% from April 1993 to December 1997 and of the Prior to her current positions, Dr Al Hashimi held interest in the Company.
In his current role, with Reinsurance Group of America South Africa the position of executive Dean of the Faculty of more than 20 years experience in the investment RGA SA from March 1999 to March 2005.
Health Sciences, Higher Colleges of Technology: industry, he acts as a non-executive director He is currently Chairman of RGA SA and retired acting deputy vice-chancellor of Academic of various companies, including Distell Group as Chairman of Sanlam Group in June 2017.
Aff airs at the Higher Colleges of Technology: Limited, FirstRand Limited, RCL Foods Limited During his career, he has served on various boards Chief Executive Offi cer of the Mohammed Bin and RMI Holdings Limited.
and was president of both the Actuarial Society Rashid Al Maktoum Academic Medical Center in Quali cations: Mr Durand holds an Honours of South Africa 1996 and the International Dubai: Deputy Chief Executive Offi cer of Tatweer degree in Accountancy from the University Actuarial Association 2012.
LLC: Chief Executive Offi cer of Dubai Healthcare of Stellenbosch B. Acc.
Hons : a Masters City both members of Dubai Holding : and a Quali cations: Mr Smith holds a Bachelor of Philosophy in Management Studies from director of education of the Harvard Medical of Science B. Sc.
degree: is a fellow of Oxford University M. Phil.
the Actuarial Society of South Africa: and Studies : and is a quali ed Chartered completed an International Senior Managers Quali cations: Dr Al Hashimi obtained a Accountant with the South African Institute Program at Harvard Business School.
Doctorate in Public Health from the University of Chartered Accountants.
of Texas: a Master's degree in Clinical Mr Pieter Uys, the Head of Strategic Investment Laboratory Sciences from the University of at Remgro Limited, is appointed as the alternate Minnesota: and a Bachelor's degree in Medical to Mr Durand since 7 April 2016.
Prior to joining Technology from the University of Minnesota.
Remgro, Mr Uys was a founding member and ultimately became the Chief Executive Offi cer of the Vodacom group, one of the leading mobile networks in Africa.
Quali cations: Mr Uys holds an M. Eng.
Electrical degree: and an MBA from the University of Stellenbosch.
MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 87 BOARD OF DIRECTORS CONTINUED MR ALAN GRIEVE DR FELICITY HARVEY CBE MR SEAMUS KEATING Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Nationality: British Nationality: British Nationality: Irish Committee memberships: Audit and Risk Committee membership: Clinical Performance Committee memberships: Audit and Committee, Investment Committee and Sustainability Committee Chair Risk Committee, Investment Committee, Remuneration Committee Mr Alan Grieve was appointed as an independent Dr Felicity Harvey was appointed as an non-executive director of the Company on independent non-executive director of the Mr Seamus Keating was appointed as an 15 February 2016.
Prior to the combination of Company on 3 October 2017.
She serves as independent non-executive director of the the businesses of the Company then Al Noor a Visiting Professor at the Institute of Global Company then Al Noor Hospitals Group plc on Hospitals Group plc and Mediclinic International Health Innovation at Imperial College London: 5 June 2013 and continues to serve as a director Limited in 2016, he served as an independent is a non-executive director of Guy's and of the Company following the combination of non-executive director of Mediclinic International St Thomas' NHS Foundation Trust in London: the businesses of the Company then Al Noor Limited from 2012 and served as a director of a Trustee of Royal Trinity Hospice in London: Hospitals Group plc and Mediclinic International Medi-Clinic Switzerland AG now Hirslanden AG and a member of the WHO Independent Limited in 2016.
He has over 20 years experience from 2008 to 2012.
He served as Chief Financial Oversight & Advisory Committee for Health in the global technology sector in fi finance and Offi cer of Reinet Investments Manager S. A. Emergencies.
Previously, she served as Directoroperational roles, and was a main board director and Reinet Fund Manager S. A. from 2008 to General of Public and International Health at the of Logica plc from 2002 until April 2012.
He was 2011 and Chief Executive Offi cer from 2012 until UK Department of Health: Director of the UK Chief Financial Offi cer of Logica plc from 2002 he retired in 2014.
He remains on the Board of Prime Minister's Delivery Unit, then HM Treasurys until 2010 when he became Chief Operating both companies as a non-executive director.
He Performance and Reform Unit: Head of the Offi cer and head of its Benelux operations.
Prior served as Company Secretary of Richemont, Medicines, Pharmacy and Industry Group at to his role at Logica plc, he worked for the Olivetti the Swiss luxury goods group, from 1998 the Department of Health: Director of Prison Group in senior fi finance roles in the UK and Italy.
to 2004 and as Director of Corporate Aff airs Health at Her Majesty's Prison Service: Head He served as non-executive director and Chairman from 2004 to 2014.
Prior to joining Richemonts of Quality Management at NHS Executive and of the audit committee of Mouchel plc from predecessor companies in 1986, he worked with private secretary to the Chief Medical Offi cer of November 2010 to September 2012.
He is currently the international auditing fi rms now known as the Department of Health of the United Kingdom.
Chairman of First Derivatives plc, a non-executive  and Ernst & Young.
Dr Harvey was appointed CBE in 2008. director of BGL Group Limited, a non-executive director of Callcredit Information Group plc and a Quali cations: Mr Grieve holds a degree in Quali cations: Dr Harvey quali ed in medicine non-executive director of Mi-pay Group plc.
Business Administration from Heriot-Watt in 1980: is an honorary fellow of the Royal University, Edinburgh: and is a member of the College of Physicians: a fellow of the Faculty Quali cations: Mr Keating is a fellow of Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
of Public Health: has an international MBA from the Chartered Institute of Management Henley Management College: and has gained Accountants.
a Postgraduate Diploma in Clinical Microbiology at The Royal London Hospital College, University of London.
