Our core markets At a glance We deliver innovative solutions for the most demanding environments.
Our critical technology, products and services are relied upon by Aerospace customers worldwide.
Through engineering expertise, we take the world further.
Civil aerospace accounts for 54% of Group revenue, with products and subsystems installed on almost every jet airliner, regional aircraft and business jet in service.
See more on page 26 Defence Trusted by defence forces worldwide Defence accounts for 35% of Group revenue.
We have equipment on an installed base of around 22,000 fixed wing and rotary aircraft and a significant number of ground vehicles and training applications.
See more on page 28 High performance culture HPC training, known as unfreezing, is about building and nurturing a high performance culture, where high levels of employee engagement enable us to accelerate strategy execution.
Sarah Morris HPC Facilitator Energy Keeping the lights on Energy and other revenue comes from a variety of industries including power generation, oil and gas, and medical and accounted for 11% of Group revenue.
See more on page 29 Meggitt PLC 04 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Revenue by market Our divisions In 2019, the Group will transition from six capability based divisions to four vertically integrated customer aligned divisions.
See more on page 40 Market Revenue by market Civil OE 22% Civil AM 32% Defence 35% Energy & Other 11% Revenue by destination Meggitt Aircraft Meggitt Control Braking Systems MABS Systems MCS One of the worlds top providers of Market leading provider of aircraft wheels, brakes and brake control fire protection, thermal management systems to civil and defence aircraft systems and fluid control components manufacturers, airline and charter and subsystems for aerospace and operators and distributors and energy applications.
28% 18% Percentage of revenue Percentage of revenue Market Revenue by market UK 8% US 59% See more on page 30 See more on page 32 Rest of Europe 19% Rest of World 14% Meggitt Polymers & Meggitt Sensing Systems MSS Composites MPC A leading specialist in fuel containment for Provides high performance sensing and defence platforms, aircraft sealing solutions conditionmonitoring systems for aero and advanced engine composite and industrial turbines, aircraft power management and storage technology, components.
wireless safety systems, realtime remote aircraft surveillance and anticollision equipment.
19% Percentage of revenue 24% Percentage of revenue See more on page 34 See more on page 36 Meggitt Equipment Group MEG Specialises in livefire and virtual small arms weapons training, defence equipment ranging from electronics cooling to ammunition handling systems and heat transfer equipment for offshore oil and gas facilities.
11% Percentage of revenue See more on page 38 Meggitt PLC 05 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
