STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AT A GLANCE AT A GLANCE UNITED ARAB EMIRATES WHO WE ARE HIRSLANDEN Find out more about our UAE Mediclinic is an international private healthcare services group, AR operations from page 60.
Hirslanden AG, a company registered in Switzerland, is established in South Africa in 1983, with current operating the holding company of the Groups operating division divisions in Switzerland, Southern Africa South Africa and in Switzerland, trading under the Hirslanden brand.
Namibia and the United Arab Emirates.
Hirslanden AG is an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company.
Our core purpose is to enhance the quality of life of patients by providing acute care, , multi-disciplinary Hirslanden operates 17 acute care private hospitals with UNITED KINGDOM healthcare services.
29.9% investment in Spire Healthcare AR Permanent employees: 9 635 The Companys primary listing is on the LSE in the United Group plc.
Full-time equivalents: 7 633 Kingdom, with secondary listings on the JSE in South Africa and the NSX in Namibia.
The Groups registered offi ce is in For more information, please visit: www.
SWITZERLAND Mediclinic also holds a 29.9% interest in Spire Healthcare MEDICLINIC SOUTHERN AFRICA Find out more about our Swiss Group plc, a leading UK-based private healthcare group AR listed on the LSE.
Mediclinic Southern Africa Pty Ltd, a company SOUTHERN AFRICA registered in South Africa, is the holding company of Find out more about our Southern OUR CULTURE the Groups operating division in Southern Africa South AR African operations from page 56.
Africa and Namibia, trading under the Mediclinic brand.
Mediclinic is committed to conducting our business with Mediclinic Southern Africa Pty Ltd is an indirect whollyhonesty and integrity.
Our Code of Business Conduct and owned subsidiary of the Company.
Most of its operating Ethics and core values represent the basic beliefs to which subsidiary companies have external doctor shareholding.
Mediclinic Southern Africa operates 49 acute care private hospitals and 2 day clinics in South Africa and Client orientation three hospitals in Namibia, with 8 131 beds in total.
Team approach PATIENT EXPERIENCE Through its wholly-owned subsidiaries, MHR and ER24 HOSPITALS 75 Mutual trust and respect it off ers related services in healthcare recruitment and Switzerland 17 87.7% Performance driven emergency transportation services, respectively.
Switzerland Southern Africa 52 Permanent employees: 16 068 Mediclinic takes a sustainable, long-term approach to Southern Africa 82.1% UAE 6 Full-time equivalents: 19 795 which include business, putting patients at the heart of its operations and 3 792 agency staff UAE 83.3% consistently delivering high-quality healthcare services.
For more information, please visit: In order to deliver on these priorities, the Group upholds AR www.
co. za CLINICS 28 the highest standards of clinical governance and ethical Refer to page 14 for more.
co. za behaviour across its divisions, invests signifi cant time and Switzerland 4 www.
co. za resources in recruiting and retaining skilled staff, makes Southern Africa 2 considerable investment into its facilities and equipment and UAE 22 CONTROLLABLE MEDICLINIC MIDDLE EAST respects the communities and environment in the areas in EMPLOYEE TURNOVER which it operates.
Mediclinic Middle East operates 6 acute care private 8.7% Switzerland hospitals and 22 clinics mainly in Abu Dhabi and Dubai, We value diversity and provide equal opportunities for all INPATIENT BEDS 10 684 UAE with 748 beds.
in the workplace and do not tolerate any form of unfair Southern Africa 7.7% Switzerland 1 805 discrimination.
The Groups operating division in the UAE operates mainly Southern Africa 8 131 UAE 10.3% in Dubai and Abu Dhabi, trading under the Mediclinic brand.
Mediclinic recognises its accountability to its stakeholders UAE 748 Emirates Healthcare Holdings Limited BVI, a company and is committed to eff ective and regular engagement AR registered in the British Virgin Islands, is the intermediary Refer to pages 71 and 72 for more.
with them, which is fundamental in maintaining Mediclinics holding company of the divisions operations in Dubai: and Al Noor Golden Commercial LLC, a company registered corporate reputation as a trusted and respected provider THEATRES 411 in the UAE, is the intermediary holding company of the of healthcare services and positioning itself as a leading divisions operations in Abu Dhabi.
Switzerland 104 international private healthcare group.
The Group EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT Southern Africa 278 Permanent employees: 5 801 iscommitted to conducting its business in a manner that maximum score of 5 Full-time equivalents: 5 830 UAE 29 respects and promotes the human rights and dignity of Switzerland 3.93 all those within our sphere of infl uence throughout our For more information, please visit: operations and relationships.
ae 3.85 Southern Africa AR EMPLOYEES 31 504 Refer to the Investments in Subsidiaries, Associates and Joint UAE 3.86 Switzerland 9 635 Ventures annexed to the consolidated annual fi financial statements for more information on the Groups ownership structure.
Southern Africa 16 068 AR Refer to page 74 for more.
UAE 5 801 10 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 11 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION BUSINESS MODEL BUSINESS MODEL PURPOSE DRIVEN OUR ASSETS AND RESOURCES OUR STRATEGY TO DELIVER VALUE Our business model is focused on our core purpose: Strong financial position Strategic objectives Key strategic enablers Mediclinic has a strong financial profile, underpinned by an extensive TO ENHANCE THE Putting Patients First property portfolio.
The Group has good access to capital, a disciplined QUALITY OF LIFE OF Patients are at the core of everything we do at Mediclinic.
capital allocation approach and invests for growth.
AR Invest in employees PATIENTS We strive to deliver superior clinical performance See the Financial Review for more information.
through efficient structures, processes, and outcomes, in by providing acute care, specialistaccordance with the Group clinical performance model.
Invest in information and Facilities and technology orientated, multi-disciplinary healthcare communications technology Improving efficiencies We provide high-quality healthcare facilities and technology, with services.
continuous investments in new technology and to expand and maintain We strive to use our combined international capacity existing facilities.
OUR VISION and effective collaboration to achieve Group efficiencies AR Invest in analytics See the Financial Review and the Chief Executive Officers Review through the principles of simplification, standardisation for more information.
TO BE PREFERRED and centralisation.
AR LOCALLY AND See Our Strategy, Progress and Aims for Continuing to grow RESPECTED Engaged employees more information.
Mediclinic has a track record of investing in carefully INTERNATIONALLY The Group employs over 31 500 employees across its three divisions.
selected capital projects that deliver satisfactory returns We value our employees by following fair labour practices and offering Risk management and has demonstrated the ability to integrate and extract WE WILL BE PREFERRED competitive remuneration, training and development opportunities.
The LOCALLY FOR: value from acquisitions and expansions of existing facilities.
Group overall employee engagement grand mean score increased from The Group has established an integrated andeffective 3.81 in the previous year to 3.88 in November 2017. risk management framework where importantand delivering excellent patient care: Adapt to changing business environment emerging risks are identified, assessed andmanaged, During the year, 1293m 2017: 1 231m was paid to employees ensuring aligned relationships with We strive to minimise risk to the business by positioning as remuneration and other benefits.
Continuous investment in the which are aligned to and supports the Group strategy.
doctor communities: the Group to effectively respond to changes in the business AR training and development of staff creates a highly trained workforce See the Risk Management, Principal Risks and environment.
being an employer of choice, and talent pipeline.
AR Uncertainties for more information.
appointing and retaining See the Sustainable Development Highlights for more information.
competent staff: building constructive relationships Operational expertise with all stakeholders: and Mediclinic has an experienced Board and management team.
The continued growth of Mediclinic is testament to their ability toexecute being a valued member of the the Groups strategy.
The expertise of the Groups clinical staffis a critical WHAT WE DELIVER community.
element of its business, allowing it to provide qualityhealthcare services.
WE WILL BE RESPECTED Deep operational expertise delivers a seamless patientexperience, INTERNATIONALLY FOR: underpinned by high-quality nursing care.
MEDICLINICS AR Quality healthcare services delivering measurable quality See the Chief Executive Officers Review and Clinical Services During the year, the clinical performance was satisfactory BUSINESS MODEL clinical outcomes: Overview for more information.
across all operating divisions, and several patient safety continuing to grow as a successful HAS RESULTED and clinical effectiveness indicators showed improvement.
international healthcare group: Sound relationships In addition, many initiatives in support of clinical IN THE DELIVERY enforcing good corporate Mediclinic has excellent relationships with key stakeholders, regularly performance and quality improvement were launched and governance: and engaging with employees, funders, patients, supporting doctors, completed during the year.
OF QUALITY AR suppliers, governments and communities.
It has a proven commitment acting as a responsible corporate See the Clinical Services Overview for more information.
to ensure a high standard of ethics, social responsibility, accountability, HEALTHCARE citizen.
AR Shareholder value SERVICES AND See the Corporate Governance Statement and the Sustainable SDR We deliver value to shareholders through growth in Development Report available on the Companys website for more Our relentless focus on patient GENERALLY capitalisation and shareholders returns, with the balance information.
needs will create long-term of funds retained for investment in profitable growth A BUSINESS shareholder value and establish opportunities.
Responsible environmental management Mediclinic International as a leader THAT SUSTAINS A focus on disciplined cost management and improving The Group is committed to efficient energy use in all its hospitals and in the global healthcare industry.
efficiencies has delivered a strong track record of cash continuously strives to reduce its water consumption and carbon GROWTH flow generation, with a total dividend to shareholders of emissions, with an increasing number of its hospitals certified to the 7.90 pence per share.
AND CREATES AR AR See the Sustainable Development Highlights for more information.
See the Financial Review for more information.
12 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 13
