Mitchells & Butlers at a glance Brands for all occasions If youre looking for a drink or a bite to eat youll find a Mitchells & Butlers brand thats perfect for you.
We operate restaurants, bars and pubs all over the UK and Germany and work hard to offer our customers a great choice of quality food and drink, fast and friendly service and excellent value for money.
Our success is based on innovation, listening to customer feedback and ensuring our passionate staff are the best trained in the industry.
Alex 41 sites All Bar One 56 sites Browns 25 sites If youre out in a German city centre, From cocktails to a well-chosen bottle of wine Since the first Browns opened in 1973, these classic bars are the perfect places or an excellent meal, youll find something its been providing delicious food and drink to stop for a beer and a bite to eat.
to suit you in our stylish city bars.
and superb service in beautiful surroundings.
Castle 113 sites Ember Inns 148 sites Harvester 194 sites If you like a place with real personality, Relaxed and welcoming suburban pubs.
A welcoming place for families to spend pull up a chair in one of our urban pubs We serve the best cask ales and classic pub time together, have fun and share the serving the best draught beer and great food.
food with a twist, in stylish environments.
pleasure of good, honest food.
{ High Street 81 sites Miller & Carter 105 sites Nicholsons 77 sites Our High Street pubs are the perfect place We put everything into pursuing the You can really relax at these traditional city for decent food and quality beer and at perfect steak at Miller & Carter so only and town centre pubs that have been loved prices that put other pubs to shame.
the finest cuts make it to your plate.
since our first pub opened in 1873.
ONeills 32 sites Premium Country Pubs 127 sites Stonehouse 106 sites Bars where you really feel at home Our traditional pubs have been stylishly Alongside our traditional carvery, we serve whether for a few rounds with mates refurbished to make them the perfect place up handmade pizzas made with fresh dough: or a spot of lunch with colleagues.
to find a cosy corner and take time out.
as well as burgers and pub classics at a great price.
Suburban 238 sites Toby Carvery 158 sites Vintage Inns 186 sites What unites these pubs is unbeatable value We lay on a feast of tender, slow-cooked We manage some of the best country pubs for money, generosity, and big-hearted service.
meats, eight lots of veg including crispy, in the UK, all offering modern pub food Many of these pubs are Sizzling Pub and Grills.
ruffled roasties and all the trimmings.
12 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 45 GOVERNANCE 46TO91 FINANCIALSTATEMENTS 92TO147 OTHERINFORMATION 148TO152 A diverse portfolio of brands Premium Browns Miller & Carter Premium Country Pubs Castle All Bar One Alex Nicholsons Vintage Inns ONeills Drink led Food led Harvester Ember Inns Toby Carvery Suburban Stonehouse High Street Value Annual report and accounts 2018 Mitchells & Butlers plc 13
