At a glance Everything your pet needs for a happy and healthy life Specialist Referral Centres Standalone vet Veterinary Specialist Referral Centres practices Pets at Home Group Plc 2 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Overview Business model Page 12 Services We provide veterinary services through Specialist our network of First Opinion practices and Referral Centres Specialist Referral Centres.
Our First Opinion First Opinion practices The Groom Room practices are operated mainly under the Our network of First Opinion small Our dog and cat grooming salons, Vets4Pets brand and are situated in stores animal veterinary practices operates located predominantly in stores.
Our Referral in conjunction with our Joint Venture centres provide highly specialist services Partners.
This arrangement, operating to vets working in our own and in other mainly under the Vets4Pets brand, First Opinion practices.
309 offers clinical freedom to veterinary Grooming services are provided primarily Grooming salons surgeons, supported by our business from salons within our retail stores.
Practices are located within Pets at Home stores and Standalone vet Veterinary Specialist in standalone locations.
Services revenue m Referral Centres practices 461 First Opinion practices Specialist Referral Centres 133.5m Our specialist centres represent the cutting edge of veterinary care.
They provide medicine and surgery for the most complex cases, including orthopaedic surgery, neurosurgery, oncology and state of the art diagnostic imaging.
4 Referral centres Merchandise Pet products are available both online or from our stores, where our well-trained colleagues provide advice on areas such as Click and collect in-store Product not in-store?
pet nutrition and the set-up of home aquaria.
Our extended range of food Order with our experts and accessories is available for on their PetPads customers to shop online and Merchandise revenue m Colleagues can order from our have their order delivered to store.
extended range using a dedicated PetPad app.
The PetPad is also set up for subscription orders of licensed flea prevention products.
11,700 products in our extended 765.4m online range Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 3
