POLYPIPE AT A GLANCE Placing the management of water and the healthy ventilation of buildings at the heart of its strategy, Polypipe is able to provide solutions to some of the most pressing environmental challenges in construction projects.
Polypipes focus on the management and movement of water and air has influenced the development of Polypipes range of systems, enabling the Group to offer products and systems that help to contribute to a safer, healthier, and more resilient built environment.
By investing in its facilities, staff and product development, Polypipe is uniquely placed to help an increasingly broad customer base tackle the many complex questions that the trends of climate change and urbanisation pose.
This approach sees Polypipe continue to maintain its position as an industry leader within the built environment and construction sectors in the UK and beyond.
Our divisions We operate through our two divisions: Residential Systems Commercial and Infrastructure Systems REVENUE REVENUE 245.3m 187.9m UNDERLYING UNDERLYING OPERATING PROFIT OPERATING PROFIT 46.3m 27.7m AREAS OF APPLICATION AREAS OF APPLICATION } Above and below- } Mechanical Ventilation } Above-ground drainage } Air Handling Units ground drainage with Heat Recovery } Surfacewater drainage } Ventilation solutions } Positive Input Ventilation with heat recovery } Stormwater drainage } Stormwater drainage } Sewer drain } Indoor air quality } Indoor air quality } Land drainage and solutions solutions } Water supply irrigation } Roofline finishing and } Smart controls } Plumbing and } Sewer drainage accessories integrated with Building heating supply } Ducting and conduit Management Systems } Air leakage prevention } Underfloor heating } Pressure systems products } Green infrastructure systems } Smart controls } Conservation products } Merchandised, prepackaged components Read more on our divisions in Marketplace on pages 10 and 11 06 OUR STRATEGIC REPORT Market-leading position We invest in our manufacturing base in order to maintain our We will continue to develop our exports and geographic reach market-leading position.
At Polypipe we have 18 locations: our solutions respond to challenges that are global in nature.
14 in the UK, one in Italy, one in the Netherlands and two in We will achieve this by leveraging our skills, technical knowledge the Middle East.
There are additional overseas opportunities and intellectual property across a wider market reach.
This will be that we are considering, in line with our strategic objective focused on the right sectors of the market where we believe we can focused on geographic reach.
UK CONTINENTAL MIDDLE EAST EUROPE Acquisitions Our acquisitions support our market-leading position by filling product gaps, enhancing our current solutions offer and by opening opportunities for extending our geographic reach.
In 2018, Polypipe has acquired: Manthorpe Building Products Holdings Limited Permavoid Limited is a specialist designer and is a leading designer and manufacturer of moulded and extruded supplier of surface water management solutions in commercial, plastic and metal products for water and climate management residential, and sports pitch applications.
The acquisition of applications in the UK and Irish residential and RMI markets.
Permavoid is a small but important step towards delivering on our strategic goals.
Read more on the Manthorpe acquisition on pages 54 and 55 Read more on the Permavoid acquisition on page 35 Top statistics... } Over 20,000 products widest range in the UK } Logistics capability to deliver to over 10,000 delivery points annually } Fleet of over 300 trailers and 150 tractor units and 18 3,064 514 rigid vehicles FACILITIES IN THE EMPLOYEES IN SALES AND } 195 UK and European UK, CONTINENTAL THE GROUP TECHNICAL product approvals EUROPE AND THE SUPPORT PEOPLE MIDDLE EAST ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 07 POLYPIPE GROUP PLC
