OUR BUSINESS OVERVIEW HIGHLIGHTS Contents Financial Highlights Operational Highlights REVENUE } UK revenue growth ahead of industry benchmark at 5.9% relative to Construction Products Association winter forecast 5.2% decline of 0.2% for 2018 2018 433.2m } Residential Systems revenue 9.8% higher and 8.5% higher on a like-for-like basis with strong growth in housebuilding sector 2017 411.7m } Commercial and Infrastructure revenues declined 0.2% for the year but a strong second-half performance of 6.7% growth UNDERLYING OPERATING PROFIT of which 5.3% was on a like-for-like basis benefitted from successful product launches and new road projects gaining 1.9% momentum 2018 74.0m } Price increases successfully passed through to mitigate cost inflation 2017 72.6m } Second-half acquisitions Permavoid and Manthorpe performing in line with our expectations and integration PROFIT BEFORE TAX progressing well 4.7% } France disposal completed in March 2018 } Alternative manufacturing strategy delivered in the Middle East 2018 58.2m } Recycled plastic represents an improved 40.2% of the Groups 2017 55.6m overall plastic usage 2017: 34.0% OPERATING CASH FLOW AFTER NET CAPEX 23.4% 2018 71.2m 2017 57.7m UNDERLYING BASIC EPS FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS 4.4% 28.4pps 2018 2017 27.2pps Before non-underlying items ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 03 POLYPIPE GROUP PLC CASE STUDY Location: Consultant: Colin Bowen, Johns Slater & Haward University Arms Hotel, Main Contractor: RG Carter Projects Cambridge Products: Air Handling Units AHU The Project The height dimension was equally pressured as the new roofline is Heat recovery at the University Arms Hotel.
visible from Parkers Piece, Cambridges historic park, and planning Retrofitting a full heat recovery system presented restricted the visibility of plant equipment.
Two bespoke AHUs, serving a total of 4.4m3.
s-1 of fresh filtered air The University Arms Hotel in Cambridge opened in 1834 as the citys to the bedrooms, split west and east, were used.
Since then, it has undergone extensive redevelopments were used to provide the heat recovery mechanism, and purge in 1891, 1900, 1925 and, finally, in the 1960s, when the original sectors were applied to prevent cross-contamination of exhaust air Regency section along Regent Street was demolished and replaced onto the supply.
The design team worked in millimetre intervals to with a discordant structure typical of the period.
squeeze the maximum air volume out of each AHU, the largest of which has a supply and extract rate of 2.9m3.
s-1 with a unit height The hotel has now reopened after an 80m transformation, which of just 2,222mm.
combined a complex heat recovery retrofit with a sympathetic restoration scheme.
The redevelopment is a collaboration between Johns Slater & Haward designed architect John Simpson who oversaw the replacement of the 1960s Getting ductwork an innovative ductwork solution extension and interior designer Martin Brudnizki.
The process of to 192 bedrooms to avoid crossovers, protecting designing the ventilation strategy for the hotel began in 2013 and through limited the corridor ceiling heights, an the final design was completed by Johns Slater & Haward engineer architecturally stunning feature.
ceiling voids across Colin Bowen in 2016.
Splitting the supply air into two levels that do not smaller ducts running either side of The overriding intention of the Mechanical and Electrical M&E line up laterally, and a larger central extract duct allowed design was to make significant improvements to the energy down risers that did the extract connections to pass over efficiency of the existing building fabric a challenge considering the supply, eliminating the need much of the original faade and floor levels had been retained.
not stack vertically, to cross large ducts.
This unlocked The importance of indoor air quality in delivering high levels of was complicated.
many other engineering challenges, occupant comfort, including a good nights sleep, led the design allowing the design team to think laterally.
By separating ventilation team to introduce mechanical supply and extract ventilation with ducts and other services onto alternating floors, space was created heat recovery to every bedroom.
for the water pipes and refrigerant connections.
Retrofitting a full heat recovery system presented a complex range A void containing air conditioning pipes and wet services on one of challenges.
Getting ductwork to 192 bedrooms through limited floor, serving above and below, meant the next floor up had a free ceiling voids across levels that do not line up laterally, and down void for ventilation ducts, again serving the upper and lower levels.
risers that do not stack vertically, was complicated enough, but This pattern was repeated on the next two storeys creating alternate connecting the refrigerant pipework to 192 fan coil units and the layers of vent ducts or pipes.
The challenge with any central plant usual water system pipework made complicated seem impossible.
solution especially one as complicated as this is routing and Bowen opted for a central plant solution and turned to Nuaire for concealing the large distribution ducts serving the many risers.
help in designing the air handling units AHUs.
The decision was taken to raise the existing roof level to the highly Every dimension on the roof was constrained.
In plan view, the sensitive Parkers Piece elevation to accommodate the lateral run.
available roof space was restricted to a small plant area above the This move, coupled with the compact unit design, helped conceal new-build section, with much of the early roofline protected by all plant services from sight, and preserve the visual detail of the planning, including the iconic copper turrets.
Cambridges University Arms Hotel refurbishment had to accommodate a complex heat recovery system on a constrained site with strict planning restrictions.
Andrew Bott, Regional Sales Engineer at Nuaire 04 OUR STRATEGIC REPORT Contents POLYPIPE AT A GLANCE 06 CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION 08 POLYPIPES MARKETPLACE 10 POLYPIPES BUSINESS MODEL 14 POLYPIPES VALUE CREATION MODEL 16 STRATEGY 18 STRATEGY IN ACTION 21 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 22 OUR SUSTAINABLE JOURNEY 24 OUR SUSTAINABLE JOURNEY IN ACTION 27 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW 32 CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICERS REPORT 36 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES 42 SUPPORTING OUR SUSTAINABLE JOURNEY 50 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 05 POLYPIPE GROUP PLC
