Strategic report AT A GLANCE EMEA SERVICES Air & Space Maritime, Land & Weapons What we do What we do Combines world-leading fide-risk complex aerospace programmes by testing Deliver operational advantage to customers by expertise with unique facilities systems and equipment, evaluating the risks and providing independent research, evaluation and to provide capability assuring safety.
Approximate revenue Approximate revenue It does this through capability 185m 295m integration, threat representation and operational Key sites Key sites readiness, underpinned by Farnborough and Boscombe Down, UK.
Farnborough, Boscombe Down, Shoeburyness, Fort Halstead, Hebrides, Aberporth, Pendine, West Freugh, long-term contracts that Portsdown Technology Park and Haslar, UK.
provide good revenue visibility and cash flows.
Cyber, Information & Training International What we do What we do Help government and commercial customers Our International business leverages our expertise respond to evolving threats based on our expertise and skills developed in the UK and applies them to 651.4m in training, secure communication networks and opportunities in attractive markets globally.
devices, intelligence gathering and surveillance FY18 annual revenue sensors, and cyber security.
Approximate revenue Approximate revenue 100m 70m, 5239 Key sites Key sites FY18 total employees Farnborough, Malvern and Crewe, UK.
Australia, Sweden, Canada, Malaysia and Middle East.
Page 28 Operating review GLOBAL PRODUCTS QinetiQ North America OptaSense What we do What we do Delivers innovative solutions Develop and manufacture innovative defence Provide innovative fibre sensing solutions to deliver and products to meet products specialising in unmanned systems, decision-ready data in multiple vertical markets.
survivability and maritime systems, along with Undertakes contract-funded products in related commercial markets.
research and development, Approximate revenue Approximate revenue developing intellectual 70m 25m property in partnership with key customers and through Key sites Key sites Waltham and Franklin, Massachusetts: Pittsburgh, Farnborough, Winfrith, Portishead, UK: Houston, internal funding with potential Pennsylvania: and Virginia, USA.
USA: Calgary, Canada, and Dubai, UAE.
Space Products EMEA Products 181.6m What we do What we do FY18 annual revenue Provide small satellites, payload instruments, Provide research services and bespoke sub-systems and ground station services.
technological solutions developed from intellectual property spun out from EMEA Services.
QinetiQ Target Systems is reported in EMEA Products.
826 Approximate revenue Approximate revenue 20m 65m FY18 total employees Key sites Key sites Page 30 Farnborough, UK and Antwerp, Belgium.
Farnborough, Malvern, Haslar and Ashford, Operating review UK and Medicine Hat, Canada.
2 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
