Strategic Report Quilter at a glance Quilter is a leading UK and cross-border full service wealth manager, providing advice-led investment solutionsand investment platforms to over 900,000 customers.
We are listed on the London and Johannesburg stock exchanges.
Employees Assets under management and administration Quilter is a modern, multi-channel wealth management company.
We believe in transparency and customer choice.
We 4,343 109.3bn service customers either through our 2017: 4,388 2017: 114.4bn restricted financial planners or third-party independent financial advisers by providing Restricted financial planners RFPs UKs second largest adviser-focused platform investment solutions and platform services.
Quilter operates in one of the largest 1,621 49.9bn wealthmarkets in the world and one that 2017: 1,561 2017: 50.2bn isgrowing.
With scale and leading positions inour chosen capabilities, we give financial 1 Investment managers IMs Total fee revenue advisers and their clients choice and flexibility in how they access oursolutions and services.
155 788m 2017: 164 2017: 728m Our purpose To help create prosperity for the generations Active relationships with third party IFAs Operating margin of today and tomorrow.
We believe: 4,000 30% in the value of trusted face-to-face advice: 2017: 29% that better choice doesnt mean more choice: that expert investment solutions should be simply packaged: that award winning service and measurable outcomes for our customers should always offer good value: and that a companys purpose goes beyond Our making a profit.
journey to date Old Mutual plc Sale of Single Special dividend: Announced Managed Strategy asset Return of net surplus Optimisation Separation management proceeds from sale of plans announced business to TA Single Strategy business Associates 2017 2018 2019 Managed Listed as Closure of FCA Platform Separation Quilter plc on investigation into Transformation completed LSE and JSE Life Assurance Programme: book Migration phases commence Building a track record with investors as a standalone listed company 02 Quilter Annual Report 2018 Our Group companies operate intwomain segments.
Assets under management Advice and Wealth Management 41.2bn 2017: 41.7bn Our Advice and WealthManagement segment consists of: Net client cash flow Quilter Financial Planning Quilter Cheviot Quilter has the second largest advice Quilter Cheviot is a leading private client 3.5bn business in the UK.
Through our Network wealth manager providing discretionary 2017: 4.4bn advice business, 1,621 restricted financial andadvisory wealth management services planners who operate through their own toprivate investors and corporate pension Adjusted profit before tax branded firms, deliver face-to-face financial funds, trusts and charities.
advice tailored to meet specific needs of customers.
We stand behind their advice, Quilter Investors 102m and provide them with a panel of selected Quilter Investors is a leading provider of 2017: 82m Quilter and third-party products which they multi-asset investment solutions, offering offer their clients.
Quilter Private Client abroad range of solutions for its customers Advisers is our rapidly growing high net accumulation and decumulationneeds.
It is wholly owned with all advisers employed by Quilter.
Itisclosely aligned with Quilter Cheviot, specialising in providing financial advice toaffluent clients across theUK.
Assets under administration Wealth Platforms Our Wealth Platforms segment comprises: 80.7bn 2017: 84.8bn Quilter Wealth Solutions Quilter Life Assurance Quilter Wealth Solutions is the UKs second Quilter Life Assurance is the book of legacy 2 Net client cash flow largest adviser-focused investment platform UK life insurance, and which includes the provider.
The platform is available to both institutional life business, that is closed to Quilter Financial Planning and third party new business and expected to run-off over 3.4bn advisers.
The retail book is 2017: 5.9bn also in steady run-off, expected to decline at Quilter International around 15% per annum.
Adjusted profit before tax Quilter International is a leading investment platform provider of cross-border investment solutions aimed at affluent 162m andhigh net worth UK residents seeking 2017: 158m investment solutions outside of the UK, aswell as expatriates and international investors in selected offshore markets.
Following the Listing of Quilter plc, all businesses within the Group will be subject to rebranding to align with the Quilter name.
For the purposes of the Annual Report, all businesses have been referenced by their new name please see the Glossary on page 206 forfurtherdetails.
Notes: All figures as at 31 December 2018, unless otherwise stated.
Segmental numbers are before eliminations, Head Office and other shareholder assets, which are detailed in the Financial Review on page 26.
See page 204 for alternative performance measure definitions.
1 For further information on Total fee revenue, see the Financial review on page 27 and 28.
2 NCCF Wealth Platforms excludes Quilter Life Assurance net outflow of 2.3 billion 2017: 1.6 billion as it is a closed-book business.
Strategic Report | Quilter at a glance Quilter Annual Report 2018 03 Strategic Report The Quilter Foundation was launched to provide funding and skills to charitable organisations empowering young 2018 in people to overcome barriers to prosperity.
pictures 2018 was a momentous year in our journey to creating the UKs leading wealth management business.
Key to thisishow we become onebusiness withonestrategy under onebrand.
Quilter successfully listed on the London and Johannesburg Stock Exchanges.
Southampton to Paris bike ride challenge A team from Quilter successfully completed asponsored bikeride from Southampton to Parisin aid of Muscular Dystrophy UK, in remembrance of one of ourcolleagues.
Quilter is a principal partner of England Rugbyand title partner ofEngland Mens andWomens Quilter internationals, known 04 04 04 Q Qu ui il lt te er A r An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt 2 t 20 01 18 8 asthe Quilter Internationals.
Quilter Investors rebranded and launched its first campaign aimed atfinancial advisers, to help clients realise their ambitions in retirement.
Quilter is the title partner of England RFUs Kids First programme which aims to create a great rugby environment for boys and girls agedunder 7 to under 13, as well asupskilling coaches and teachers.
The programme provides a setting in which children learn to play the game at their own pace and develop their skills through our Quilter KidsFirst Skills Series, as well as ourQuilter Kids First Champions programme.
This rewards clubs andschools who have shown exceptional quality in delivering the Quilter Kids First programme with training sessions delivered by our We remain committed Quilter Kids First ambassadors.
toenhancing the number and quality of financial advisers with the 100th student graduating in 2018.
Building a financially capable generation Our continued work with financial education charity MyBnk in 2018 helped to equipover 6,000 young peoplewith vital money skillsand confidence to helpthem manage their moneyeffectively.
Carers Trust We proudly launched Quilter Private Client Advisers acampaign with Carers was the second part of theGroup to be rebranded Trust to give tens of thousands of young toQuilter as part of their journeyto become the carers the chance ofabrighter future.
premier financial planning firm in the UK.
Strategic Report | 2018 in pictures Quilter Annual Report 2018 05
