Rathbones at a glance Delivering our services We employ over Investment Management Through Rathbone Investment Management, we provide personal discretionary 1,400 investment management solutions to private clients with investible assets of 100,000 people upwards.
Clients of this service can expect: Direct access to their investment manager We operate from An investment manager who understands their requirements and provides a strategy that meets their objectives An investment process that aims to provide risk-adjusted returns to meet clients needs 15 today and in the future 1 UK locations and Jersey Investment Management funds under management and We manage over administration have increased by 90.6 % to38.5bn over the past five years 44.1bn for our clients 0-250k 8 1% 250k-500k 12 0% 500k-750k 9 6% We are a 750k-1 5m 17 3% Size of 1 5m-5 0m 23 8% relationship 5 0m-10 0m 8 3% FTSE by value 10m 20 9% 250 company listed Private client on the London 37 0% ISA 17 0% Stock Exchange Charities 13 4% Pensions 11 5% Client account Trusts 10 8% type by value Other 10 3% Within Investment Management, we have several specialist capabilities including: Charities Our charities business manages 5.3 billion of funds and is the fourth largest charity manager in the UK.
The team is diverse, in both its expertise and experience, and aims to deliver suitably tailored investment portfolios to meet the specific needs of charity clients and trustees.
Rathbone Greenbank Investments As one of the pioneers in the field of ethically-focused investments, Rathbone Greenbank Investments manages over 1.2 billion in ethical and socially-responsible investment portfolios for private clients, charities and trusts.
The team is highly proactive on ethical and sustainability issues, engaging directly with companies and government to improve business practices.
Rathbone Investment Management International Based in Jersey, Rathbone Investment Management International caters for the investment needs of individuals and families, charities and professional advisers who are looking for offshore investment management.
The services are delivered by an experienced team of 1.
Includes Vision Independent Financial Planning investment professionals.
4 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2018 Strategic report 2 Complementary services Unit Trusts Banking and loan services Rathbone Unit Trust Management is an active UK We offer loans to our existing clients secured against fund manager with 5.6 billion under management, their investment portfolios and, in some cases, other providing a range of specialist and multi asset funds assets.
As a licensed deposit taker, we are also able to that are designed to meet core investment needs in offer our clients a range of banking services including the retail client market.
These funds are distributed currency and payment services, and fixed interest term primarily through financial advisers in the UK.
These additional services are valued by our Funds can also be accessed by international clients and are an important point of differentiation clients through our Rathbone Luxembourg Funds from many of our peers.
SICAV Socit dInvestissement Capital Variable which allows access to a similar range of actively Financial planning managed funds.
We offer in-house financial planning, which provides whole of market advice to clients.
Our in-house financial planners are highly qualified and work closely with investment managers to help clients Unit Trusts funds under management create a bespoke financial plan.
We have long-standing have increased by 211.1% to 5.6bn over experience of advising individuals, couples and families, companies and trusts and can act on a one-off basis or the past five years as part of an ongoing service.
Unitised Portfolio Service Rathbone Global Opportunities Fund 1 351m Using Rathbone Multi Asset Portfolio Funds, we offer Rathbone Ethical Bond Fund 1 236m clients with investible assets of 25,000 or more our Rathbone Income Fund 1 091m model-based discretionary investment management Total Unit Rathbone Multi Asset Portfolios 965m Rathbone Active Income services.
This is designed for clients who do not require Trusts FUM Fund for Charities 179m a fully bespoke investment solution, but still want 5 642m Rathbone Strategic Bond Fund 145m access to an investment manager to ensure investment Rathbone Global Alpha Fund 111m Rathbone High Quality Bond Fund 52m needs are selected and monitored to suit their individual Rathbone UK Opportunities Fund 48m circumstance, as well as ensuring that their investments Other funds 464m are managed in a tax-efficient manner.
Managed Portfolio Service A simple and straightforward execution-only investment service which gives clients with 15,000 or more the ability to access high-quality investments.
The service is delivered at a price that reflects the competitive nature of our sector, but to a standard that clients have come to expect from Rathbones.
We also operate the following additional entities: Rathbone Trust Company Rathbone Trust Company provides UK trust and some legal, estate and tax advice to larger clients.
Vision Independent Financial Planning Vision Independent Financial Planning is an independent IFA network providing financial advisory solutions to UK private clients.
Since it was fully acquired in 2015, it has grown from 845 million of assets on its discretionary fund management panel and 81 advisers to 1.5 billion and 125 independent financial advisers.
All complementary services are reported on as part of our Investment Management segment rathbones.
