Strategic report Re nishaw at a glance Renishaw is a global, high-precision metrology and healthcare technology group.
We market our products through our subsidiaries in 36 countries and 80 locations.
What we do Metrology products: Healthcare products: Our technology solutions help manufacturers to maximise Our technologies are helping within applications such production output, to significantly reduce the time taken as craniomaxillofacial surgery, dentistry, neurosurgery, to produce and inspect components, and to keep their chemical analysis and nanotechnology research.
In the fields of industrial These include engineering solutions for stereotactic automation and motion systems, our high-quality position neurosurgery, analytical tools that identify and characterise measurement and calibration systems allow machine the chemistry and structure of materials, supply of builders to manufacture highly accurate and reliable implants to hospitals and specialist design centres for products.
We are a world leader in the field of additive craniomaxillofacial surgery, and products and services manufacturing also referred to as metal 3D printing and that allow dental laboratories to manufacture high-quality the only UK business that designs and makes industrial dental restorations.
machines which print parts from metal powder.
Where we operate 6% UK and Ireland 17% Continental Europe 94% Locations Locations 83% 14 24 Metrology revenue Metrology revenue 25.5m 144.4m Healthcare revenue Healthcare revenue 5.0m 9.8m 4% 13% Far East, including 96% Australasia Other regions 87% Locations Locations 26 7 Metrology revenue Metrology revenue 269.5m 16.8m Healthcare revenue Healthcare revenue 11.3m 2.6m 6% North, South and 94% Central America Locations 9 Metrology revenue 119.6m Healthcare revenue 7.0m 2 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Our core markets Aerospace Automotive Consumer products Power generation New aircraft production Continuing investment Ever shorter product life Manufacture of to meet growing in manufacturing cycles require flexible components for civil global demand for capacity to meet growing manufacturing systems nuclear, wind and civil air transport global demand solar energy Newgenerations of New fuel-efficient Improved fuel efficiency electronic devices Increasing focus on engines with complex requires tighter tolerances demand precision maximising output from parts requiring on powertrain components manufacturing systems machinery used in faster measurement for form and function.
power generation Cost efficiencies and Improvements to fuel automated processes Increasing research into efficiency by minimising required throughout the energy storage.
Agriculture Construction Healthcare Resource exploration Increasing global demand Major infrastructure Neurological disorders Equipment manufactured for food products from projects driving heavy require highly precise tostringent safety developing nations equipment sales surgical therapies requirements requires accurate, cost-effective Increasing global demand Skills shortages requiring Growing demand for andtraceable processes for biofuels more automation in cosmetic dentistry with equipment manufacturers.
superior aesthetics Non-renewable resources Greater investment in require exploration in machinery for intensive Growing demand for demanding terrains and farming capabilities and patient-specific implants.
appropriate surveying tools Smart Farming.
Global population growth and urbanisation drive long-term demand for fossil fuels.
2018 in numbers Revenue Adjusted profit before tax Statutory profit before tax 611.
5m 145.1m 155.2m Note 24, Alternative performance measures, defineshow adjusted profit before tax is calculated.
Total dividend for the year Number of employees Patents continual innovation at 30th June 2018 innew technologies 60.0p 4,862 1,800 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018 3
