22 Our business at a glance Our mission Protecting People.
Our vision To become a world-class services company, protecting people and enhancing lives through industry leading innovations, best-in-class product and service quality, and care for our colleagues, customers and communities across the globe.
Our values Our three values were identified and developed by colleagues around the world and represent the DNA of our company, irrespective of business or geography.
Each of our values is underpinned by a set of agreed behaviours.
Service Relationships Teamwork We are passionate about delivering We value long-lasting relationships with Our business is all about great teamwork and excellent service to every customer.
We keep getting this right to benefit our customers.
Wekeep our promises and do what we colleagues and customers informed We work with our colleagues to deliver great say we will do.
At Rentokil Initial everything about changes that affect them.
We listen results and support them in their endeavours.
starts with the customer and our passion to peoples needs and concerns, and We treat them with respect and recognise to provide customers with great value act on what they tell us.
We are honest everyone has an important role to play.
andservice drives everything we do.
Wetrust our colleagues to take ownership of customer relationships and ensure they have the right support, tools and training todo their job well.
Our objectives Our strategy by business category We have set ourselves three medium-term financial objectives.
Pest Control They are to deliver Ongoing Revenue growth of between 5% To strengthen our position as global leaders through increased to8% per annum, Ongoing Operating Profit growth of c. 10%, organic growth and by establishing stronger market positions andFree Cash Flow conversion of c. 90%.
particularly in Growth and Emerging markets, and through digital expertise, innovation and acquisitions.
To see how we performed this year, please see page 15 Hygiene To deliver continued growth through a combination of strong operational focus and targeted M&A to build city-density.
Our strategy At the heart of our strategy is the delivery of excellent customer service and product innovation.
Since February 2014 we have implemented an effective and consistent strategy called our RIGHT WAY plan at pace Protect & Enhance and this strategy has delivered consistent progress against our To protect and enhance the four businesses within the category financial targets.
The plan is based upon a model for the company France Workwear, Ambius, Property Care and Dental Services which includes five distinct regions: North America, Europe, UK through focus on enhanced service, customer retention and & Rest of World, Asia and Pacific.
Our core competencies are our profitprotection.
colleagues as experts, our category leadership in pest control and hygiene, and our lean, low-cost business model.
We are leaders in digital and innovation and use six operational levers toaddress growth challenges.
Please see pages 30 to 39 for additional details Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 23 Our business at a glance Our stakeholders and how we engage with them Colleagues Customers Shareholders Communities Suppliers Key to successful Our customers range Our investors range We respect the Our suppliers range engagement is line from global food and from global investment communities in which from global suppliers manager quality and pharmaceutical producers funds to small private we operate and employ of key products and we provide tools and to national hotel chains, investors.
Engagement people, but also accept consumables to training to enable regional industrial goods is through meetings, a wider responsibility to small, local suppliers communication and businesses, local restaurants calls, capital markets key communities around supporting our local recognition.
Our most and residential customers.
They recent all-colleague Customer engagement quarterly trading many local charities and provide bait, technology, survey conducted by is delivered through updates, presentations, key partners are Malaria consumables and waste Korn Ferry Hay Group, technician customer the Annual Report and No More UK, Cool Earth, disposal.
Supplier shows colleague relationships and the our website.
and our own Better engagement is delivered engagement at deployment of digital tools Futures community through dedicated world-class high providing greater levels of health programme supply chain teams, both performance levels.
Please see our Corporate Responsibility update on pages 48 to 54 for further details How we measure success We use key performance indicators KPIs to judge progress towards strategic objectives.
They are grouped within three categories: colleagues, customers and shareholders.
Colleagues Customers Shareholders As a service organisation, our people are Customer retention is critical to our success We aim to drive shareholder value by the key to profitable growth.
Our priorities and we aim to do this by keeping our consistent delivery of three core financial are therefore the health and safety of our promises to our customers and delivering metrics.
These are Ongoing Revenue, colleagues and making sure we train, outstanding service to them at all times.
Ongoing Operating Profit and Free Cash develop and equip them with the necessary We measure this by monitoring Group Flow.
We set ourselves medium-term targets tools to do their jobs to their maximum state of service metrics and by measuring of 5% to 8% Ongoing Revenue growth, ability.
We measure our performance here customer satisfaction through our Customer c. 10% Ongoing Operating Profit growth by monitoring Lost Time Accident rates Voice Counts surveys Net Promoter Scores.
andFree Cash Flow conversion of c. 90%.
A full review of our progress on our KPIs in 2018 can be found on pages 28 and 29 How we reward people We believe that recognising, appreciating and rewarding our people are essential ingredients to maximising colleague engagement and retention.
Reward Recognise The right fixed and variable pay is core to attracting and retaining We recognise our employees for excellent customer service through talent and we continually review and monitor pay levels to ensure customer feedback and have a number of awards programmes to we remain competitive.
We use Willis Towers Watson WTW recognise success, including our First Class Awards in the Pacific, our gradingglobally to ensure we have the same approach to role Presidents Club in North America, and our RI Awards programme in sizingand positioning in all our businesses.
We also use WTW the UK & Asia.
Our managers use internal social media smartphones andMercer data for pay benchmarking and annual pay reviews.
and Google to acknowledge effort and performance in real time.
We also canvass colleagues opinions through our biennial Your Voice Counts surveys and our 2017 survey revealed a 74% favourable score, 1% above the High Performing Norm.
Read more in our Directors Remuneration Report on pages 81 to 97 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018 24 Our business model Market-leading businesses Pest Control Hygiene Protect & Enhance Rentokil offers a complete range of Initial Hygiene provides a dedicated Initial Workwear specialises in the pest control services, from rodents to and expert hygiene service.
It offers supply and laundering of workwear, flying insects, to other forms of wildlife the widest range of washroom hygiene uniforms, cleanroom uniforms and management.
services including the provision and personal protective equipment.
offers interior landscaping services and our Property Care business provides property preservation and wood rot treatment services.
Our Dental Services business specialises in the disposal and recycling of dental waste.
Read more about our business on pages 30 to 39 How we operate In February 2014 we announced Service coverage of global GDP Number of service teams Our geographic regions our RIGHT WAY plan to deliver sustainable revenue and profit North America growth.
Our plan is based on c. 90% c. 1,800 a clear business model for the Europe Company which includes strong Presence in the worlds Percentage of revenues UK & Rest multi-local operations across largestcities derived outside of UK theworld.
of World Asia 90 100 89% Pacific Read more about how we operate on pages 16 and 17 Consistent and efficient operational model RIGHT PEOPLE RIGHT THINGS RIGHT WAY Service efficiency Colleague expertise, Delivering customer engagement, safety service and customer and retention engagement CVC Customer retention Contract portfolio growth Sales excellence Becoming an Revenue Profit driving gross sales Price management Employer of Choice growth and cash contract and jobs Jobbing and product sales Digital expertise and leadership in innovation Productivity and effective cost management.
Sharing best practices, common IT and digital solutions.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 25 Our business model Why were different expertise of our people Rentokil Initial employs around 39,500 1 Glassdoor rating experts and invests in training and development to ensure their know-how is unrivalled.
We choose people who live 4.2 5 our values of Service, Relationships and Teamwork.
Experience is less important Would recommend the Company to a friend in some roles than attitude as we provide the best training in our industries.
This year we have continued to see very positive 83% colleague opinions on workplace review site Glassdoor and are ranked 8th out of Glassdoor CEO approval 800,000 companies in the 2018 Employees Choice, UKs Best Places to Work and 7th in the UKs Best Workplace Leadership 93% and Culture survey by Glassdoor and the Chartered Management Institute.
Autogate rodent bait box training Excellent How we create value Leadership in digital Our financial model to compound growth is a virtuous circle and innovation predicated on delivering growth organically and through M&A Rentokil Initial is leading the way in digital products and applications which leads to increased density and is directly correlated and innovating at pace.
We are seeing unprecedented levels of to improved gross margins across our business categories.
change in the impact of technology on our customers and our The above, combined with our low-cost operating model, frontline and back office colleagues, and use IT to improve the drives strong profitable growth and sustainable Free Cash quality and consistency of service delivery, drive innovation and Flow which is deployed in two ways: first, into a financially reduce costs.
We believe we are leading the pest control industry in disciplined M&A programme and operational investment: the commercialisation of the Internet of Things through connected and second, into maintaining our progressive dividend policy.
devices and have digital expertise at every stage of the customer journey from web searching through to e-billing.
Innovation Compounding revenue, profit and cash flow growth underlines our brand positioning as the experts in pest control and continues to differentiate the business.
It is also an important driver of organic growth and enables us to enhance our product offering while at the same time meeting emerging threats and new Organic and M&A revenue growth regulatory requirements.
We have a strong pipeline of innovations in place which target key pest groups of rodents and insects.
Increased density Lumnia Insect Light Trap units Revenue generated by sales shipped to date of Lumnia Light Traps to date Improved gross margins c. 60,000 c. 20m Connected devices being used Connected messages sent Low-cost operating model on our customer premises during 2018 70,000 50m Strong profit and Free Cash Flow Focused investment Financially disciplined M&A programme and operational investment Turbo-charging growth Installing a PestConnect system Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018
