Strategic Report Our strategy at a glance Our strategy KPIs Strategic delivery Measuring success 1 Underlying Profit Before Tax 1.
Becoming increasingly customer-centric Products held by HACs Launched the Saga membership scheme, Number of HACs and potential HACs pHACs Possibilities, with over 500k members and Number of core products per HAC 190.1m a sign-up rate of 80% of those invited to 1.4% join Started to build engagement with our increasing membership digitally and 187.4m through experiences 1 Increased the core product holding of our Underlying earnings per share 1.
Becoming 471k HACs from 2.3 to 2.4 increasingly Continued to roll out our new marketing customercentric 13.8p capability, Adobe Marketing Cloud, which 0.7% allows us to better identify and target customers with the characteristics of HACs 13.7p Completed the new Saga brand identity, with the introduction of the keep doing ethos.
Dividend per share Keep doing underlines the relevance of Saga in the lives of our members and customers 9.0p as they continue to seek new opportunities and new experiences 5.9% 2.
G rowing our Retail Insurance and Increase in number of core Saga policies 8.5p Insurance and Travel businesses Increase in number of passengers travelled Travel businesses 1 Available operating cash flow Delivered performance in Retail Broking in and booked line with guidance provided in December 2017 Increased profits through improved margins 175.5m and a shift in product mix in our Tour Operating 19.3% business and the optimum yield of our ships 3.
Investing for future growth New ships on track for June 2019 217.6m Completed the transformation of our Cruise and August 2020 Debt ratio business with the announcement of our Number of booked passengers second ship, Spirit of Adventure, to be 3.
Investing for delivered in August 2020 future growth 1.7x Our first new ship, Spirit of Discovery, 0.2x remains on track and on budget for delivery in June 2019: we have achieved over 50% 1.9x of the sales target for our first 19 cruises Number of HACs Delivered improvements to the customer experience and efficiency of our Insurance business through the development of a new 471k retail insurance platform and the rollout of 2.5% a new claims handling platform 4.
Maintaining our efficient operating model Deliver cost and efficiency improvements our efficient Continued to generate strong cash flows Continue to refresh our systems with the operating model Core product holding per HAC Maintained our lower exposure to underwriting launch of a new travel reservation system risk with a new quota share arrangement with NewRe and Hannover Re covering 80% of the 2.4 downside risk of all motor policies on a rolling 4.3% three year agreement 2.3 Delivered Group-wide cost and procurement efficiencies Note: 5.
Developing our people Improvement in sustained engagement 1 Alternative performance measure refer to glossary on Achieved a sustainable engagement score Continued rollout of the leadership development 5.
Developing page 209 for definition and of 77% programme to the top 400 leaders within Saga our people explanation Continued to invest in the capability of our top 400 leaders through our Leading the Saga Way leadership development programme Launched Leadership degree Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 16 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Whats our plan?
Becoming increasingly customer-centric Products held by HACs In order to deliver sustainable long-term Launched the Saga membership scheme, Number of HACs and potential HACs pHACs earnings our strategic priorities for the Possibilities, with over 500k members and Number of core products per HAC coming year are: a sign-up rate of 80% of those invited to join Started to build engagement with our 1.
B ecoming increasingly increasing membership digitally and customer-centric through experiences We will expand and improve Possibilities, Increased the core product holding of our further enhance our data capability 471k HACs from 2.3 to 2.4 and increase the rate of product Continued to roll out our new marketing differentiation.
capability, Adobe Marketing Cloud, which allows us to better identify and target Read more p18 customers with the characteristics of HACs Completed the new Saga brand identity, 2.
Growing our Retail Insurance with the introduction of the keep doing ethos.
and Travel businesses Keep doing underlines the relevance of Saga As the largest part of the Group, our in the lives of our members and customers Retail Insurance business has a vital role as they continue to seek new opportunities in acquiring and retaining customers.
and new experiences The Travel business remains at the heart 2.
G rowing our Retail Insurance and Increase in number of core Saga policies of the Saga brand and we use our Travel businesses Increase in number of passengers travelled customer insights to ensure the Delivered performance in Retail Broking in and booked proposition remains relevant.
line with guidance provided in December 2017 Increased profits through improved margins Read more p18 and a shift in product mix in our Tour Operating business and the optimum yield of our ships 3.
Investing for future growth New ships on track for June 2019 We will continue building demand for our Completed the transformation of our Cruise and August 2020 new ships and prepare for operational business with the announcement of our Number of booked passengers delivery.
We will also launch our new second ship, Spirit of Adventure, to be retail insurance platform for motor delivered in August 2020 insurance and develop the next phase Our first new ship, Spirit of Discovery, for home insurance.
We will accelerate remains on track and on budget for delivery the development of our new travel in June 2019: we have achieved over 50% reservation system.
of the sales target for our first 19 cruises Delivered improvements to the customer Read more p19 experience and efficiency of our Insurance business through the development of a new 4.
M aintaining our efficient retail insurance platform and the rollout of operating model a new claims handling platform We will drive efficiencies across the 4.
Maintaining our efficient operating model Deliver cost and efficiency improvements Group, facilitated by the new claims Continued to generate strong cash flows Continue to refresh our systems with the platform and first phase of the broking Maintained our lower exposure to underwriting launch of a new travel reservation system policy platform.
risk with a new quota share arrangement with NewRe and Hannover Re covering 80% of the Read more p19 downside risk of all motor policies on a rolling three year agreement 5.
Developing our people Delivered Group-wide cost and procurement Our people are central to everything efficiencies we do.
Developing our people Improvement in sustained engagement receive the Saga experience throughout Achieved a sustainable engagement score Continued rollout of the leadership development the business.
of 77% programme to the top 400 leaders within Saga Continued to invest in the capability of our top Read more p19 400 leaders through our Leading the Saga Way leadership development programme Launched Leadership degree Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 17
