Our business at a glance An active approach to building long-term future prosperity We manage investments for institutions and individuals to help them meet their financial goals and prepare for the future.
As the world changes, so do our clients needs.
Thats why we have along history ofadapting to meet the challenges of the times, keeping our focus on what matters most to our clients.
From pension funds and insurance companies to individuals and charities, we work with a wide range of clients, whose needs are as diverseas they are.
Asset Management Wealth Management We manage investments for institutions and private investors We provide a wide range of wealth management throughout the client life cycle.
services, which focus on preserving and growing ourclients wealth.
There will soon be three key Our institutional clients include local authorities, pension schemes, components to supplement our existing wealth insurance companies and sovereign wealth funds.
We also manage management offering, which reflects our strategic assets for end clients as part of our relationship with distributors, ambition to provide wealth management and financial advisers and online platforms.
financial planning services to clients across the wealth spectrum.
We believe that the key to delivering better outcomes lies in gathering highly talented people who bring a diverse range of thoughts and ideas.
Cazenove Capital in the UK and Channel Islands Our 42 investment teams in 19 global locations actively manage and Schroder Wealth outside the UK offer bespoke investments across a range of asset classes.
Our approach allows us discretionary and advisory investment services to tochannel our insights into the right outcomes for our clients.
private clients, family offices and charities.
Our client service teams build lasting relationships, which allow us to Benchmark Capital provides technology-led develop a clear view of our clients needs and how these may change regulatory and administrative services for a network over time.
of independent financial advisers, as well as providing platform services.
By combining these client relationships with market insights and our strong investment capabilities, we can design bespoke products and We have announced our plans to create a joint services.
These solutions are designed to fit our clients needs and are venture with Lloyds Banking Group in the UK.
The rigorously tested to ensure that they are fit for purpose.
business will be named Schroders Personal Wealth and will address the growing gap in the advice market by offering personalised financial planning and investment services to affluent customers.
Contribution to Group net income Contribution to Group netincome 1,801.2m 289.8m Infrastructure Our infrastructure teams provide critical services that support the business and include capabilities across Technology, Operations, Finance, Risk, Human Resources, Compliance, Legal, Governance, Internal Audit and Tax.
Group The overall governance and corporate management of the Group is driven by the Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer, as well as employees involved in corporate development and strategy.
Read more about how our business creates value in our business model on pages 18-19.
2 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report A diversified strategy for growing our business Taking a diversified approach is important in an environment of uncertainty.
By ensuring diversity across our business model, we are able to maintain our resilience to industry headwinds and generate long-term growth through the cycle.
This means we can take along-term view and continue to invest in our business.
Assets under management 407.2bn Geographies Asset classes Clients UK 40% Equities 38% Institutional 59% Asia Pacic 23% Multi-asset 25% Intermediary 30% Europe, Middle East and Africa 22% Fixed Income 17% Wealth Management 11% Americas 15% Private Assets and Alternatives 9% Wealth Management 11% Expanding the core business At our core we are a committed active investment manager.
Our product offering and range of strategic capabilities arestructured around the areas that we believe demonstrate the clear, repeatable benefits of active management.
Wedeploy seed capital to develop new strategies to achieve positive outcomes for our clients.
This allows us to continue growing a core business that is diversified across geography, asset class and client type.
Developing capabilities Building closer relationships in private assets with our end clients As the number of publiclyWe have recently made There has historically been a clients, particularly in wealth listed companies continues anumber of successful high level of intermediation management.
We have to fall, we are seeing acquisitions and investments between investment developed several key increased demand from to add further private equity, managers and their end strategic partnerships to clients for access to private infrastructure finance, clients, which can increase support this objective.
Broadening our securitised credit and real client turnover and the fees include Schroders Personal investment expertise and estate capabilities to our they pay.
To reduce the Wealth in the UK, our product offering within product set.
impact of this and improve partnership with Maybank in private assets and client longevity, we are Malaysia and our distribution alternatives remains a key working to build closer relationship with Hartford strategic focus for us.
relationships with our end Funds in the US.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 3
