At a Glance A global leader in Network and Enduser security Synchronized Security As the pioneer of synchronized security, Sophos continues to execute against its vision for a security system where products can directly share status and threat information, to automate and improve the time taken to respond to potential threats.
In 2017, Sophos introduced a synchronized security capability in the XG Firewall that is able to provide an unprecedented view into the source of network traffic.
Before this breakthrough, less than 50 per cent of network traffic was identifiable, causing serious security challenges.
As Sophos has enabled more of its portfolio with the capability to share information directly, channel partners have embraced this innovation and see it as a unique market differentiator and a successful proposition for their customers.
Over Over Over 300,000 3,300 39,000 End user customers Employees Partners Platform and Strategy Next-Gen Firewall Next-Gen Endpoint In Cloud Wireless Mobile Cloud CENTRAL Intelligence Email Server Web Encryption For more information go to www.
com central 02 Cybersecurity made simple Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Geographic Footprint Sophos is a truly global company with more than 40 offices around the world, with major offices in the UK, USA, Canada, India and Germany.
Billings by Geography Billings by Type Enduser Americas Network EMEA Other APJ 03 Developments in Deep Learning Deep learning is better suited to the massive amounts of cybersecurity data than old school machine learning techniques Deep learning has been has been enhanced with proven to deliver better deep learning-based detection, fewer falsetechnology and SophosLabs positives and has less has recently accelerated its of an impact on system automated threat analysis resources.
Today, deep systems by the adoption of learning has been included this technology.
Sophos in the Groups Intercept X plans to add the advantage endpoint protection product of artificial intelligence to introducing predictive other appropriate areas of security to organisations of its portfolio in due course.
Sophos Sandstorm For more information go to www.
com 04 C Cy yb ber ers se ec cu ur ri it ty y m ma ade fide s si im mp pl le e Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Sophos has applied advanced deep learning neural network technology to the cybersecurity challenge 05 Delivering Financially Billings and revenue both up over 20 per cent year-on-year driving strong cash flows The year-ended 31 March Revenue growth accelerated, 2018 saw a continuation of as expected, as prior-period growth in billings, in line with subscription billings were the Groups forecast to recognised as revenue in deliver annual billings of $1 the current-year.
As the Group free cash flow, from a high continues to leverage both prior-year base, also sales and marketing and increased at the anticipated general finance and rate as cash flows from administration costs, cash working capital normalised.
For more information see page 28 06 C Cy yb ber ers se ec cu ur ri it ty y m ma ade fide s si im mp pl le e Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial strength through visibility of future revenue and cash flow 07 Trusted Partner Sophos puts its partners first in everything it does, from sales to marketing to support With no conflict in sales or security resellers worldwide marketing objectives, and is unwavering in its Sophos focuses 100 per commitment to be a trusted cent of its resources on partner with the best building products and products, support and programs that are designed programs that actively with the needs of channel enable a reseller to grow partners in mind.
Sophos strives to be the security continues to be recognised vendor of choice for for this commitment by the endpoint and network industry and partners alike.
For more information go to www.
com partners 08 C Cy yb ber ers se ec cu ur ri it ty y m ma ade fide s si im mp pl le e Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Sophos has one route to market, over 39,000 registered channel partners 09
