STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGY AT A GLANCE 1 2 3 Work closely with Establish and Grow our Acquire new Invest in Maintain our customers maintain technology business in capabilities and our people financial strength leadership target markets technologies and flexibility DESCRIPTION DESCRIPTION DESCRIPTION DESCRIPTION DESCRIPTION DESCRIPTION Partner with our customers.
Invest appropriately in exploring Create new products and services, Expand our portfolio through Attract highly qualified and skilled Maintain a strong balance sheet Create innovative solutions meeting newtechnologies and developing promote our products and services partnerships, licensing technologies, employees, engage our employees with healthy cash generation that our customers future needs.
through creative marketing campaigns acquiring businesses, and recruiting with exciting work and opportunities allows us to invest in organic growth, Adopt account-based marketing and Participate instandardisation and industry involvement, and develop and hiring experts in critical areas.
and retain the expertise and pursue strategic acquisitions and pay keyaccount sales management.
our sales channel to grow our business knowledge that we have built.
Focus onquality of service, in our global targetmarkets.
IMPORTANCE IMPORTANCE IMPORTANCE IMPORTANCE IMPORTANCE IMPORTANCE We operate in highly competitive and To achieve revenue growth, we need We have to deeply understand Our employees are central to our Having financial strength and flexibility If we work closely with our customers, specialised markets.
If we fail to invest to identify and capitalise on emerging technologies, networking strategy and success.
Our strategy means that we are able toact quickly we have the best chance of in the business at a sufficient level, we business opportunities in our target andapplications to develop isbuilt around innovation and when we see an opportunity to fulfil understanding and meeting their will see our market share decrease.
markets and expand the number of methodologies and solutions expertise.
Without the best possible our strategic priorities.
team, we will not be able to deliver Wewant our customers to view Spirent onour strategy.
as their go to solutions provider.
PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE 2 2 1,2 Revenue from top 20 customers Investment in product development Revenue Investment in Mergers & Acquisitions Voluntary employee turnover Free cash flow $258.2m $96.9m $476.9m nil 7.9% $50.9m 2017 $231.6m 2017 $103.0m 2017 $454.8m 2017 nil 2017 7.4% 2017 $56.4m COMMENTARY COMMENTARY COMMENTARY COMMENTARY COMMENTARY COMMENTARY We have reorganised and In our largest markets, we believe We identify, explore and assess We prioritised our investments We work on interesting challenges We value strong financial diligence developedour global sales team.
thatwe have strong technology newbusiness opportunities in our aligned to the market dynamics and atthe leading-edge of the within the Group.
Turning profit into leadership positions after the target markets in a timely manner business opportunities.
We see the cash remains a priority.
We have implemented Salesforce investment in the business over and objectively follow ourinnovation the areas ofinterest for potential direct impact of our accomplishments customer relationship management thelast three years.
Wehave achieved management and portfolio acquisitions and alliances that fit our in our customers success.
We software to improve interaction significant new product launches as a management processes.
continue to see voluntary turnover withour customers.
RISK RISK RISK RISK RISK RISK Loss of customer dependence Technology change and Technology change and Acquisitions underperform.
Read more on pages 27 and 28 Read more on pages 26 and 29 Read more on pages 26 and 29 Read more on page 29 Read more on page 29 Read more on page 26 Note 1.
Operating cash flow after tax, net interestand net capital expenditure.
Included in the Groups KPIs, read more on pages 22 and 23.
20 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION OUR GOALS STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES OUR VISION To continuously innovate anddevelop We have identified six priorities that we Spirents vision is to be our customers leading products andservices to believe are critical in order to achieve trusted adviser, partnering with them enable our customers to develop ourobjectives and, ultimately, our vision.
to enable and assure their product and devices andequipment and operate service offerings, and secure their ongoing complex networks.
4 5 6 Work closely with Establish and Grow our Acquire new Invest in Maintain our customers maintain technology business in capabilities and our people financial strength leadership target markets technologies and flexibility DESCRIPTION DESCRIPTION DESCRIPTION DESCRIPTION DESCRIPTION DESCRIPTION Partner with our customers.
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 21
