FINANCIAL 1 Group revenue increased by 3.5% Excluding acquisitions, disposals, 53rd week, and on a currency neutral basis, revenue increased by 0.7% 1 UK Sports Retail revenue decreased by 2.0% Excluding acquisitions, disposals and 53rd week, revenue decreased by 0.3% 2 UK Sports Retail like-for-like stores gross contribution was down 0.6% 1 European Sports Retail formerly International Retail revenue decreased by 0.1% Currency neutral, excluding acquisitions and 53rd week, revenue decreased by 3.2% European Sports Retail formerly International Retail like-for-like stores gross contribution 2 was down 2.0% Premium Lifestyle Retail revenue increased by 42.7%, due to an increased store portfolio and online sales Group gross margin decreased to 39.7% from 41.0%, due to acquisition accounting as a result of the acquisition of Bobs Stores and Eastern Mountain Sports, and increased inventory provisions 3 Group underlying EBITDA increased by 12.2% To 306.1m 4 Strong free cash flow pre-capex up to 326.2m increased from 257.4m in the prior year Reported Profit before tax was 77.5m, down 72.5% from 281.6m largely due to: an 85.4m impact from our Debenhams strategic investment due to current year fair value adjustments mitigated to some extent by investment income prior year investment income from the sale of JD Sports shares and disposal of the Dunlop brand Underlying Profit before tax increased by 34.5% to 152.9m Reported earnings per share fell by 88.3% to 4.6p 3 Underlying basic earnings per share increased by 74.6% to 19.9p Reported profit after tax was 27.6m down 88.1% from 231.7m Underlying profit after tax was 104.9m The reported tax charge is impacted by non-deductible investment costs in the current year and non-taxable investment income in the prior year 5 Net debt increased to 397.1m 182.1m at 30 April 2017, due to the purchase of own shares, strategic investments and investment in property set against a strong free cash flow Invested 140.0m in property assets as we execute our strategic priority to elevate our sports retail proposition 1 Headline growth includes the 53rd week in the prior year 2 Figure is on a 52 week currency neutral basis and with a consistent year on year inventory provision used 3 Underlying EBITDA, underlying Profit before taxation and underlying EPS exclude realised foreign exchange gains losses in selling and administration costs, exceptional costs, and the profit loss on disposal of subsidiaries, strategic investments and properties.
THE ELEVATION STRATEGY CONTINUES TO EXCEED EXPECTATIONS.
"AS THE PROPERTY PIPELINE AND BRAND RELATIONSHIPS ACCELERATE, WE ARE CONFIDENT IN ACHIEVING BETWEEN A 5% AND 15% IMPROVEMENT IN UNDERLYING EBITDA FOR THE COMING FINANCIAL PERIOD. """
Michael Murray Head of Elevation SPORTS DIRECT - ANNUAL REPORT 2018 9 REST OF WORLD RETAIL UK SPORTS RETAIL 64.9% Total Group Revenue 2,181.5m Down 2.0% UK Sports Retail includes core sports retail store operations in the UK, plus all the Groups sports retail online business globally, the Fitness Division, and the Groups Shirebrook campus operations, as well as the Heatons Northern Ireland stores.
Our store footprint is significant, with approx.
494 stores plus additional concessions across the UK, totalling approx.
The majority of stores are operated under the SPORTSDIRECT.
EUROPEAN SPORTS RETAIL 19.0% Total Group Revenue 637.2m Down 0.1% European Sports Retail formerly International Sports Retail includes all the Groups sports retail stores, management and operations in Europe including the Groups European distribution centres in Belgium and Austria, with 253 stores and approx.
During FY18, management continued to evolve the Groups approach to its European stores over the medium term and work to further tailor the Groups customer value propositions to our local markets.
5.7% Total Group Revenue 192.4m Rest of World Retail includes sports and outdoor retail stores in the US under the Bobs Stores and Eastern Mountain Sports fascias and their corresponding e-commerce offerings.
It also includes the Groups retail stores in Malaysia under the Sports Direct fascia and its corresponding e-commerce offering.
10 PREMIUM LIFESTYLE WHOLESALE & LICENSING FORMERLY BRANDS 4.8% Total Group Revenue 162.1m Up 42.7% The Groups Premium Lifestyle division offers a broad range of clothing, footwear and accessories from leading global contemporary and luxury retail brands through our fascias in the UK: Flannels, Cruise and van mildert.
Each fascia operates as a multi-brand premium retail destination, and is focused on providing fashion conscious shoppers with high-end and on trend products.
The segment is supported by our Group-wide centralised commercial and support functions, giving the benefit of scale and operating efficiencies to each fascia.
The segment is a significant part of the Groups new generation retail concept and as such, in certain locations, Premium and Lifestyle stores are co-located alongside our Sports retail stores to benefit from increased customer footfall and operating synergies.
5.6% Total Group Revenue 186.3m Down 22.7% The Wholesale & Licensing formerly Brands segment operates our globally renowned heritage group brands, and our wholesale, licensing and distribution relationships across the world, as well as our partnerships with third party brands that we license-in to sell certain products.
The Group's own brands are managed both individually and centrally within this segment.
This unique, integrated approach to brand management leverages the expertise of our people, encourages innovation, and ensures consistency.
The Group placed a strong focus during the year on its core UK and European Sports Retail business, in order to prioritise the continued development of our relationships with our key third party brand partners, as we elevate our sports retail proposition.
SPORTS DIRECT - ANNUAL REPORT 2018 HIGHLIGHTS & OVERVIEW 11
