Reputation Institute, April 2018 Internationalisation Retail Index, June 2018 STRATEGIC A new generation of stores and elevation across all channels to enhance the customer journey The elevation of our multi-channel retail proposition remains a key strategic objective.
To this end, we are improving the customer experience at every step of the journey.
We aim to deliver an unrivalled range, availability and quality of products both third party brands and Group branded products with different customer value propositions across our sports, lifestyle and premium fascias.
The elevation strategy continues to enhance and improve our stores and all our digital operations, our product offering, and our marketing channels.
This is vital to strengthen our relationships with our key third party brand partners, to deliver benefits for consumers, and to drive the Groups long-term profitability.
The active management of our property portfolio remains a critical enabler of the strategy, as it facilitates the development of elevated retail space required by third party brands.
This is a five to ten year programme, which as previously stated will see us invest approx.
1.0bn in property assets i. e. approx.
300m per annum for the first two to four years.
During FY18, we have continued to roll out a new generation of stores.
These include large format flagship-style megastores in strategic retail locations that may include one or more of the Group's fascias on a single site, plus a fitness gym where appropriate.
"""I am particularly pleased that Sports Direct has not only been named among the ten companies with the most improved reputation in the UK, but also that we were ranked among the top five in an index of international retailers."
Im pleased that our Underlying EBITDA has come in at the top end of our expected range at 306.1m as we indicated this time last year, and also that the underlying profit after tax has increased substantially to 104.9m.
Mike Ashley Chief Executive SPORTS DIRECT - ANNUAL REPORT 2018 HIGHLIGHTS & OVERVIEW 7
