Strategy at a glance Delivering against our strategic targets Strategic priority 2018 achievements Key performance indicators Risk 2019 priorities Sales volumes of new products launched in the past five Protection of IP Commence investment in 1.
Research and 21% years was at 21.0% a record performance for Synthomer.
state-of-the-art Asian Competition and failure Sales volumes from new development and innovation centre for Introduction of fifteen new product platforms across to innovate products launched in the 2020 completion.
technical expertise to ten application areas.
past five years Volatility in chemicals Further market penetration and polymers market exploit new markets Market approval and commercialisation of patented of SyNovus and new SyNovus next generation Nitrile latex product.
We anticipate market trends and customer product launches.
requirements to deliver improved products with Board approval to invest in new state-of-the-art Accelerate product transfer improved margin and product differentiation.
activities to support new global business structure growth strategies.
Utilised value gap analysis to embed operational Volatility in chemicals Continued use of our 2.
Driving efficiency 181.0m 3.52 excellence tools and drive improved performance and and polymers market Manufacturing Excellence Underlying EBITDA Energy consumption and excellence site restructuring opportunities.
process to drive SHE GJ tonne improved performance.
through operations Portal introduced to standardise global SHE reporting Loss or failure of a and accelerate learning and action delivery.
Roll out new tools in 135.1m Synthomer site We operate continuous improvement across commercial, supply chain, Underlying PBT 0.23 our operations to improve production efficiency, Completed the roll out of our global customer Ethics HR and Procurement to Recordable accident sales effectiveness and functional excellence.
relationship management system across the business further improve efficiency Financial risks frequency rate We seek to identify good practice in all areas of to trace new product leads, capitalise on customers and effectiveness.
our business and ensure that relevant learnings needs and enhance cross selling opportunities.
Brexit are disseminated throughout the business.
Under new business Strong progress of strategic procurement initiatives, structure drive sharing of securing additional tankage to enhance our supply best practice globally.
chain resilience, mitigate risk and further leverage procurement of raw materials.
Competition and failure Completed debottlenecking of our site in Marl Use value gap methodology to 3.
Capacity utilisation 181.0m 135.1m to innovate Germany to increase production of foam latex.
identify and unlock hidden Underlying EBITDA Underlying PBT Our aim is to drive profitability through capacity in our assets.
Volatility in chemicals Completed disposal of Leuna Germany site and maximum utilisation of our assets.
This involves and polymers market commenced restructuring of Ribcourt France, Kluang Progress site restructure identifying the root causes of production Malaysia and Sokolov Czech Republic sites as part of plans and new opportunities 32.8p 1,517.6 Loss or failure of a bottlenecks and finding innovative solutions.
the development of the manufacturing network.
to optimise manufacturing Underlying EPS Volume Wet ktes Synthomer site network and extract value.
Brexit 90ktes Nitrile latex capacity at Pasir Gudang Malaysia Manufacturing capacity Complete capacity expansion 4.
Investment 181.0m 135.1m safely on time and on budget in Q4 2018. expansion projects of Functional Solutions 36ktes Underlying EBITDA Underlying PBT in capacity speciality acrylic dispersions Completed capacity and capability expansions at SBR Volatility in chemicals and facility in Worms Germany.
We seek to add capacity in growth markets plants in Marl Germany and Oulu Finland, and powder polymers market where investment opportunities meet our coatings in SantAlbano Italy.
Complete capacity expansion 32.8p 1,517.6 Brexit stringent capital management policies.
of Functional Solutions Underlying EPS Volume Wet ktes 12ktes speciality acrylic dispersions facility in Roebuck USA.
We completed the acquisition of BASF Pischelsdorf Availability of suitable We remain highly active in 5. Business growth 181.0m 135.1m Austria on 31 January 2018 with one strategically opportunities identifying, targeting and Underlying EBITDA Underlying PBT through acquisitions positioned plant, and improved penetration of the reviewing opportunities, Failure of acquisition growing packaging paper market.
both in relation to bolt-on We actively seek opportunistic boltto deliver benefits acquisitions and on acquisitions in similar chemistries or Delivered PAC Dispersions synergies run rate savings 32.8p Valuation and financial transformational step transformational step change transactions of $12m by end of 2018 with commitment to further Underlying EPS market volatility change transactions in not limited by geography or chemistry.
$2m of run rate savings by end of 2019. adjacent chemistries.
18 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2018 Governance 58-92 Group financial statements 93-144 Company financial statements 145-156 Other information 157-160 Strategic report IFC-57 Strategic priority 2018 achievements Key performance indicators Risk 2019 priorities Sales volumes of new products launched in the past five Protection of IP Commence investment in 1.
Read more on pages 30-31 Read more on pages 32-37 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2018 19
