Strategic report At a glance We always aim to be the UKs leading value for money connectivity provider of all our products.
What we do Broadband and Voice We offer our retail and business customers simple, affordable, reliable and fair connectivity for broadband and voice products.
Through a combination of owned and leased assets, our fixed line network currently covers approximately 96% of the UKs homes.
In our retail division, our Fixed Low Price Plans FLPP offer customers unique propositions with price certainty over the length oftheir 12, 18 or 24 month contracts, whilst allowing them to switch to new offers even whilst in contract.
Our Fast Broadband FLPP is our standard fixed price broadband plan designed to cater for the needs of individual users or households that do not require increased download speeds available via a fibre connection.
Broadband connectivity is provided via a standard analogue telephone line using ADSL technology, which allows for download speeds of up to 17Mbps.
Within our business division, we have a Direct channel, where we offer a range of data connectivity solutions, from business broadband and fibre, through to high-value Ethernet circuits and Wide Area Networks.
Across our Voice portfolio we offer bothLegacy Voice and Next Generation Voice services.
We also have a Partner channel which accounts for c. 83% of TTBs revenues where we provide both managed and wholesale solutions.
Voice and Data revenues are generated through long termrelationships, several of which are multi-year contracts.
Our managed partners primarily address the consumer and small business market, delivering voice services, broadband and fibre.
Having a wholesale offering allows us to work with systems integrators, such as Fujitsu, which often combine connectivity and data solutions from multiple providers to offer large customers such as the Post Office a bespoke solution.
TTB also provides voice interconnect services to a range of international mobile operators terminating calls in the UK.
Fibre We offer both retail and business customers access to fibre broadband connectivity, provided via our Fibre to the Cabinet FTTC network using VDSL technology.
Our retail Faster Fibre Broadband FLPP is designed for households with a number of devices that need to be connected to the internet at the same time, offering download speeds of up to 38Mbps or 76Mbps with a fibre speed boost.
We also offer fibre connectivity to business customers providing them with totally unlimited broadband, allowing them to do more online at the same time, with five times faster download speeds.
We are making good progress in putting TalkTalk at the heart of Britains fibre future FTTP by building a full fibre network, bringing faster, more reliable internet to millions of homes and businesses.
In York our Ultra Fibre Optic broadband is helping us to provide our fastest ever broadband speeds 1,000Mbps.
Further to this, we recently announced our plans with Infracapital to create an independent company that will roll-out full fibre to over 3 million UK homes and businesses over the medium term.
TV TalkTalk TV lets our retail customers pick and mix their perfect TV package with up to 80 Freeview channels, as well as flexible access to an extensive range of premium content from Sky, BT Sport and Netflix.
Our YouView set top box enables customers to pause, rewind and record live TV.
That, combined with our catch-up TV service and TalkTalk TV store app, provides the customer with flexible, great value entertainment.
Mobile We have simplified our mobile offering, moving away from our previous MVNO proposition.
Our new simple and compelling proposition allows customers to access unique offers in partnership with O2 that are only available to TalkTalk customers.
We also offer a variety of mobile plans for businesses giving staff access to voice, email and internet data on the move on afast4G network powered by O2.
02 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Our business Fixed low price plans Customers 2 million 4.1 million Unbundled exchanges Ethernet connections 3,000 51,000 Customer downloads a month Employees 339 million GB 2,288 uSwitch Best Broadband, Best Workplace TV and Home Phone Winner 2018 Winner 2018 How we are connected Owned equipment in3,000 exchanges Owned equipment incollector Exchange backhaul in ring 10 Gbps optical circuit or 110Gbpsoptical circuits dark fibre supplied by BT, SSE, supplied by BTOpenreach Last mile supplied GEO, VMand Eircom orVirgin Media by BTOpenreach Owned equipment Ethernet inregional collector Fibre to theCabinet FTTC nodesto extend core optical network Fibre to thePremise FTTP Home and business Street cabinet Unbundled exchanges Collector node Dark fibre sourced under long term leases in a competitive market Last mile with no capacity constraints Price-regulated copper andEthernet Fibre partially regulated Core optical network Two separate national networks with 8Tbps Huawei and 1.6Tbps Infinera capacity For more information see our 18 Chief Financial Officers Statement TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 03
