AT A GLANCE TBC Bank is the established leader in the Georgian banking sector.
We are known for our strong financial performance, commitment to excellence and constant pursuit of innovation.
We pride ourselves on having the best digital capabilities, unrivalled customer experience and the countrys most recognised brand.
WHO WE ARE NUMBER ONE MARKET 1 POSITION BY ALL KEY METRICS We are the largest banking group in Georgia by all key metrics, leading the market in terms of total assets, total loans and total deposits.
We also hold a dominant position Total in all of our key segments - retail banking, micro, small 38.8% loans and medium enterprises MSME and corporate banking.
In addition, we provide a wide range of other financial Total services including insurance, leasing, investment banking 41.2% deposits and brokerage services through our subsidiaries.
Loans to Through our advanced omnichannel distribution 40.0% individuals platform, which encompasses the best-in-class digital channels and a vast network of branches, we are able to Loans to serve a customer base comprising of approximately 83% 37.4% legal entities of Georgias adult population.
Deposits to 41.2% individuals KEY OPERATING DATA Deposits to 41.2% legal entities Number of customers: c. 2,400,000 Retail : c. 2,300,000 OUR CORE VALUES MSME: c. 130,000 Build a happy and success-oriented team Corporate: c. 2,800 Create a client-centric culture Build a straightforward business model and honest relationships Pursue innovative approaches Number of branches: 149 Deliver strong, sustainable financial results Make a positive impact in the community Number of employees: c. 7,300 1 Based on data published by National Bank of Georgia as of 31 December 2018 4 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 HOW WE ARE DIFFERENT Focus on financial services Best-in-class digital channels We have a clear business model focused on financial As we operate in the digital world, we are continuously services.
We primarily engage in banking and related investing in technology and upgrading our operations activities as well as other services that enhance, support in order to be able to provide our customers the most and generate synergies with our core business.
Such a innovative solutions on the market.
We are proud to have dedicated approach helps us to concentrate all our efforts world-class Internet and mobile banking applications and on what we do best and constantly seek for new ways to to be the pioneers in the country with the first Georgianfine-tune our value proposition.
As a result, we have built speaking chat bot and voice biometric recognition system strong expertise and a significant competitive advantage, in call center.
Our most significant achievement this year which will help us to bring the company to the next level.
was the launch of Space, the first digital only bank in Georgia.
Superior customer experience Our strategy leverages on our key Impeccable customer service is part of our DNA and we strengths and aspires to create maximum are committed to delivering the best customer experience across all our channels.
We invest significant time and effort value to our customers by developing the to understand the evolving needs of our customers and most innovative solutions to satisfy their fine-tuning our solutions according to their preferences.
2 We have scored the highest customer satisfaction in the daily needs.
banking sector for many years in a row and hold a leading Find out more about our strategy on pages 14 to 23. position among other service providers across the country.
Strong brand TBC Bank is a highly admired brand in Georgia.
It is renowned for its credibility, excellence, innovation and community service.
We act with integrity and transparency in all our undertakings and strive to create value for all our stakeholders including shareholders, customers, partners, employees and the community at large.
TBC Bank has also received many country, regional and global awards, including Best Bank in Georgia, by respected international magazines such as The Banker, EMEA Finance, Euromoney and Global Finance.
2 According to the surveys conducted by the independent research companies ACT and IPM TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 5
