2 Strategic report At a glance We are a global firm of professional intermediaries that plays a central role in the worlds wholesale financial, energy and commodities markets.
Our brands We operate a global portfolio of highly respected brands, each with a separate and distinctclient offering.
Global Broking Energy & Commodities Institutional Services Data & Analytics Our vision, purpose, method and values Our vision Our purpose What we want to be What we want to do To be the most trusted and respected data and market execution To provide access to financial markets and facilitate the flow of provider in the financial, energy and commodities products that capital, energy and commodities around the world, improving we transact.
pricing and contributing to economic growth.
Our method Our values How we accomplish our purpose How we seek to act Our people utilise their skills and experience, combined with How we conduct ourselves as individuals and as a Group is as a strong technology offering, to work in close partnership important as the products and services we provide.
We want to with a diverse range of clients to deliver services.
We continually have a business culture that allows us to serve our clients in the enhance our services and our operations as our clients needs and best possible way, and holds up to the most intense scrutiny.
preferences change and as markets and the regulatory Our values, which underpin everything we do, are: environment evolve.
Honesty Integrity Respect Excellence TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 3 How we transact Read more about how we transact in our business model on pages 4 and 5.
1 2 4 3 TP ICAP Oil Its January To fly Brian there To get a fixed In August in August the airline price for the fuel Brian jets off and Brian is needs to spend the airline uses a to Portugal.
looking to buy money on fuel.
a plane ticket Rather than run TP ICAP helps the to Portugal in the risk of the price airlines bank buy August for his of fuel increasing that derivative.
by the time the The airline sells plane takes off in August, the airline the ticket to fixes the price of fuel Brian for 200. now in January.
Mortgages Sophie is She finds a To protect Sophie moves moving house good deal themselves from into her new and wants from her bank potential interest home.
to get a five who give her a rate rises, the bank year fixed rate mortgage to buys a financial mortgage.
help her buy her product to help new home.
them an interest rate swap.
They use TP ICAP to get the best price for this interest rate swap.
FX Motion car Motion is worried Their bank uses Motion have company, that the US Dollar TP ICAP to certainty over based in the UK, might increase in buy a foreign the price of needs to ensure value over that exchange steel and is it has enough time.
Motion derivative that able to meet steel to meet want to have fixes the price production $ $ demand for its certainty about of US Dollars demand.
cars over the the US Dollar compared to next year.
The price it will pay the pound.
price of steel is for the steel so it in US Dollars.
goes to its bank to get a fixed price.
Financial Information John has a To get an accurate The financial data ABC Pension pension with value, ABC providers have in Fund provides ABC Pension Pension Fund turn been provided an up to date Fund managers needs financial the information pension fund and receives information and from TP ICAP.
statement for a statement market prices on TP ICAP has a rich John.
This everything John supply of financial statement sets owns.
ABC Pension data from tens out the value of Fund gets this of thousands of all his pension information from transactions we fund assets.
financial data execute every day.
