Strategic report Our strategy is to build and operate the UKs leading STRATEGY AT portfolio of student accommodation, designed A GLANCE specifically for students, in the right locations with services that our students and University partners value.
1 Quality properties 2 Quality service platform 3 Quality University partnerships 20 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Strategic report p0151 Corporate governance p5299 Financial statements p100155 Other information p156160 Current strategic focus 2018 in review Objectives for 2019 Link to performance Portfolio optimisation through Opened seven new properties Continue to increase the quality Net asset value development, disposal and of our portfolio through targeted Purchased a 678-bed scheme Earnings per share lifecycle to ensure we have the acquisitions and disposals in Wembley via forward fund right properties in the right Higher Education trust score Continue to align our portfolio locations, aligned to the Disposed of 180 million of with midto high-ranking Customer satisfaction score.
strongest Universities assets which no longer fit Universities in cities in which with our strategy.
Ensuring our buildings are we already have a presence, safe and secure for customers to drive efficiencies.
and colleagues, and environmentally sustainable.
Read more about Quality properties on page 12 Maintaining high Occupancy rate of 98% and Maintain high occupancy levels Earnings per share occupancy rates 3.2% rental growth and rental growth of 3.03.5%.
Customer satisfaction score Delivered further improvements Delivering continuing Net asset value in NOI and overhead efficiency rental growth measure.
Deliver ongoing efficiency improvements though our proprietary operating platform Continue to enhance the service we provide to meet the needs of todays students.
Read more about Quality service platform on page 12 Strengthening our partnerships Secured further University Pursuing additional University Net asset value with midto high-ranking partnership schemes in Oxford, partnership schemes to deliver Earnings per share Universities London and Bristol, totalling further growth and long-term 2,497 beds security of income Higher Education trust score.
Grow the proportion of Unite beds aligned to mid- 90% of beds now aligned to Increase beds under long-term to high-ranking Universities midto high-ranking Universities.
Continue to increase quality of nominations agreements.
Read more about Quality University partners on page 12 Read more about R emuneration on page 86, KPIs on page 22 and Risks on page 24 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 21
