Executive Chairmans review Investment opportunities 53 new sites were opened in the year, slightly ahead of our target of 50 new openings.
Mitchells & Butlers is the UKs largest operator Our vision of restaurants and pubs, with a leading portfolio of well-recognised brands and a high quality To be the UKs preferred choice for informal eating-out, with freehold estate.
Food is our largest selling product having grown by 30% over the last four great brands that satisfy key customer occasions and grow years and this has helped generate a 16% rise in shareholder value.
profits per site over the same period.
As a result, the estate has high average weekly sales and annual profitability per site, at over 22k and Our strategy 180k respectively, both well above the average of our major competitors.
We will achieve our vision through the consistent delivery of This year has seen good progress towards our five strategic imperatives: achieving our strategic objectives despite a challenging consumer and inflationary cost environment.
We continue to actively develop 1 Focusing the business on the growth in the eating-out market and implement a number of sales and cost initiatives that will help further enhance our 2 Developing national brands with high customer affinity competitive position.
and relevance Sales growth The Retained Estate delivered 4.9% sales growth in the year with total food sales 3 Generating high returns on investment through scale growth of 7.8% and drinks sales up 2.3%.
advantages On a like-for-like basis, sales growth in the financial year was 2.6% with food like-for-like 4 Extending the skill base of operational excellence and sales up 4.8% and drink up 1.0%.
consumer focus FY 2010 FY 2011 FY 2012 Week Week Week Like-for-like sales growth 1-52 1-52 1-8 5 Continuing the sound financial base with a flexible approach Total 2.8% 2.6% 2.0% to property ownership Food 4.7% 4.8% 1.8% Drink 1.4% 1.0% 3.0% Over the first eight weeks of the new financial year our like-for-like sales grew by 2.0% which reflects the impact of strong early sales, driven by good weather, on an underlying current run rate of around 1%.
Mitchells & Butlers plc 02 Annual report and accounts 2011 Overview Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Operating profit Business initiatives The Retained Estate operating profit increased The Group is actively implementing a number in the year by 1.1% driven by higher sales and of business initiatives to underpin future 1 6 increasing restaurant and pub numbers.
profitability and increase long term shareholder New sites on leisure and retail parks.
These include a reorganisation of the Operating margin was down 0.7 percentage Groups IT infrastructure and an initiative to points to 16.3% due to a number of inflationary simplify the central support functions.
These industry-wide cost rises relate to increases in food, energy, Central support processes will be improved 48 alcohol duty, National Minimum Wage, business by devolving greater responsibility and 48 existing sites converted to rates and the introduction of the Carbon accountability to customer facing operations, expansion brands.
Efficiencies in areas in order to enhance the guest experience and such as purchasing and wastage reduction continue to grow the business.
The first stage mitigated some of the impact of these cost of this programme is the appointment of Robin pressures.
Young as Operations Director with accountable brand groups reporting directly into him, each Brand roll-out led by a Brand Operations Director.
Robin There continue to be good freehold and was previously Commercial Director and has leasehold investment opportunities to develop significant operational and change management new sites across our brand portfolio.
As a result experience across a variety of companies.
53 new sites were opened in the year, slightly Further changes in operational and central ahead of our target of 50 new openings.
These support structures are anticipated and as a include 21 of the 22 Ha Ha Bar & Grill sites result, a consultation period is being initiated acquired in November 2010, 16 new sites on within the Group.
leisure and retail parks and 16 other, mainly freehold sites.
During the year we also Outlook converted 48 of our existing sites to our The consumer environment remains expansion brands.
We expect inflationary cost pressures to persist in the new financial year, EBITDA returns on expansionary capital have especially from energy, duty and food.
We improved from 19% as at the half year to 21%, will seek to mitigate the impact of these cost with our new openings programme performing increases with the effective implementation especially well.
Within this, our investments in of our business initiatives and will continue leasehold retail and leisure park sites have to take advantage of attractive capital delivered particularly strong returns of over investment opportunities.
Overall, Mitchells 30% and we see a good pipeline of & Butlers strong portfolio of assets, brands opportunities to expand further in this area, and operational skills means that it is well alongside our continued investments in new positioned to grow further in the year ahead.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2011 03
