OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 4 Governance 49 Chairmans letter Dear shareholders Patrick Cescau, our senior independent director, has now served on the board for more than nine years.
This year, we are reporting against the revised UK The board has discussed in detail Patricks record and Corporate Governance Code the Code.
contribution as a director and considers him to be Role of the board vigorously independent.
Given his experience as chief executive of a major global company, he currently plays The Pearson board consists of senior executive an invaluable role in advising on our global expansion management alongside a strong group of non-executive and organisational design.
We have therefore asked directors drawn from successful international Patrick to continue on the board.
He has agreed, but businesses and education institutions with experience advised us that he will wish to stand down by the end of corporate strategy, education, consumer marketing of 2013.
In the meantime, he will stand down from the and technology.
audit and remuneration committees, both of which will The board is deeply engaged in developing and measuring continue to have a majority of independent directors.
the companys long-term strategy, performance and Succession planning value.
We believe that it adds a valuable and diverse set of external perspectives and that robust, open The board views succession planning not only at debate over significant business issues brings a valuable board and executive committee level but considerably additional discipline to major decisions.
deeper as one of its prime responsibilities.
This is especially the case in a creative business like Pearson We organise our work around four major themes which is heavily dependent on talented people.
where we believe the board can add value: governance, strategy, business performance and Each year we devote one full meeting to organisation people.
Our board calendar and agenda provide structure and succession planning, and how they ample time to focus on these themes.
support delivery of our strategic goals.
We look in detail at 20 to 30 of the most senior roles in Pearson, Board composition ensuring that there are several credible candidates We are continually assessing and refreshing the board for each role.
Those candidates will be well known to to achieve an appropriate balance and diversity of the board who spend considerable time visiting our skills and experience.
businesses and people outside the regular schedule of board meetings and will have development plans We recently added two new non-executive members in place to round out their experience and skills and to the board.
Josh Lewis brings extensive knowledge of give them every possible chance of progressing education, technology and the development of digital their careers.
businesses: Vivienne Cox adds significant management experience, an understanding of natural resource We hope this report clearly sets out how your markets, which are key to the development strategies company is run, and how we align governance and our of many emerging markets, and a deep personal board agenda with the strategic direction of Pearson.
interest in education and sustainable development.
We always welcome questions or comments from shareholders, either via our website We continue to search for a non-executive director www.
com or in person at our annual who brings additional expertise in emerging markets, shareholders meeting.
following C K Prahalads untimely death in 2010.
We are making good progress in this regard.
In the light of Lord Davies report on Women on Boards and the new Code provisions on gender Glen Moreno Chairman diversity, we report that Pearson has four female board members constituting one-third of the board.
All were appointed for their outstanding records of achievement in their respective fields, and for the significant skills and insights that they bring to our company.
