Governance Chairmans introduction to governance The Board remains committed to the highest standards of corporate governance with the aim of continuing to enhance its effectiveness.
The Annual Report is the principal Although I firmly believe we do have means of reporting to our shareholders good governance in place and operate on the Boards governance policies.
effectively as a Board, there is always This Report sets out how the main and room for improvement.
Each year supporting principles of good corporate we carry out a detailed performance governance contained in Section 1 of evaluation of the Board and each of the the Combined Code June 2008 version, Committees as well as of the Directors have been applied in practice.
The Code and the Group General Counsel & is publicly available on the Financial Company Secretary.
Further details of Reporting Council FRC website the review are set out later in this report.
com One particular aspect I am always mindful of is the need to ensure that the Following the publication of the updated Non-executive Directors continue to Combined Code now the UK Corporate have appropriate up to date knowledge Governance Code by the FRC in June and understanding of both South West 2010 and the issuance of the FRCs Water and Viridor as they develop and Guidance on Board Effectiveness in pursue new initiatives.
It is with that in March 2011 we took the opportunity to mind that during the year the Board Dear shareholder review our governance practices and has had a number of visits to key sites procedures.
Whilst we will be reporting I am pleased within both South West Water and formally on the updated Code in next Viridor and has met and discussed years Annual Report as required by to introduce current issues with key managers and the updated Code, I am pleased to employees across the Group.
Our visits the Corporate say that our review has indicated that have been to a broad range of waste we are well placed to comply fully with plants in Scotland, Greater Manchester Governance Report its provisions.
and near London Lakeside, Household Role of the Board and its effectiveness Waste Recycling Sites and traditional for 2011 on behalf My primary role as Chairman is to and modern sewage treatment facilities.
provide leadership to the Board and The Board has also received a number to provide the right environment to of presentations on key developments Ken Harvey enable the Directors and the Board as a in the businesses including remote whole to perform effectively to promote monitoring, sustainable energy saving Chairman, the success of the Company for the and environmental protection initiatives.
In doing Pennon Group Plc As reported last year, the Board has so we take account of the interests of been considering the options available our customers, employees, suppliers, for an externally facilitated performance communities in which we operate and evaluation in accordance with the other interested stakeholders.
During 34 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance Financial statements 2011 12 the Board will be undertaking I also actively encourage the Compliance with Combined Code an evaluation supported by an participation of shareholders at our and other requirements independent external consultancy, with Annual General Meeting AGM and I am pleased to report that throughout the aim of achieving real added value for as usual at our 2011 AGM on 28 July the year the Company complied with the Directors and the Board as a whole.
all our Directors aim to be present the provisions and applied the main together with a number of directors and principles of Section 1 of the Combined Shareholder engagement executives of South West Water and Code with no exceptions to report.
The Directors and I recognise the Viridor to meet with shareholders to importance and value of regular My introduction to this Corporate discuss the business of the Group.
Governance Report and the following This ensures that we understand their Annual re-election of directors sections are made in compliance needs and wishes and hopefully that It is Pennon Groups view, along with with the Combined Code, FSA Listing we provide them with confidence many other companies and interested Rule 9.8.
6 and FSA Disclosure and that we have the right governance parties, that the decision of the FRC in Transparency Rules 7.1 and 7.2 and structures, processes and systems updating the Combined Code to include cover the work of our Board and in place to assist us in achieving our a provision for the annual re-election its Committees: our internal control stated objectives.
of all directors was not in the interests systems and procedures including risk of companies generally and could be management: our corporate governance A regular dialogue with the Companys detrimental to good governance.
Our statements relating to share capital and institutional shareholders is maintained concerns are that it can encourage control: and our Going Concern and through a comprehensive investor short-termism by shareholders and Directors Responsibilities Statements.
During the year removes the protection provided in most some 60 meetings with institutional Ken Harvey companys Articles of Association to shareholders including with prospective Chairman ensure that there is a continuing number shareholders were held and attended 22 June 2011 of directors on the Board who have by the Group Director of Finance and the in-depth experience and understanding Companys Investor Relations Manager.
It could also make The Chief Executive of South West it more difficult to recruit new board Water, the Chief Executive of Viridor and members.
Even though we regard this I also attended when appropriate.
The change as not being in the interests Group Director of Finance reports to the of companies or their shareholders, Board regularly on major shareholders we nevertheless do wish to ensure full views about the Group and every six compliance with the updated Code months a presentation is received by wherever possible and therefore the the Board from the Companys Brokers Board has agreed that each Director will on equity market developments and stand for re-election at the 2011 AGM.
Along with many other companies we will monitor the effect of this provision over time.
Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 35
