Overview Strategy and KPIs Performance Governance Financials Other information Chairmans Corporate Governance Introduction I consider that good corporate governance for a public David Thompson has informed the Directors of his company starts with a stable and experienced board of intention to retire from the Board at the conclusion of the directors with a diverse range of expertise and experience.
David joined the Board in 1999 and has Persimmon has been fortunate in having a stable Board, served with distinction on the Board and its Committees with only three Chief Executives and three Chairmen and more latterly as Senior Independent Director.
His wise in the 26 years since the Company floated in 1985.
The counsel and objectivity willbe hard to replace.
Board has set the standards and values expected of all The Board held its annual strategy meeting in October its management and employees throughout the Group 2011.
The non-executive Directors have a considerable and continues to provide guidance to all its operating understanding of our business and the experience and businesses to ensure good corporate governance.
personality to constructively advise and assist the executive The Board supports and has implemented the principles Directors in formulating the Companys strategy.
The ofthe UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 the Code.
Boards strategy, including the long term capital return of We believe that the principle of comply or explain which 1.9bn to shareholders over the next nine and a half years forms the basis of the Code remains important, particularly is set out in the Chief Executives Review on pages 10 to 15. in these difficult economic times.
I am pleased to report the It also includes the Groups health and safety strategy and Company complied with the Code throughout 2011. performance, and matters affecting the Groups reputation.
During the year the Board also reviewed its attitude to risk The Company prides itself on the quality of its Board and continues to maintain a conservative attitude to risk.
The executive Directors have extensive The Board has approved a revised Risk Register and the housebuilding experience and expertise with an average Groups principal risks are set out on page 25.
21 years service with the Company and 12 years on the Board.
The non-executive Directors have extensive The main governance priority for the Board during experience in retail, property, regulatory fields, capital 2012 is succession planning, and we will be seeking the raising and financial markets and an average tenure of appointment of a new non-executive Director in due five years on the Board.
In making a new appointment we will be taking into account our diversity policy and the recommendations After an extensive search, the Board appointed Mark of the Davies Report to increase representation of women Preston as a Director of the Board on 9 January 2012. on boards by 2015.
The Board will also be undertaking its Marks background and experience as Group Chief first externally assisted Board evaluation during 2012 and Executive of Grosvenor Group brings a wealth of the results will be reported next year.
commercial and residential property expertise outside ofthe new homes market to the Board.
Nicholas Wrigley Chairman 27 February 2012 Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2011 29
