Chairmans Statement on Corporate Governance The UK Corporate Governance Code the 20% of the Board is female and 50% is and consistency in the development and Code was issued by the Financial non-UK nationals: application of the Companys strategic Reporting Council FRC in May 2010 to objectives.
The composition of the Board is one 22% of the Executive Committee is female replace the Combined Code on Corporate of the key actions arising out of the 2011 and 78% is non-UK nationals: and Governance.
It has been applicable to the Board evaluation.
Company from the start of the financial 15% of the Top 40 managers is female and As part of the review of the Boards year ended 31 December 2011.
The Code 75% is non-UK nationals.
effectiveness, the documents setting out the was revised to encourage greater transparency Additionally, 13% of the Top 40 managers can matters reserved for the Board and the in corporate reporting with an increased be classed as Black or minority ethnic BME.
delegations to the CEO together with the terms focus on Board behaviour and to stimulate When added to the number of female Top 40 of reference for the Board Committees were increased participation from Shareholders.
In managers, 28% of the Top 40 managers come reviewed and updated, where necessary, to accordance with the Code, I am pleased to from the groups usually under-represented in ensure that they continue to reflect the spirit report to you directly on Reckitt Benckisers most organisations.
The recent appointments to and emphasis of the Code, remain fit for governance activities.
the CEO and CFO roles and the addition to the purpose and relevant to how Reckitt Benckiser RB and Governance Executive Committee were two females and operates.
The Board believes that implementing and one BME.
Explanation on Areas of Non-compliance maintaining high governance standards Board Evaluation and Succession Planning strict interpretation underpin our business objectives and our drive The Code recommends that FTSE 350 The Board recognises that the objective of the to create and maximise Shareholder value.
In companies should undertake an external Code is to facilitate managements delivery of addition to compliance with the best practice evaluation at least once every three years.
The business success in a transparent and advice from regulatory and governance bodies, 2009 and 2010 Board evaluations and the responsible manner.
The Code does not impose the Board ensures that high ethical standards recent evaluation for the year ended 2011 were a rigid set of rules and recognises that certain are reflected in business behaviour and culture all undertaken internally.
The Board recognises actions and behaviours do not automatically through the global Code of Conduct which the benefits an external evaluation can bring to imply poor organisational governance.
The enables management to add ethical and Board processes but took the decision to Board has authorised an explanation for the behavioural standards to the legal and undertake the 2011 evaluation internally due to following areas where a strict interpretation regulatory obligations existing in the areas and Company specific circumstances.
Both the CEO might lead to a perception of non-compliance communities in which we operate.
All and CFO are new appointments to the Board with certain areas of the Code: employees and contractors are required to and an external evaluation will be of greater complete an annual conduct training course I, as the Chairman, and Peter Harf, the benefit after these Executive Directors have had which includes the review of the global Code Deputy Chairman and Shareholderan opportunity to spend at least one full year in of Conduct policy.
Statistics on employee nominated Director, have both served on the their respective roles.
compliance are subject to review by the Board for more than nine years and will be Audit Committee.
An external provider will be selected to assist offering ourselves for re-election at the with the evaluation of the Boards performance 2012 AGM: Annual Re-elections to be conducted during 2012.
Information on In the 2010 Annual Report, the Board The Nomination Committee did not comprise the process and outcomes for the 2010 and confirmed that it had adopted a wait and see a majority of independent Non-Executive 2011 evaluations is set out below.
approach to the recommendation that all Directors for most of 2011.
The five Directors should submit themselves for An action arising from the 2010 Board members were Adrian Bellamy, Peter Harf, re-election at each AGM.
The majority of the evaluation was succession planning to the Judith Spreiser, Kenneth Hydon and the CEO.
Board was up for election or re-election at the Board and senior management roles.
Directors Graham Mackay, the Senior Independent AGM in 2011.
The Board has resolved that all were keen to ensure that members of Reckitt Director, was appointed as an additional Directors will submit themselves for re-election Benckisers senior management were given member of the Nomination Committee in at the 2012 AGM and future AGMs in more external exposure.
Good work is November 2011 to increase the numbers of compliance with this Code provision.
During 2011, Rakesh Non-Executive Directors Independent Kapoor attended results presentations and a members of that Committee: and Diversity number of investor events prior to his Lord Davies of Abersoch wrote to the Chairs of For a brief period before his resignation from appointment as CEO designate.
The CEO RB all FTSE 350 companies on 24 May 2011 the Board on 8 February 2011, Colin Day Pharmaceuticals, one of Reckitt Benckisers Top following his Women on Boards review.
One was a Non-Executive Director of two other 40 managers, delivered an overview of the RB recommendation from that letter was that each FTSE 100 companies.
Pharmaceuticals US business during the 2011 FTSE 350 company should aspire to have a half-year results presentation.
The Board has The Board has instructed me to confirm that, minimum of 25% female representation on its reserved to itself decisions relating to succession notwithstanding the foregoing disclosures, Board by 2015. and succession planning to Executive each Directors independence of thought and The Board is also conscious of the FRC Committee roles.
Additional information on actions was assured and all decisions were recommendation that the Code be amended to Reckitt Benckisers succession planning activities taken to promote the success of Reckitt require listed companies to establish a policy on is on page 13 of the Business Review.
boardroom diversity, including measurable The current Board includes Peter Harf who, as a Statement of Compliance with the Code objectives and annual disclosures on progress.
 Director, was not The Corporate Governance Report on pages Although the requirement to have a diversity independent on appointment.
Both Peter and I 23 to 27 contains a summary of the Companys policy has not yet been formally implemented have served for more than nine years.
In governance arrangements as required under in the Code, the Board has instructed its SVP addition, Judith Sprieser and Kenneth Hydon the Code.
Except as explained above, the Human Resources to develop a policy that will have been on the Board for nine years by Company has complied with the Code reflects the existing strengths of Reckitt the end of the 2012 financial year.
This position throughout the year ended 31 December 2011.
The proposed policy will has to be balanced against the fact that Rakesh maintain our strong foundations and provide a Kapoor, the CEO, Liz Doherty, the CFO, Richard Adrian Bellamy platform for Reckitt Benckiser to build on its Cousins and Warren Tucker will all have been in Chairman excellent diversity credentials.
their roles for three years or less.
It is important 9 March 2012 Ensuring, facilitating and driving diversity in its that the Board retains relevant knowledge and broadest sense has helped drive the success of experience to continue its delivery of the Company to date: Shareholder value and to provide continuity 22 2011
