Governance Corporate governance Letter from the chairman Dear Shareholder, Your board devotes much of its time to reviewing, debating and challenging proposals for investment from management, as well To achieve our vision of global leadership in the mining and as dealing with a wide range of other issues including safety, metals sector, we must maintain the highest standards of the Groups strategic direction, monitoring business performance, corporate governance.
In the section that follows, we focus on optimising capital allocation and expenditure whilst carefully our corporate governance framework and practice, provide you evaluating the wide range of risks facing the business.
As you will with further details about the board and explain how it carries read in the sections that follow, the board committees, under the out its responsibilities to safeguard the Groups assets.
I hope effective leadership of their respective chairs, carry out important this will demonstrate to you that the way in which we conduct and demanding roles on the boards behalf and facilitate the our business supports our strategic aim of creating long-term, embedding of effective governance across the organisation.
sustainable returns to you, our shareholders.
As they typically come from a wide range of backgrounds, In this letter, I wanted to share with you my views on the we provide new board members with a detailed induction composition of the board, its continued evolution, the importance programme and extensive training.
I also lead a rigorous we place on diversity, and on sound and effective corporate evaluation exercise of the performance of the directors each year governance, which I see as fundamental to the successful delivery and having just completed this for 2011, I am very comfortable of our strategy.
with the contribution each member of the board is making.
My role as non-executive chairman is to lead the board and Resulting from that evaluation, I also support the need for to ensure it is focused on its oversight of management and the continuous improvement and the desire for a renewed focus on delivery of our strategy.
Tom Albaneses role, as chief executive, the Groups strategic position relative to its peers, as well as how is to focus on sustained operational excellence and growth of the we will deal with the growing human resource and productivity business and to do so safely.
Our roles are complementary, but challenges facing the sector generally.
importantly, they are distinct, with our respective responsibilities I believe that our non-executive directors cannot make an set out in writing and in a form which has been approved by effective contribution without the familiarisation and deeper the board.
understanding gained through site visits.
So in 2011, the directors For me, the delineation between these executive and visited our operations in the Pilbara, Western Australia: and our non-executive roles is crystal clear: the non-executives have coal operations in Queensland, Australia.
Future visits are planned oversight of the executive management team whilst the executive, to the Groups new operations in Mozambique, and to our under Toms leadership, have an operational role based upon established operations in South Africa.
Indeed, of the eight board our vision of leadership in the mining and metals sector.
The meetings held in 2011 five were in the UK, two in Australia and non-executive directors nevertheless exercise a strong and one in Canada.
deliberately challenging role in the board decision-making process We want to ensure we have people on your board for whom and ensure appropriate control mechanisms are in place to safely corporate governance is not simply a set of rules: we need implement our strategy and plans.
those who are also willing to embrace it openly and appreciate With me as chairman, the board comprises three executive how we want the Group to be managed in the interests of all directors and ten independent non-executive directors, all of our stakeholders.
Good governance is, in essence, at the heart whom meet our own independence criteria, which are in turn of everything we do.
based upon the requirements of the corporate governance codes I would welcome your feedback.
in the UK, the US and Australia.
Yours sincerely, We are a balanced and diverse board.
The directors bring with them truly international experience from a wide range of professional, business and public office backgrounds.
For Rio Tinto, diversity embraces a range of different measures, including, of course, gender diversity.
We have adopted a diversity and inclusion policy with measurable objectives for achieving diversity across the company, including on the board.
More Jan du Plessis information on this policy is set out in this report.
Chairman When I was appointed three years ago I made it clear that one of my objectives was to gradually and systematically refresh the board.
Since then our Nominations committee, which I chair, has dedicated considerable attention to succession planning, both non-executive and executive.
The composition of the board has changed considerably in this period.
It will continue to evolve as we constantly review the profile, skill sets, diversity and individual qualities of our non-executives against the current and future needs of the business and the ever-changing environment in which we operate.
