41 Governance Chairmans introduction In 2011, the nominations committee commissioned an external review of the Boards effectiveness by JCA Partners LLP.
I am very pleased to report that the review found that all members of the Board were united in believing the Board worked very well and that it is seen as an effective Board with a unity of purpose.
The review is described in more detail in the nominations committee report on page 48.
In September 2011, we issued our response to the Davies Report on women on boards confirming our support for the development of a diverse workforce.
We govern this through our Global Diversity and Inclusion Steering Group, the membership of which includes main board directors and senior executives.
The nominations committee discusses Following the introduction of the UK Corporate this topic regularly and expects to make demonstrable progress in this area by 2015.
Governance Code, I am pleased to be able to provide a fuller view of the operation of the In this report, the Board has taken account of the concerns expressed by the Financial Reporting Review panel February 2011 about how Board and to confirm how the Company has companies are reporting risks and the discussions of the Financial met its obligations.
Reporting Council FRC summarised in Boards and Risk September 2011.
The working of a Board cannot be captured and tabled by a standard In December 2011, the Board received a detailed report from the risk approach and this introduction, and the following pages, allied to the committee including a review of all internally significant risks, which, usual committees reports, will I hope provide a clear insight into the following discussion, confirmed and defined the Boards tolerance for risk, corporate governance structure and practices of Rolls-Royce.
ensured all directors understood the Groups risk exposure and provided an impact review of potential changes in risk.
The Boards committee structure has been reviewed during the year and due to the importance of safety in our business, both in terms of the safety We have therefore endeavoured to make sure that the risks we identify on of our products and the health and safety of our employees, the Board has pages 34 and 35 are indeed the key risks facing the Group, to ensure that agreed to the introduction in 2012 of a safety committee, which will be we eliminate risks expressed in generic terms and to show how risks are chaired by Sir Frank Chapman.
The safety committees terms of reference, managed.
A description of our risk management process is set out in the once reviewed and approved by the Board, will be added to those of the risk committee report, detailed on page 51. other committees on the Groups website.
In December 2011, the FRC published a paper entitled Developments in In accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code Corporate Governance 2011 in which it expressed concern about the level the Code, all Board directors are required to seek re-election at the AGM of reporting of the activities of a companys committees in the annual in 2012.
Following the performance evaluation process, I am pleased to report, particularly the work of the audit committee.
As a result, I have confirm that each of the non-executive directors performance and asked the committee chairmen to make personal reports in this years contribution continues to be timely, thoughtful, challenging and relevant.
Annual report in order to provide greater insight into committee work.
In addition, each has provided, and continues to provide, excellent commitment to the role, ensuring sufficient time is available for meeting In January 2012, the UK Government announced its intention to introduce preparation and non-scheduled meetings.
However, I would advise that reforms to the way directors remuneration is set, approved and reported.
Sir Peter Gregson has decided to retire at the 2012 AGM and will not seek At Rolls-Royce, we believe strongly in the alignment of executive rewards re-election.
to the creation of long-term shareholder value.
In the report by the chairman of the remuneration committee on pages 52 to 54 we have The Board continues to support our longest serving non-executive endeavoured to provide a clearer view of how we believe we achieve that director, Peter Byrom, who has been a Rolls-Royce Board member since and we will engage in a positive way with the proposals outlined by the 1997.
We are a complex and technologically advanced company with a UK Government.
long business cycle from the development of an engine to its eventual retirement, and the Board greatly values Peters independent experience I believe that the strength of the Companys corporate values, its and his continuing contribution to debate.
In supporting Peter, the Board reputation and its ability to achieve its objectives are influenced by the has taken full account of the Codes requirement to consider carefully a effectiveness of the Companys approach towards corporate governance, non-executive directors independence where that director has served on which is why the Board will continue to attach the highest priority to its the Board for more than nine years from the date of their first election.
compliance with the Codes principles.
The Group values its communications with existing and potential shareholders who offer a rich and diverse source of capital to fund the future growth of the Group.
Our engagement with shareholders is Sir Simon Robertson described in more detail on page 42.
Chairman Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual report 2011 Governance
