46 Governance Report from Lewis Booth Chairman of the audit committee Work of the committee in 2011 Financial reporting The committee reviewed the form and content of the Groups Annual report and financial statements, half-yearly results announcement and interim management statements.
In conducting its reviews of these publications, the committee considered reports prepared by management, business assurance and the external auditor.
Amongst other things, these reports covered the key areas of judgement and sources of estimation uncertainty described in note 1 of the financial statements, such as: long-term aftermarket contracts: the carrying value of intangible assets, including the forecasts on which these are based: I am pleased to present my first report post-retirement benefits: provisions: and contingent liabilities.
describing the work of the audit committee, The focus at the meetings in February and July was on the Annual report having taken on the role of chairman of the and financial statements and half-yearly results announcement respectively, including the going concern statement therein.
The May and committee from July 31, 2011.
November meetings reviewed the interim management statements and considered those matters which it was expected would require I would like to acknowledge the work of my predecessor, Ian Strachan, consideration at the following half year and full year.
who took the chair at short notice in October 2010, ensuring the committee maintained its critical appraisal.
The results of the recent board Business assurance evaluation confirmed that the audit committee works well and has a good In May and November, the Head of Business Assurance presented a relationship with the finance function, which I intend to continue under summary of the reviews performed in the previous six months and the my chairmanship.
results of control self assessment returns from the businesses.
The committee reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control environment Membership and the progress on the phased increase in business assurance resources.
The committee consisting of non-executive directors met four times in It noted the introduction of audit committees at business sector level, 2011 and attendance by the members is shown in the table on page 43. attended by KPMG, to improve the governance structure and, at the November meeting, reviewed and agreed the work plan for 2012.
During the year, KPMG KPMG Audit Plc the external auditors, the Head of Business Assurance and the General Counsel and Company Secretary In February, the Head of Business Assurance tabled a report on the attended the meetings, together with the Chairman of the Board, Chief compliance with the Groups policies in respect of expenses incurred by Executive and Finance Director.
Other Board members and or senior the directors and other senior executives.
executives attend meetings at my invitation.
Auditors The General Counsel, and the Head of Business Assurance, have direct KPMG presented its group audit strategy and plan and the proposed audit access to the committee.
fee and in February, the committee reviewed the directors representation letter to be given to KPMG in respect of the Annual report and considered Responsibilities the independence and objectivity of the auditors.
The committee recommends the financial statements to the Board and reviews the Groups financial reporting and accounting policies, including Non-audit fees formal announcements and trading statements relating to the Companys The committee reviewed non-audit fees charged by KPMG at each financial performance.
It oversees the relationship with KPMG and the role meeting and performed its annual review of the limits for pre-approval of and effectiveness of the internal audit function business assurance.
committee reviews the Groups procedures for detecting, monitoring and managing the risk of fraud and the Groups internal controls and systems Expenditure on audit and non-audit services is set out in note 7 to the for assessing and mitigating risk.
The committees terms of reference are available on the Groups website at Other matters www.
During the year, the committee received presentations on risk management from the Chief Information Officer and the President of the The Boards review of the risk management process and its statement Gas Turbine Supply Chain.
The committee reviewed and amended its own on internal control as required by the Turnbull guidance is contained terms of reference including the removal of its oversight of the whistleon page 69. blowing policy.
This will now be the responsibility of the ethics committee, subject to any financial irregularity being reported to the audit committee.
Private meetings As part of the governance structure, during the year, the committee met with the Finance Director, KPMG and the Head of Business Assurance.
In advance of each meeting, I also meet the lead audit partner in private.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual report 2011 47 Governance Report of the audit committee Non-audit services provided by KPMG In order to safeguard auditors independence and objectivity, the following policy is applied in relation to services provided by the auditors: Audit related services the auditors undertake these services as it is work that they must, or are best suited to, perform.
It includes formalities relating to borrowings, grants, shareholder and other circulars, risk management services, various regulatory reports and work in respect of acquisitions and disposals: Tax, accounting and mergers and acquisitions the auditors are used for this work where they are best suited to undertake it.
All other significant consulting work in these areas is put out to tender: All other advisory services consulting the auditors are generally prohibited from providing these services: and Audit committee pre-approval this is required for non-audit fees exceeding pre-determined thresholds which vary according to the nature of the service being proposed.
As noted above, the audit committee reviews the level of non-audit fees at every meeting.
External auditors appointment Annually, the committee reviews the effectiveness and performance of the external auditors with feedback from committee members, business assurance and group finance.
The lead audit partner is required to rotate every five years and other key audit partners are required to rotate every seven years.
The current lead audit partner has served four years of his term.
No contractual obligations restrict the committees choice of external auditors.
The committee and the Board has recommended the reappointment of the existing auditors.
Accordingly, resolutions to reappoint the external auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, and to authorise the directors to determine the auditors remuneration, will be proposed at the AGM on May 4, 2012.
I hope that you will vote in favour of the resolutions as the directors intend to do in respect of their own shareholdings.
Lewis Booth Chairman of the audit committee Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual report 2011 Governance
