50 Governance Report from Ian Strachan Chairman of the ethics committee Use of third party intermediaries At each meeting, the committee received reports upon the Groups use of third party intermediaries.
The committee ensures that agreements with intermediaries are subject to strict and continual review.
These reviews cover matters such as payments to intermediaries, their qualifications and the business case behind the necessity for their use.
Global Code and supporting policies At the July and November 2011 meetings, the committee reviewed the Global Code, issued in 2009.
Following internal and external scrutiny of its quality, which demonstrated that it continued to represent best-in-class standards, it was decided that the Global Code would not require a major Conducting our business in accordance update in 2012. with the highest ethical standards is critical Nevertheless, the committee agreed that continued training and to the long-term success, profitability and communications should take place to ensure the Global Code maintained a high profile across the organisation.
New and updated policies in prosperity of Rolls-Royce.
support of the Global Code were reviewed and endorsed.
These included policies covering whistle-blowing, conflicts of interest and competitive The ethics committee was formed in 2008 and consists exclusively of intelligence.
These policies, supported by appropriate training and independent non-executive directors.
During 2011, the committee met communications activity, became effective during the year.
three times and details of its membership and attendance can be found in the table on page 43.
The Director of Risk, who had executive responsibility Confidential helpline reports for ethics during the year, attended the meetings as did the General At each meeting the committee received reports on calls made to the Counsel and Company Secretary.
The Chairman of the Board, the Chief confidential reporting line Tell Us and the helpline Ask Us.
These Executive, the Head of Business Ethics and the Chief Compliance Officer reports summarised the trends in the numbers of contacts, including were also invited to attend meetings of the committee on a regular basis.
analysis by category of geographical spread and the outcomes of the investigations undertaken.
Information on the nature of the higher risk Responsibilities cases was also reviewed.
The Board believes strongly that the Groups business should be conducted in a way that reflects the highest ethical standards and Global Principles of Business Ethics for the Aerospace and Defence Industry established the ethics committee to: At its February 2011 meeting, the committee agreed that Rolls-Royce review compliance with the Groups Global Code, which sets out should sign a statement of the Global Principles of Business Ethics for the the principles and rules to be followed by employees when Aerospace and Defence Industry.
As a signatory, the Group has committed conducting business: to follow programmes and policies that foster ethical business conduct.
review recommendations on ethical matters made by external More information about the Global Principles can be found at regulatory authorities, or other bodies, and make recommendations to www.
the Board about whether these should be applied to the Group: and monitor reports on issues raised through the Groups confidential The committee believes that Rolls-Royce maintains an environment in reporting line and review the results of any subsequent investigations.
which all employees understand the standards of behaviour expected of them and feel able to report any suspected breaches of the Global Code The full terms of reference for the committee are available on the Groups and that conducting business in accordance with the highest ethical website at www.
standards is critical to the long-term success, profitability and prosperity of Rolls-Royce.
The work of the committee during 2011 During the year, the committee received reports on the ethics and compliance programmes which continued the extensive activity undertaken in 2010.
Reports were received on the following key topics: Ian Strachan Chairman of the ethics committee Anti-bribery and corruption ABC compliance programme In 2011, the Group reviewed its policies and procedures ahead of the introduction of the UK Bribery Act the Act.
This work included updating the Groups policies covering gifts and hospitality, as well as third party intermediaries and other related areas.
The Company also created a compliance organisation, led by a Chief Compliance Officer, to oversee the introduction of the new procedures and to ensure staff received appropriate training.
The Group was fully compliant with the new Act upon its introduction on July 1, 2011.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual report 2011 51 Governance Report from John Rishton Chairman of the risk committee illustrated the movements in the Groups risk profile over the past five years: described improvements that had been made to the risk process, tools and reports: reported on the status of the business continuity programme: and provided an overview of the Groups insurance programmes.
As noted in the Chairmans introduction, the Board, with the assistance of the risk and audit committees, has determined the Groups approach to the management of risk.
The committee ensures all of the risks on the register are discussed at Board meetings, either in the normal course of business or through specific reports.
The Groups key risks and We have a well established approach uncertainties are described in the table on pages 34 and 35, together with highlights of how the risk will be managed.
Risk management The risk committee is responsible for developing and, following Board We recognise that managing risks is a vital part of delivering our business review and approval, implementing the Groups risk management strategy results.
Risks are defined as threats to the achievement of business and mitigation policy.
Its full terms of reference can be found on our objectives or to the continuing reputation of the Group and may arise website at www.
All of the executive directors are from a variety of internal or external sources.
Our managers are responsible members of the committee and, during the year, the Director of Risk, the for applying the global risk policy in their day-to-day management General Counsel and Company Secretary and all of the members of the activities and promoting a culture of learning from and sharing prior GLT attended the meeting.
In 2011, the committee met twice and details experience within their teams.
The quality of decisions is improved by of the members who attended can be found in the table on page 43. employees taking responsibility for communicating key risks to appropriate levels of management.
The committee has noted the challenges made by the Financial Reporting Review Panel February 2011 as well as the recent summary on Boards and The risk policy and risk management process form a key element of the Risk issued by the FRC September 2011.
We have made a number of Groups internal control system.
The structured process is used to identify, improvements in this area over the year, including expanding our assess, communicate and manage risks at all levels of the organisation, employee training and enhancing our focus in the Asia-Pacific region.
aided by an enterprise-wide software solution.
A dedicated enterprise risk management team, now reporting to the General Counsel, is responsible Work of the committee during the year for disseminating the risk management process and tools throughout the In 2011, the committee continued to discuss and agree proposed organisation.
A global network of risk champions, mentors and facilitators additions, deletions and amendments to the top level corporate risk helps share and embed best practice.
register and considered the mitigation of those risks.
This is the committees principal item of business at each meeting.
The top level corporate risk register reflects the outcomes of business unit, programme and function risk reviews.
Risks and associated actions are At its meeting in June 2011, the Director of the Product Introduction and owned by a senior executive, reviewed and discussed by the risk Lifecycle Management PILM programme gave a presentation on the PILM committee and communicated to the Board.
The risk management process, which applies across all product programmes covering all of our process is continually improving and has been in place throughout 2011 business sectors and geographical locations.
The committee also reviewed and up to, and including, the date of approval of this Annual report.
an initiative to improve the Groups intelligence on political and country risks as it enters new territories.
In addition, it discussed the Groups The Boards review of the risk management process and its statement preparedness in respect of business continuity and crisis management.
on internal control as required by the Turnbull guidance is contained on page 69.
In November 2011, the committee considered a report from the Director of Security on data privacy.
In addition, it reviewed the Groups insurance programme.
It also reviewed and recommended certain minor changes to its terms of reference.
The committee also considered the format of its John Rishton annual report on risk to the Board which: Chairman of the risk committee set out the significant risks that it considered might have a financial or reputational impact to the Group and described the associated plans to manage mitigate the risks: described changes that had been made to the nature and extent of risks since 2010: Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual report 2011 Governance
