Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 33 Governance Chairmans letter Dear Shareholder Introduction I want to set out in this letter how governance underpins our activities in Severn Trent and describe how we apply the principles of good corporate governance as set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in 2008 Combined Code.
Compliance with the Combined Code The Combined Code sets out standards of good practice that listed companies are expected to follow in areas such as how we structure the board appropriately and develop its members, how we pay and reward our executive team, our accountability and audit, and our relationship with our shareholders.
Andrew Duff For the whole of the financial year ended 31 March 2011, Severn Trent was fully compliant Chairman in its application of the Combined Code.
Our compliance with the Combined Code demonstrates our commitment to the highest Governance in Severn Trent standards of governance and corporate behaviour.
The Combined Code has been replaced The way we are structured during the financial year by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The events in our Our organisation is structured to allow corporate markets over the previous two years necessitated a review of the Combined for effective and efficient decision Code and your board encouraged and supported the changes that the new Code has making with clear accountabilities.
Our response to the consultation on the review of the Combined Code is available for you to view on the website of the Financial Reporting Council, www.
The way we choose to behave The UK Corporate Governance Code applies to accounting periods beginning on or after Our Code of Conduct sets out our 29 June 2010.
Our formal obligation for 2011 is to report how we have applied the principles approach to responsible business of the Combined Code.
Board membership The Code of Conduct is supported by From 10 May 2010 the board has consisted of me, your non-executive Chairman, five 14 group policies and our behaviour executive directors and five independent non-executive directors.
Further details of the Code of board, I believe we bring an appropriate balance of innovation, experience, independence Conduct can be found on our website and challenge to ensure effective decision making.
Photographs of the members of the board, together with their biographies and a description of the skills that they bring to bear, can be found on pages 30 and 31.
The way we assure our performance Management assurance is provided Further to the publication of the Davis Report, Women on Boards, in February this year, by a combination of effective boards of FTSE 350s have been encouraged to promote greater female representation management processes and risk and on corporate boards.
Recent guidance from the Financial Reporting Council has also compliance activities.
highlighted the importance of greater diversity of psychological prole around the board table.
Independent assurance is provided primarily by Internal Audit, by our I consider that diversity in the board room is essential to good business, helping companies external auditors and other external better to meet the needs of their stakeholders.
As part of our ongoing board membership renewal we will ensure that our recruitment and appointment processes continue to ensure that all appointments are meritocratic and that The way our board represents the best interests of shareholders.
we are Role of the Chairman structured I joined the board in May 2010 and was appointed Chairman from the end of the AGM, on 20 July 2010, replacing Sir John Egan.
The role of the Chairman is to lead a unied board, facilitating its members at its meetings, The way The way and to be responsible for ensuring that the principles and processes of the board are we choose we work to behave maintained in line with the Board Governance document.
Agendas for our meetings are agreed in consultation with the Chief Executive and Company Secretary, although any director may request that an item be added to the agenda.
I have authority to act and speak for the board between its meetings, including engaging with the The way we assure our Chief Executive.
I report to the board and committee chairmen as appropriate on decisions performance and actions taken between meetings of the board.
I also meet with the non-executive directors without the executive directors present, to consider the performance of the executive directors and to provide feedback.
Governance 34 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance Chairmans letter continued Senior independent non-executive director Group Authorisation Arrangements Richard Davey is the senior independent non-executive director.
He chairs the The Group Authorisation Arrangements Remuneration Committee and is a member of the Audit and Nominations Committees.
GAA are the framework through The board has agreed that Richard Davey will act as Chairman of the board in the event which the Severn Trent Plc board that I am unable to do so for any reason.
authorises the right people, at the right Non-executive directors level, to take important decisions as we Your non-executive directors are appointed to the board to contribute their external expertise manage legal, financial and administrative and experience in areas of importance to the group such as corporate finance, general issues throughout the group.
The GAA are designed to facilitate good control, finance, corporate strategy, environmental matters, general management and supply chain management.
They also provide independent challenge and rigour in the boards efficient decision making and deliberations and are encouraged to make independent assessments of the groups demonstrable compliance.
The non-executive directors, led by Richard as the senior independent The ow of authority is from the Severn non-executive director, meet without me at least once a year, where there is an opportunity Trent Plc board to the Chief Executive.
In for them to appraise my performance.
respect of certain issues, the delegated Your board has reviewed the status of the non-executive directors and considers them all authority is subject to an obligation to work with specialist business services to be independent in character and judgement and within the denition of this term in the Combined Code and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
areas such as Tax, Treasury, Finance and Company Secretariat that provide Chief Executive additional expertise and a group wide The board has delegated all responsibility beyond its matters reserved to the Chief perspective.
Executive to achieve the companys strategy.
The Chief Executive, Tony Wray, is empowered to take all decisions and actions that further the companys strategy and which Governance of subsidiaries in his judgement are reasonable, having regard to the Chief Executive limits set out in the The board of the listed company, companys Group Authorisation Arrangements GAA.
Severn Trent Plc, is the same as that Executive directors of its subsidiary, Severn Trent Water The executive directors support Tony in driving strategy forward in Severn Trent.
This structure was implemented are committed to implementing strategy in a responsible way that takes account of our in 2007 when it was decided to commitment to long term responsible stewardship of the business, the environment, integrate the management of the our customers and the communities in which we live and work.
companies to gain greater focus, transparency and effectiveness around Role of the Company Secretary Severn Trent Water.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, Fiona Smith, and the Company Secretariat team.
The Company Secretary is responsible for The two companies operate as distinct ensuring that the board operates in accordance with the governance framework it has legal entities.
The boards have regard to adopted and that there are good information ows to the board and its committees and the Severn Trent Plc Board Governance between senior management and the non-executive directors.
document and the Severn Trent Water Limited Matters Reserved to the Fiona retires from her role at the AGM in July 2011.
We wish her a long and happy Board.
They are assisted through the retirement and on behalf of the board, I offer her our thanks for her services over the past management of separate agendas, five years.
meetings and minutes by the Company Bronagh Kennedy will succeed Fiona.
Bronagh is a qualied solicitor and until recently was Secretariat and advised in their the Company Secretary and General Counsel at Mitchells and Butlers plc.
meetings by the Company Secretary where appropriate.
The appointment and resignation of the Company Secretary is a matter for consideration by the board as a whole.
Subsidiary company boards are required to be managed scrupulously with respect Induction to all legal, scal and administrative On joining the board, directors are evaluated and then provided with a comprehensive and matters.
In particular, the relationships individualised induction pack that includes notes on the group structure, the regulatory between Severn Trent Water Limited and framework of the operating businesses within the group, financial reports and business our other businesses such as Severn plans and information on our governance framework.
Trent Services are monitored and Meetings are arranged with members of the executive management team and external controlled to ensure that we comply with advisers who provide support to the relevant board committees the directors may serve on.
our Ofwat obligations on arms length Visits to operational and ofce sites across the group are also arranged for directors transactions.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 35 Continuing professional development Shareholders The directors received updates throughout the year on matters such as the Flood and Water The board recognises the importance Management Act and the impacts of the proposals on private drains and sewers.
There was of representing and promoting the also an opportunity to review and understand the outcomes of an exercise to evaluate our interests of its shareholders and that business plan for AMP5.
it is accountable to shareholders for We are creating individual programmes for learning and development.
The programmes will the performance and activities of be reviewed by me with each director as part of the annual performance and effectiveness the company.
reviews undertaken by the board.
Retail shareholder engagement Performance and effectiveness reviews strategy Last year Sir John Egan, my predecessor as Chairman, carried out an internal review on the The board has an active shareholder effectiveness of the board and its committees.
The board discussed the outcomes of that engagement strategy, the main elements review in July 2010 and the outcomes gave me some insights into the operations of the of which are set out below.
board and its committees that have been helpful to me during my first year as Chairman.
The Annual Report and Accounts is the July 2011 marks my first full year as Chairman.
I will commence an external review of the principal means of communicating with board, committees and the directors in November 2011 and will report back to you on the shareholders.
The group adopted outcomes of that review in next years report.
e-communications after they were Board processes approved by shareholders as an We have processes in place regarding: alternative means of receiving company information at the 2007 annual general our tasks and activities board membership and administration : meeting.
As at 5 May 2011, 39,723 the matters specically reserved for our decision making, the authority delegated to the shareholders receive company Chief Executive, the accountability of the Chief Executive for that authority, and guidance communications via electronic methods on managing the relationship between us and the Chief Executive: and whilst 28,521 shareholders continue to receive communications by post.
the boundaries on Chief Executive action Chief Executive limits.
The companys website An approved Board Governance document outlines those processes and is available on our www.
com contains an website www.
archive of annual reports together with The board has reserved the following for its own consideration: other information relevant to investors.
the appointment of the Chief Executive, directors, the Company Secretary and the This includes comprehensive share price information, financial results and Director of Internal Audit: financial calendars.
the strategy and budgets of the company: The company offers a Dividend the GAA which set out the groups delegated approval limits: Reinvestment Plan DRIP.
Details of decisions regarding the company and its subsidiaries required to be made by the the DRIP are available on the company companys GAA, constitutional documents, statute or external regulation: and website and the website of Equiniti, our registrar.
the approval or adoption of documents including the publication of reports and statements to shareholders, required to be made by the board by the companys GAA, Further shareholder information can be constitutional documents, statute or external regulation.
Board meetings Financial calendar We have regular scheduled meetings throughout the year.
22 June 2011 Ex-dividend date for Papers, including minutes of board committees held since the previous board meeting and 2010 11 final dividend performance reports, are circulated in advance of each meeting.
24 June 2011 Record date for There is an agreed procedure in place which allows directors to take independent 2010 11 final dividend professional advice in the course of their duties and all directors have access to the advice 20 July 2010 AGM and services of the Company Secretary.
Where a director has a concern over any 29 July 2011 Payment date for unresolved matter he she is entitled to require the Company Secretary to minute that proposed 2010 11 final concern.
Should the director later resign over the issue, I, as Chairman, will bring it to the dividend attention of the board.
24 November 2011 Announcement date for 2011 12 interim results 13 January 2012 Payment date for proposed 2011 12 interim dividend Governance 36 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance Chairmans letter continued Board attendance in 2010 11 Reporting obligations As a publicly listed company, the Sir John Egan 3 3 Martin Kane 7 7 company has a range of reporting Tony Ballance 7 7 Martin Lamb 6 7 obligations to meet that are set out by Dr Bernard Bulkin 7 7 Michael McKeon 7 7 law and regulation.
The company is committed to the promotion of investor Richard Davey 7 7 Baroness Noakes 7 7 confidence by taking steps within its Andrew Duff 5 6 Andy Smith 7 7 power to ensure that trade in its Gordon Fryett 7 7 Tony Wray 7 7 securities takes place in an efficient and informed market.
In addition to the formal board meetings, your board attended two full day strategy sessions this year, where the board and executive management team together considered Severn The company recognises the importance Trent Services and also the most significant risks facing the company.
During the financial of effective communication as a key part year, five ad hoc meetings of the board were convened to consider such matters as Severn of building shareholder value and that, Trent Plcs preliminary and interim results and interim management statements.
to prosper and achieve growth, it must among other things earn the trust of Board committees security holders, employees, customers, We have established committees of the board to deal with specic issues or approvals, suppliers and communities, by being as and when necessary.
open in its communications and The four permanent committees of the board assist in the execution of its responsibilities consistently delivering on its and the board delegated some of its responsibilities to those board committees.
committees assist the board by focusing on their specic activities, fullling their roles and The company announces its results on responsibilities, reporting to the board on decisions and actions taken, and making any a half yearly basis and complies with necessary recommendations.
the requirement to make interim The terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees comply management statements.
with the provisions of the Combined Code and are available for inspection, together with the terms of reference of the Corporate Responsibility Committee, on the companys website The Chief Executive has established a www.
com or may be obtained on written request from the Company Secretary Disclosure Committee, chaired by the at the address given on the back cover.
Finance Director, with specic responsibilities for the delivery of the year Each of the committees has reviewed its effectiveness and terms of reference during the end reporting processes.
The Committee year and any necessary actions have been identied and reported to the board.
oversees the delivery of an integrated Reports from the Chairmen of these committees are set out on pages 39 to 55 of this report.
plan incorporating all elements of the Terms and conditions of appointment year end reporting process, namely the We have made the terms and conditions of appointment of the directors available for groups final results announcement and inspection by any person at the companys registered ofce during normal business hours.
report and accounts, the companys AGM, the statutory and regulatory They will also be available at the AGM.
The letters of appointment of the directors can also be seen on our website www.
accounts of Severn Trent Water Ltd and the June Return to Ofwat.
Remuneration The Directors remuneration report is set out on pages 43 to 55.
Insurance and indemnities Severn Trent purchases directors and ofcers liability and indemnity insurance to cover its directors and ofcers against the costs of defending themselves in civil proceedings taken against them in that capacity, and in respect of damages resulting from the unsuccessful defence of any proceedings.
Interests No director had a material interest at any time during the year in any contract of signicance with the company or any of its subsidiary undertakings.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 37 Conicts of interests update Institutional shareholders and analysts The board has a full process in place to authorise situational conicts in accordance with the Presentations are made to shareholders provisions of the Companies Act 2006. and analysts following the release of the For any actual or potential conicts, the following procedure has been adopted by the board interim and year end results.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director meet to consider and, if it sees t, to authorise situations where a director has an interest that conicts, or may possibly conict, with the interests of the company: shareholders during the year.
The Chairman and, if appropriate, the senior the director will notify the Chairman and Company Secretary of the actual or potential independent non-executive director are conict: available to meet shareholders if the Nominations Committee will consider the notication and determine whether it needs required.
The board receives written to be proposed to a board meeting for authorisation: and feedback following meetings with institutional shareholders and monitors the conict will be considered by the board at a scheduled board meeting.
shareholder activity on a quarterly basis Full details of the conict will be sent to directors in advance of the meeting.
If there is a at its meetings.
major conict or it is decided that authorisation should not wait until the next scheduled In December 2010, 50 people attended meeting, the board would be asked to authorise the conict by way of written resolution.
the Severn Trent Investor Day, entitled In addition to reviewing any conicts notied and proposing them for authorisation by the Winning in a changing world, hosted by board, the Nominations Committee monitors changes to previously notied conicts and the Chief Executive and Finance Director any conditions imposed.
Half yearly reports are made to the board of all directors conicts at our ofces in Coventry.
and directors are reminded from time to time of their obligations.
An annual review of conicts is carried out and this is incorporated into the year end process of verifying directors interests.
Annual general meeting The AGM of the company will be held at the International Convention Centre, Broad Street, Birmingham B1 2EA at 11am on Wednesday 20 July 2011.
The AGM is shareholders opportunity to feedback to the company on performance, management and the way we work in a very direct fashion through the way they vote either in favour of the resolution, against the resolution or by withholding their vote so that it does not count either for or against.
It is also shareholders opportunity to meet informally with directors and senior management before and after the meeting and ask formal questions during the meeting.
The board encourages shareholders to attend the companys AGM and exercise their right to vote.
The notice of meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Separate resolutions are proposed on each substantially separate issue.
Presentations are made on the groups activities and performance prior to the formal business of the meeting.
Shareholders have the opportunity to ask questions of the board and present their views.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Corporate Responsibility, Remuneration and Nominations Committees, together with all other directors, will attend the AGM.
The company uses electronic voting at the AGM, allowing shareholders present at the meeting to register one vote per share held.
Results of the poll on each resolution, including details of the votes for and against registered prior to and at the meeting, proxy votes and the number of abstentions will be displayed at the meeting.
The poll results and a list of questions and answers from the AGM will be made available on our website after the meeting.
At the 2010 AGM, over 50 shareholders registered for Severn Trents Shareholder Networking Programme which took place on 30 March 2011.
The aim of the programme is to offer retail shareholders the opportunity to learn more about the company, through a combination of site visits and talking to staff.
Governance 38 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance Chairmans letter continued The event was hosted by Martin Kane, Director of Customer Relations and a member of the board.
Twenty participants were taken to Minworth, to our Sewage Treatment Works, for a tour and presentation on renewable energy.
This was followed by a visit to our new headquarters at the Severn Trent Centre.
Positive feedback was given on the organisation and content with strong support for the company continuing the programme, both from shareholders and employees who enjoyed the positive interest shown in their work and their part in explaining what work they did.
Your board encourages those shareholders attending the 2011 AGM to register for this years visit.
Reappointment Under the companys articles of association, all directors are required to retire and submit themselves for appointment or reappointment if they have been appointed by the board since the previous Annual General Meeting or if it is the third Annual General Meeting following that at which they were appointed or last reappointed.
However, the UK Corporate Governance Code now requires that all directors of companies in the FTSE 350 index such as the company should be subject to annual election by shareholders.
Accordingly, the directors will all retire at this years Annual General Meeting and submit themselves for reappointment by the shareholders.
Conclusions At Severn Trent, we are committed to operational excellence and continuous improvement, supported by good governance.
We run our business in a manner which is responsible and consistent with our belief in transparency and accountability.
Good governance is not simply an exercise in compliance.
For Severn Trent it is a vital aspect forming a foundation for the sustainable growth of the business.
I rmly believe that Severn Trent will continue to achieve profitable and sustainable growth for our company through the successful mix of good governance, a clear business plan and strategy and strong management team.
