Corporate Governance Chairmans introduction to corporate governance Sir John Buchanan Chairman Smith & Nephew is a Groupwhich takes great pride not only in what we do, but in how we do it 46 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2011 Corporate Governance different parts of the world.
Visiting our manufacturing, distribution, Dear shareholder, training or sales and marketing ofces and sites gives us a more Smith & Nephew is a Group which takes great pride not only in what detailed perspective and interacting with our talented people stimulates we do, but in how we do it.
The Board of Smith & Nephew is committed ideas.
The visits to Shanghai, York and Hull in 2011 gave us valuable to this principle and leads from the top in setting a tone that we expect insights into these Group operations.
from all employees across the Group.
The Board evaluates its own effectiveness.
In 2011, Richard fide Schutter, Seeking best practice in corporate governance is important to us.
All our Senior Independent Director led this evaluation process.
We felt Board members are active contributors to the proper and responsible that in a year of such change, we would benefit more from an internally way of running the Group.
The Corporate Governance Statement that facilitated evaluation, with an external evaluation scheduled for 2012. follows explains in technical detail how we, as a Board, comply with the The reviews conclusions are summarised on page 55. corporate governance principles.
However, we feel there is value in highlighting those particular aspects Director independence of governance we have dealt with during the year.
This gives our We value the independence of our Non-Executive Directors.
It is shareholders an insight into what governance means at Smith & important that the Chief Executive officer and the Chief Financial officer Nephew.
are challenged in the Boardroom, leading to wider debate and better proposals and decisions.
This leads to an improved articulation of Board changes strategy and enhanced assessment of risk and opportunities.
Olivier Bohuon joined the Board on 1 April 2011 and took over as This can only be done effectively if the Non-Executive members of the ChiefExecutive officer on 14 April following last years Annual General Board are prepared to ask the difficult questions, to insist on sound Meeting, when David Illingworth retired.
I have paid tribute to David responses and to spend time understanding the key drivers and elsewhere in this Annual Report.
challenges faced by the Group.
Our Non-Executive Directors do this This year, at our Annual General Meeting, Rolf Stomberg will be retiring both at formal Board meetings and, on occasion, between meetings.
from the Board after 14 years service.
We are truly indebted to Rolf for We value the longevity of our long-serving members, who have a deep his enormous contribution and commitment during his time on the understanding of the Group.
However, we are also mindful of our need Board.
He served as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee for to plan for the future and the need to refresh our Board structure.
We 10years, Senior Independent Director for 9 years and played a major shall continue to look for new Non-Executive Directors to ensure that part in the CEO succession process.
We have benefited greatly from his we have a balanced Board with the capabilities t for taking us into the experience and wisdom.
future and its new challenges.
We were delighted to welcome Ajay Piramal to the Board in January 2012.
Ajay is one of Indias most respected businessmen and brings Ethics and Compliance both a wealth of global healthcare experience and, of course, expertise You will note that we have a specic Board Committee focused on in the emerging markets.
It is a major achievement to have attracted Ethics and Compliance.
This is an area of intense focus for us, given our Ajay to Smith & Nephew.
responsibility to our healthcare customers and their patients and the close scrutiny that the industry faces from regulators.
We believe that all Development of strategy our employees should act appropriately and ethically.
We have detailed You will have read elsewhere in this Annual Report how Olivier has policies and training programmes in force covering all employees in all been redening our strategic priorities.
His work is making a positive the territories in which we operate and also our third party sellers.
impact on the business, our customers, the denition of our KPIs, the It is important to set the tone from the top and our Ethics and analysis of the risks we face and the way we choose to pay and Compliance Committee therefore reviews all Group activities in this incentivise our employees.
Olivier works closely with the Board in this area and takes a lead in enforcing compliance and encouraging good process.
We debated the issues extensively at our Strategy Review in practice.
September, including analysing the risks that might prevent us meeting Finally, while governance sets the vital framework, we are aware that the our strategic priorities.
Boards prime responsibility is to promote the long-term success of the Company for the benefit of customers, employees and shareholders.
Diversity in the Boardroom We value the diversity of views in our Boardroom.
My Board colleagues all come from different backgrounds and each brings unique capabilities and perspectives to our discussions.
We have a wide geographical spread and a mix of professional backgrounds.
We are committed to maintaining a diverse Board and whilst it is our expectation that 25% of the Board will be female by 2015, we will appoint on merit and value diversity in its broadest forms.
Sir John Buchanan Directors development and effectiveness Chairman The Board and I value the opportunity to visit our multiple locations, learning first-hand about the specic challenges our business faces in 22 February 2012 47 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2011 Accounts and other information Corporate Governance Business Review Strategy, KPIs & Risk management Overview
