47 Overview Chairmans introduction to SSE corporate governance Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information I am pleased to introduce the corporate distributed throughout the Group and is governance report for 2010 11.
It explains part of the induction programme for new our approach to corporate governance in recruits.
The SSE set of core values of detail by describing the SSE team, how the Safety, Service, Efficiency, Sustainability, Board works, risk management and internal Excellence and Teamwork remain our control and the work of each of the Board guiding principles.
Safety is the overriding Committees.
The Committees for the year value, and it is addressed at every Board reported on were Audit, Risk and Trading, meeting as the first item on the agenda.
Nomination, Safety Health and Environment, and Remuneration.
commitment The non-Executive Directors devote time Lord Smith of Kelvin The Boards approach to corporate to SSE over and above attendance at Board Chairman governance is key to running SSE as a and Committee meetings.
During the year successful, responsible and sustainable each non-Executive Director is expected to business capable of delivering increases visit key business locations in the Group and in the dividend payable to shareholders receives briefings from members of the SSE in the short, medium, and long term.
management team on a range of matters.
This years corporate governance report Lastly, I was pleased that SSE won the sets out in detail the arrangements in place.
2010 PwC Building Public Trust Award However I would like to draw particular for Executive Remuneration Reporting attention to some specific points.
in the FTSE 100. new corporate governance code Lord Smith of Kelvin The Board has been fully briefed on Chairman the changes in the new UK Corporate 19 May 2011 Governance Code.
The new code covers in particular annual re-appointment of Directors, Board diversity, external evaluation, greater emphasis on risk, and clear explanation of business model and strategy.
We welcome these changes and are committed to complying.
changes to the Board As part of our planned and continuing refreshment of the Board, I am pleased to welcome two new non-Executive Directors to the Board Jeremy Beeton and Katie Bickerstaffe.
They bring specific experience which will be invaluable as the Company undertakes major capital projects and faces the challenges of changes in the domestic customer market.
Nick Baldwin resigned as a non-Executive Director on 1 April 2011 on his appointment as Chair of the Office for Nuclear Regulation.
The Board benefitted greatly from his breadth of experience in the energy sector and we wish him well in his new role.
Board evaluation Our Board evaluation process this year built on the external independent evaluation report carried out last year.
We will carry out a further external evaluation within the next two years.
Ethics and values We have reviewed and updated our ethics policy in light of the enactment of the Bribery Act 2010.
SSE remains committed to the highest standards of business conduct and expects all its employees to act accordingly.
