CHAirMANs trAdiNg & govErNANCE ovErviEw for the year ended 27 November 2011 Trading Overview our stakeholders, annually engaging with The Group achieved another strong set investors on a range of issues, such as of results, despite the ongoing global the appointment of a new Chairman, the economic uncertainty and some very tracker share model, introduction of and challenging market conditions.
Our global changes to the LTIP and on other key expansion has continued as planned, with remuneration issues.
our more experienced UK employees Following our early application of the increasingly being used as the catalyst principles of the UK Corporate Governance to ensure that each new office is not only Code the Code last year, we continue to set up on the right footing, but is also able enhance our reporting on Remuneration, Clay Brendish to make a sound financial contribution at Governance and Corporate Responsibility Chairman the earliest possible opportunity.
As these CR issues, in order to accommodate businesses begin to take shape, the key best practice, as well as changing individuals within each region have the investor needs.
This reflects both our solid opportunity to invest in those businesses stewardship as well as our well embedded by way of the Groups established tracker governance framework.
share or minority interest model, as we continue to back our home-grown During the year, the Board reviewed and entrepreneurial talent.
improved a number of key areas.
Some of these are as follows: Only by increasing our geographic and sector diversification will we be able to Diversity under the leadership of the optimise our performance when the Natasha Clarke, Groups Director of market eventually returns to more normal Strategic Capability, the Group launched conditions.
Our tried and tested strategy its Identity project in order to review remains focused on pursuing organic and improve levels of gender diversity growth, through continued development throughout the business.
Initial analysis of the Groups longer established from this project indicated that, despite businesses, whilst at the same time also making up 45% of new hires, women made increasing the Groups revenues from up only 12% of promotions a statistic other sectors and countries.
Our business that we absolutely must improve upon if model continues to prioritise quality over we are to develop a credible pipeline at volume, in order to optimise the superior all management levels.
Work is now well margins we consistently achieve.
This, underway to agree and implement local together with the multi-brand niche action plans, as well as to set specific focused strategy we operate and our targets, in all regions to start to address highly diversified client base, remain crucial this issue.
One of our Non Executives, if we are to continue to achieve our goals.
Alicja Lesniak, has played a crucial role in mentoring women senior management and The Board has recommended an also providing project guidance.
increased final dividend for the year in addition to the interim ordinary and special Succession planning the Nomination dividends, paid in early December 2011.
Committee has continued the work it This reflects not only the current years began in 2010 in order to equip senior trading, but also our confidence in the management for Executive or other cash generative nature of the business high profile Group roles.
All NEDs act going forward.
It also recognises the as mentors to individual members of importance we place on providing income the Executive Committee, facilitating as well as capital returns to our investors.
significant remit role and or location changes.
As a result, plans are now in Governance Overview place to promote these individuals to As Chairman, I oversee the Groups undertake Board or other key Group roles governance arrangements, which I regard during 2012 13.
In fact, development to be as good as any within the FTSE 350. initiatives have been strengthened We are both inclusive and responsive to 08 SThree plc Report & financial statements 2011 ChAIRMANS TRAdINg & gOvERNANCE OvERvIEw throughout the Group to ensure that there the global remuneration structure and is an appropriate management pipeline performance: at all levels, including a tailored course at Nomination Committee increase Henley Management College.
activity, broaden and introduce greater Board Evaluation as recommended formality of succession arrangements by the Code, the Board, for the first I am very pleased to say that the time, commissioned Lintstock Ltd, an evaluation exercise concluded that, overall independent third party, to undertake and individually, the performance of the its annual Board Committee evaluation Board, each Committee and each Director exercise, via the following framework: was and is effective and that all Directors demonstrate full commitment in their respective roles.
External facilitator questionnaires completed on line The Bribery Act following implementation of the Bribery Act in July 2011, comprehensive workshop sessions Board Directors Committees and Chairman were held in many offices, supplemented by detailed guidance notes.
This ensures that our employees are fully equipped to External facilitator performance reports feedback comply with the legislative changes.
Values the SThree business is built on an absolute focus of understanding Chairman assessment to SID Full Board assessment Committee assessments to Individual Director assessments reviewed by Board Committee Chairmen our niche markets and delivering high to Chairman quality and timely permanent and contract specialist staffing services to our clients.
Issues identied Action plan agreed by Board Committees with It remains therefore, first and foremost, a annual follow up reporting of progress people business and it is only as a direct result of the talent and dedication of our people that we are able to continue to The results of this analysis were issued in grow.
We therefore continue to embed our January 2012 and recommendations are Values initiative, which looks to ensure to be implemented as the year progresses, that the SThree core values of Respect, with regular one on one sessions also Rapport, Energy and Reward are at the planned.
The following summarises some forefront of everything that we do, whilst of the suggested actions: also ensuring that our employees feel that Board increase strategic content they gain from, as well as give something reviews, with less focus on routine items to, the business they work so hard for.
and more regular lessons learnt Post Finally, after what has been another Implementation Review PIR sessions: turbulent and challenging year, I would Strengthen development, training like to thank all employees for their valued and key risk content, including more contribution.
Despite the continuing presentations from senior management market uncertainties, we believe that and executive support roles: our prospects for further growth remain Audit Committee review excellent and we are confident of a bright membership and better distil Internal future.
Audit information, whilst also rigorously testing that function: Remuneration Committee review membership, whilst also increasing Clay Brendish HR Director support: increase Chairman frequency and scope of reviews of 27 January 2012 SThree plc Report & financial statements 2011 09
