GOVERNANCE Directors report on corporate governance Introduction from the Chairman At Tesco PLC we are committed to the highest standards of corporate governance, as we recognise that strong governance is crucial in helping the business to deliver its strategy, generating shareholder value and safeguarding our shareholders long-term interests.
We have been active in contributing to the debate on governance, and will continue to put forward our views on what constitutes good governance.
As a demonstration of our commitment to corporate governance we have chosen to report against the new UK Corporate Governance Code New Code before it applies to us fully.
The composition of our Board has been developed to ensure that the Company can benefit from the depth of experience, independence and knowledge of our Directors, whilst allowing the Board to discharge its duties effectively.
We have rigorous director selection and evaluation processes, which include assessing their time commitments as well as their skills.
During 2010 the Nominations Committee oversaw the appointment of two new Non-executive Directors and the implementation of the succession plan for a new CEO following Sir Terry Leahys decision to retire.
We welcome Stuart Chambers and Gareth Bullock as new Non-executive Directors and Philip Clarke as the new CEO: we thank Charles Allen, Rodney Chase and Harald Einsmann for their guidance and support as Non-executive Directors over a number of years, and Sir Terry Leahy for his loyal service and contribution to Tesco David Reid as CEO for the past 14 years.
In addition, we were pleased to appoint Chairman Patrick Cescau as Senior Independent Director following Rodney Chases retirement.
We have a solid and experienced leadership team, who are collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company.
We have a clear Tesco has performed strongly understanding of our roles and responsibilities in running the business and an honest and open environment in which both Executive during the year 2010 11, whilst and Non-executive Directors can constructively contribute to the development of the Company.
We have a robust culture of good maintaining our strong culture of governance, including maintaining high ethical standards and strong personal integrity this is formalised in our Group Code of Business good governance and recognising Conduct, which has been adopted across the business and sets out the needs of our shareholders clearly our expectations of how our employees will behave.
All businesses within the Group are required to monitor their compliance which has helped to build with the Groups governance framework and this compliance is reviewed regularly.
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Both the existing Combined Code and the New Code set out main principles and specific provisions on how companies should be directed and controlled to follow good governance practice.
The Financial Services Authority FSA requires companies listed in the UK to disclose, in relation to the Code and New Code, how they have applied those principles and whether they have complied with the provisions throughout the financial year.
Where the provisions have not been complied with companies must provide an explanation for this.
62 TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
