OVERVIEW Chairmans statement Andrew Higginson and Lucy Neville-Rolfe will continue in their I am pleased to report another roles as CEO Retail Services and Executive Director Corporate and Legal Affairs respectively.
good set of results in what has There have also been a few changes to the Non-executive been a challenging year in some members of the Board this year.
Rodney Chase CBE retired from his position as Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent of our markets.
Patrick Cescau, who has served on the Board since February 2009, has replaced Rodney as Senior Independent Director.
Charles Allen CBE and Dr Harald Einsmann, who had both served on the Tesco Board since February 1999, also retired in July and were replaced by Stuart Chambers and Gareth Bullock.
Stuart, formerly CEO of NSG Group and Pilkington plc, has replaced Charles as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Gareth, former Group Executive Director of Standard Chartered PLC, has joined the Audit Committee.
I would like to thank Charles, Harald and Rodney for their excellent advice and important contributions over a combined 30 years service, and also formally welcome Gareth and Stuart, who bring with them a wealth of international experience and new expertise in financial services, further adding to the overall strength of the Tesco Board.
After 14 years as CEO, Terry Leahy announced his retirement in June and, as part of our long-term succession plan, Philip Clarke Dividend replaced him at the helm in March 2011.
I am delighted to report that we have again increased our dividend Terry is undoubtedly one of the leading businessmen of his for the 27th consecutive year.
The Board has proposed a final generation.
Under his leadership we have more than quadrupled dividend of 10.09p per share, taking the full-year dividend to our sales and profits, expanded into 13 countries outside the UK 14.46p.
This represents an increase of 10.8% on last years full-year and entered new markets such as online retailing and financial dividend, which is in line with the growth in underlying diluted services.
On behalf of everyone at Tesco and all our shareholders, earnings per share at constant tax rates.
it is a privilege to thank Terry for his unrivalled contribution to the Community success of the business.
This year, we donated over 64 million to charity again meeting our target to donate the equivalent of over 1% of our profits to There could be no better person to lead us going forward than charities and goodcauses.
Philip has worked at Tesco throughout his career, spending many years in Retail and Commercial.
He joined the Weve made further progress towards our goal of becoming Tesco Board in 1998 and, as part of his role as Asia, Europe and a zero-carbon business by 2050.
This year we have reduced IT Director, has been at the heart of many of our most important emissions from our baseline portfolio of buildings by 7.7%.
developments and operational improvements in recent years, Our people such as entry into China, Turkey and India and the introduction Our growth over the past year is a direct result of the dedication, of the Tesco Hindustan Service Centre HSC our global passion and hard work of our people a team which is now over services arm.
Im delighted that our share ownership incentive I set the Nominations Committee the objective of delivering a schemes are helping our staff to get their own personal stake seamless succession and I am delighted with the outcome.
This year 216,000 employees shared a record handover process from Terry to Philip was very smooth.
I have 105.5 million through our Shares In Success scheme.
On behalf every confidence that under Philips leadership, Tesco will go on of the Board, I would like to thank all of our people for their to achieve even greater success in the future.
ongoing commitment to providing the best possible service for our customers.
In order for the Tesco Board to better reflect the global nature of our business, provide more focus on key areas of performance and deliver on our immediate objectives, we made additional changes in March 2011.
Tim Mason has become Deputy CEO and Chief Marketing Officer in addition to his role as President and CEO Fresh & Easy.
Richard Brasher has assumed the newly created role of CEO for David Reid the UK, as well as having responsibility for the Republic of Ireland, Chairman whilst David Potts has become the first CEO of our growing Asia business.
Laurie McIlwee has taken on responsibility for Group Strategy in addition to his role as CFO.
TESCO PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011 1
