Chairmans introduction Your Board is committed to maintaining high standards of 2011 Board performance corporate governance.
As Tullow continues to grow in size In 2011, your Board set objectives in six key areas.
How we and complexity, one of the greatest challenges that we face performed in each area is set out in the table on page 78. is to ensure that we have in place the right people and Overall, we achieved most of our objectives but some will processes to manage risk and opportunity effectively, be carried over into 2012.
The successful launch of the new without stifling the agility, innovation and sense of personal Tullow Code of Business Conduct was a particularly important initiative and commitment that have underpinned the achievement.
It has been rolled out to all employees and Groups success to date.
contractors and embedded in our supplier contracts.
Seven training sessions for employees have been completed and the During the year, the Board reviewed the new UK Corporate awareness and training programme will continue in 2012.
In particular, we looked at the principles of We are also undertaking bribery and corruption training with the Code and how best to implement them in practice.
In this our suppliers in an effort to ensure good practice throughout Introduction to Corporate Governance I will touch on how the supply chain.
some of the specific principles are applied by the Tullow Board, but ultimately good governance depends upon the values and 2011 Board evaluation behaviours of every employee.
At Board level, we seek to As part of my induction for the role of Chairman, I conducted provide strong leadership, to set the tone for the organisation, the Board evaluation this year.
Last years externally facilitated and to continuously improve the way we work together as a process provided a good baseline against which to measure collaborative team, to ensure that we maintain and enhance progress.
Part of the purpose of the 2011 evaluation was for the culture and values of the entire Group.
the Board to collectively agree a work programme that will enable the Board to lead Tullow through the next phase of its development.
The process consisted of a questionnaire, one-to-one structured interviews with each Director, and a full Board discussion of the conclusions and recommendations.
The exercise has resulted in an action plan and a 12 month rolling agenda to ensure that the Board addresses all of the key issues identified.
The evaluation showed that we are building from a strong base, with an informal, engaged and supportive working climate on the Board, coupled with a healthy level of challenge and debate.
Relations between Executive Directors and non-executive Directors are good and there is a remarkable degree of alignment on the areas requiring attention over the coming year as part of the Boards commitment to continuous improvement.
Risk management processes are generally robust and well embedded in the corporate culture, but some improvements to the quality of Board reporting were identified in relation to political and economic risk analysis, the competitive landscape and industry benchmarking.
Corpor ate governance is about managing the business in order to create long-term sustainable value for the benefit of all of our stakeholders.
It means striking the right balance between entrepreneurial risk-taking Simon Thompson Chairman and prudent risk management.
76 Tullow Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 4 In order to provide the human and financial resources 2011 Board time needed to meet Tullows growth ambitions, talent management, Strategy 25% organisational design, succession planning, portfolio Uganda 15% management and medium-term cash flow forecasting were Financial Management 15% identified as areas requiring particular focus over the coming year.
We also identified a number of topics where outside Corporate Governance 12.5% speakers and other external resources will be accessed as part D&O 10% of a continuing programme of Board development and education.
E&A 10% EHS 5% 2012 Board objectives HR 5% The 2011 Board evaluation informed the 2012 Board objectives Stakeholder Management 2.5% which are set out on page 79.
I will undertake a mid-year review of progress in each area with Graham Martin, General Counsel and Company Secretary, the nominated Executive Director with responsibility for Board matters.
Board membership In 2011, the Board comprised the non-executive Chairman, areas of operation where female employment offers real the Chief Executive Officer, four Executive Directors and six empowerment and emancipation.
17% of our managers are non-executive Directors.
At the beginning of 2012, I replaced Pat female.
This number is growing steadily and now includes one Plunkett as non-executive Chairman and during the course of of the three Regional Business Managers, one of the most the year two other non-executive Directors, Steve McTiernan senior positions in the Group.
The pipeline of younger talent and David Williams, will leave the Board.
Steve McTiernan, the within the Group is also diverse and bodes well for the future.
Senior Independent Director, has agreed to remain on the Board until the end of the year, notwithstanding the fact that Shareholder relationships he has been on the Board for more than 10 years.
In my Tullow has a very active investor relations programme through judgement, he continues to act wholly independently and will which the CEO, the CFO, the other Executive Directors and provide very valuable continuity as the Board is refreshed.
In Senior Management regularly meet major shareholders.
In March 2012, the Board approved the appointment of Steve Lucas 2011, 370 investor meetings were held, presentations were as a non-executive Director with effect from 14 March 2012. made at 15 international conferences and 18 broker sales team briefings were conducted.
In addition, over 30 news releases We have carried out an analysis of the knowledge and experience were issued.
In 2010, we conducted a capital markets required by the Board and will conduct the searches for the two perception survey which was reported to the Board.
We new non-executive Directors sequentially to ensure that they will conduct a similar survey this year.
collectively bring the desired blend of personal attributes, background and skills.
Part of my role as Chairman is to ensure that the Board is kept fully informed of shareholder views.
Over the past few months I In accordance with the new UK Corporate Governance Code, all have met several major shareholders, investor associations and the Directors, with the exception of David Williams who is retiring stock broking analysts.
I also participated in the recent review of from the Board, will stand for re-election at the AGM.
The 2011 our corporate broking arrangements.
These interactions have Board evaluation confirmed that each Director continues to enabled me to gain a clearer understanding of investors views provide the Board with valuable knowledge and expertise and on Tullow, its management and its strategy.
I am looking to devote sufficient time in support of the Group.
I strongly forward to meeting many more shareholders over the coming recommend their re-election.
months and would encourage as many as possible to attend the AGM.
Diversity Until May 2011, Tullow had two female directors, representing Remuneration changes 16% of Board membership.
However, Clare Spottiswoode Tullows remuneration policy seeks to align the interests of retired at the 2011 AGM, reducing our membership to one.
Executive Directors and shareholders and is structured to For a Group whose business activities are mainly outside the enable the Group to attract, motivate and retain the talent United Kingdom, international experience is as important as required to deliver the business strategy.
We will seek to increase both as we refresh changes were made to the remuneration packages of the the Board over the coming year.
Executive Directors following an extensive review of our market positioning and consultation with the Groups major Almost 27% of the Groups workforce are female, which is a shareholders.
The changes reflect the successful growth of our relatively high level for the oil industry, and we are particularly business and the reduced competitiveness of the remuneration pleased to have achieved a high representation in some of our of the Executive Directors, whose salaries had fallen well below 77 www.
