Our governance Chairmans introduction We are committed to the highest standards ofcorporate governance Formulating the Groups strategy, monitoring the financial performance of the Group, and setting the values and ethical standards of the organisation are key areas offocus for the Board.
Steve Marshall Chairman Areas of focus Areas of focus in 2011 in 2012 Board composition, Succession planning and evaluation and continuous diversity improvement Strategy implementation Enhanced investor relations Operational delivery and programme performance 64 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 Our governance Dear Shareholder women who should become members of the Board by 2013.
However, every effort will be made to increase the level of Balfour Beatty is committed to applying the very highest diversity on the Board, and in particular, the representation standards of corporate governance in whichever jurisdiction ofwomen over that period.
The Board also believes that theGroup is operating.
theDavies Reports longer-term objectives can only be met The UK Corporate Governance Code published in June 2010 andsustained if the proportion of women occupying senior was welcomed by your Board, who decided to implement all executive positions throughout corporate life can be theprovisions immediately, including putting forward all the substantially increased.
In this context, the Company is Directors for annual re-election at our Annual General Meeting in redoubling its efforts to encourage more women to stay May 2011.
The Codes change of tone, signalling the importance withinits workforce and progress through the ranks to senior of general principles guiding boardroom behaviours, was positions.
In relation to the pipeline of women to the Board, as particularly welcomed, as was the continuing validation of the apercentage of our workforce, women make up approximately comply or explain principle.
28%, whilst at junior managerial level women make up approximately 50% of employees.
At the more senior Turning to each of the main principles of the Code, I wanted managerial levels, women comprise 12% of senior managers tohighlight how these are being applied in practice.
and8% of executives our most senior management level.
Leadership and effectiveness The formulation of the Groups strategy, monitoring the financial performance of the Accountability During 2011, the Board has spent Group, and health and safety are key areas of focus for the considerable time in developing the Groups strategy.
Directors Board during each annual meeting cycle.
In addition, the Board have engaged in discussions both at Board meetings and in undertakes a pivotal role in setting the values and the ethical smaller working groups and I would like to thank the nonstandards the organisation employs.
Further information on executive Directors, in particular, for the significant commitment these values and ethical standards is set out on pages 48 to 51 they have shown in steering management through this important and is also contained in the Companys sustainability report phase.
The output from the strategy review has been referred 2011 at www.
The Companys policies and procedures are all geared towards enabling the Board to present a balanced In pursuing the principle that non-executive Directors should and understandable assessment of the Groups position constructively challenge and help in the development of andprospects.
strategy, we have continued to encourage our non-executive Directors to obtain in-depth knowledge of the key strategic Remuneration Our last strategic review of executive imperatives facing the organisation.
We provided them with remuneration was carried out in 2010 in recognition of the theopportunity throughout the year to meet with the senior significant changes which have occurred in the scale, scope management teams in the Groups strategically important andcomplexity of our business.
The acquisition of Parsons businesses, to gain knowledge of the sectors and markets in Brinckerhoff also provides the Group with a presence across the which they are operating and gain a thorough understanding whole lifecycle of major infrastructure assets on a global basis.
We believe this leads to enhanced debate and ultimately to better and more informed The proposals arising from this review were approved by decision making.
For further information on this, I refer you shareholders at the 2011 AGM and the Remuneration Committee topage 71 of this report.
will continue to monitor the policy and its constituent elements to ensure they remain appropriate as the organisation continues Having served as chairman of the Remuneration Committee to evolve.
For more details on the new policy, please refer to the foreight years, Robert Walvis retired as chairman in July 2011 remuneration report on pages 82 to 92. and was succeeded by Iain Ferguson.
I would like to thank Robert for his leadership of the Committee over this time and Relations with shareholders Engagement with our for steering it through review cycles culminating in the 2011 investors, amongst other stakeholders, is critically important remuneration review.
Robert continues as Senior Independent andwe have continued to focus on this through 2011.
Further Director having now served on the Board for over ten years.
information on our investor relations programme is given on Iwould like to draw your attention to the deliberations of his page 79. colleagues on the Board concerning his continuing We are taking initiatives to build the level of shareholding independence, which is set out on page 68. amongst US investors in recognition that a significant proportionof our overall business is conducted in the US, or is Turning to the report by Lord Davies on Women on Boards, driven from the US, through our Professional Services division published in June, the Board considered the issues raised headquartered in New York and our Construction Services US andpublished its diversity statement in September 2011.
The division based in Dallas.
At December 2011, nearly 15% of the Directors strongly support greater diversity in all its forms, not Companys issued share capital was held by US investors least gender diversity, as an important objective for the Group.
compared with around 9% at December 2010.
To add further Throughout the business, this needs to be achieved whilst also momentum, we are planning to launch an ADR programme in retaining the overall balance of essential skills and experience.
The Davies Report is right to challenge the historic basis of these.
For example, at Board level, less weight can reasonably Following an invitation issued to our largest shareholders, I have be given to prior listed company boardroom experience, and had the opportunity to meet with several of them over the past more to a candidates intrinsic personal characteristics.
Equally, few months on matters of governance and strategy.
commercial, operational and functional expertise in depth must continue to be fully represented within the Companys nonSteve Marshall executive Director ranks.
Given the uncertain supply of external Chairman candidates, and the Companys business sector, the Board does not believe it is appropriate to target the precise percentage of Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 65
