Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 46 Chairmans overview Contents Governance 48 Board of directors Governance.
50 Corporate governance statement 61 Report on directors remuneration 69 Directors report 73 Directors responsibilities for the financial statements Delivering sustainable value.
Delivering sustainable value depends on the trust and confidence of all our stakeholders which can only be earnedbyconducting our business responsibly.
Christopher Kemball Chairman Overview Strategy and performance Business line review Risk Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements Investors Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 47 What good governance means Board achievements during 2011 How the board spent its time in 2011: The key responsibilities of the toBerendsen At Berendsen, we do not view Berendsen board are to set the strategy, 1 Strategy formulation, monitor what management are doing, corporate governance as an isolated 1 implementation 6 exercise in compliance but as a core and hold them accountable for performance and monitoring 20% 5 against agreed targets and challenge vital discipline that complements our 2 Performance 2 desire continually to improve upon the their thinking to ensure that they remain monitoring 20% focused on achieving our strategic aims long-term growth and success of the 3 Governance 4 3 group on behalf of shareholders.
and risk 20% governance is an evolving process and 4 Meeting country 2011 has been a very busy and exciting our aim is to consistently be at the management year for the group.
The board has been site visits 20% forefront of corporate governance best committed to ensuring that the key practice in order to deliver effectively 5 Shareholder recommendations from our 2010 engagement 10% onthe companys strategic objectives.
strategic review are implemented 6 Other 10% During 2011 we were pleased that once andthat we have the right incentive again our focus on good governance schemes to motivate and arguably, as Read more on board activities in 2011: was recognised with Berendsen being Page 53 importantly, retain key management.
shortlisted for the Investor Relations This involved an additional board Society 2011 Best Practice Awards for meeting in March 2011 and liaison with Key actions in 2011 Best Communication of Governance our major shareholders in respect of and Risk in the Annual Report.
Ensured key recommendations k changes to management short-term AtBerendsen, we believe that from the 2010 strategy review are incentive arrangements.
effectivegovernance is realised through being implemented leadership and collaboration resulting In order to gain a better understanding k Board visits to meet the Norwegian inconsistently focused and sensible of our business strategy and also to and Polish management teams business decisions meet local management, two board meetings were held outside the UK, Governance and incentive systems k As Chairman, my primary responsibility inMay in Norway and in September in reviewed to ensure appropriate for is to ensure that the board has the right Poland.
This provided the board with the new business line structure mix of skills, knowledge and experience anexcellent insight into the challenges so that it works effectively as a team, k New Chairman appointed and facing these businesses.
supporting management to formulate handover commenced and execute the corporate strategy, Board evaluation Non-Executives meeting with k whilst encouraging the non-executive We have recently completed our shareholders on 7th December 2011 directors to bring fresh perspectives to firstexternal board evaluation, which the table and, where appropriate, to was conducted by Dr Tracy Long of hold management to account.
The findings were Priorities for 2012 way the Berendsen board comprises presented at our board meeting on k Review findings and agree actions ateam of experienced individuals with 21stFebruary 2012 and the key actions arising from February 2012 external the complementary skills and talents to agreed by the board are detailed board evaluation carry out their duties to the best of their onpage 55. k Continued focus on management abilities, which we hope engenders the Shareholder engagement development and succession trust and respect of all stakeholders.
As Chairman, I am responsible for planning New business line organisation structure ensuring that there is ongoing and To meet each of the business line k During 2011, the board has liaised with effective communication between the management teams and review executive management to ensure board and its shareholders.
During 2011, their strategy thatour governance systems are Ihave kept in contact with our major appropriate for our new business shareholders and in December Recruitment of a new non-executive k linestructure which is effective from arranged a dinner where all our major director 1stJanuary 2012.
This has included shareholders had the opportunity to Ensure smooth transition and k updating the groups vision and values meet the non-executive directors.
handover of responsibilities and the groups delegated authorities, Feedback received from shareholders fromChristopher Kemball to ensuring that responsibility and was that this was a very useful event IainFerguson accountability for all business areas are and wewill arrange a similar dinner agreed and communicated and that the during the last quarter of 2012. risk management systems and groups Appointment of new Chairman key policies and procedures have been As announced on 7th December 2011, reviewed and updated.
The board has Ihave decided to retire after this years met the entire executive board three Annual General Meeting.
IainFerguson times during 2011 and has also received has been appointed to replace me and presentations, in August from Christian Iam sure he will be a worthy successor.
Ellegaard on Sales Effectiveness, in Iwish him every success in his new role.
October from Chris Thrush the newly appointed Group Director, Human Resources on Management Christopher Kemball Development and Succession, and Chairman inDecember from Steve Finch onProcurement.
