Report from the Chairman of the Audit Committee The composition and summary terms of reference of the Audit Internal controls and risk management Committee are set out on pages 38 and 39.
The Committee reviewed and evaluated the system of internal controls and risk management operated within the Company.
The principal activities of the Audit Committee through the year were as follows: Further details can be found on pages 28 to 29 and 40 to 41.
Financial statements Internal audit The Audit Committee reviewed the 2011 Annual Report, Interim Ernst & Young were appointed as internal auditors effective 1 July Results, Preliminary Results and reports from the external auditors, 2009 reporting directly to the committee.
The Committee has KPMG Audit Plc, on the outcome of their reviews and audits received regular reports on its findings and programme of reviews in 2011. at each of its meetings during the course of the year.
Further details can be found in the internal control section of the corporate governance report on pages 40 to 41.
External auditors The Committee met with the external auditors during the year to review the scope of their audit and findings thereon for the interim Audit Committee effectiveness and year end financial statements.
The members of the Committee conducted a review of its effectiveness and concluded that it was working effectively.
The Committee received a comprehensive presentation from the auditors demonstrating to its satisfaction how their independence Nick Land and objectivity is maintained when providing non-audit services.
Chairman of the Audit Committee The Committee has agreed the types of permitted and non- 12 September 2011 permitted services and those which require explicit prior approval.
All contracts for non-audit services in excess of 25,000 must be notified to the Chairman of the Audit Committee and approved by him.
During the year the value of non-audit services provided by KPMG amounted to 0.4 million 2010: 0.4 million.
The range of permitted non-audit services included reporting on our half year financial statements, providing assurance reports to the FSA, the provision of tax compliance services, acting as reporting accountant in appropriate circumstances provided there is no element of valuation work involved, and reports on internal controls as required under SAS 70 pursuant to investment management industry standards.
The provision of tax advisory services, due diligence transaction services and litigation services may be permitted with the Committees prior approval.
The provision of internal audit services, valuation work and any other activity that may give rise to any possibility of self-review are not permitted under any circumstance.
During the year there were no circumstances where KPMG were engaged to provide services which might have led to a conflict of interests.
The Committee is satisfied that the external auditors remain independent and has recommended to the Board that a resolution be put to shareholders for the re-appointment of the auditors, and their remuneration and terms of engagement, at the Annual General Meeting of the Company.
From time to time during the year the Non-executives met with the external and internal auditors without the Executive Directors being present so as to provide a forum to raise any matters of concern in confidence.
The Committee also received a report from the independent KPMG team responsible for the audits of the Ashmore publicly traded funds.
42 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011
