Corporate Governance Chairmans introduction The Board Corporate governance is the process by which the board of directors Board composition of a company looks after shareholders interests and by which it seeks The Board currently consists of five non-executive Directors, all of to enhance shareholder value.
Shareholders hold the directors whom are independent of the Companys Investment Manager.
responsible for the stewardship of a companys affairs, delegating Mr Sage has acted as the Senior Independent Director throughout authority and responsibility to the directors to manage the company on 2011.
The provision of the UK Code A.
2.1 which relates to the their behalf and holding them accountable for its performance.
combination of the roles of the chairman and chief executive does not apply as the Company has no executive directors.
The Directors The Board is ultimately responsible for framing and executing the biographies, on page 18, demonstrate a breadth of investment, Companys strategy and for closely monitoring risks.
We aim to run our commercial and professional experience which enables them to Company in a manner which is responsible and consistent with our provide effective strategic leadership and proper governance of the belief in honesty, transparency and accountability.
governance means managing our business well and engaging effectively with investors.
We consider the practice of good Board independence and tenure governance to be an integral part of the way we manage the Company The Boards individual independence, including that of the Chairman, and we are committed to maintaining high standards of financial has been considered, and this independence allows all of the Directors reporting, transparency and business integrity.
to sit on the Companys various committees.
The Board is of the view that length of service will not necessarily compromise the As a UK-listed investment trust company our principal reporting independence or contribution of directors of an investment trust obligation is driven by the UK Corporate Governance Code company, where continuity and experience can add significantly to the the UK Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June strength of the Board.
It is considered that Mr Buchan and Mr Sage, 2010.
However, as listed investment trust companies differ in many who have each served as a Director for over nine years, continue to be ways from other listed companies, the Association of Investment independent in both character and judgement and that there are no Companies has drawn up its own set of guidelines, the AIC Code of relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect the judgement Corporate Governance the AIC Code issued in October 2010, which of any Director.
addresses the governance issues relevant to investment companies and meets the approval of the Financial Reporting Council.
The Company does not have a chief executive as day-to-day management of the Companys affairs is delegated to the Investment This report, which forms part of the Directors Report, explains how Manager.
None of the Directors has a service contract with the the Board deals with its responsibility, authority and accountability.
The terms of their appointment are detailed in a letter sent to them when they join the Board.
Copies of these letters are available Compliance on request from the Companys registered office.
The Board has made the appropriate disclosures in this report to ensure the Company meets its continuing obligations.
It should be Directors appointment, retirement and rotation noted that as an investment trust, most of the Companys day-to-day The Board notes the recommendations of Lord Davies of Abersoch in responsibilities are delegated to third parties, the Company has no his report Women on Boards published in February 2011.
Our employees and the Directors are non-executive.
Thus, not all of the Company is highly specialised and our priority to shareholders is to provisions of the UK Code are directly applicable to the Company.
have a Board with the specialist abilities to look after the Companys investments.
In addition, the Board should be able to demonstrate with The Board considers that the Company has complied with the conviction that any new appointee would make a meaningful recommendations of the AIC Code and the provisions contained within contribution.
We also focus on diversity in its broadest sense, in terms the UK Code that are relevant to the Company throughout this of expertise, geographic background, gender and race.
The Board accounting period, except where explained below, and this statement should have a blend of skills and attributes that is appropriate to its describes how the relevant principles of governance are applied to the needs: we believe that gender is an important element and one we Company.
should aspire to on the basis that the expertise is available.
28 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc
