52 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN.
This year was a year of progress and evolution for In 2011 the Board was pleased to theBoard of Legal & General, particularly in relation appoint Mike Fairey, Stuart Popham to the Boards composition and diversity.
The Board and Julia Wilson as non-executive has dedicated time to considering emerging corporate directors bringing further diversity governance practice in line with our belief that good corporate governance underpins the long-term success ofskills and experience to the Board of the Company.
Tim Breedon notied the Board of Tim Breedon notied the Board of his his intention to retire from the Company at the end of intention to retire from the Company 2012.
Tim has been a first class Group Chief Executive.
Tim has been a The Company is in great shape and we are very appreciative of his excellent stewardship over the last first class Group Chief Executive.
The process for identifying Tims successor is outlined below.
BOARD The success of the Board depends on the right balance of skills and experience around the boardroom table.
During 2011, the Board was pleased to appoint Mike Fairey, Stuart Popham and Julia Wilson as nonexecutive directors bringing a great diversity of skills andexperience to the Board.
Sir David Walker and James Strachan retired after the AGM in 2011 having served nine and eight years on the Board respectively and I thank them both for their wisdom andgreat contribution to the Board.
SUCCESSION Following the Companys announcement that TimBreedon intends to retire from the Company attheend of 2012, the Nominations Committee has metregularly to put in place and oversee the process for identifying an appropriate successor.
BOARD DIVERSITY The Board welcomes the recommendations made by Lord Davies, and believes that they mark a series of practical and achievable steps towards addressing the important issue of a stronger contribution by women in the UKs boardrooms.
It is our intention to incorporate the recommendations into our thinking on the composition JOHN STEWART of the Board.
We will in addition be working at CHAIRMAN strengthening the representation of women among the non-Board senior management cadre the Board directors of tomorrow.
For more information visit our website: investor.
cfm OUR GROUP OUR PERFORMANCE OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 53 We also welcome the Davies recommendations in it is vital for the performance of the Company to be our capacity as one of the UKs largest institutional clearly understood by shareholders, as well as other shareholders.
Our fund management arm, Legal & stakeholders, and for the Board to be well informed of General Investment Management LGIM, engages stakeholder opinion in response.
We have continued actively with investee companies on a wide variety our work in promoting greater and more effective of environmental, social and governance issues, and engagement with both our retail and institutional the new recommendations concerning boardroom shareholders.
On behalf of the Board, the Group Chief diversity, andgreater associated disclosure, provide Executive and Group Chief Financial officer, supported useful additional information for evaluation of the by the Investor Relations department, regularly met with boards ofinvestee companies.
institutional investors and analysts throughout the year.
The Board received regular reports from the Investor REVIEW OF CORPORATE Relations department on its activities, and in particular GOVERNANCEFRAMEWORK feedback being received from investors, analysts Each year we review the Companys corporate and advisers.
Separately, LGIM has made significant governance framework.
This includes the annual progress in engaging with investee companies and reviewof a number of corporate governance policies encouraging high standards of corporate governance such as the Matters Reserved for the Board and Terms from the companies that LGIM invests in.
ofReference for each of the Boards committees.
Aswell as assisting the Board in being able to confirm ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING compliance with the principles and provisions of the I look forward to sharing with you in person the UKCode of Corporate Governance for 2011, I believe successes of the Company during 2011 at the Annual thisreects the commitment of the Board to good General Meeting on 16 May 2012.
The AGM is an corporate governance and to ensuring that good important forum for engagement with all shareholders corporate governance practice underpins the day and gives shareholders an opportunity to raise todayactivities of the Board.
questionson this report and any other questions they may have on the resolutions to be put to the meeting.
BOARD EVALUATION Atthe 2012 AGM all Board directors who are able to The Board is committed to continually improving its attend will be available, as usual, to meet with investors effectiveness and each year the Board participates in after the meeting to discuss issues on a face-to-face a formal evaluation of its performance.
We would like our investors to nd attending our progress made against the observations from the Board AGM an interesting and rewarding experience, to hear evaluation undertaken in 2010 can be found on page about the performance of the Company over the last 54.
The Board has evaluated its performance during year and have the opportunity to meet members of the 2011 and I am satisfied that the Board is effective and Board and I would encourage as many shareholders operates well.
As a result of this years evaluation, the aspossible to attend on 16 May 2012.
Board intends to consider refreshing the format of reports to the Board and the Board agenda in order to facilitate further discussion: continue to focus on succession planning and talent management and further enhance the Boards role in monitoring the Groups strategic performance during 2012.
SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT JOHN STEWART It is of great importance to the Board that the direction CHAIRMAN of the Company is aligned with the interests of its shareholders.
In order for engagement to be effective
