I could have wished for a less eventful firstyear The business trends all speak to the importance and clarity of our long articulated strategy ofindependence for Jim and the Executive team to manage.
Individually the events were not that namely to move purposefully into Communications uncommon but as they occurred in close Integration activity a land dominated by the proximity they created their own story.
management of the applications that sit in the cloud or in the network as opposed to simply Whilst disappointing, its not that unusual for providing the infrastructure.
there to be personnel changes in the Executive team.
Sometimes the recruitment process just That journey was never going to be a short one: doesnt work out for either party.
Tim Weller itis measured in years not months, as that is leaves with our best wishes for the future and we thepace of travel of our customers.
During this are lucky to have such an experienced and able transitional phase we continue to improve the deputy in Ian Gibson to step into the Chief business operational and service capabilities Financial Officer role.
aswell as more actively managing the end of life areas such as traditional voice.
Were also not the only company to have experienced consequences of the Coalitions And I am pleased to report that we continue necessary determination to reduce public tolead the UK industry in our deployment of spending: a situation that arrived in a lump at unique cloud and virtualisation service offerings.
thebeginning of the year and is still with us.
In March we made Flexible Computing available AsGovernments focus shifts from the shortto all our Multi Service Platform customers, term control of spending to the longer-term effectively cloud-enabling them instantly.
deployment of technology that reduces That this is a business facing a demanding set back-office costs and improves service delivery ofchallenges is undoubtedly true, but itis also we may see further opportunities for the abusiness that is well equipped toface into and business.
And during the year we won new overcome those challenges.
We already have government business from the Foreign and one of the largest and most capable data centre Commonwealth office and the Department for and hosting operations in Europe, a leading International Development.
product set in cloud and converged services The final element was the need to simultaneously andan enviable service reputation.
The senior manage the price erosion evident in some of our teamand all colleagues in the business are clear markets whilst also creating the room to invest in about what needs to be done and determined the growth areas of hosting and cloud services.
intheir resolve to execute theirplans.
Itis anexciting time in telecommunications as As we deliver against those ambitions we should new technologies and customer needs drive see the wider perception of our business change.
anew set of products and services.
To be faced with issues across all three levels the team, the business and the industry is a particularly tough assignment in year one ofthe new business.
As that set of issues crystallised, external confidence inthe business John Pluthero and its prospects was undermined.
Whilst that Chairman was understandable I do not believe it was entirely justified.
