2011 operations Governance Financial statements Cape plc Annual Report 2011 37 Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee determines the remuneration and conditions of employment of the Executive Directors and the work of that Committee is described in detail in the Directors Remuneration Report set out on pages 22 to 29.
Nomination Committee The following served as members of the Nomination Committee of Old Cape throughout the period 1 January 2011 to 17 June 2011, except where otherwise shown: Tim Eggar Committee Chairman, appointed 1 May 2011 Sean OConnor former Committee Chairman, resigned 30 April 2011 Martin K May resigned 25 May 2011 David McManus Michael Merton appointed 1 February 2011 David Robins resigned 2 March 2011 The following served as members of the Nomination Committee of New Cape from admission to the Main Market on 17 June 2011 until 31 December 2011, except where otherwise shown: Tim Eggar appointed Committee Chairman 10 June 2011 David McManus appointed 10 June 2011 Michael Merton appointed 10 June 2011 Brendan Connolly appointed 16 November 2011 Brendan Connolly stepped down from the Committee on 29 March 2012 following his appointment as acting Chief Executive in place of Martin K May, who stepped down as a Director on that date.
The Nomination Committee is primarily responsible for leading the process on Board appointments, responsible for monitoring and formally reviewing the performance, composition, balance and expertise of the Board as a whole and appraising the contribution of individual Directors, including a review of their time commitment and attendance records.
The Nomination Committee concluded that all the Non-Executive Directors demonstrated a high level of time commitment and effectiveness during the year under review.
Where a Non-Executive Director has served on the Board for more than 6 years, the Nomination Committee conducts a particularly rigorous review of his performance before recommending his reappointment to the Board.
During the year, the Nomination Committee was involved in the planned broadening of the Board and in particular with the search for a new Non-Executive Chairman and two new Non-Executive Directors.
When appointing new Non-Executive Directors, the Committee seeks candidates who best contribute the balance of skills and range of experience required to support the Companys future success.
The Nomination Committee, which provides a formal and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board, consults with specialist recruitment consultants for all Board appointments.
Committee members were involved in the assessment and interview of potential candidates for the positions of both a new Non-Executive Chairman and new NonExecutive Directors, as follows.
Appointment of Tim Eggar as Chairman During the year, the Nomination Committee appointed specialist recruitment consultants to commence the search for a new Non-Executive Chairman to replace Sean OConnor who wished to retire from the Board.
The process identified a number of potential candidates and, after assessment and interview, the Nomination Committee recommended to the Board that Tim Eggar be appointed as Non-Executive Chairman, and as Chairman of the Nomination Committee and a member of the Remuneration Committee, with effect from 1 May 2011.
