Letter from the Chairman joining the Group Audit Committee and Board Risk Committee, and Baroness Noakes joining the Group Audit Committee.
In addition to our new Board members, Colin Buchan retired as a director in August 2011 following nine years on the Board and John McFarlane will step down from the Board on 31 March 2012.
We have greatly appreciated the experience, commitment and knowledge they brought to the Board and Committees.
Leadership and Board effectiveness As Chairman, I am responsible for ensuring we have an effective Board Dear Shareholder, and for leading the Board.
I am supported by the Group Nominations I am pleased to present our Corporate governance report for the 2011 Committee in reviewing Board composition and the recruitment of new financial year.
directors and by the Group Secretary on induction, continuing professional development, Board process and evaluation.
2011 has been a challenging year for the Group given the continued pressure on financial markets and the Eurozone challenges as well as A key part of my role in leading the Board is to ensure that directors UK developments such as the recommendations from the Independent develop a good understanding of the Groups business so that the Board Commission on Banking.
During 2011, key areas of focus for the Board is able to provide input to help shape future strategy.
This is achieved were: financial performance: strategy: risk: and regulatory developments through site visits, in-depth board presentations and, for new directors, and reports.
The Board was supported by the work of key Board their induction programme.
I believe it is important to encourage a culture committees.
and environment in the boardroom that facilitates debate and where nonexecutive directors are able to provide constructive challenge to the Further details on the role and principal activities of the Board are executive team.
contained within the Corporate governance report on pages 252 to 295.
Individual reports from the Group Audit Committee, Board Risk We conduct an annual evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board and Committee and Group Remuneration Committee are also included.
this years evaluation was conducted internally, led by the Group Secretary.
I also evaluate the individual performance of each of the nonCorporate governance in RBS executive directors and all directors stand for re-election annually.
Further The Group is working hard to achieve a very challenging and complex details on performance evaluation are set out on page 260.
During 2011, turnaround and good corporate governance is a key element of we saw further improvements to the flow of information to the Board both supporting delivery of our strategy and underpinning cultural change in terms of the quality of papers and the use of new technology to deliver across the Group.
The Board continued to focus on strategic priorities and the composition of the Board, including succession planning for In May 2011, the Board introduced a new Corporate Governance Policy senior executives, was kept under review by the Group Nominations to demonstrate that we are committed to the highest standards of Committee.
governance, integrity and professionalism throughout the Group.
The policy comprises ten principles and related guidance that apply across Diversity the Group in all divisions and jurisdictions.
The principles cover areas The diversity agenda has remained a key priority for RBS in 2011.
The such as decision making, individual and collective responsibility, Group made a public statement on its website www.
com in identifying and managing risks, risk and reward and escalation and September 2011 regarding its aspirations in relation to gender diversity in transparency.
We want to ensure we have the right structures and the boardroom.
We expect to meet the aspirational target of 25 per cent systems in place so that sound business decisions are made and it is female board representation in 2012.
In December 2011, the Board important to us that we demonstrate high standards of governance in all approved a formal boardroom diversity policy which aims to promote of our activities.
A clear corporate governance policy is helping us diversity in the composition of the Board.
Under this policy, all Board achieve this and we will be monitoring compliance with the policy on a appointments will be made on the basis of individual competence, skills continuing basis.
and expertise measured against identified objective criteria.
Further details on the boardroom diversity policy can be found on page 262.
Our statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in May 2010 the Code is set I would like to thank both the executive and non-executive directors for out on page 296. their outstanding commitment and their contributions to the Board and Committees in 2011.
This year is shaping up to be another challenging The Board year for the Group and the Board but I am confident that we are on track During 2011, we were pleased to welcome three new independent nonto restore the performance of the Group in all material aspects.
executive directors to the Board: Alison Davis, Tony Di Iorio and Baroness Noakes.
They have brought with them a wealth of relevant and diverse experience in both the public and private sectors, along with a Philip Hampton strong global perspective and have made a significant contribution to the Chairman work of the Board since joining.
Their appointments have also 22 February 2012 strengthened the membership of a number of Board committees with Alison Davis joining the Group Remuneration Committee, Tony Di Iorio RBS Group 2011 251
