Chairmans letter Carl-Henric Svanberg Dear fellow shareholder, Chairman In 2011 we re-laid the foundations of BP.
Our objective was to ensure your company is able to deliver sustainable shareholder value in the months and years ahead.
Above all else, this is dependent on BP having the trust of the societies in which it works today and over the long term.
During the year the board oversaw a major reorganization designed to establish a stronger, safer BP.
The progress made demonstrates that the company can and will recover from the consequences of the Deepwater Horizon accident.
We remained mindful of the tragic events seen in 2010 and the need to ensure such an accident never happens again.
I thank you for the patience you have shown as we work to rebuild your company.
The board set three priorities for BP.
Safety must be enhanced and embedded.
Value must be created through a clear strategic plan.
While these priorities are simple to express, substantial activity is required to turn them into tangible and lasting change.
On safety, the board supported and challenged Bob Dudley and his executive team as they restructured and enhanced BPs processes, systems and culture.
Furthermore, the board initiated a review of the way BP manages, reports and acts on risk, including board oversight.
On trust, we ensured that BP continued to meet its commitments in the Gulf of Mexico.
We co-operated with every official investigation and prepared for litigation.
We worked closely with governments and regulators, and we communicated openly with shareholders and the wider world.
On value, the board set a 10-point plan focused on growing operating cash flow and increasing shareholder returns.
The company will play to its greatest strengths and prioritize value over volume.
Relentless execution of this strategy is now needed so we deliver value to our shareholders.
BPs financial and operating performance in 2011 has created a springboard for growth.
In the upstream, we secured 55 new exploration licences in nine 2 BP Summary Review 2011 countries, and our Refining and Marketing segment delivered very strong earnings.
Our $38-billion divestment programme is strengthening the groups financial position and focusing our portfolio.
In 2011 we restored your dividend, and I am pleased to report that we increased the dividend by 14% in February 2012, in accordance with our policy.
The wider world did not stand still in 2011.
We saw rapid and sometimes unpredictable change.
This included escalation of the European debt crisis and political upheaval in countries where BP has significant operations, such as Libya and Egypt.
We kept a close watch on these developments and acted where required.
Our international advisory board assisted us in this task.
The company continually looks for ways to form new relationships and enhance its partnerships around the world.
Our new alliance with Reliance Industries in India is a significant venture in a fast-growing market.
Russia is particularly important for BP.
Our TNK-BP alliance is hugely successful.
Since acquiring 50% of the company for around $8 billion, BP has received around $19 billion in dividends which equates to around $2 billion per year.
In 2011, we saw new opportunities in Russia, but these did not progress.
This region still has excellent potential for BP and we remain committed to it.
The nature of our industry is rarely straightforward, and BP will never shrink from pursuing opportunities simply because they involve challenges.
In my letter last year, I commented on the evolution of the board.
My goal is to ensure that the board combines a broad set of skills and experience.
BPs board should be diverse in the widest sense.
It should have the best blend of the best people from our industry and from other sectors.
BP remains committed to meritocracy as well as diversity.
Andrew Shilston and Professor Dame Ann Dowling have joined the board as non-executive directors and Brian Gilvary has joined as an executive director.
Left BPs LNG activities are focused on building competitively advantaged liquefaction projects.
BP Summary Review 2011 3 Chairmans letter Andrew, a former finance director at Rolls-Royce, brings substantial experience in the oil and gas industry through previous roles at Enterprise Oil and Cairn Energy.
Ann is Head of the Department of Engineering at the University of Cambridge, where she is Professor of Mechanical Engineering.
She brings exceptional academic and engineering expertise to BP.
Brian Gilvary is now our chief financial officer.
His broad experience of BP, gained over 25 years in influential roles such as the chief executive of integrated supply and trading and as deputy group CFO, makes him a valuable addition.
Our previous CFO Byron Grote takes up a new role as the director responsible for corporate business activities.
Byron has made a substantial contribution over his lengthy BP career and I am pleased we have retained his services as a board member.
L Lef eft t T Th he e E East ast A Az zer erii Bill Castell has decided not to seek re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
Bill p plla at tf fo or rm m i in n t th he e C Ca as spia pian n has made a substantial contribution to the board, not least as chair of the safety, S Se ea i a in A n Az ze er rb ba aiijja an n. B. BP P iis t s th he l e la ar rg ge es st f t fo or re eiig gn n ethics and environment assurance committee.
Bill has devoted all the time that iin nv five es st to or r i in n the the c co oun untr try y.. was asked of him and more in the service of the board and the company.
I speak R Riig ght ht I In 2 n 20 01 11 1, t, th he e for the whole board when I thank him sincerely for all he has done.
Bills role c ch hai air rm man an v viis siit te ed d the the as senior independent director will be taken by Andrew Shilston, who will be A Allb be er rt ta o a oiil s l sa an nd ds i s in n supported on internal matters by Antony Burgmans.
C Can ana ad da a i in nc cllu ud diin ng g the the S Sun unr riise se E Ene ner rg gy y P Pr ro ojje ec ct t The board committees have always played an important oversight role, B BP P s s j jo oiint nt five vent ntu ur re e freeing the main board to concentrate on strategic matters.
All of our committees w wiit th H h Hu us sk ky E y En ne er rg gy y.. have been heavily involved this year.
Each committee has dealt with different challenges, and all of the directors have been unstinting in the time they have given.
The Gulf of Mexico committee, formed in 2010 and chaired by Ian Davis, has been invaluable in allowing the board to prioritize its work during the restoration of the Gulf of Mexico and the ensuing litigation.
During the year, Antony Burgmans became chair of the remuneration committee and Brendan Nelson became chair of the audit committee.
Paul Anderson took over the chair of the safety, ethics and environmental assurance committee in December.
4 BP Summary Review 2011 During the year, the remuneration committee has worked with Bob Dudley and his team to remodel the reward system within the group.
The system below the board is now clearly focused on the long term and is similar to that used for executive directors.
I believe our approach to rewarding directors balances the companys priorities of driving financial performance, meeting our responsibilities as a corporate citizen and providing value for our shareholders.
Against all of this background, I have been keen to see how the board could work more effectively.
During the year, a working group of non-executive directors reviewed board tasks, roles and processes.
This work, coupled with our board evaluation, has led to a number of changes in the way in which the board operates.
In detail 2011 was a testing year for everyone at the company.
The board was Find out more online.
com corporategovernance impressed by the way in which Bob and his executive team tackled a range of considerable issues.
We were also struck by the tenacity and dedication of BPs employees.
On behalf of the board, I thank everyone for their efforts.
In 2012 we must execute our 10-point plan and continue to meet our commitments in the Gulf of Mexico.
While many of the investigations into the causes of the accident have been completed, we still face major litigation in the US during 2012.
This must run its course, although we are pleased with the continuing progress that we are making with settling some of these claims.
As part of its strategic role, the board must be mindful of the long-term developments in our industry.
BP Energy Outlook 2030 tells us that rising populations, increasing levels of life expectancy and improving standards of living will continue to generate growing demand for energy.
The challenges in terms of supply are immense.
I expect these dynamics to provide BP with opportunities for decades to come.
The report projects that fossil fuels will be providing around 80% of the worlds energy in 2030.
This will require companies such as ours to overcome substantial technical and physical challenges.
Lower carbon resources and energy efficiency technologies are required to play their part in addressing both demand and emissions.
BP must understand and adapt to these changes in order to remain sustainable in this changing world.
I believe BP ended the year stronger and safer, with increasing forward momentum and a clear strategy matched to the world we see ahead.
This is a great company, with a strong board and excellent people.
I thank you for your continued support.
I will report back to you on BPs progress at this point next year.
Carl-Henric Svanberg Chairman 6 March 2012 BP Summary Review 2011 5
