Corporate governance An outline of skills for our current board membership is as follows: Nomination and chairmans committees reports Chairmans introduction Director Key skills and experience I chair both the nomination and the chairmans committees.
Set out Paul Anderson Oil and gas industry experience below are reports on their activities during the year.
As in previous years Frank Bowman Safety, technology and risk management there is often an overlap between the work of the committees as the Antony Burgmans Food and consumer goods: leading a nomination committee may wish to sound out the view of the other global business non-executive directors in the chairmans committee on a particular issue, Cynthia Carroll Oil, gas and extractive industry such as executive succession or the skills and experience needed for nonexperience: leading a global business executive directors.
Sir William Castell Nuclear and medical science industry: technology Carl-Henric Svanberg George David Technology and manufacturing Chairman Ian Davis Strategy, advisory and consulting Brendan Nelson Audit, financial services and trading Nomination committee report Phuthuma Nhleko Civil engineering, telecoms and banking Committee members Andrew Shilston Oil and gas industry experience: finance Carl-Henric Svanberg committee chair Professor Dame Ann Dowling Engineering, technology and education Antony Burgmans joined in May 2011 Cynthia Carroll joined in May 2011 The committee also considered the succession of our chief financial Sir William Castell officer and the skillset and experience needed in light of the role and Ian Davis the companys strategy.
There was an extensive process in which Egon Zehnder advised the committee on both internal and external candidates.
Members who left during the year The committee made its recommendation to the chairmans committee, Douglas Flint retired 14 April 2011 and CFO succession was then discussed by all the non-executive directors.
DeAnne Julius retired 14 April 2011 It was agreed that Brian Gilvary, previously deputy chief financial officer, was the preferred candidate and he became CFO on 1 January 2012.
The committee met five times during 2011.
During the year the committee considered the recommendations of Lord Davies report on gender diversity.
In line with the report, the Committees role committee agreed to a set of aspirational targets to work towards by 2015 The committee identies, evaluates and recommends candidates for the and recommended changes to BPs board governance principles to include appointment or re-appointment as directors and for the appointment of the a policy on board diversity, which emphasizes considerations of diversity, company secretary.
inclusiveness and meritocracy when considering board composition.
The The committee keeps the mix of knowledge, skills and experience committee has determined to develop during 2012 a set of measurable of the board under regular review in consultation with the chairmans objectives for implementing its board diversity policy on which it will report committee to ensure an orderly succession of directors.
The outside back to shareholders.
directorships and broader commitments of the non-executive directors are At the end of the year, the committee undertook its annual also monitored by the nomination committee.
examination of its effectiveness and performance, using an internally administered questionnaire.
As part of its evaluation, the committee Committee activities considered its role and its task for the year.
The evaluation concluded that The committee reviewed the independence and roles of each of the the committee had worked well and had improved its focus on diversity.
directors prior to recommending them for re-election at the 2011 AGM.
It Going forward the committee wishes to focus on agenda setting and also discussed the composition of the board and its committees in terms papers with a view to improving time management and workload.
of service, skills and diversity.
Since the start of 2011, there were changes to the composition of Chairmans committee report the board, with Phuthuma Nhleko, Andrew Shilston and Professor Dame Ann Dowling joining on 1 February 2011, 1 January 2012 and 3 February Committee members 2012 respectively.
The committee retained the services of external Carl-Henric Svanberg committee chair advisers Egon Zehnder and Odgers to assist with the identication of Sir William Castell potential candidates over the period.
Paul Anderson In undertaking its search for potential candidates for board Frank Bowman membership, the committee carried out a review of skills and experience Cynthia Carroll of existing board members and considered this against the board George David succession plan based on tenure and other factors, including diversity.
Ian Davis This process enabled the committee to develop a list of selection criteria Professor Dame Ann Dowling appointed 3 February 2012 for future appointments, which it then used with its external advisers to Brendan Nelson develop a shortlist.
Based on this, the committee determined an initial Phuthuma Nhleko appointed 1 February 2011 focus on candidates in the elds of science and technology.
Andrew Shilston appointed 1 January 2012 Members who left during the year Douglas Flint retired 14 April 2011 DeAnne Julius retired 14 April 2011 The committee met nine times during 2011.
132 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011
