Directors report | Governance | Q & A with the Chairman Q & A with the Chairman Hammersons General Counsel and Company Secretary Sarah Booth talks to John Nelson about the latest developments in corporate governance and the Companys approach to emerging themes.
SB: The purpose of corporate governance is to facilitate effective, entrepreneurial and prudent management that can deliver the long-term success of the Company.
What is the Boards role in delivering this?
JN: The Boards role is clearly to deliver good governance throughout the organisation, but also to play a significant role in creating value for shareholders.
Boards can become preoccupied with governance issues it is very important that they do not.
There is a clear relationship between good governance and value creation.
Governance must not unduly stifle enterprise and entrepreneurial management.
The Board reviewed the new UK Code during 2010 and implemented a majority of its updated recommendations last year, ahead of our first John Nelson formal compliance statement for the 2011 financial year.
We continued Chairman to monitor our structures and practices throughout 2011, seeking always to ensure improvement towards best practice and to reflect the SARAH BOOTH: In 2010 the Financial Reporting Council issued new principles and related provisions.
the new UK Corporate Governance Code and recommended that in the Annual Report the Chairman makes a personal statement SB: The new UK Code sets great store by the key principles to shareholders regarding governance.
I am interested in your views on corporate governance generally.
Do you think we reflect these principles well in Hammerson?
JOHN NELSON: I am a strong supporter of the principles of good JN: The Boards composition three Executive Directors, five governance originally established by the Cadbury Committee in 1992, Non-Executive Directors and myself continues to facilitate robust which have proved so valuable over the years and which now form the debate and challenge at our regular Board meetings.
The Executive basis of the new UK Code.
team provides a healthy mix of experience in both the Company and the sector and they are running the business well in tough economic times.
The Non-Executive team, drawn from varied but relevant commercial backgrounds, provide real added value in terms of LEADERSHIP PRINCIPLES: The Board should take collective leadership of the Company.
responsibility for the long-term success of the Company, with a We have explained earlier in the Annual Report that in the second half clear division of responsibility between the running of the Board of 2011 we conducted a full review of our strategy.
We keep and will and executive responsibility for running the business.
No one continue to keep our strategy under review.
We are also implementing individual should have unfettered powers of decision and an enhanced programme of risk management discussions at Board level Non-Executive Directors should constructively challenge and help for 2012.
I fully support the growing emphasis on effective risk develop proposals on strategy.
The Chairman should have management and risk mitigation and it is high on our agenda for the responsibility for leadership of the Board and ensuring its coming year, building on the efforts already made in 2011. effectiveness on all aspects of its role.
See page 48 for more detail on our compliance with the main Leadership principles 46 Hammerson plc | Annual Report 2011 Overview Business & financial review Governance Financial statements Property portfolio Other information Directors report | Governance | Q & A with the Chairman SB: The criteria for Effectiveness have changed under the new SB: One topic receiving particular attention at the moment is the UK Code.
question of diversity at senior level.
As Chairman of the Company and of the Nomination Committee, do you think we have Are we tackling these new requirements well?
developed appropriate targets and aspirations in this area?
JN: As you can see from the biographies of our Board members, set out JN: I firmly believe that diversity, both at Board level and within on pages 44 and 45, we have a balance of the skills we require and depth management and staff at the Company, is an important factor for of experience to add real value to the Company.
We keep under review maximising performance.
Within Hammerson we have significant the make-up of the Board and we also appraise the performance of the diversity, including gender diversity.
The male : female ratio in the Group Board, Board Committees and individuals, annually.
At Board level, frankly, we are behind.
We have performance is also appraised annually.
Directors are encouraged to recently welcomed Judy Gibbons as a Non-Executive Director, who keep up to date on key issues and to attend seminars where necessary.
brings significant online experience which is fundamental to our future We consider all our Non-Executive Directors to be independent.
We are aiming to add to female representation on the Board as have recruited a new Executive Director and a new Non-Executive soon as practicable and aim to reach over 20% female representation on Director with the assistance of external consultants.
These the Board in the near term.
We do maintain, though, a robust merit appointments were followed up with full induction programmes.
based approach to selection as we do for all appointments.
We introduced the annual re-election of all Directors from last year.
SB: Have we still got more work to do on improving our standards I am confident that they continue to demonstrate full commitment to of governance?
the long-term success of the Company.
JN: There is always room for improvement and no Board should ever be complacent.
We are charged with delivering the long-term success of our Company and we take this duty very seriously.
With this in mind I commend the following Governance Report to shareholders.
EFFECTIVENESS PRINCIPLES: The Board and its Committees should have an appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company to enable them to discharge their duties and responsibilities effectively.
It follows that there should be formality, rigour and transparency in the procedures for Board appointments, that all directors should allocate sufficient time to the Company, receive induction, regularly update their skills and knowledge and that the Board as a whole is supplied with timely, quality information.
Finally, annual evaluations of the full Board, its Committees and individual directors should be undertaken and, subject to continued satisfactory performance, all Directors should be submitted for re-election at regular intervals.
See pages 48 to 50 for more detail on our compliance with the main Effectiveness principles Hammerson plc | Annual Report 2011 47
