22 Dunelm Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Governance Letter from the Chairman Dear Shareholder, Following the practice we adopted last year, I am in this letter introducing the Corporate Governance section in our Annual Report, and have asked Marion Sears to write a separate introduction to the Remuneration section.
I hope these letters help your consideration of the various matters we report to you as part of our corporate governance responsibilities.
As ever, this year has been very busy on corporate governance matters, with a number of important developments in governance requirements and in the matters we have considered inside Dunelm.
These include the introduction of the Bribery Act, the Davies report on gender diversity, the new stewardship code, the implementation of the UK Corporate Governance Code, and the FRC guidance on board effectiveness and risk.
We have also actively followed up and acted upon issues raised with us by shareholders following dialogue during the course of the year.
With the benefit of a relatively small board, the whole Boards participation and engagement in debating these issues has been very high, and the Board has given serious consideration to an appropriate response from the Company one which we believe both meets our responsibilities and yet adopts practical, non-bureaucratic, common sense solutions.
Of particular note in the course of the Boards deliberations on governance matters this year have been: Managing the transition of Nick Wharton from non-executive director to Chief Executive, and the implications of this for Board and committee membership: An update to the Groups internal certification exercise, which requires key executives to confirm their adherence to legal, governance and company policies, to include the requirements of the Bribery Act: Reviewing Board and committee terms of reference and Board processes in line with the new UK Corporate Governance Code: A further annual review of the Boards performance, which involved the whole Board in an active debate including consideration of the progress on matters identified the previous year, the value of the Board in guiding strategy, individual directors development requirements and external advice on governance issues that have typically caused difficulties elsewhere: A new review of the skills, perspectives and experiences provided by current Board members: Extensive Board debate about Board composition, including its diversity: Consideration by the whole Board of Non-Executive Director candidates: A new process for the Executive Director team to present a review of the high level risks emerging from the Groups system of internal control Things that are keeping us awake : The outcome of our discussions on these matters is reported below.
There remains a strong collegiate and respectful relationship between the Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
We have retained our approach of all Non-Executive Directors aiming to visit a store once a month, often with a member of the senior management team.
This continues to be helpful in fostering our understanding of business issues as well as communicating internally from head office to store teams and vice versa.
In addition, Board meetings are often held at store or other Company locations and include presentations from managers within the business.
Our routine activity includes regular monitoring of shareholder feedback, with Non-Executive Directors joining management in a selection of shareholder meetings following our results announcements.
We have also consulted shareholders this year on a number of matters raised in response to our annual report and AGM resolutions last year.
However, we are conscious that it is becoming ever more difficult for companies and shareholders to sustain an efficient dialogue given the welter of requirements and even more difficult to recall the nuances of corporate governance when responding to specific proposals.
Accordingly, we plan to invite corporate governance representatives of our major institutional shareholders to a presentation next January and from time to time thereafter as appropriate, with the aim of increasing understanding of how we approach our corporate governance duties as a Board.
This will be hosted by the Chairman, the Non-Executive Directors and Will Adderley, representing the majority family shareholding.
Geoff Cooper Chairman 15 September 2011 Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements Dunelm Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 23
