Business review Accounts & other information Overview Performance and risk Corporate responsibility Governance 41 easyJet plc Annual report Chairmans introduction and accounts 2011 easyJet welcomes the introduction of the UK have strengthened the Board in the areas of finance Corporate Governance Code 2010 the Code, which and risk management and have added to the balance has applied to the Company from 1 October 2010. of experience and skills on the Board.
The diversity of TheCode gives me the opportunity to set out how, as opinions, perspectives and insights given by the Non Chairman, I have been fullling my responsibility for Executives with their variety of backgrounds and leadership and effectiveness of the Board.
experience has inevitably benefitted the Executive Management Team through the feedback gained from In October 2010, easyJet signed an amended brand having members of the management team attending licence with easyGroup IP Holdings Limited and a letter Board meetings.
of agreement with the Companys founder, Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou.
This has given us greater certainty and I am satisfied that the members of the Board, in freedom to pursue the Companys strategy which was particular the Non Executive Directors, have sufficient explained to our stakeholders in November by our time to undertake their roles at Board and Committee Chief Executive officer, Carolyn McCall.
At the same level with the Company, so as to be able to discharge time the Relationship Agreement was terminated their responsibilities effectively which meant that easyGroup Holdings and Sir Stelios The Company has carried out an in-depth review of no longer had the right to appoint two directors and Sir thequality and quantity of information provided to Stelios no longer had the right to be chairman of theBoard and, following input from all of the Directors, easyJet.
is now providing information in an updated format.
This The strategy presented in November has been further ensures a regular supply of tailored information allowing rigorously reviewed and challenged by the Board, in the Directors to assess the performance of the June 2011 we had a two day session devoted to Company in the most efficient andeffective manner.
debating and rening the strategy.
The Board has appointed Lintstock to assist with an The Board also undertook a two day visit to easyJets external evaluation of the Boards effectiveness to be largest base at Gatwick which included a detailed carried out over the next few months and we expect tourof the operations to assist the Non Executives that such an external review will be carried out every understanding of the day-to-day operational issues three years.
Between these external reviews, we will facing the Company.
This was in addition to the use an external evaluation tool to carry out annual introduction of an enhanced induction programme for Board performance review.
our new non executive directors during the course of At our AGM in February 2011, we put all of our Directors the year.
up for re-election in compliance with the Code and There have been a number of changes to the Board anticipate continuing to put all Directors up for during the year with the addition of three new Non re-election annually.
Executive Directors and the resignation of Sir David During the year the UK Bribery Act came into effect Michels and Sven Boinet.
Further details of the and the Board has overseen a review of its appointments are described in the section on the requirements to ensure that the Company is well Nominations Committee.
The additions to the Board placed to adhere to it in full.
Sir Michael Rake Non Executive Chairman
