Corporate Governance Overview UK Corporate Governance Code Following the introduction of the UK Corporate As Chairman, I see my greatest responsibilities Governance Code the Code which took effect, to be ensuring that Fresnillo plc is governed in the case of Fresnillo, from 1 January 2011, with transparency and in the interests of all theBoard took a series of measures to comply shareholders, and that the Groups strategy with the principal changes that have been isaligned with our values of responsible and madeto the Code.
Consequently, the Schedule sustainable business practices.
I focused of Matters reserved for the Board and some onanumber of governance issues this year, oftheCommittee terms ofreference have been aslaid out in this Report.
The annual re-election of directors Alberto Baillres wasintroduced for the 2011 annual general Non-executive Chairman, Fresnillo plc meeting and externally facilitated board performance evaluation was undertaken for therst time inSeptember 2011, the results having been discussed at the meeting on 5October 2011, with follow-up actions being monitored subsequently.
More recently there has been widespread comment on the issue ofdiversity and succession planning.
The Nominations Committee and the Board are clear that there will be no discrimination in appointments at Board or senior management levels.
As the Board membership is refreshed over the coming years, new appointments by the Board will be made strictly on merit in line with the Groups overall philosophy of providing equality of opportunity irrespective ofgender or ethnicity.
96 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2011 Overview Strategic Review Performance Financial Statements Governance Risk Governance Health & Safety The Board has undertaken an in-depth review The number of fatalities suffered during the ofits approach to risk in response to the new yearhas prompted a number of initiatives by requirements concerning risk appetite and management.
Both the Board and the HSECR tolerance.
Consequently, there is a clear set Committee have evaluated the investigations ofprincipal risks and uncertainties which has undertaken following these incidents and the been agreed by the Board along with clearly responses of management to ensure that they agreed parameters for risk appetite and are appropriate.
In the short-term at least, tolerance.
Further detail on principal risks theHSECR Committee is expected to meet anduncertainties can be found within the more often than previously in order to ensure OurRisk Management Framework section that both procedures and behaviours can be onpage 36. improved as one means to try and minimise thepotential for fatalities to occur.
UK Bribery Act Minority Shareholders The Fresnillo Group has undertaken an extensive The Board seeks to ensure that the interests review of its policies and procedures in order ofminority shareholders in Fresnillo plc are toensure compliance with the requirements of properly respected and aligned with those the UK Bribery Act.
One element of this review ofmajor shareholders.
The Board maintains focused on the leadership given by the Board procedures for dealing with transactions with inthis regard.
As a result, the Companys Related Parties as well as Directors conicts Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy, Donations ofinterest and has continued to monitor the Policy and Code of Conduct were reviewed appropriateness of those procedures.
bythe Board and communicated to staff.
The Fresnillo Code of Conduct is available on the Companys website at www.
