3.1 | Chairmans Introduction Welcome to our first Corporate Governance report.
In preparing this report we have been mindful of the conflicting challenges of governance reporting the objective on the one hand of keeping the report concise and the aim on the other of providing a full and complete report.
As Glencore prepared for its London and Hong Kong listings in 2011, the Company has implemented a structure, both organisational and operational, by which it has sought to be fully compliant with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
This report details this implementation, but I would first like to highlight the following: The Board consists of six independent Non-Executive Directors and two Executive Directors.
Each Non-Executive Director has a proven track record in business at a high level and expertise of direct relevance to the Company.
As large shareholders, the interests of Glencores Executive Directors are aligned closely with those of other shareholders.
The Board and Committee structure properly required of a large listed company has been effectively implemented in practice, with Board Committees conducting their duties rigorously and thoroughly.
The Non-Executives have provided critical challenge and support to the areas of the Group which they believe are of particular importance.
In particular our Audit Committee has taken a strong interest in the risk and internal audit functions.
Our HSEC Committee has also provided considerable input and insight to assist and guide the progress the Company is making to improve its safety performance and on various other material sustainability issues.
W e have appointed a Company Secretary who has considerable PLC experience to ensure that the Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors have the support and assistance required to implement our responsibilities effectively.
Although our Board has been operating for less than a year we carried out a comprehensive evaluation exercise with issues for improvement identified.
We have sought to provide high quality information to the market and constructive engagement with shareholders.
We have also sought to engage with others who are relevant to or impacted by the Groups activities including Non-Governmental Organisations and relevant regulators.
We intend to reflect regularly upon developments in corporate governance best practice.
In particular we recognise that we should seek greater diversity, particularly gender, within our Board.
We have sought to report on our governance in a user friendly and direct a manner as possible, giving a clear summary of the considered leadership which the Board and its Committees provides to the Group.
We would welcome feedback on this report.
