The CSR CommiT Tee ChaiRmanS STaTemenT Paul aTheRTon ChaiRman, CSR CommiTTee We continue to develop our approach to CSR and being a responsible and transparent business in all the areas in which we operate is a key component of our core business model.
We aim to operate to the highest international social, environmental and safety standards within the industry and it is of paramount importance that we maintain a positive influence, creating lasting legacies in the areas in which we operate and that our employees and contractors are able to achieve their full potential in a safe environment.
Heritages asset portfolio is geographically diversified Our core business model is engaged in the exploration, across Africa, the Middle East and Russia with a portfolio appraisal, production and development of hydrocarbons of assets encompassing a mix of exploration, development, and we aim to generate shareholder value through a production and investment.
Our vision is to be a leading strategy focusing on high-impact exploration and effective exploration and production company with the aim of portfolio management.
It is important to us that we not generating growth in shareholder value.
We endeavour to only deliver on our business goals but also benefit all achieve this through a strong CSR policy framework that stakeholders.
The CSR Committee is tasked with establishes comprehensive policies and robust developing, implementing and overseeing our CSR strategy management systems and ensures: systems and performance and ensuring these are in line with our overall business aims and objectives.
The Terms that operations are safe, with minimal LTIs for staff and of Reference for this Committee can be found on our contractors: website www.
that local communities are safe through minimising environmental impacts: Our CSR policy framework, set out on pages 6 to 7 successful long-term relationships are built with local supports our business model and sets out the essential governments, communities and other stakeholders in core values that we believe make Heritage a good corporate areas of operation: and citizen.
We set ourselves a high standard with which to high standards of corporate governance.
measure ourselves and recognise the importance of being a partner of choice.
We recognise specific responsibilities in each of six core areas of potential impact and opportunity, specific to the CSR aspects of our activities.
Adherence to these CSR values are viewed as a key factor in securing the long-term operational success of the Company.
heritage oil plc Corporate Social Responsibility 20 02 Adherence to our CSR values is viewed as a key factor in securing the long-term operational success of the Company I am pleased to report that during 2011 we have continued This is our fourth CSR Report and it has been prepared with an excellent health and safety record with no LTIs or based on our operating principles and with the help of fatalities.
Community projects were implemented in our stakeholder feedback.
In this report you will find an main areas of operation during the year: including Russia, overview of key areas of impact and opportunity, specific Kurdistan and Mali.
There were no environmental incidents to the CSR aspects of our activities: during the year and Environmental Impact Assessments EIAs were conducted for all major work programmes in environment and sustainability oil and gas operations accordance with local regulations.
have the potential to damage the environment but, if managed well, any activity impacts can be minimised: During 2011, we established a variety of long-term health and safety health and safety is a priority and a sustainable initiatives across our operations which included: key element of all our activities: employees our ability to create sustainable in Kurdistan we focused on community initiatives shareholder value is linked to our ability to recruit, supporting the local education system, assisting motivate and retain high calibre staff: development of local infrastructure: community and human rights we ensure that in Russia we have continued to invest in annual health relationships with our neighbours and local communities and social programmes in the vicinity of our licence area: are conducted sensitively and with mutual respect: and business conduct we uphold the highest standards in Mali and Pakistan we supported local healthcare of business conduct across all our operations: and corporate governance we are committed to protecting initiatives.
the interests of all stakeholders through compliance with relevant legal and regulatory environments and We engaged with institutions on the Carbon Disclosure Project during the year leading to participation in the through the effective management of risk.
The UK Bribery Act became law at the beginning of July 2011 and we responded to this by carrying out a In 2011, as in previous years, we set ourselves targets number of actions during the year which included: across these areas and I am pleased to report we achieved all set targets.
Our targets for this year are set out on pages 8 to 9 of this CSR Report.
ascertaining the position of the Company and its subsidiaries concerning the scope of the UK Bribery Act through appropriate legal consultation: We continue to welcome feedback from, and dialogue establishing a Board level Anti-Bribery and Corruption with, interested parties concerning all aspects of this report.
Committee: Contact details are noted at the back of this report and can research of facilitation payment issues the Company also be found on our website www.
has to address as part of its day-to-day activities: production of a formal statement concerning the I would like to thank our Directors, employees and Groups approach as outlined in principle 2 of the contractors for the continued excellent performance of guidance to the UK Bribery Act.
This statement is our Company in all aspects of our CSR policy and for their available on the Companys website continued commitment and dedication to respecting our www.
com: vision and legacy in the many areas in which we operate.
performing a review of the Companys existing anti-bribery and business conduct systems: designing and conducting a communications and Paul aTheRTon learning activity to ensure that all employees and ChaiRman, contractors are aware of the Companys approach, CSR CommiTTee policies, code of conduct and their related obligations.
This included translating certain key documents for employees into local languages where appropriate: and amending the Terms of Reference of the CSR and Audit Committees so their mandate includes measures to control and monitor this aspect of its activity.
heritage oil plc Corporate Social Responsibility 20 03
