Corporate responsibility 37 Corporate responsibility Letter from the Chairman Our business success is due to our approach ofintegrating the many aspects of corporate responsibility into the Groups decision-making.
Having completed my first year as Chairman of the Corporate Social , I am pleased to introduce the Groups 2011 $7.7m  Report.
Amount spent in 2011 onsocial and community welfare Since its inception, Hochschild Mining has taken great pride in managing activities itsbusiness in a way that ensures returns not only to shareholders, but to allstakeholders, including its employees and the communities surrounding ouroperations, and with due regard to the impact of our activities on theenvironment.
Over time, Hochschild Mining has earned a reputation for translating thesevaluesinto action as we firmly believe that our business success is due toourapproach ofintegrating the many aspects of corporate responsibility intotheGroups decision-making.
Facilitating this process are teams of dedicated professionals who ensure thatthemany risks we face in our industry are identified and controlled bystandards and procedures, supported by proven management systems.
We rely on the goodwill of the members of the communities located close toourassets to be able to operate, whether in early stage exploration or theconstruction or operation of an active mine.
We therefore consider itimperative that local communities are closely involved in our planning processesinorder toaddress their needs and take account of their concerns.
The communities and stakeholders in general are justifiably concerned with theimpact of our business on the environment.
I am proud that we have invested inworld class management information systems to ensure that we meet all targets Employees at Pallancata withrespect to air and water quality and the efficient use of natural resources.
Despite our ongoing commitment, it is with deep regret that I report that wehadthree fatalities at our operations during 2011.
In our view, every fatality isavoidable and we remain determined in our pursuit of our zero fatality target.
Wewill continue to monitor, review and enhance our controls and also provide thenecessary training.
We provide further details on page 41 of this report.
Within this report, we seek to highlight the initiatives we have in place to understand our stakeholders, and how we use this insight to inform our approach tomany ofthe issues discussed, from safety to community engagement.
Hochschild Mining plc 38 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Corporate responsibility Letter from the Chairman continued External recognition The Group is proud of the progress made in the area of CSR reporting since our IPO in2006.
In recognition of this, the 2010 CSR Report featured in the shortlist for the BestPractice Awards 2011 drawn up by the UK Investor Relations Society.
This year we plan to join a select group of companies in Peru aiming to enhance their capabilities of monitoring and reporting on CSR matters through the Socially Responsible Company accreditation, granted by Peru 2021.
Thisnon-profit organisation is certified bythe Global Reporting Initiative and seeks to promote corporate social responsibility asasound business management discipline tofacilitate sustainable development in Peru.
I would like to express my gratitude to my colleagues across the Group for their continuedefforts as we progressively build on our reporting framework and initiatives inthiscrucialarea.
Eduardo Hochschild Executive Chairman & Chairman of the CSR Committee Members of the Caraibamba District community taking part in the Miners Day celebrations at Selene
