Governance overview $IBJSNBO T PWFSWJFX We welcomed the publication in June 2010 of the UK Corporate GovernanceCode and have used both the 2008 and 2010 5SVTU JT CVJMU VQ GovernanceCodes as the standard against which we have measuredourselves in 2010 11.
The two significant amendments CZ EPJOH UIF tothe2008 Code: the annual re-election of directors and the externalevaluation of the Board at least every three years, will SJHIU UIJOHT UIF bothbeachieved this year.
With the exception of Louise Patten, allofthe Board are seeking election at the 2011 AGM, marking a SJHIU XBZ departurefrom the previous one-third of directors seeking 3PCFSU 4XBOOFMM Chairman electionon a rotation basis.
We have also completed the Companysrst fully independent Board evaluation.
This was conductedin a spirit of openness and collaboration and One of the special attributes of M&S is the level of trust it has supportedby the whole Board.
More details of this can be established on the high street.
Trust is built up by doing the right foundonpage 44. things the right way.
Good governance is just that and at M&S we have focused on ensuring it is meaningful, relevant and underpins Wearenow embarking on a new chapter in the development of our decision-making.
theBoard and the enhancement of corporate governance.
My job istoensure that your Board is greater than the sum of its parts a At M&S, we believe that effective governance is realised through uniedBoard with non-executives acting as critical friends to leadership and collaboration.
The work of the Board should ChiefExecutive Marc Bolland and his Executive team running the complement, enhance and support the work of the Executive.
business, ensuring we have a Board that: Working together, we conduct robust interrogation of plans and supports the Executive team to formulate and execute the strategy: actions, ensuring high quality decision-making in all areas of demonstrates independence, knowledge and experience to strategy, performance, responsibility and accountability.
My role bringfresh perspectives and to hold management to account: as Chairman is at the heart of ensuring these actions are sustained and harnessed and can drive a culture of continuous seeksfull information to form views, question management and improvement in standards and performance across our business.
takestrategic decisions: isdiverse and while acknowledging the recommendations ondiversity, ensures that we have the right balance of skills, experienceand background: and actsresponsibly to make sure we meet our accountabilities toshareholders and wider stakeholders.
#PBSE PG EJSFDUPST 8IP T XIP PO PVS #PBSE Robert Swannell leads the Board as Chairman and Marc Bolland leads the business as Chief Executive.
Sir David Michels is Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director.
The Chairmen of the Nomination & Governance, Audit and Remuneration Committees are Robert Swannell, Jeremy Darroch and StevenHolliday respectively.
All Board members, and brief biographies, are given below.
BSD #PMMBOE Group Finance Director.
Alan was PIO %JYPO Executive Director, Food Chairman Chief Executive officer previously a non-executive director Appointed in September 2009.
John Appointed Chairman in January 2011.
Marc joined of Games Workshop Group plc.
joined Marks & Spencer over 20 years Robert joined Marks & Spencer as a Marks & Spencer from Morrison ago as a store management trainee.
4UFWFO 4IBSQ Executive Director, non-executive director in October 2010.
Supermarkets plc, where he had been He has worked across the business in Marketing He was appointed Chairman of the Chief Executive since 2006.
Prior to this, a variety of senior roles, from Executive Appointed in November 2005.
Steven Nomination & Governance Committee in Marc worked at Heineken NV for 20 Assistant to the Chief Executive, to joined Marks & Spencer in May 2004.
Robert is a non-executive years in a variety of management roles, Director of Home and M&S Direct.
He is a non-executive director of Adnams director of HMV Group plc.
He was, until which included responsibility for John was Director of Food from July plc and an elected member of the Tate September 2010, Senior Independent operations and business development 2008 until his appointment to the Board.
Steven has Director of The British Land Company in the US, France, Italy, Spain, the previously been Marketing Director atBVSB 8BEF FSZ Photo not shown plc and of 3i Group plc.
He spent over Caribbean and Latin America.
He went Asda, the Burton Group, Booker plc and Executive Director, Multi-channel 30 years in investment banking with on to become an Executive Board Arcadia Group plc.
E-commerce Schroders Citigroup and was formerly Member and Chief Operating officer.
Laura joins the Board on 4 July 2011.
Vice-Chairman of Citi Europe and He is a non-executive director of, BUF #PTUPDL Executive Director, Shewas previously at Tesco plc where Co-Chairman of Citis European Manpower Inc. General Merchandise she held a variety of senior roles from Investment Bank.
He is a member Appointed in March 2008.
"Kate joined ""MBO 4UFXBSU Chief Finance officer 1997."
Laura brings considerable retail of the Takeover Appeal Board.
Alan joined and consumer experience, including Previously, Kate was Product Director for Marks & Spencer from AWAS, an aircraft significant e-commerce knowledge as Childrenswear at Next from 1994, before leasing company, where he was Chief Chief Executive officer of Tesco.
com joining Asda in 2001 as Product Director Financial officer.
Alan worked for HSBC and Tesco Direct.
Prior to joining Tesco for the George Global Brand.
She was Investment Bank for ten years before Laura held various roles at Gemini responsible for the launch of the joining Thomas Cook in 1996, where he Consulting and Kleinwort Benson.
standalone George concept and the held a number of senior roles, including She has been a non-executive director launch of the George brand globally.
Chief Executive of Thomas Cook UK, of Trinity Mirror plc since 2006. before joining WH Smith plc in 2005 as.
BSLT BOE 4QFODFS SPVQ QMD Annual report and financial statements 2011
