qxd 6 1 05 7:59 PM Page 39 Risk factors instruments are required to be recognised on the balance sheet at fair value.
If a derivative financial Business risks instrument is designated as a hedge, the movement in the fair value of the derivatives can be recognised We face increasing competition from new and existing providers of mobile services directly through reserves in certain circumstances, which offsets the opposite movement in the fair value of We are competing increasingly with new mobile service providers, virtual network operators and resellers the hedged item, also in reserves.
All other movements in the fair value of financial instruments must be of mobile services.
Also, competition from existing service providers may be more intense than anticipated, recognised as an income or expense in the profit and loss account.
Failure to compete effectively could result in a decrease in our customers, revenues and profitability.
We have prepared documentation in line with the provisions of IAS 39 for all hedging instruments and have established an ongoing procedure for testing the effectiveness of these hedges which should permit the We face competing technologies adoption of hedge accounting for our financial instruments.
We face competition from communications technologies that are under development or that will be developed in the future, including cordless technologies and private and shared radio networks.
As a Deferred taxation result of current trends in the telecommunications industry in Europe, such as the rapid convergence of IAS 12 Income taxes bases the calculation of the deferred tax assets and liabilities on the difference technologies, we expect there to be further technological advances in the future.
Failure to compete could between tax carrying values and balance sheet carrying values, rather than the income statement approach result in a decrease in our customers, revenues and profitability.
required by FRS 19 Deferred tax.
As a result, the scope of IAS 12 is wider than that of FRS 19.
Alleged health risks associated with mobile telecommunications could lead to decreased usage of IAS 12 requires a deferred tax liability in respect of rolled over gains to be recognised, irrespective of whether our services and products, increased difficulty in obtaining transmitter sites or potential liability there is an expectation that the gain will crystallise.
We expect to recognise a deferred tax liability on Public concern about the alleged or perceived health risks of mobile communications could have a transition to IFRS relating to a gain arising prior to our demerger from BT.
The gain arose on BT's disposal detrimental impact on our business through negative customer perception of our brand, services or of the UK Yell business and was rolled over into the goodwill purchased on the acquisition of O2 Germany.
products, difficulties in retaining or attracting customers, reduced usage times per customer of our mobile On the subsequent disposal of this goodwill for tax purposes, the deferred tax liability will reverse and be telecommunications services or increased difficulty in obtaining transmitter sites.
There can be no assurance recognised as a credit in the profit and loss account of the Group in the period in which it reverses.
that further medical research and studies will refute a link between the radio frequency emissions of wireless handsets and base stations and these health concerns.
Government authorities could increase regulation of wireless handsets and base stations as a result of these health concerns, or wireless companies, including us, could be held liable for costs or damages associated with these concerns, which could have a negative impact on our business.
In addition, regulators may reduce the prescribed limits for exposure to electromagnetic radiation in the countries in which we operate, which would mean that the exclusion areas around our antennas in those countries may have to increase in some situations.
In this event we may suffer additional costs associated with repositioning our network equipment and we may experience delays in the roll-out of our networks.
We fail to maintain the momentum necessary to achieve economic scale in Germany If our increased network investment fails to deliver a high-quality customer experience from our own UMTS platform, this could have a significant negative impact on the profitability of our business.
Implementation of a new billing and operational system for O2 UK Implementation may affect operational performance and customer satisfaction if the major releases are not completed successfully.
Our reputation may be damaged by real or implied failure of our billing systems resulting in a significant negative impact on the profitability of our businesses.
qxd 6 1 05 7:59 PM Page 40 Risk factors continued We may fail to achieve our strategic goal of earning revenues from more sophisticated Action by the Commission or regulators may result in fines and a decrease in roaming revenues data services If the Commission nds that there have been infringements of Article 82 EC Treaty in the markets for If the market for non-SMS data services does not grow as quickly as we currently anticipate and SMS yields international roaming services in which we operate, it may ne us.
The Commission could also require us to fall faster than we currently anticipate and voice price erosion increases faster than we currently anticipate reduce our wholesale charges for international roaming or to change the way in which such charges are set.
and, if we do not build the correct business model and capabilities to remain competitive in the dataworld, we could experience a negative impact on our business and results of operations.
In addition, national regulators in the UK, Germany or Ireland may seek to regulate our international roaming charges, if they nd that we have SMP on the wholesale roaming market.
We may be disadvantaged by our UMTS offerings Our UMTS offerings may suffer as a consequence of later launches.
This could have a negative impact on Any fines or future regulation of roaming charges could have a negative impact on our business and results our business and our results of operations.
Misuse of our networks by our customers through fraud or in a way that damages our reputation We may be subject to new regulatory obligations Certain customers may misuse our networks in ways which damage our reputation, for example using the New or more onerous regulatory obligations may be imposed on us under the EU Regulatory Framework in network to make inappropriate contact with children, spamming or propagation of viruses.
Certain Germany, the UK and Ireland.
Depending upon the obligations imposed, this could have a significant effect customers may also misuse our networks in ways which impact our costs or revenues, including fraud.
on the profitability of our businesses.
This could have a negative impact on our business.
We face increased regulation in Ireland We may fail to positively differentiate our customer experience and or fail to implement our In Ireland, ComReg has determined that we have SMP in the mobile access and origination market and has customer plan required us to meet reasonable requests for wholesale access including national roaming by third parties Slower implementation timetables, higher costs and poorer customer experience may undermine the value on a non-discriminatory basis.
ComReg has reserved the right to intervene in the event that commercial of our brand and could limit our ability to attract and retain high value customers, which in turn could have negotiations fail or should intervention otherwise be required.
If this happens, ComReg may require us to a negative impact on our business and our results of operation.
comply with cost orientation, cost accounting and accounting separation obligations.
We are appealing both the SMP and remedies decisions but if unsuccessful, we will continue to be subject to this increased Competition law and regulatory risks regulation in the market, which could have a significant effect on the profitability of our business in Ireland.
We operate in highly regulated markets that limit our exibility to manage our business We must comply with an extensive range of requirements that regulate and supervise the licensing, construction and operation of our networks and the provision and pricing of our products and services in countries in which we operate.
We must also co-operate with agencies or other governmental authorities that regulate and supervise the allocation of frequency spectrum and which monitor and enforce regulation and competition laws which apply to the mobile telecommunications industry.
Our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by changes in the law, regulation or government policies directed at the mobile telecommunications markets in which we operate.
In particular, decisions by regulators and competition authorities relating to tariffs, interconnection or the effects of expansion into new markets, or the accessibility of our network to mobile virtual network operators or service providers could have a negative impact on our business and results of operations.
