81795x 1040 25 2 06 9:47 am Page 7 Risk factors The following describes some of the risks that could affect Rio Tinto.
agreements, mining leases and permits, changes in laws, taxation There may be additional risks unknown to Rio Tinto and other risks, policies or currency restrictions.
Any of these can have a material currently believed to be immaterial, could turn out to be material.
These adverse effect on the profitability or, in extreme cases, the viability of risks, whether they materialise individually or simultaneously, could an operation.
significantly affect the Groups business and financial results.
They Some of the Groups current and potential operations are located should also be considered in connection with any forward looking in or near communities that may now, or in the future, regard such an statements in this document and the cautionary statement on the operation as having a detrimental effect on their economic and social following page.
Should this occur, it might have a material adverse impact on the profitability or, in extreme cases, the viability of an Economic conditions operation.
In addition, such an event may adversely affect the Groups Commodity prices, and demand for the Groups products, are ability to enter into new operations in the country.
influenced strongly by world economic growth, particularly that in the US and Asia.
The Groups normal policy is to sell its products at prevailing Technology market prices.
Commodity prices can fluctuate widely and could have a The Group has invested in and implemented information system and material and adverse impact on the Groups asset values, revenues, operational initiatives.
Several technical aspects of these initiatives are earnings and cash flows.
Further discussion can be found on page 11, still unproven and the eventual operational outcome or viability cannot Business environment and markets, and on page 35, Commodity prices.
Accordingly, the costs and benefits from these initiatives and the consequent effects on the Groups future Exchange rates earnings and financial results may vary widely from present The Groups asset values, earnings and cash flows are influenced by a expectations.
wide variety of currencies due to the geographic diversity of the Groups customers and areas of operation.
The majority of the Groups sales are Land and resource tenure denominated in US dollars.
The Australian and US dollars are the most The Group operates in several countries where title to land and rights in important currencies influencing costs.
The relative value of currencies respect of land and resources including indigenous title may be unclear can fluctuate widely and could have a material and adverse impact on and may lead to disputes over resource development.
Such disputes the Groups asset values, costs, earnings and cash flows.
Further could disrupt relevant mining projects and or impede the Groups ability discussion can be found on page 34, Exchange rates, reporting to develop new mining properties.
Health, safety and environment Acquisitions Rio Tinto operates in an industry that is subject to numerous health, The Group has grown partly through the acquisition of other businesses.
safety and environmental laws and regulations as well as community Business combinations commonly entail a number of risks and Rio Tinto expectations.
Evolving regulatory standards and expectations can result cannot be sure that management will be able effectively to integrate in increased litigation and or increased costs all of which can have a businesses acquired or generate the cost savings and synergies material and adverse effect on earnings and cash flows.
Failure to do so could have a material and adverse impact on the Groups costs, earnings and cash flows.
Furthermore, the Group Mining operations could find itself liable for undisclosed past acts or omissions of the Mining operations are vulnerable to a number of circumstances beyond acquired businesses without any adequate right of redress.
the Groups control, including natural disasters, unexpected geological variations and industrial actions.
These can affect costs at particular Exploration and new projects mines for varying periods.
Mining, smelting and refining processes also The Group seeks to identify new mining properties through an active rely on key inputs, for example fuel and electricity.
There is no guarantee, however, that such can provide protection from some, but not all, of the costs that may expenditure will be recouped or that existing mineral reserves will be arise from unforeseen events.
Disruption to the supply of key inputs, or replaced.
Failure to do so could have a material and adverse impact on changes in their pricing, may have a material and adverse impact on the the Groups financial results and prospects.
Groups asset values, costs, earnings and cash flows.
The Group develops new mining properties and expands its existing operations as a means of generating shareholder value.
Rehabilitation Increasing regulatory, environmental and social approvals are, however, Costs associated with rehabilitating land disturbed during the mining required which can result in significant increases in construction costs process and addressing environmental, health and community issues and or significant delays in construction.
These increases could are estimated and provided for based on the most current information materially and adversely affect a projects economics, the Groups asset available.
Estimates may, however, be insufficient and or further issues values, costs, earnings and cash flows.
Any underestimated or unidentified rehabilitation costs will reduce earnings and could materially and adversely affect the Reserve estimation Groups asset values, earnings and cash flows.
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore reserves.
Reserves that are valid at the time of estimation may change significantly Non managed operations when new information becomes available.
Fluctuations in the price of Rio Tinto cannot guarantee that management of mining and processing commodities, exchange rates, increased production costs or reduced assets not subject to its management control will comply with the recovery rates may render lower grade reserves uneconomic and may, Groups standards and objectives, nor that effective policies, procedures ultimately, result in a reduction in reserves.
A significant reduction could and controls will be maintained over those assets.
Improper have a material and adverse impact on the Groups asset values, management or ineffective policies, procedures or controls could revenues, costs, cash flows and earnings.
materially effect the value of those assets.
Political and community The Group has operations in jurisdictions having varying degrees of political instability.
Political instability can result in civil unrest, expropriation, nationalisation, renegotiation or nullification of existing Rio Tinto 2005 Annual report and financial statements 7 RISK F RISK FACTORS ACTORS 200 5
