Risk Factors 1 Introduction 2 Risks Relating to the Groups Business 3 Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk The sale of PacifiCorp may not progress or conclude 1 as expected.
Introduction The sale of PacifiCorp is subject to US Securities and Exchange There are risks and uncertainties inherent in the groups Commission, Department of Justice or Federal Energy business.
These risks could materially affect the groups Regulatory Commission FERC, Federal Trade Commission business, its turnover, operating profit, net assets, liquidity and and Nuclear Regulatory Commission approvals at the federal capital resources.
The risk management processes established level, without conditions that would have a material adverse by the group are designed to identify, assess, monitor, report, effect on the PacifiCorp business.
In addition it is subject to manage and mitigate each of the various types of risk involved approval at state level in Utah, Oregon, Wyoming, Washington, in the groups business and activities: measure quantitative Idaho and California provided such state approvals are not market risk exposure: and identify qualitative market risk subject to conditions whose effect would be meaningfully exposure in its business.
Increases or reductions in future retail adverse to the business of PacifiCorp.
The sale is subject to demand for electricity as a result of economic growth or further conditions to completion which include the downturns, among other factors, including abnormal weather, representations and warranties of the parties remaining true and may impact retail revenues, cash flows and investment levels.
correct, the parties performing their covenants and obligations under the agreement in all material respects, and no material adverse effect in relation to PacifiCorp having occurred.
The Risks Relating to agreement may be terminated prior to completion by mutual 2 the Groups Business agreement of the parties or otherwise in certain circumstances The assets and business processes of the group may not including material breach of the representations, warranties or perform as expected, which could impact the groups ability covenants of the parties, ScottishPower shareholders not to meet its obligations, including obligations to its investors.
approving the sale or the sale not having been completed by 23 The groups assets and mechanical systems, as well as its May 2006 or in certain circumstances by 17 February 2007 and business processes and procedures, might not perform as expected.
by MidAmerican where the Board of ScottishPower withdraws This may result in the group being unable to meet its obligations or adversely modifies its recommendation of the sale.
without resorting to an unanticipated market transaction and may lead to loss of revenue and a reduction in profitability.
Changes in federal and state regulatory requirements in the US could negatively affect the groups turnover or profitability.
In the US, the group is subject to the jurisdiction of federal and 73 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 Risk Factors state regulatory authorities.
The FERC establishes tariffs under Pending legislation in the US could have currently which PacifiCorp provides transmission services to the unpredictable effects on the nature and extent of regulations wholesale market and the retail market for states allowing retail to which the group is subject and on its revenues or competition, establishes both cost-based and market-based profitability.
tariffs under which PacifiCorp sells electricity at wholesale and In the US, PacifiCorp and PPM Energy conduct business in has licensing authority over most of PacifiCorps hydroelectric conformance with a multitude of federal and state laws.
In each state in which PacifiCorp operates, the past several years, the United States Congress has had, and the utility regulatory commissions independently determine the continues to have, under active consideration, significant rates PacifiCorp may charge its retail customers in that state.
changes in energy and air quality policy.
For example, Each states rate setting process is based upon that comprehensive energy legislation could possibly change the commissions acceptance of an allocated share of PacifiCorps hydroelectric relicensing process under the Federal Power Act, total costs as such states responsibility.
When different states repeal the Public Utility Holding Company Act PUHCA adopt different methods to address this inter-jurisdictional cost and encourage investment in renewable and lower-emission allocation issue, some costs may not be incorporated into any coal generation.
The late-2004 extension to 31 December 2005 rates in any state.
Ratemaking is done on the basis of of the renewable energy Production Tax Credit might be normalised costs, so if, in a specific year, realised costs are further extended.
Energy tax credits may have significant higher than normal, rates will not be high enough to cover influence in PPM Energys business planning.
Changes to the those costs.
Likewise, if, in a given year costs are lower than Clean Air Act contemplated by a variety of pending legislative normal or revenues are higher, PacifiCorp retains the resulting proposals are being monitored closely as they may impact higher-than-normal profit.
Each state commission sets rates requirements for emissions from fossil-fuelled generation based on a test year presented by a company in accordance plants, although the Clear Skies Act and other proposals with commission rules.
In states that use a historical test year, remain deadlocked in a Senate committee.
The Clear Skies Act rate adjustments can follow historical cost increases, or and other air quality initiatives could require additional control decreases, by up to two years.
Regulatory lag requires of emissions from PacifiCorps fossil-fuelled generation plants, PacifiCorp to incur costs, including those for new investments, which would increase PacifiCorps costs or lower electricity for which recovery through rates is delayed.
Further, each state generation output.
commission decides what levels of expense and investment are The laws of the states in which PacifiCorp operates affect necessary, reasonable and prudent in providing service.
In the the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity.
The event that a state commission decides that part of PacifiCorps state legislatures continue to make adjustments to the costs do not meet this standard, such costs will be disallowed legislation covering PacifiCorps activities but the broad thrust and not recovered in rates.
For these reasons, the rates of recent changes is to clarify resource procurement, taxation, authorised by the regulators may be less than the costs incurred resource allocation and inter-utility service territory procedures by PacifiCorp to provide electrical service to its customers in a and the changes are not thought likely to have a significant given period.
adverse impact on PacifiCorps operations.
Indeed, some may clarify issues and increase the certainty of recovery for a range Changes in national regulatory requirements in the UK of investments and expenses.
could negatively affect the groups turnover or profitability.
In the UK, the electricity and gas industries are regulated The group cannot be certain of the extent or timing of the primarily through powers assigned, under the Utilities Act 2000, general trend towards tightening regulation of environmental to the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority the Authority impact and may, therefore, fail to meet predicted turnover or which licenses industry participants, enforces licence profitability.
conditions, regulates quality of service and sets pricing formulae Federal, state and local authorities regulate many of the groups for electricity transmission and distribution activities.
In US activities pursuant to laws designed to restore, protect and principle, the Authority has wide discretion in the exercise of enhance the quality of the environment.
PacifiCorp and PPM its obligation to act to protect the interests of customers, by Energy cannot predict what material impact, if any, future promoting effective competition wherever appropriate.
Ensuring changes in environmental laws and regulations may have on that licence holders are able to finance their functions is only the groups consolidated results or financial position.
one of a number of other factors which the Authority must Several of PacifiCorps hydroelectric projects are in some consider.
Hence, the Authority imposes limitations on the rates stage of the FERC relicensing under the Federal Power Act.
the group can charge and seeks to promote competition in The relicensing process is a political and public regulatory certain of the groups markets.
Future regulatory changes in the process that involves sensitive resource issues.
PacifiCorp UK may negatively affect the groups compliance costs, its cannot predict the requirements that may be imposed during business, results of operations or financial condition.
the relicensing process, the economic impact of those 74 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 requirements, whether new licences will ultimately be issued or consistent with European Union EU policy generally.
whether PacifiCorp will be willing to meet the relicensing However, as the policy outlined extends well into the future, it requirements to continue operating its hydroelectric projects.
could be subject to change and amendment by future UK regulations designed to restore, protect and enhance Governments.
the quality of the environment are similarly introduced through a process of intensive and generally public consultation with the industry and other parties.
The costs associated with Quantitative and Qualitative the general tightening of environmental regulation may Disclosures about Market Risk 3 adversely affect UK turnover and profitability.
Market Rate Sensitive Instruments and Risk Management The following discussion about the groups risk management The groups business may be vulnerable to acts of terrorism.
activities includes forward-looking statements that involve Terrorism threats are an ongoing risk to the entire utility risk and uncertainties.
Actual results could differ materially industry, including ScottishPower.
Potential disruptions to from those projected in the forward-looking statements.
operations and information technologies or destruction of The Tables in Note 20 to the Group Accounts on pages 129 facilities from terrorism, including cyber attacks, are not readily to 134 summarise the financial instruments, including derivative determinable and could lead to a loss of revenue and reduction instruments and derivative commodity instruments, held by the in profitability.
group at 31 March 2005, which are sensitive to changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and commodity prices.
The The groups pension plan funding obligations are significant group uses interest rate swaps, forward foreign exchange and are affected by factors beyond its direct control.
contracts and other financially settled derivative instruments to Estimates of the amount and timing of future funding manage the primary market exposures associated with the obligations for the groups pension plans are based on various underlying assets, liabilities and committed transactions.
"assumptions including, among other things, the actual and Financially settled ""weather"" derivatives may be used from time projected market performance of the pension plan assets, to time to manage risk created by varying weather future long-term corporate bond yields and statutory circumstances affecting commodity demand and operations."
In the last year the relative improvement in The group also uses commodity transactions and commodity equity markets has seen the plans asset values rise, however derivatives that can be settled financially or by delivery of the this has been offset by falling bond yields and, therefore, the physical commodity to further manage its commodity price and liabilities have increased in value.
The investment risk volumetric risks.
These instruments are employed to reduce risk continues to be monitored by the company and the trustees, by creating offsetting financial positions or by directly hedging which is reflected in the gradual shift in asset allocation from such commodity exposures.
equities to bonds with a target of 50% equities in the two Such physically or financially settled instruments as above closed UK plans.
As a result of the recent conditions in the held by the group match offsetting physical transactions and equity markets and low interest rates, the group anticipates are not held for financial trading purposes.
Exceptions to this that pension expense and cash contributions into the pension exist in the groups competitive divisions PPM Energy and the plans will increase in the near future.
The ability to recover UK Division where a limited and controlled number of pension costs through regulated rates and market prices cannot transactions and derivatives may be held for proprietary be predicted with certainty.
trading or price discovery purposes.
In addition, weather derivatives are not held for proprietary trading purposes.
The UK Governments energy policy could change, Subject to risk management controls, businesses may enter into negatively affecting the context in which the group has financial transactions that are designed to reduce earnings established its UK business strategy.
volatility and improve the return on assets and are structured In the UK, energy policy has been set out in a Government around the physical assets of the group.
ScottishPower Energy White Paper, published in February 2003, which emphasises a Management Agency Limited is authorised by the UK continuing intention to make maximum use of market-based Financial Services Authority to undertake investment activity mechanisms whilst seeking to reduce the use of carbon, boost in the energy markets as an Energy Market Participant.
energy-saving and maintain efforts to mitigate the impact of fuel costs on lower-income households.
There is particular Risk Management focus on the use of renewable energy sources and developing Overview discussion of the network enhancements likely to be required The principal financial risks faced by the group are energy for the increased use of both renewables and embedded price risk, energy volumetric risk created by varying demand generation.
The White Paper has received broad endorsement due to weather and economic circumstances and varying across the UK political spectrum and appears to be largely 75 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 Risk Factors supply due to forced outages or other physical supply and confidence level for the resultant price changes and a holding logistics limitations, credit risk, interest rate risk, inflation rate period of five business days.
VaR represents an estimate of risk, insurance risk, foreign exchange translation and reasonably possible changes in fair value that would be transaction risk, liquidity risk and derivative risk.
The Board measured on its portfolio assuming hypothetical movements in has reviewed and agreed policies for managing each of these future market rates.
VaR, while sensitive to changes in portfolio risks as summarised below.
In order to mitigate the financial volume, does not account for commodity volume risk.
The risks identified, the Board has endorsed the use of derivative calculation includes short-term commodity transactions and financial instruments including swaps, both interest rate and commodity derivative instruments held for trading and cross-currency, swaptions, options, forward-rate agreements, balancing purposes, the expected resource and demand financial and commodity forward contracts, commodity obligations from the groups long-term contracts, the expected futures, commodity options and weather derivatives.
generation levels from the groups generation assets and the expected retail and wholesale load levels.
Optionality Energy Risk Management embedded within the groups bilateral contracts, generation Energy risk is governed globally with oversight from the assets and other derivative instruments with option Executive Team by the Group Energy Risk Committee characteristics within the energy portfolio are treated in the GERC, chaired by the Group Energy Risk Director with historical simulation of VaR as static expected or delta adjusted membership from the divisions and the independent corporate positions through the simulation process.
Expected positions risk management team.
The GERC defines, and the and option deltas are recalculated on a daily basis to determine ScottishPower Board approves, the group risk management the portfolio position changes due to changes in market prices.
policies and limits as well as the UK and the US risk policies Commodity price exposure is defined as the possibility that and limits.
These policies and limits are designed to create a change in market prices will alter the proceeds of sales or the consistent risk measurement, monitoring and management costs of purchases through the life of the transaction.
The monitoring and Commodity volume risk is defined as the possibility that a management of the level of exposure covered is handled by the change in the supply of or demand for the commodity will businesses, with full oversight by a corporate risk management create an unexpected imbalance and change the requirements function, independent of the businesses, reporting to the for the commodity.
Additional risk measures are being Finance Director.
The businesses with commodity exposure are developed to quantify risks beyond the confidence intervals authorised to manage this exposure using approved products, defined in the VaR methodology and determine volumetric policies and limits.
These businesses each report no less risks in physical positions.
We apply stress tests to reinforce frequently than monthly to a local risk committee, as well as to our VaR conclusions and have introduced stochastic analysis to the GERC.
estimate the impact of risks on outcomes.
Market exposures are quantified and controlled using a number of different risk measures.
These include Value-at-Risk Energy Price and Volume Risk Management VaR methods for earnings volatility control.
VaR is a UK Division measure of the potential financial loss on a price exposure The New Electricity Trading Arrangements NETA were position over a defined period to a given level of confidence.
introduced in England & Wales on 27 March 2001, replacing VaR computations for the groups energy commodity portfolios the previous Pool mechanism for the sale and purchase of are based on a historical simulation technique.
This technique wholesale electricity in England & Wales.
NETA provided for a utilises historical energy market forward price curve changes bilateral wholesale market, with suppliers, traders and over a specified period to simulate potential forward price curve generators trading firm physical forward contracts for bulk changes to estimate the potential unfavourable impact of price electricity supply.
In addition to transacting to directly manage changes in the portfolio positions scheduled to settle within the our market price exposure in the England & Wales market, the forward 24 months.
The quantification of market risk using VaR UK Division also manages its price exposure arising from sales provides a consistent measure of risk across the groups within the Scottish market by the use of forward contracts.
VaR represents an estimate of 1 April 2005, NETA was superseded by the British Energy possible changes at a given level of confidence in fair value that Trading and Transmission Arrangements BETTA, which would be measured on its portfolio assuming hypothetical combined the Scottish wholesale market with the wholesale movements in future market rates, and is not necessarily market in England & Wales, thus creating a Great Britain-wide indicative of actual results that may occur.
Future changes in wholesale electricity market.
markets inconsistent with historical trends or assumptions used Following the introduction of BETTA, the balancing could cause actual results to exceed predicted estimates.
mechanism, operated from one hour ahead of real-time gate The groups VaR computations for its energy commodity closure up to real-time by the National Grid Company, is now portfolio utilise several key assumptions, including a 99% used to manage the entire Great Britain grid system on a 76 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 second-by-second basis, as opposed to only the England & and natural gas price exposure management strategy, carbon Wales grid under NETA.
Market participants can participate emission allowance price risk is managed through trading actively in this market through the submission of bids and contracts with delivery within each individual year throughout offers to vary their output as a generator or demand as a Phase 1 of the ETS 2005 to 2007.
The euro exposure arising customer.
The mechanism also provides for calculation and as a result of managing this carbon price exposure is mitigated settlement of imbalance charges and revenues arising from the with currency hedges executed by the ScottishPower treasury differences between parties contract positions and their actual function.
The UK Division measures the market risk in its energy The UK Division has procedures in place to minimise portfolio daily utilising the VaR approach described above, exposure to uncertain balancing mechanism prices, that is, the stress tests as well as other measurements of net position, and possibility that the UK Division will face high charges for monitors its portfolio exposure to market risk in comparison to shortfalls in physical energy or receive low revenues for surplus established thresholds.
The UK Division also measures its open physical energy.
These procedures involve the UK Division positions at price risk in terms of volumes at each significant entering into bilateral contracts for the sale and purchase of delivery location for each forward time period.
energy across a range of time periods to minimise exposure to As at 31 March 2005, the UK Divisions estimated potential the balancing mechanism.
In addition, the divisions portfolio five-day unfavourable impact on fair value of the energy of flexible generating assets in England and Scotland can be commodity portfolio over the next 24 months was 11.9 used up to gate closure to minimise further this exposure and million, as measured by the VaR computations described also to attract premium income from providing flexible above, compared to 8.8 million as at 31 March 2004.
The electricity to the balancing mechanism.
A proportion of the average daily VaR five-day holding period for the year ended wind output from several UK Division-owned wind generation 31 March 2005 was 8.0 million.
The maximum and minimum facilities located within the UK is dispatched directly as VaR measured during the year ended 31 March 2005 were generated into the UK electricity distribution system: however 12.8 million and 4.2 million, respectively.
Changes in exposure to imbalance charges for this volume is largely markets inconsistent with historical trends or assumptions used mitigated through persistence modelling of the site output up could cause actual results to exceed predicted estimates.
The UK Division has also entered into longer-term in PacifiCorp excess of one year arrangements to protect against longer-term PacifiCorps market risk to commodity price change is volatility of electricity prices.
The time periods covered by primarily related to its natural gas and electricity purchases and these longer-term arrangements are reviewed on a continuous sales arising principally from its electricity supply obligation in basis to provide the desired level of price stability.
As in the UK, this risk to price change is subject to The UK Division also has procedures in place to minimise fluctuations in weather, economic growth and generation exposure to natural gas price variations.
In a similar manner to resource availability which impacts supply and demand.
For our electricity price exposure management strategy, natural gas example, during the 2004 05 winter months, PacifiCorp price risk is managed through a combination of longer-term experienced higher than average temperatures and lower than contracts and shorter-term trading contracts with flexible normal snow pack and rain levels, producing lower than delivery profiles, certain derivative financial instruments and normal hydro conditions.
Risk limits are established to govern through the use of flexibility within the divisions portfolio of energy purchases and sales.
Price risk is managed principally electricity generation and natural gas storage assets.
The UK through the operation of its generation and transmission Division mitigates its exposure to coal price risk through the system in the western US and through its wholesale energy use of a combination of financial and physical contracts as well purchase and sales activities.
Physically settled contracts are as currency hedges executed by the ScottishPower treasury used to hedge PacifiCorps excess or shortage of net electricity function.
Cover against volatile spot prices is built up on a for future months.
PacifiCorp has a forecast net balanced rolling basis through the year and, at 31 March 2005, a position for the summer of 2005. significant proportion of the UK Divisions exposure to While PacifiCorp plans for resources to meet its current electricity, natural gas and coal price variations for the period to and expected retail and wholesale load obligations, resource 31 March 2007 have been mitigated.
Following the availability, price volatility and volumetric volatility around commencement of the EU Emissions Trading Scheme ETS in both load and resources may materially impact the net power January 2005 the UK Division has an exposure to the price of costs to PacifiCorp and profits from surplus power sales in the carbon allowances, in order to enable the maximum economic future.
Prices paid by PacifiCorp to provide certain load running of thermal generation plant.
The UK Division also has balancing resources to supply its load may exceed the amounts procedures in place to minimise exposure to carbon emission it receives through retail rates and wholesale prices.
In a similar manner to our power received by PacifiCorp to dispose of resources made excess by 77 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 Risk Factors changes in retail and wholesale load obligations may fall short number of other facilities.
Associated with the wind energy of the amounts PacifiCorp has paid for such resources.
In the production are Renewable Energy Certificates RECs that 2000 01 power crisis, regulatory approval of deferred represent the environmental attributes of the renewable energy.
accounting treatment under US GAAP for these excess costs Consistent with its overall portfolio strategy, PPM Energy mitigated a portion of this price risk to the extent that recovery balances its wind asset position with long-term forward sales mechanisms were implemented.
Recovery of amounts allowed and some spot sales of both energy and renewable attributes.
by the public utility commissions are scheduled to continue Wind generation resource availability and variability is subject through 2005.
Deferred accounting treatment was granted to to price changes for that portion of the output that is not allow PacifiCorp to recover a portion of the excess power costs committed to long-term fixed price bilateral contracts.
Subsequent use of this mechanism is not Imbalances in the REC portfolio are subject to price changes in automatic and is not guaranteed for future use.
PacifiCorp continues to actively manage commodity price PPM Energy owns or controls over 800 MW of thermal volatility and reduce exposure.
These steps include adding to capacity on its own behalf and on the behalf of third parties.
its generation portfolio and entering into transactions that help Substantially all of this capacity is committed to long-term to shape PacifiCorp's system resource portfolio, including contracts, with the imbalance being subject to generation resource wholesale contracts and financially settled temperature-related availability and the relationship of fuel natural gas costs to derivative instruments that reduce volume and price risk due to electricity prices or spark spread.
PPM Energy manages weather extremes.
In addition, a streamflow hedge is in place short-term and daily imbalance through real-time markets.
PPM through September 2006 to reduce volume and price risks Energys risk in this business is principally if counterparties fail associated with PacifiCorps hydroelectric generation resources.
to perform in accordance with contracts and if PPM Energys PacifiCorp measures the market risk in its natural gas and generation assets fail to perform at reasonable levels.
electricity portfolio daily utilising the VaR approach described PPM Energy also owns and manages group owned natural above, as well as other measurements of net position, and gas storage facilities and contracted natural gas storage monitors its portfolio exposure to market risk in comparison to capacity in Canada, Texas, New Mexico and other locations.
PacifiCorp also measures the price risk PPM Energys strategy is to develop a natural gas storage hub of its open positions in terms of quantity at each significant services business that will own and operate facilities across delivery location for each forward time period.
Through a process of prudent risk limits, At 31 March 2005, PacifiCorps estimated potential five-day established risk information systems and clear reporting, PPM unfavourable impact on fair value of the natural gas and Energys gas storage business model is designed to minimise electricity commodity portfolio over the next 24 months was commodity risk.
PPM Energy provides a service for a fee for 9.7 million, as measured by the VaR computations described both long-term and short-term hub services.
Hub services is a above, compared to 10.0 million at 31 March 2004.
The generic term used to describe various fee-based transactions average daily VaR five-day holding for the year ended 31 carried out by the storage operator such as parking and loaning March 2005 was 10.4 million.
The maximum and minimum of natural gas or the wheeling of natural gas from one VaR measured during the year ended 31 March 2005 were pipeline to another at the storage location.
As a result, the hub 16.4 million and 6.6 million, respectively.
Changes in services business is subject to the risks associated with the markets inconsistent with historical trends or assumptions used operations and marketing of the storage facilities and services.
could cause actual results to exceed predicted estimates.
PPM Energy may maintain or create open positions in response to or in anticipation of long-term origination or PPM Energy development transactions creating exposure to market price PPM Energy is ScottishPowers competitive US energy business, movements, subject to market risk limitations delegated by which is primarily focused on providing environmentally ScottishPower and oversight by the corporate risk management responsible energy products to wholesale customers.
The group embedded in PPM Energy.
As such, PPM Energy will strategic priorities of PPM Energy are to grow its participate in the wholesale electricity and natural gas markets renewable thermal energy portfolio and natural gas to manage its open positions.
In addition, PPM Energy engages storage hub services business and optimise returns through the in point-of-view energy management activities in accordance integration of assets, trading and commercial activities.
PPM with strict limits approved by the business unit risk committee Energys strategy is to match the capacity and output of PPM chaired by the group risk management function.
Control and Energy assets and long-term sales obligations.
Imbalances performance metrics for such activities are tracked daily.
between asset positions and long-term sales are managed via PPM Energy measures the market risk in its natural gas wholesale energy purchases and sales activities.
and electricity portfolio daily utilising the VaR approach PPM Energy owns a number of wind generation facilities described above, as well as other measurements of net located throughout the US and also owns the output from a position, and monitors its portfolio exposure to market risk in 78 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 comparison to established thresholds.
PPM Energy also Interest Rate Risk Management measures its open positions at price risk in terms of volumes at The group continues to manage its interest rate exposure by each delivery location for each forward time period.
maintaining a percentage of its debt at fixed rates of interest.
At 31 March 2005, PPM Energys estimated potential fiveThis is done either directly by means of fixed rate debt issues day unfavourable impact on fair value of the energy commodity or by use of interest and cross-currency swaps to convert portfolio over the next 24 months was 8.9 million, as variable rate debt into fixed rate debt and fixed variable nonmeasured by the VaR computations described above, functional currency denominated debt into fixed rate compared to 5.8 million at 31 March 2004.
The average daily functional currency debt.
The use of derivative financial VaR five-day holding for the year ended 31 March 2005 was instruments relates directly to underlying existing and 5.4 million.
The maximum and minimum VaR measured anticipated indebtedness.
during the year ended 31 March 2005 were 8.9 million and The exposure to fluctuating interest rates is managed by either 1.2 million, respectively.
Changes in markets inconsistent with issuing fixed or floating rate debt or using a range of financial historical trends or assumptions used could cause actual results derivative instruments to create the desired fixed floating mix.
The groups interest rate policy is to target a long-term benchmark of at least 70% fixed rate interest.
At 31 March 2005, Credit Risk Management 98% March 2004: 84% of the net debt was either issued as The role of the groups credit function, which is part of the fixed or converted to fixed rates using interest rate swaps.
The independent corporate risk management group, is to set weighted average period to maturity of year end fixed debt and consistent standards for assessing, quantifying, monitoring, interest swaps was 10 years UK 10 years, US 10 years.
Based on mitigating and controlling the credit risk introduced by net floating rate investments of 134 million at 31 March 2005, contractual obligations of wholesale trading partners, suppliers a 1% change in interest rates at that date would result in a 1.3 and industrial and commercial customers.
A group credit million change in profit before tax over a twelve-month period.
committee provides umbrella oversight to ensure a consistent All treasury transactions are undertaken to manage the approach to counterparty rating.
The group credit committee risks arising from underlying activities and no speculative manages credit limits adopted across the group and oversees the trading is undertaken.
The counterparties to these instruments allocation of limits to those counterparties that overlap both the generally consist of financial institutions and other bodies rated US and the UK markets.
This group credit committee ensures at least AAby one of S&P, Moodys or The Fitch Group.
that each individual business is subject to concentration rules Although the group is potentially exposed to credit risk in the that prevent misallocation of credit risk amongst counterparties.
event of non-performance by counterparties, such credit risk is Beneath the group credit committee, the UK and the US credit controlled through credit rating reviews of the counterparties committees provide local expertise to understand the credit and by limiting the total amount of exposure to any one party environment in each geographic location.
All decisions are to levels agreed by the Board.
The group does not believe that supported by rigorous measurement and reporting of credit it is over exposed to any material concentration of credit risk.
exposures and the use of credit rating models.
Credit approvals are subject to regular and or event driven reviews.
Inflation Rate Risk Management To be eligible for a credit line, which is a function of credit In recognition of the fact that a portion of UK revenues are quality, counterparties for energy commodity transactions must linked to inflation, Scottish Power UK plc maintains part of its meet the following requirements: a counterparties must be debt portfolio in index-linked liabilities.
This is done either determined investment grade by an internal process review or through issues of debt or through swapping fixed rate debt into through an external assessment process rated BBBor better by index-linked.
Index-linked liabilities total 275 million, which Standard & Poors Ratings Group S&P or equivalent rating represents around 8% of the UK debt portfolio.
from Moodys Investors Service Moodys to avoid posting collateral or otherwise perfect their credit, or b non-rated or less Insurance Risk Management than BBBrated counterparties must either have a guarantee Where cost effective, the group maintains a wide-ranging from an investment grade entity, post collateral or provide other insurance programme providing financial protection, assurances deemed acceptable to the group credit committee.
The insurance market has continued to show mixed trends in pricing over the past Treasury Risk Management year.
For property insurance, there has been a general decrease The group treasury function is authorised to conduct the dayin premiums although the extent of the decrease has shown to-day treasury activities of the group within policies set out by signs of levelling off.
Other classes of insurance are still the Board.
The group treasury function reports regularly to the experiencing upward pressure on premiums.
The group has Board, through the monthly Group Performance and Risk worked closely with its insurance advisors and insurers to Report and is subject to internal audit.
maintain efficiencies and long-term stability in premium costs.
79 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 Risk Factors The renewal of the group's main insurance policies for 2005 06 group has entered into borrowing agreements for periods out has been completed with commercial insurers delivering a net to 2039.
The weighted average period to maturity of year end premium reduction.
The group had undrawn committed revolving credit facilities totalling $1,800 million as at 31 Foreign Exchange Risk Management March 2005 which provide backstop liquidity should the need Translation Risk arise.
Liquidity in the UK is currently supported by proceeds The principal objective of our currency risk management and from the $1,500 million bond issue and cash receipts from hedging strategy is to seek to mitigate exposure to movements matured and cancelled cross-currency swaps.
Current cash in foreign exchange rates for both dollar denominated net investments amount to 1,748 million.
assets and earnings, taking into account its potential effect on our net debt and related credit statistics.
The aim is to hedge Derivative Risk Management nearly 100% of US net assets with dollar liabilities.
This is The use of derivative financial instruments other than those done by a combination of borrowing dollars in the UK, described for energy commodities above relates directly to swapping sterling debt into dollars or creating additional dollar underlying existing and anticipated indebtedness, foreign liabilities and corresponding sterling assets to the extent that subsidiary earnings and net assets and business transactions total net dollar assets exceed UK based debt.
The resulting denominated in foreign currencies.
stream of dollar interest acts as a natural partial hedge to the During the year, several cross-currency swaps and foreign translation of US profits.
US profits are greater than interest exchange forwards hedging the US dollar net assets matured, paid in dollars and the resulting gap is hedged either by UK resulting in cash receipts of 140 million and were replaced based purchases of coal which is traded in dollars or by with new cross-currency swaps with maturities between 2007 selling dollars in order to mitigate the impact of exchange rate and 2010.
As well as this, $1,500 million of cross-currency movements.
Under International Financial Reporting swaps were cancelled in conjunction with the $1,500 million Standards, International Accounting Standard 39 Financial bond issue by Scottish Power plc which replaced the swaps as Instruments: Recognition and Measurement prohibits the a hedge of the US dollar net assets and resulted in cash hedging of internal cash flows, and therefore the groups receipts of 92 million.
These cash receipts resulted from the previous strategy under UK GAAP of hedging expected US weakness of the US dollar since the hedges were put in place.
dollar profits using US dollar forwards will no longer be A prolonged period of relative US dollar strength would result permitted.
Subject to EU approval, transitional provisions will in the payment of cash to counterparties, to the extent that the however, enable the group to use dollar forwards for earnings derivatives had not been replaced by primary dollar debt.
hedge purposes for financial year 2005 06.
However, this will Credit risk on non-energy commodity derivative cease with effect from 1 April 2006.
All foreign currency transactions is mitigated by a policy of only using derivative contracts are subject to the same controls as interest counterparties with a credit rating of AAor above.
Exposure rate derivatives referred to above.
to derivative counterparties is monitored using measures, Any foreign currency denominated debt will be subject to dependent on the type of transactions, that take into account re-translation at period end closing rates.
A ten cent 5% potential market volatility.
strengthening of the 31 March 2005 closing US dollar exchange rate would give rise to a 188 million increase in reported net debt at 31 March 2005.
Transaction Risk Other than the import of coal and trading of carbon allowances in the UK, transactions denominated in a foreign currency are not numerous in the group.
Where they arise as a result of imports of capital or other goods denominated in foreign currencies the exposure is hedged as soon as it is committed.
Liquidity Risk Management In recognition of the long life of the groups assets and anticipated indebtedness, and to create financial efficiencies, the groups policy is to arrange that debt maturities are spread over a wide range of dates, thereby ensuring that the group is not subject to excessive refinancing risk in any one year.
The 80 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05
