RISK FACTORS There are risks and uncertainties related to Smith & Nephews business.
The factors listed below are those that Smith & Nephew believes could cause the Groups actual financial condition or results of operations to differ materially from expected and historical results.
Factors other than those listed here, that Smith & Nephew cannot presently identify, could also adversely affect Smith & Nephews business.
The factors listed below should be considered in connection with any forward-looking statements in this report and the cautionary statements  Special Note Regarding .
Product LiabilityClaims and Lossof Reputation The development, manufacture and sale of medical devices and products entail risk of product liability claims or recalls.
Design defects and manufacturing defects with respect to products sold by the Group or by companies it has acquired could result in damage to or impairing the repair of body functions.
Smith & Nephew may become subject to liability, which could be substantial, because of actual or alleged malfunction of its products.
In addition, product malfunction could also lead to the need to recall from the market existing products, which may be costly and harmfulto the Groups reputation whichis cruciallydependent onproductsafety and efficacy.
Product liability is a risk in the medical devices industry, particularly in the US, the Groups largest geographic market where claims for pain and suffering and loss of earnings may involve substantial amounts.
There is a risk that patients bring product liability or related claims that could have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial position.
The potential exists for claimants to join together in a class action which could have the effect of increasingthe total potential liability.
The Group maintains product liability insurance, but this insurance is subject to limits and deductibles.
There is a risk that this insurance could become unavailable at a reasonable cost or at all, or will be inadequate to cover specific product liability claims.
Insurance premiums are relatively high, particularly for coverage in the US, and there is a risk at the medical devices industry level that insurance coverage could become increasingly costly.
If Smith & Nephew or any companies it acquires do not have adequate insurance, product liability claims and costs associated with product recalls could significantly limit Smith & Nephews available cash flow and negatively impact productsales from any associated loss of business.
In August 2003 the Group withdrew voluntarily from all markets the macrotextured versions of its OXINIUM femoral knee components.
As at that date 2,971 components had been implanted of which approximately 2,471 were in the USA, 450 in Australia and 50 in Europe, the first component having been implanted in December 2001.
The product was withdrawn when management became aware of a higher than usual percentage of reports of early revisions revisions are implants which need to be replaced.
It appears that some patients do not achieve adequate initial fixation and that in other patients, while there appears to be good initial fixation, this does not persevere.
Smith & Nephew has extensively tested and investigated the cause of these early revisions.
A group of medical and scientific experts retained and managed by the Groups defence lawyers is expected to finish its workinthis regard inmid-2006.
In December 2004 the Group was notified that two insurance carriers who comprise 35% of the first and 80% of the second excess layers of the Groups global product liability programme had declined coverage for macrotextured claims due to differences in the interpretation of the policy wording.
In December 2005 the other insurance carrier with a 20% participation in the second excess layer declined coverage.
Management intends to take all steps available to it in order to enforce this coverage.
A charge of 80m representing the amount outstanding from these insurers and an estimate of the cost associated with claims likely to arise in the future assuming that insurance cover continues to be unavailable from these and subsequent excess layer insurers was recorded in 2004.
Apart from the impact of translational exchange rate movements there has been no changeto the estimated liabilityduring2005.
Medical DeviceCompany Valuations In 2005 the valuation of medical device companies declined relative to broader indices but as a growth industry medical device companies still have higher stock market valuations than other industrial companies.
If market conditions change, or other companies in its sector fail to perform, or the Group is perceived to be performing less well than the sector, then the share pricerating of the Group may be adversely affected.
 The Groups principal business units compete across a diverse range of geographic and product markets.
The markets in which each of the business units operates each contain a number of different competitors, including 23 specialised and international corporations.
Significant product innovations, technical advances or the intensification of price competition by competitors could adversely affect the Groups operating results.
Some of these competitors may have greater financial, marketing and other resources than Smith & Nephew.
These competitors may be able to deliver products on more attractive terms, more aggressively market their products or invest larger amounts of capital and research and development into their businesses.
The competitive risk in the endoscopy market from the reprocessing and re-use of single use disposable devices such as arthroscopic resectionblades has declined inthe US during2005 but is still a factor  the US.
There is a risk of further consolidation particularly in the orthopaedic industry, which could adversely affect the Groups ability to compete with much larger companies due to insufficient financial resources.
If any of the Groups businesses were to lose market share or achieve lower than expected revenue growth there could be a  impact onthe Groups share priceand its strategic options.
Failure to Make Successful Acquisitions A key element of the Groups strategy for continued growth is to make acquisitions or alliances to complement its existing businesses.
Failure to identify appropriate acquisition targets or failure to integrate them successfully wouldhave an adverse impact onthe Groups competitive positionand profitability.
Attracting and Retaining Key Personnel The Groups continued development depends on its ability to hire and retain highly skilled personnel with particular expertise.
This is critical, particularly in research and new product development and in the orthopaedics and endoscopy sales forces of which the largest are in the US.
If Smith & Nephew is unable to retain key personnel in research and new product development or if its largest sales forces suffer disruption or upheaval, its sales and operating profit wouldbe adversely affected.
Trends in the Healthcare Industry In most markets throughout the world, expenditure on medical devices is ultimately controlled to a large extent by governments.
Funds may be made available or withdrawn from healthcare budgets depending on government policy.
The Group is therefore largely dependent on future governments providing increased funds commensuratewiththe increased demand arisingfrom demographictrends.
Pricing of the Groups products is governed in most major markets largely by governmental reimbursement authorities.
This control may be exercised by determining prices for an individual product or for an entire procedure.
The Group is exposed to changes in reimbursement policy and pricing which may have an adverse impact on sales and operating profit.
The Group must adhere to the rules laid down by funding agencies including the US Medicare and Medicaid fraud and abuse rules.
Failure to do so could result in fines or loss of future funding.
Business practice in the healthcare industry is subject to review by government authorities and regulators.
In March 2005 the Groups orthopaedic business was issued with a subpoena by the US Attorneys office requesting copies of its consulting, professional service and remuneration agreements with orthopaedic reconstruction surgeons.
There have been no significant developments since then but any unfavourable ruling against the Group or the orthopaedics industry as a whole could have a material adverse impact on the Groups results orcause a loss of reputation.
In addition, competition exists among healthcare providers to gain patients on the basis of quality, service and price.
There has been some consolidation in the Groups customer base, as well as among the Groups competitors, and these trends are expected to continue long term.
Increased competition and unanticipated actionsby competitors orcustomers couldlead to downwardpressure onprices and ora declineinmarket share in any of the Groups business areas which would adversely affect Smith & Nephews results of operations and hinderits growthpotential.
Regulatory Approvals and Controls The medical device industry is highly regulated.
Regulatory requirements are a major factor in determining whether substances and materials can be developed into marketable products and the amount of time and expense that should be allotted to such development.
At any time the Group is awaiting a number of regulatory approvals, which if not received, could adversely affect results of operations.
Regulatory approval of new products and new materials is required in each country in which the Group operates although a single approval 24 may be obtained for all countries within the European Union.
Regulatory approval of new products may entail a lengthy process particularly if materials are employed which have not previously been used in similar products.
Regulatory approvals in the US, Europe and Japan and are the most critical to the Groups success in launching new products.
The Group is required to comply with a wide range of regulatory controls over the manufacturing, testing, distribution and marketing of its products, particularly in the US, UK and Continental Europe.
Such controls have become increasingly demanding and management believes that this trend will continue.
Failure to comply with such controls could have a number of adverse consequences, including withdrawal of approval to sell a product ina countryortemporary closureof a .
Patent Infringement Claims Due to the technological nature of medical devices, the Group is subject to the potential for patent infringement claims.
Smith & Nephew attempts to protect its intellectual property and regularlyopposes third party patents and trademarks in those areas that might conflict with the Groups business interests.
If Smith & Nephew fails to successfully enforce its intellectual property rights, its competitive position could suffer, which could harm its operating results.
Claims asserted by third parties regarding infringement of their intellectual property rights, if successful, could require the Group to expend significant resources to pay damages, develop non-infringing products or to obtain licencesto the products whichare the subject of suchlitigation.
Continual Developmentand Introduction of New Products The Group operates in the medical devices industry, which has a rapid introductionrate of new products.
In order to remain competitive, each of the Groups business units must continue to develop innovative products that satisfy customer needs and preferences or provide cost or other advantages.
Developing new products is a costly, lengthy and uncertain process.
A potential product may not be brought to market for any number of reasons, including failure to work optimally, failure to receive regulatory approval, failure to be cost-competitive, infringement of patents or other intellectual property rights and changes in consumer demand.
The Groups products and technologies are subject to marketing attack by competitors.
Furthermore, new products that are developed and marketed by the Groups competitors may affect price levels in the various markets in which the Groups business units operate.
If new products do not remain competitive with competitors products, the Groups sales revenue coulddecline.
There is a risk that a major disruptive technology could be introduced into one of the Groups markets and adversely affect its ability to achieve business plans and targets.
Manufacturing and Supply The Groups manufacturing production is concentrated at six main facilities in Memphis, Tennessee: Mansfield, Massachusetts: Oklahoma City, Oklahoma: and Largo, Florida in the United States and Hull and Gilberdyke in the United Kingdom.
If major physical disruption took place at any of these sites, it would adversely affect the results of operations.
Physical loss and consequential loss insurance is carried to cover such risks but is subject to limits and deductibles and may not be sufficient to covercatastrophic loss.
Management of orthopaedics inventory is complex, particularly forecasting and production planning.
There is a riskthat failures  to excess .
Each of the three business units is reliant on certain key suppliers of raw materials, components, finished products and packaging materials.
If any of these suppliers is unable to meet the Groups needs or substantially increases its prices, Smith & Nephew would need to seek alternative suppliers.
There can be no assurance that alternative suppliers would provide the necessary raw materials on favourable or cost-effective terms.
Consequently, the Group may be forced to pay higher prices to obtain raw materials, which it may not be able to pass on to its customers in the form of increased prices for its finished products.
In addition, some of the raw materials used may become unavailable, and there can be no assurance that the Group will be able to obtain suitable and cost-effective substitutes.
There is currently a risk that supplies of SUPARTZ, which is extracted from rooster combs, may be impacted by the outbreak of avian flu in Asia.
Any interruption of supply caused by these orother factors couldnegatively impact Smith & Nephews revenue and operating profit.
Currency Fluctuations The Group has reported its 2005 results in Sterling.
However only 9% of Group revenue arose in the UK compared with 49% in the US, 22% in Continental Europe and 20% in Africa, Asia, Australia, Canada and Latin 25 America.
Fluctuations in the exchange rates used to translate the financial statements of operations outside the UK into Sterling had the effect of increasing Group revenue by 2%.
In 2004 the effect was to reduce Group revenue by 7%.
In 2006 the Group will change its reporting currency and Smith & Nephew plc will change its functional currency to US Dollars.
This will reduce the Groups exposure to exchange rate fluctuations in the translation of its revenue and profits.
The Groups manufacturing cost base is situated in the US and the UK from where finished products are exported to the Groups selling operations worldwide.
Thus the Group is exposed to fluctuations in exchange rates between the US Dollar and Sterling and the currencies of the Groups selling operations, particularly the Euro and the Japanese Yen.
If the US Dollar and or Sterling should strengthen against the Euro and the Japanese Yen then Group trading marginwouldbe adversely affected.
Political and Economic Uncertainties Because the Group has operations in 33 countries, political and economic upheaval in those countries or in the regions surrounding those countries may impact the Groups results of operations.
Political changes in a country could prevent the Group from receiving remittances of profit from a member of the Group located in that country or from selling its investments in that country.
Furthermore, legislative measures in a country could result in changes in tariffs, import quotas or taxation that could adversely affect the Groups turnover and operating profit.
Terrorist activities and ongoing global political uncertainties, including conflict in the Middle East, could adversely impact the Group.
Other Risk Factors The Board considers that Smith & Nephew is subject to a number of other risks whichare commonto most global medical technologygroups and whichare reviewed as part of its riskmanagement process.
In the financial area these include interest rate volatility, share price volatility, challenges by taxation authorities, failures inreportingand  uninsuredlosses.
Adverse events in the areas of corporate social responsibility could also adversely impact Group operating results.
