30 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Operating and financial review continued 01 Smiths Aerospace, Manchester, Connecticut, US.
02 Flexible Ducting, Cloberfield, Milngavie, Glasgow, UK.
01 02 Under IFRS, deferred tax is recognised on all taxable temporary balance sheet, with subsequent gains and losses taken to differences between the tax base and the accounting base of the income statement immediately, unless hedge accounting balance sheet items included in the balance sheet of the Group, is achieved.
except to the extent that such temporary differences arise on initial recognition of an asset or liability.
This means that Risks and uncertainties deferred tax is recognised on certain temporary differences Smiths operates globally in varied markets and manages that would not have given rise to deferred tax under UK GAAP.
the risks inherent in its activities.
The most significant differences between UK GAAP and IFRS relate to the following: There are risk factors both external and internal to the Company.
Deferred tax provisions relating to tax deductible goodwill External risks include global political and economic conditions, set off against reserves prior to 1 August 1998 under UK actions of competitors, the effect of legislation or other regulatory GAAP and not reinstated under IFRS are written back.
action, foreign exchange, raw material prices, pension funding For goodwill on which deductions are still to be claimed, risk, credit risk, business continuity, environmental risks deferred tax assets have been recognised on transition and litigation.
to IFRS and are being amortised to offset the timing of Internal risks include investment risk with new products and the tax benefit.
The amortisation of the asset under IFRS projects, acquisitions, technology risks, controls failure risk corresponds to the build up of the liability under UK GAAP.
Under IFRS, deferred tax is provided on temporary differences The Company seeks to mitigate exposure to all forms of arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates risk, where practicable, and to transfer risk to insurers, where principally in respect of unremitted earnings, except where cost effective.
the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary Global political and economic conditions difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Smiths operates in over 40 countries, although some 90% of Smiths employees are located in North America, the EU In addition to these adjustments, the carrying values of deferred or Japan.
tax assets and liabilities in the balance sheet have been adjusted to reflect the restatement of assets and liabilities arising from The Company is exposed to political risk, natural catastrophe the adoption of IFRS.
Computer software The demand faced by the Company in the commercial Under UK GAAP, all capitalised computer software was classified aerospace sector is a function of airline profitability, primarily within tangible fixed assets.
IFRS requires capitalised software driven by economic prosperity, and this tends to be affected by that is not an integral part of the hardware to be treated as an terrorism or international tension.
sales account for less than 15% of total activities.
Financial Instruments The demand faced by the Company in the military aerospace Smiths has taken the allowed exemption not to restate sector is dependent on defence spending by governments, comparatives for the adoption of IAS32 Financial Instruments: mainly in the US and Europe.
Disclosure and Presentation and IAS39 Financial Instruments: The demand faced by the Company in the Detection business Recognition and Measurement.
These standards set out the is mainly dependent upon spending by governments and accounting rules surrounding the recognition, measurement, government agencies.
disclosure and presentation of financial instruments.
Smiths will adopt these standards on a prospective basis with effect Some 55% of total sales are to customers in the US.
The fair value of derivative financial is thus particularly affected by economic conditions in the US.
instruments existing at 1 August 2005 will be included in the 31 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Operating and financial review continued The diverse nature of Smiths products, services and customers Foreign exchange helps mitigate adverse changes in political and economic risk The Company is exposed to two types of currency risk.
There on the demand that the Company experiences.
is transaction risk in relation to products manufactured in one currency region and sold in another currency.
Additionally, Natural catastrophes there is translation risk in that the results of non-UK businesses Smiths has assets in over 40 countries and is exposed to a will translate into differing sterling values depending upon number of natural catastrophe risks, such as earthquake, the exchange rate.
The Companys practices for managing flood and windstorm.
Where cost-effective, such risks are currency risk are set out in the Treasury section, and generally mitigated through physical measures designed to counter the mitigate transaction risk in the short term.
Over the longer impact of a catastrophe.
The value of assets and associated term, the Company remains exposed to both transaction and profits are also protected by insurance.
Competitive risk Longer-term transaction risks are mitigated by manufacturing Smiths operates in highly competitive markets.
Product or sourcing components in the same currency as that of the sale.
innovations or technical advances by competitors could adversely affect the Company.
The diversity of operations Net exports from the UK comprise approximately 15% of reduces the possible effect of action by any single competitor.
The Company invests some 10% of revenues in research and Raw material risk development in order to sustain competitive advantage, and Smiths products contain varied raw materials or purchased also works continually to ensure that its cost base is competitive.
components including electronic components, metals and plastics.
Legislation and regulatory risk Smiths is subject to a broad range of laws, regulations and Any increases or volatility in prices and shortages in supply standards in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
The diversity of operations both geographically, and in terms of product area, reduces Unexpected change in any of these could significantly impair the dependence on any single item or supplier.
Purchasing the Companys performance, as could failure to comply with policies take into account and seek to mitigate such risks these laws, regulations or standards, which could damage the where practicable.
Aerospace, Detection and Medical businesses are subject to particular forms of regulation, and Pension funding risk certain customers and regulatory or other enforcement bodies The Company operates significant pension plans as detailed routinely inspect the Companys practices or processes.
The average funding level of the funded plans at 31 July 2005 was 97% measured by FRS17 methodology.
The Insurance funding of the pension liabilities at that date was some 50% Certain liability risks such as product liability are transferred to by equities and 50% by other assets.
The Company is subject insurers, subject to policy limits and conditions.
However, the to various funding risks, principally poor performance of the Company and its subsidiaries have been in business for many equity investments and increased longevity of the members.
years and there is a risk of latent injury and other claims which Such risks could result in significant cash contributions by may not be fully covered by insurance.
the Company to the pension schemes.
Where appropriate the Company seeks to insure business Credit risk risks with insurers of good standing.
The insurance industry Smiths is exposed to credit risk in relation to customers, is, however, subject to credit risk, particularly in the event of banks and insurers.
Credit control practices take into account catastrophe or where an insurer has substantial exposure to the perceived risk.
The customer base is relatively diverse.
The insolvency of a leading insurer could result in material financial exposure for the Company.
Risk controls with regard to the Companys bank deposits are set out in the Treasury section.
