AstraZeneca Annual Report and 40 Form 20-F Information 2005 MANAGING RISK Core to our continued success is BRINGING A NEW MEDICINE TO MARKET PERFORMANCE OF A NEW MEDICINE The path to a new medicine is a long, complex, AstraZenecas financial performance can be our ability to identify and effectively expensive and risky process.
impacted if a new product does not succeed manage the risks to our business, as anticipated, or its sales growth is slower be they strategic, operational, Research and development than predicted.
The commercial success of compliance, reputational, financial Every new medicine is the result of an intensive our new medicines is of particular importance discovery and development process, taking to us to replace sales lost as and when patent or environmental.
between 10 and 15 years and typically costing protection expires in major markets for over $800 million per product.
Thousands of established marketed products.
Backed by our Group Risk & Control Policy, compounds are investigated for their potential we continue to drive the integration of risk to become a new medicine: only a small Competition and price pressure management into all our activities, to ensure number succeed, because of the demanding In all our markets, we compete against major managers understand the importance of criteria of the ongoing selection process, prescription pharmaceutical companies that identifying business risks and how they should which centres on safety and how well the in many cases are able to match or exceed be managed.
Appropriate tools include a risk medicine works in patients.
the resources we have available to us, management framework that all managers can particularly in the areas of research and use to recognise, assess and actively manage Regulatory approval marketing investment.
Some of our key the challenges in their areas.
Before a new medicine can be launched on growth products, such as Crestor, compete the market, we are required to obtain directly with similar products marketed by Much of this work is facilitated by the Risk regulatory approval, based on its safety and some of these companies.
We also compete Advisory Group RAG, led by the Chief Financial efficacy.
The submission of an application to with biotechnology companies and Officer and consisting of representatives from regulatory authorities which are different, with companies who manufacture generic each business function.
The role of RAG different requirements, in each country does versions of our products following patent continues to be advisory and is to assist senior not guarantee approval to market.
In most of our markets, there is management in identifying and assessing our can refuse to grant approval or may require continued economic, regulatory and political main business risks in a co-ordinated manner.
additional data before approval is given, even pressure to limit the cost of pharmaceuticals.
It focuses in particular on cross-functional though the medicine may already be launched risks, linking risk management to business in other countries.
We continue to focus on developing performance reporting and sharing best differentiated products that offer improved practice across the organisation to drive Launch treatment options for patients and bring continuous improvement in this area.
RAG The anticipated launch dates of major new economic benefit to healthcare systems.
reports twice a year to the Senior Executive products have a significant impact on When setting the price of a medicine, we aim Team and its reports on the Companys risk a number of areas of our business, including to reflect its full value to customers, patients profile are reviewed annually by both the Audit investment in large clinical trials, the manufacture and society in general.
Our pricing will also take Committee and the Board.
We have a dedicated of pre-launch stocks, investment in marketing account of the fact that, as a publicly-owned team of Integrated Risk Management materials ahead of a product launch, sales force company, we have a duty to ensure that we professionals who are deployed, where training and the timing of anticipated revenue continue to deliver value for our shareholders.
appropriate, to assist senior managers in from commercial sales of new products.
Any We balance many different factors, including identifying, assessing and developing strategies significant delay to launch could therefore have ensuring appropriate patient access, in our for managing risk in their respective areas an adverse effect on our financial performance.
global pricing policy, which provides the of responsibility.
The team also carries out framework for optimising the profitability a rolling programme of training staff in effective As discussed in more detail elsewhere in this of our products in a sustainable way.
integrated risk management and develops Report, we continue to focus on improving networks for the sharing and embedding the productivity and efficiency of our research Intellectual property of best practice.
This is aimed at ensuring we Increasingly our patents are challenged by deliver as quickly as possible high quality, generic manufacturers seeking access to The main areas of risk that AstraZeneca faces safe and effective new medicines that meet the market for their own generic products.
Many of these areas regulatory requirements, are launched In addition, there is a risk that some countries, of risk are discussed in more detail elsewhere successfully, and make a difference for particularly those in the developing world, in this Report.
See also the more detailed list patients worldwide.
The changes we may seek to impose limitations on patent of Risk Factors on pages 154 to 156. made to our operating model to simplify our protection availability.
Obtaining adequate project processes in 2005 should strengthen protection for the intellectual property governance and risk management.
associated with our significant investment Strategic investment continues to be focused in R&D activities continues to be a key on areas directly linked to increased quality business imperative.
The range of protection and number of new products.
In Discovery, includes patents, trade marks, design we continue to aim to increase the output registrations, copyrights and internet domain of high quality candidate drugs with a lower name registrations.
risk of failure in development.
