AstraZeneca Annual Report and 154 Form 20-F Information 2005 RISK FACTORS RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH Increasingly, manufacturers of generic respect to these products and, consequently, FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS pharmaceutical products, whether based in could result in a material adverse effect on This Report contains certain forward-looking developing countries, such as those in Asia, AstraZenecas financial condition and results statements about AstraZeneca.
Although or elsewhere in the world, seek to challenge of operations.
we believe our expectations are based on our patents or other types of marketing reasonable assumptions, any forward-looking IMPACT OF FLUCTUATIONS IN EXCHANGE RATES exclusivity in order to gain access to the statements may be influenced by factors that The results of AstraZenecas operations are market for their own generic products.
could cause actual outcomes and results to accounted for in US dollars.
Approximately be materially different from those predicted.
49% of our 2005 sales were in North America For example, AstraZeneca was involved in Forward-looking statements are identified comprised of the US and Canada with litigation in the US and elsewhere during 2005 in this report, by using the words anticipates, a significant proportion of that figure being relating to omeprazole, the active ingredient believes, expects, intends and similar in respect of US sales.
The US is, and is in Losec Prilosec, and in the US, relating to expressions.
These forward-looking expected to remain, our largest market.
metoprolol succinate, the active ingredient statements are subject to numerous risks and Sales in certain other countries are also in in ToprolXL, concerning the infringement of uncertainties.
Important factors that could US dollars, or in currencies whose exchange certain patents, including formulation patents, cause actual results to differ materially from rates are linked to the US dollar.
In January 2006, those in forward-looking statements, certain components of our cost base are, however, the US District Court for the Eastern District of of which are beyond our control, include, located in Europe, where an aggregate of Missouri issued a decision holding that certain among other things: the loss or expiration of approximately 58% of our employees are of our US compound and composition patents patents, marketing exclusivity or trade marks: based.
Movements in the exchange rates relating to metoprolol succinate were invalid exchange rate fluctuations: the risk that R&D used to translate foreign currencies into US and unenforceable.
We disagree with and will will not yield new products that achieve dollars may therefore have a material adverse appeal this decision.
During 2005, certain commercial success: the impact of competition, effect on AstraZenecas financial condition and generic manufacturers filed Abbreviated New price controls and price reductions: taxation results of operations.
Drug Applications with the FDA containing risks: the risk of substantial product liability paragraph IV certifications alleging invalidity claims: the impact of any failure by third parties Certain subsidiaries of AstraZeneca import and non-infringement in respect of certain to supply materials or services: the risk of and export goods and services in currencies of our patents relating to Nexium, Pulmicort delay to new product launches: the difficulties other than their own functional currency, Respules and Seroquel.
Following filing of the of obtaining and maintaining governmental although we minimise this practice.
The results ANDAs, we commenced patent infringement approvals for products: the risk of failure to of such subsidiaries could, therefore, be proceedings against such manufacturers.
observe ongoing regulatory oversight: the risk affected by currency fluctuations arising The more significant patent litigation relating that the new products do not perform as we between the transaction dates and the to our products is described in Note 25 to the expect: and the risk of environmental liabilities.
settlement dates for those transactions.
We hedge these exposures through financial RISK OF LOSS OR EXPIRATION OF PATENTS, In addition to challenges to our patented instruments.
The notional principal amount MARKETING EXCLUSIVITY OR TRADE MARKS products from manufacturers of generic of financial instruments used to hedge these Scientific development and technological pharmaceutical products, there is a risk that exposures, principally forward foreign innovation are crucial if AstraZeneca is to some countries, particularly those in the exchange contracts and purchased currency deliver long term market success.
In the developing world, may seek to impose options, at 31 December 2005 was $10m.
pharmaceutical market, a drug, diagnostic limitations on the availability of patent protection We have policies that seek to mitigate the or medical device is normally only subject for pharmaceutical products, or on the extent effect of exchange rate fluctuations on the to competition from alternative products, to which such protection may be obtained, value of foreign currency cash flows and in for the same use, during the period of patent within their jurisdictions.
turn their effects on the results of the various protection or other types of marketing subsidiaries, but we do not seek to remove all exclusivity.
Once patent protection or other Trade mark protection for our products is also such risks.
In general, a unilateral strengthening types of marketing exclusivity have expired an important element of our overall product of the US dollar adversely affects our reported the product is generally open to competition marketing programmes.
Combined with results whereas a weakening of the US dollar from generic copy products.
Products under patent protection or other types of marketing is generally favourable.
We cannot ensure patent protection or other types of marketing exclusivity, products protected by a valid trade that exchange rate fluctuations will not have exclusivity usually generate significantly mark usually generate higher revenues than a material adverse effect on AstraZenecas higher revenues than those not protected by those not protected by a trade mark.
financial condition and results of operations patents or other types of marketing exclusivity.
We believe that we have trade mark protection in the future.
We believe that we have patent protection for many of our most important products.
for many of our most important products.
However, trade mark protection may expire RISK THAT R&D WILL NOT YIELD NEW PRODUCTS or be challenged by third parties.
THAT ACHIEVE COMMERCIAL SUCCESS For example, during 2004 compared to 2003 As a result of the complexities and uncertainties and, to a lesser extent, during 2005 compared Limitations on the availability of patent associated with pharmaceutical research, to 2004, sales in the US of Losec Prilosec, protection in developing countries or the it cannot be ensured that compounds currently Plendil, Zestril and Nolvadex fell significantly expiration or loss of certain patents, marketing under development will achieve success following anticipated patent expiries or the exclusivity or trade marks would have an in laboratory, animal or clinical testing and end of marketing exclusivity.
adverse effect on pricing and sales with ultimately be granted the regulatory approvals Risk Factors 155 needed to market such products.
certain states have taken action to require Europe to the European Union could result For example, in 2005, development of further manufacturer rebates on Medicaid drug in significant increases in the parallel trading a number of our products was discontinued utilisation and for other state pharmaceutical of pharmaceutical products.
Movements of due to failure to meet our target profile: these assistance programmes.
Congress has also pharmaceutical products into North America, included AZD7009 for atrial fibrillation enacted statutes that place a ceiling on the price in particular the movement of products from maintenance: AZD0865 for the treatment manufacturers may charge US government Canada into the US, may increase despite of acid-related gastrointestinal disease: agencies, thereby causing a substantial the need to meet current or future safety AZD7371 for the treatment of overactive discount, as well as establishing a minimum requirements imposed by regulatory authorities.
bladder: AZD3841, a potential oncology drug, discount comparable to the Medicaid rebate The effects of any increase in the volume being investigated in the area of solid tumours on manufacturers sales to certain clinics of this parallel trade could result in a material and AZD3778 for the treatment of asthma.
and hospitals that serve the poor and other adverse effect on AstraZenecas financial There can be no absolute assurances populations with special needs.
These condition and results of operations.
regarding the development and commercial government initiatives, together with competitive success of any of the products in our current market pressures, have contributed to restraints There is formal central government control pipeline.
The commercial success of pipeline on realised prices.
New product prices are products is of ongoing importance to us in determined primarily by comparison with view of the cycle of expiry of patent protection Recently introduced and future US legislation existing products for the same medical condition.
concerning the Medicaid and Medicare All existing products are subject to a price programmes is likely to significantly affect review at least every two years.
Regulations COMPETITION, PRICE CONTROLS our US business.
It is difficult to predict with introduced in 2000 included provisions allowing AND PRICE REDUCTIONS certainty the overall effect on our business a drugs price to be set according to the average The principal markets for our pharmaceutical of such changes to the legislation.
price of the product in four major countries products are the Americas, the countries the US, the UK, Germany and France.
of the European Union, Asia Pacific and In addition, realised prices are being depressed Japan.
These markets are highly competitive.
TAXATION by pressure from managed care and institutional We compete in all of them, and elsewhere in The UK is party to various double tax treaties purchasers, who use cost considerations to the world, against major prescription with foreign jurisdictions, which enable restrict the sale of preferred drugs that their pharmaceutical companies which, in many AstraZenecas revenues and capital gains to physicians may prescribe, as well as other cases, are able to match or exceed the escape a double tax charge to both UK and competitive activity.
Such limited lists or resources which we have available to us, foreign jurisdiction tax.
If any of these double formularies may force manufacturers either particularly in the areas of R&D and marketing tax treaties should be withdrawn or amended, to reduce prices or be excluded from the list, investment.
Industry consolidation has or should any member of the AstraZeneca thereby losing all the sales revenue from resulted in the formation of a small number Group become involved in taxation disputes patients covered by that formulary.
The use of very large companies.
Some of our most with any tax authority, such withdrawal, of strict formularies by institutional customers important products for future growth, such as amendment or a negative outcome of such is increasing rapidly in response to the current Crestor, compete directly with similar products disputes could have a material adverse effect cost-containment environment, resulting in marketed by some of these companies.
on AstraZenecas financial condition and lower margins on such sales.
Increasingly, we also compete directly with results of operations.
biotechnology companies and companies Some governments in Europe, notably Italy that manufacture generic versions of our RISK OF SUBSTANTIAL PRODUCT and Spain, set price controls having regard products following the expiry or loss of patent LIABILITY CLAIMS to the medical, economic and social impact protection or other marketing exclusivity.
Given the widespread impact prescription of the product.
In other European countries, primarily Germany, the UK, the Netherlands drugs may have on the health of large patient In most of the principal markets in which we and, more recently, France, governments are populations, pharmaceutical and medical sell our products, there is continued economic, exerting a strong downward pressure on prices device companies have, historically, been regulatory and political pressure to limit the by incentives and sanctions to encourage subject to large product liability damages cost of pharmaceutical products.
Certain doctors to prescribe cost-effectively.
Efforts claims, settlements and awards for injuries groups have been involved in exerting price by the European Commission to harmonise allegedly caused by the use of their products.
pressure on pharmaceutical companies to the disparate national systems have met with Adverse publicity relating to a products safety ensure medicines are affordable to those who little immediate success.
The industry is, may increase the risk of product liability claims.
therefore, exposed to ad hoc national costSubstantial product liability claims that are containment measures on prices and the not covered by insurance could have a Currently there is no direct government control consequent parallel trading of products from material adverse effect on AstraZenecas of prices for non-government sales in the US.
markets with prices depressed by governments financial condition and results of operations.
In 1990, however, federal legislation was into those where higher prices prevail.
enacted which required drug manufacturers RISK OF RELIANCE ON THIRD PARTIES FOR to agree to substantial rebates in order for the The importation of pharmaceutical products SUPPLIES OF MATERIALS AND SERVICES manufacturers drugs to be reimbursed by from European countries where prices are low Like most, if not all, major prescription state Medicaid programmes, and an additional to those where prices for those products are pharmaceutical companies, in some of its key rebate if manufacturer price increases after higher may increase.
The accession of business operations, such as the manufacture, 1990 exceed the increase in inflation.
In addition, additional countries from central and eastern formulation and packaging of products, AstraZeneca Annual Report and 156 Form 20-F Information 2005 RISK FACTORS CONTINUED AstraZeneca relies on third parties for the products throughout the European Union costs incurred in launching it could have timely supply of specified raw materials, through a centralised procedure.
In addition, a material adverse effect on AstraZenecas equipment, contract manufacturing, each jurisdiction has very high standards financial condition and results of operations.
formulation or packaging services and of regulatory approval and, consequently, maintenance services.
Although we actively ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITIES in most cases, a lengthy approval process.
manage these third party relationships to AstraZeneca has environmental liabilities Furthermore, each regulatory authority ensure continuity of supplies on time and at some currently or formerly owned, leased may impose its own requirements and to our required specifications, some events and third party sites in the US, as described may refuse to grant, or may require additional beyond our control could result in the complete in more detail on pages 118 and 119.
There is data before granting, an approval, even or partial failure of supplies or in supplies not no reason for us to believe that associated though the relevant product has been being delivered on time.
Any such failure could current and expected expenditure and risks approved in another country.
For example, have a material adverse effect on AstraZenecas are likely to have a material adverse effect on in 2004 the FDA did not approve Exanta for financial condition and results of operations.
AstraZenecas financial condition and results any of the indications sought and although of operations although they could, to the the Japanese regulatory authority granted RISK OF DELAY TO NEW PRODUCT LAUNCHES extent that they exceed applicable provisions, approval for Crestor, this was conditional AstraZenecas continued success depends have a material adverse effect on AstraZenecas on a post-marketing surveillance programme on the development and successful launch of financial condition and results of operations being carried out.
The anticipated launch for the relevant period.
In addition, a change dates of major new products have a significant RISK OF FAILURE TO OBSERVE ONGOING in circumstances including a change in impact on a number of areas of our business, REGULATORY OVERSIGHT applicable laws or regulations may result including investment in large clinical trials, AstraZenecas products are only licensed in such a material adverse effect.
Although the manufacture of pre-launch stocks of the following exhaustive regulatory approval we take great care to ensure that we operate products and the timing of anticipated future processes.
Once a product is licensed it is our business at all of our sites within all revenue streams from commercial sales of the subject to ongoing control and regulation, such applicable environmental laws, regulations, products.
Any delay to the anticipated launch as the manner of its manufacture, distribution licences and permits, a significant environmental dates may therefore impact AstraZenecas and marketing.
Regulatory authorities have incident for which we were responsible could business and operations in a number of ways.
wide-ranging administrative powers to deal result in AstraZeneca being liable to pay For example, we had expected Crestor to be with any failure to comply with their ongoing compensation, fines or remediation costs.
launched in the US in the second half of 2002. regulatory oversight.
These powers include In some circumstances, such liability could have However, the approval of products in the same withdrawal of a licence approval previously a material adverse effect on AstraZenecas class as Crestor was subject to additional granted, product recalls, seizure of products financial condition and results of operations.
regulatory scrutiny partly as a result of the and other sanctions for non-compliance.
previous withdrawal from the market of Regulatory sanction, following a failure to cerivastatin.
Crestor was launched in the US comply with such ongoing regulatory oversight, in September 2003.
Significant delay to the could have a material adverse effect on anticipated launch dates of new products AstraZenecas financial condition and results could have a material adverse effect on of operations.
AstraZenecas financial condition and results of operations.
PERFORMANCE OF NEW PRODUCTS Although we carry out numerous and extensive DIFFICULTIES OF OBTAINING GOVERNMENT clinical trials on all our products before they are REGULATORY APPROVALS FOR NEW PRODUCTS launched, for a new, recently launched product, AstraZeneca is subject to strict controls on it can be difficult, for a period following its the manufacture, labelling, distribution and launch, to establish from available data marketing of pharmaceutical products.
a meaningful and reliable assessment of its The requirement to obtain regulatory approval eventual efficacy and or safety in clinical use based on safety, efficacy and quality before on the market.
Due to the relatively short time such products may be marketed in a particular that a product has been marketed and the country, and to maintain and to comply with relatively small number of patients who have licences and other regulations relating to their taken the product, the available data may manufacture, are particularly important.
Simple extrapolation of the data The submission of an application to a regulatory may not be accurate and could lead to authority does not guarantee that approval a misleading interpretation of a new products to market the products will be granted.
The countries that constitute material markets for our pharmaceutical products include the The successful launch of a new pharmaceutical US, the countries of the European Union and product involves a substantial investment in Japan.
Approval of such products is required sales and marketing costs, launch stocks and by the relevant regulatory authority in each other items.
If a new product does not succeed country, although in Europe, single marketing as anticipated or its rate of sales growth is authorisation can govern the approval of slower than anticipated, there is a risk that the
