Operating and financial review continued Risk factors Tate & Lyle may be affected by a number of Changes in government regulation, Changes in consumer dietary risks, not all of which are within our control.
regimes, legislation or trade agreements requirements and preferences, or new Outlined below is a description of some of could adversely affect Tate & Lyle scientific evidence could decrease the risk factors that may affect our business The nature and scope of future legislation demand for our products and share price.
Other factors besides those and regulation governing or affecting A decline in consumption of one or more listed below may also adversely affect the Tate & Lyles product markets are subject to product categories could occur in the future Group.
The process Tate & Lyle has in place political processes outside the control of due to a variety of factors such as concerns for managing these risks is described in the Tate & Lyle.
There can be no assurance that about obesity and diabetes resulting in a Corporate Governance report on page 45. current regimes, price supports and market consumer preference for lighter, lower calorie There are inherent risks and uncertainties protections will continue in their present beverages and foods or could occur in the behind all the forward-looking statements forms indefinitely.
future if new scientific research or studies contained in this document which could have The European Commission sugar regime, were to raise material issues regarding the a material impact on the future results, inter alia, sets quotas and reference prices adverse safety or health effects of food expressed or implied.
Along with those for sugar and isoglucose in the European products which are currently considered safe discussed in the financial review, the Union EU, and provides compensation for and healthy.
Although our product offering following section contains our perception of exports which cannot be sold within the EU contains alternative products to meet these particular important risks and uncertainties and for EU users of sugar and isoglucose preferences and concerns we may not be facing the Group.
in fermentation who are required to able to adapt our production and research purchase their sugar feedstocks at the and development as rapidly as market Failure to act safely could have a internal EU price.
Changes in the EU sugar changes occur in the mix of products used.
detrimental impact on Tate & Lyles regime and its associated system of price If there were found to be any long term operations support which affect Tate & Lyles UK and detrimental effects to any of Tate & Lyles The safety of our employees, contractors, Portuguese sugar operations, its EU corn products this could seriously impact the the communities in which we operate and and wheat-based sweeteners business, its Groups future profitability.
the consumers of our products, is of UK citric acid business and its Eastern paramount importance for Tate & Lyle.
Sugar and Eaststarch joint ventures in the Tate & Lyle relies on the continued safe Around the world, the Group is subject to EU and Central and Eastern Europe, could operation and the sufficiency of our supranational, national, federal, state and have a material adverse effect on the geographically dispersed manufacturing local laws, regulations, rules and ordinances business, financial condition and results of facilities relating to health, safety and the environment operation of these businesses and the Group.
The Groups revenues are dependent on including pollution, the protection of the Anti-dumping and countervailing duties on the continued operation of our various environment and the generation, storage, United States and EU imports into Canada manufacturing facilities and the consistent handling, transportation and disposal of currently provide protection to the domestic production of finished products that meet waste materials.
Canadian sugar industry in which Tate & Lyle our customers specifications.
The operation The Group recognises the negative operates.
These duties are imposed by the of our plants involves many risks, including impacts that could arise from a major safety Canadian International Trade Tribunal and the breakdown, failure or substandard or environmental incident which include: reviewed every five years.
Following the last performance of equipment, explosion due to review in 2000, they are next subject to the flammable nature of some substances fines or penalties for breach of safety laws: review in November 2005. used in production, the improper installation interruptions in operations or loss of or operation of equipment, natural disasters, licence to operate: Fluctuations in raw material prices, potential product contamination and the liability payments and costs to employees energy, freight and other operating need to comply with environmental and or third parties arising from injury or costs may affect our margins other directives of governmental agencies.
damage: and All our finished products are derived from Any significant manufacturing disruptions or damage to reputation.
All of product contamination could adversely affect these materials are subject to fluctuations our ability to make and sell products which Our success depends upon our in price due to factors such as harvest and could cause our sales and operating profits employees and the recruitment and weather conditions, crop disease, crop to decline.
retention of key personnel yields, alternative crops and by-product Central to the success of Tate & Lyles values.
Competitors may achieve significant growth strategy is the performance and skillEnergy usage in our production facilities competitive advantage through sets of our key personnel and employees represents one of our main production costs.
technological step change or higher around the world.
We recognise the need The Group primarily purchases coal, oil and service levels to attract, integrate and retain the talent natural gas, each of which is subject to price If our competitors were able to identify, required to meet our ambitions and volatility due to fluctuations in both global develop and introduce on a commercial basis understand the negative impact on results and regional supply and demand.
a major technological step change, such as that could arise from an inability to retain key In some cases, due to the basis for pricing significantly improving the efficiency of the knowledge and adequately plan succession.
in our sales contracts, we may not be able production process and lowering costs or to pass on the full amount of raw material introducing a new product with better Non-compliance with legislation can price increases or higher energy, freight or functionality, we may not be able to introduce lead to financial and reputational damage other operating costs to our customers and a comparable change in our production The Group is aware of the importance of this could reduce our profitability.
Similarly, we must ensure we at least complying with all applicable legislation match or exceed competitors service and affecting its business activities and of the quality performance.
If we cannot compete potential damage to reputation and financial effectively with such innovation or service impact which can result from any breach.
levels, our sales and profitability could decline.
26 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2005 Industry consolidation of competitors or products, our patents may expire or remain Failure to maintain an effective system customers could potentially weaken our in existence for only a short period following of internal financial controls could lead market position commercialisation.
This would reduce or to financial irregularities and loss Competitors and customers have been eliminate any advantage of the patents.
Without its effective internal financial consolidating in recent years to increase We may face litigation to assert claims of controls, the Company could be exposed their competitive position within the market infringement, enforce our patents, protect to financial irregularities and loss from place.
Consolidation has helped them to our trade secrets or know-how, or determine intentional or accidental acts which could gain various benefits such as expanding their the scope and validity of others proprietary have a significant impact on the ability of the product portfolio, gaining more or better rights.
We may be unable to enforce our business to operate.
This covers a variety of access to markets, increasing purchasing patents or otherwise protect our proprietary areas ranging from safeguarding the assets power and developing greater economies of rights, which could have a material adverse of the business to the accuracy and reliability scale.
Further consolidation could increase effect on our business, financial condition of its records and financial reporting.
their negotiating leverage with us which may and results of operations.
In addition, if one of As a public company Tate & Lyle must our customers were acquired by a company Failure to deliver on major projects could provide accurate and timely information that has a relationship with one of our impact Tate & Lyles ability to maximise to the market to deliver long term competitors, we could lose that customers both profitability and return on capital shareholder value business, resulting in an adverse effect on The successful completion of major projects The share price on the stock market is our business, financial condition and results such as an acquisition, establishing new based on the expectations of a wide variety of operations.
partnerships or joint ventures and major of market participants such as analysts, capital expenditure projects is important to brokers, investment funds and other Tate & Lyle has key brands making us Tate & Lyles ability to both sustain and grow investors.
Failure to provide accurate and vulnerable to brand damage the business.
timely information or failure to meet Group Our profitability depends in part upon a targets could lead to uncertainty and number of product brands, such as The commoditisation of the value added volatility in the share price and the erosion Tate & Lyle Sugar and Lyles Golden Syrup products could lead to greater price of shareholder value.
in the UK, Redpath Sugar in Canada and volatility SPLENDA Sucralose in our sucralose The natural life cycle of many products Exchange rate fluctuations could create ingredients business.
Reliance on these means that the value added products of earnings and balance sheet volatility brands makes us vulnerable to brand today can become the commodities of The Group operates in many different damage in a variety of ways, such as tomorrow.
The relatively higher margins countries and is subject to currency through negative publicity if we or our of value added products compared to fluctuations arising on transactional foreign customers who use them were ever to commodities could attract new entrants currency exposures and the translation of be the victim of product tampering or or existing competitors into our product overseas subsidiaries results.
For example, contamination, brand dilution by people who markets which could in turn lead to a a weakening of the US dollar and euro use these brands without our permission, decline in our sales or margins.
against sterling would have a negative ineffective brand management and other impact on the balance sheet reporting factors.
Damage to these brands could Failure to manage effectively joint sterling reported net assets and result in the loss of revenue associated with venture or partnership relationships shareholders funds.
the affected brands and higher costs to could be detrimental to Tate & Lyles address these circumstances, including business Volatile capital markets could create those associated with any product recall The Group recognises that joint venture a shortfall in funding of retirement TM events that may occur.
partnerships such as Bio-3G with DuPont benefits must be managed effectively to ensure that The Group maintains various retirement We may not be able to protect our both partners objectives are aligned and to benefit plans for employees that are funded intellectual property maximise financial and operational through investments in equities, bonds and Our commercial success depends, in part, performance.
At the same time, the Group other investments, the value of which is on obtaining and maintaining patent is aware of the importance of selecting new dependent on world markets that can be protection on certain of our products and partners carefully so as to avoid the potential volatile.
The Group may be required to successfully defending these patents against negative impacts on growth or profit levels of provide additional funding to cover any third party challenge or infringements.
shortfalls in our benefit plan funding arising technology is protected from unauthorised from falls in the value of these investments.
use by others only to the extent that it is Fostering the correct conditions for Any significant additional funding covered by valid and enforceable patents growth is critical to Tate & Lyles requirements could adversely impact or effectively maintained as trade secrets.
success the Groups financial position.
Our patents or patent applications, if The Group acknowledges the significance issued, may be challenged, invalidated or of identifying appropriate markets in which These risks could have a material adverse circumvented.
Our patent rights may not to grow the business, and in fostering the effect on our business.
Accordingly, our provide us with proprietary protection or correct conditions within the business to overall success as a global business competitive advantages against competitors achieve growth and to ensure that we depends, in part, upon our ability to succeed with similar technologies.
We also understand the in different economic, social and political independently develop technologies similar importance of the low-cost focus within our environments and to manage and to mitigate to ours or independently duplicate our manufacturing facilities which provides a these risks to the best of our ability.
Due to the extensive time sound base for this growth.
Failure to identify required for development, testing and these trends and opportunities could have regulatory review of certain potential an adverse effect upon our businesses.
