Risk management The following discussion about risk management activities Change initiatives includes forward-looking statements that involve risk and The further restructuring of the business including the uncertainties.
The actual results could differ materially from those outsourcing of back ofce support operations and convergence of projected.
See the Cautionary Statement on page 04. regional processes and systems through the One Unilever initiative require continuing close management attention in 2006.
Unilevers system of risk management is outlined on page 74.
We have experience of managing such risks and have clear action Responsibility for establishing a coherent framework for the plans to mitigate them, including the establishment and Group to manage risk resides with the Boards.
The remit of the maintenance of project management processes to monitor Boards is outlined on page 35. progress against milestones and targets together with appropriate communication programmes.
Particular risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to vary from those described in forward-looking statements within People this document, or which could impact on our ability to meet our Unilevers performance targets require it to have the right calibre published targets, have been identied.
In this context the of people at all levels.
We must compete to obtain capable following specic risks have been identied as areas of focus in recruits for the business, and then train them in the skills and 2006. competencies that we need to deliver profitable growth.
At a time of substantial change in the business there is a particular Sales and profit growth focus on creating alignment and energetic leadership.
The increasingly competitive environment, the further consolidation in the marketplace and continued growth of Corporate reputation discounters could adversely impact our rate of sales growth.
In Unilever has created a strong corporate reputation over many light of this, we will continue to invest in selected brands and years and many of our businesses have a high local prole.
This high growth market areas to ensure that we deliver profitable reputation is underpinned by ensuring that all employees embrace sales growth.
Our continued sales and profit growth depends in the principles prescribed in our Code of Business Principles.
large part on our ability to generate and implement a stream of Unilever products carrying our well-known brand names are sold consumer-relevant improvements to our products.
Should we fail to meet high product safety, contribution of innovation is affected by the level of funding that social, environmental and ethical standards in all our operations can be made available, the technical capability of the research and activities, Unilevers corporate reputation could be damaged, and development functions, and the success of operating leading to the rejection of our products by consumers, damage to management in rolling out quickly the resulting improvements.
our brands and diversion of management time into rebuilding our Our focus will continue to be on developing our brands in ways reputation.
Examples of initiatives to manage key social and that are distinctive and are relevant for our customers.
environmental risks are mentioned on pages 11 and 12.
We have a number of large global brands, including 12 with an Potential economic instability annual turnover of greater than 1 billion which often depend on More than a third of Unilevers turnover comes from the global or regional development and supply chains.
Any adverse developing and emerging economies.
We have long experience in event affecting consumer confidence or continuity of supply of these markets, which are also an important source of our growth.
such a brand could have an impact in many markets.
The carrying These economies are typically more volatile than those in the value of intangible assets associated with many of our brands is developed world, and there is a risk of downturns in consumer significant, and depends on the future success of those brands.
demand that would reduce the sales of our products.
We will There remains a risk that events affecting one or more of our continue to closely monitor performance in the most volatile global brands could potentially impair the value of those brands.
markets and respond quickly to protect our business.
In cases of extreme social disruption, protecting our people is As the retail market place through which our products are always the priority.
distributed continues to evolve, our growth and profitability can be threatened if we do not adapt our strategies and enhance our operational capabilities.
It is important that we continue to build and deepen relationships with our customers.
Plans to raise our effectiveness in the trade, where necessary, receive increasing attention at all levels.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2005 31 Report of the Directors Risk management continued Price and supply of raw materials and commodities Financial risks contracts In addition to the above, Unilever is exposed to various specic Where appropriate, we purchase forward contracts for raw risks in connection with its financial operations and results.
These materials and commodities, almost always for physical delivery.
include the following: We may also use futures contracts to hedge future price movements: however, the amounts are not material.
With the The impact of movement in equity markets, interest rates and adoption of IFRSs from 1 January 2005, we are required to life expectancy on net pension liabilities: recognise financial derivatives which include forward contracts Maintenance of group cash ows at an appropriate level: at their fair value on the balance sheet.
Exposure of debt and cash positions to changes in interest rates: Potential impact of changes in exchange rates on the groups Insurance risks earnings and on the translation of its underlying net assets: As a multinational group with diverse product offerings and Liquidity and counterparty risks: and operations in more than 100 countries, Unilever is subject to Risks associated with the holding of our own shares in varying degrees of risk and uncertainty.
It does not take out connection with share-based remuneration schemes.
insurance against all risks and retains a significant element of exposure to those risks against which it does insure.
However, it Further information about these, including sensitivity analysis to insures its business assets in each country against insurable risks changes in certain of the key measures, is given in note 2 on as it deems appropriate.
pages 86 and 87 and note 22 on page 114.
Other risks Unilevers businesses are exposed to varying degrees of risk and uncertainty related to other factors including competitive pricing, commodity, raw and packaging material pricing, consumption levels, physical risks, legislative, scal, tax and regulatory developments, terrorism and economic, political, and social conditions in the environments where we operate.
All of these risks could materially affect the Groups business, our turnover, operating profit, net profit, net assets and liquidity.
There may be risks which are unknown to Unilever or which are currently believed to be immaterial.
32 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Report of the Directors Corporate governance General information 04 Chairmans foreword 05 Group Chief Executive 06 About Unilever 09 Financial and operating reviews 15 Risk management 31 Corporate governance 33 Introduction 34 Developments in corporate governance 34 The Boards 35 Chairman and Group Chief Executive 37 Executive Directors 37 Non-Executive Directors 37 Board committees 39 Directors Various formal matters 40 Directors indemnification 40 Directors Conicts of interest 40 Shareholder matters 40 Equalisation Agreement 41 Combined earnings per share 43 Share capital 43 Stichting Administratiekantoor Unilever N. V. 43 Leverhulme Trust 44 Requirements and compliance general 45 Requirements The Netherlands 45 Requirements The United Kingdom 47 Requirements The United States 47 Biographical details 49 Executive Directors 49 Non-Executive Directors 49 Unilever Executive UEx 50 Reports of Board committees 51 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2005 33
