Risk Management and Internal Control The Board receives regular reports from the executive management that enables it to assess the nature of business risks and allows it to review the effectiveness of the controls in place to manage them.
As Venture has increased significantly in scale over the last few years, the risk process has also grown in breadth and complexity to support it.
The Board has fully reviewed the changes in process during the course of the year and will continue to do so going forward.
Recognising and managing risk is a process that occurs at all levels within the business and is an inherent part of the management culture.
The process recognises not only the downside risks, but also opportunities that might otherwise be missed.
In an environment that is itself subject to increasing market, legislative and environmental changes, the dynamic and cultural nature of this risk process is essential to maintain its currency.
At the operational level, managers are responsible for ensuring that their staff and contractors carry out risk assessments of all projects and activities to identify potential hazards.
Where appropriate, independent third parties with additional specialist skills contribute to these assessments.
When risks cannot be removed, controls are identified, implemented and their effectiveness monitored throughout the life cycle of the project and activity.
At the corporate level, the Directors formally review all significant risks to the business.
The results of the processes described below and in particular of the annual risk assessment review are brought to the Board in a summarised form which identifies the key risks, the likelihood of occurrence, the potential impact on the business and the actions being identified and implemented to control or mitigate the risks.
The Board reviews this assessment and brings its own top down contribution and judgement to bear with particular reference to risks of a strategic nature.
The resultant findings are fed back to the organisation through management to ensure a common understanding and the implementation of necessary actions.
The Board formally reviewed risk as a separate topic twice during 2005, with the objective of providing assurance that changing circumstances are being monitored, the process is robust and necessary actions are being implemented.
After Board evaluation of the business risks presented by management, it was agreed that the key risks facing the business are as identified below.
Venture has decided, in accordance with best reporting practice, to provide more detailed information around the key risks than previously done in order to better inform shareholders.
Inadequate Communication to Investors Analysts External Parties This risk centres on the difficulty of providing accurate, consistent and achievable information about business performance when that outcome is open to many influences outside management control.
The Company will continue the communication program established and ensure that it has an open and sincere information policy.
The Board believes the plans in place will continue to mitigate this risk by adding to the Investor Relations team and building on the success of the analyst open forum held in January 2006.
Misstatement of Reserves There is a robust and externally validated process that is applied to Ventures reserves.
In addition, reserves are reviewed at Board level twice per year and the producing field reserves are subject to an annual third party audit.
The Board believes the process in Venture is strong and includes this as a risk because it involves an element of subjective judgement and because of the sector focus on this issue.
Exposure to Minority Trinidadian Interest With Ventures successful withdrawal from operations in Trinidad the risks associated with this have changed.
The new relationship is that of a 40% minority interest in a newly formed Trinidadian business, Ten Degrees North Energy Ltd TDNEL.
Although this forms less than 5% of Ventures balance sheet, it is important that Venture actively maintains its board role with TDNEL and ensures that adequate controls are in place and consistent, accurate accounting information is provided.
There is also a considerable opportunity for the value of Ventures share in TDNEL to increase.
The board position is held by Jon Murphy who monitors the investment and provides regular reports to the Board.
Continued Relevance of Ventures Business Model to Deliver its Strategic Objectives In the Corporate Governance report the strategic review engaged in by the Board and Management Team is fully covered.
As a result of this review the Board is confident that Ventures business model is as relevant today as it was when the Company was started but believes this should be under constant review as a key risk.
Dependence on Third Party Infrastructure In common with all operators, Venture relies on third parties to deliver its product to market.
As the portfolio has diversified the level of risk has reduced.
However, it remains a key issue, both from insurance and operational perspectives.
Work is ongoing with the infrastructure owners to ensure that interests are aligned and this area is considered to be a key opportunity for the future.
50 VENTURE PRODUCTION PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL Assessment of Technical Risk It is paramount to the Board that Venture has a comprehensive understanding of both the subsurface and topside asset risks.
This is an area of constant review and analysis within Venture to ensure that the Company has the right quality of technical skills, the right control processes and the right relationships with other parties.
The Board is confident that the level of competence within Venture continues to grow to deliver an appropriate understanding of risk.
Organisational Capability As Venture has grown so has the organisation and management culture behind it.
This process continues apace with regular staff numbers now over 100.
Ventures policy is to recruit experienced and talented people who wish to work in the fast-paced world of the independent.
Despite the tight market conditions for energy professionals, Venture remains an employer of choice for many.
The management and Board have just completed a formal organisational review to plan and implement an organisation structure that will take Venture through its next three years of planned growth.
Inadequate Performance by Contractors Suppliers In the current tight market it is essential that close and value adding relationships are created with critical suppliers.
This has been Ventures strategy for the last three years pioneering a partnership approach.
The Board is confident that this style, combined with the Key Contractor Assessment program that has been in place for the past year, makes Venture well placed to manage the risk of inadequate performance.
New initiatives in this area continue and the Board is regularly updated as to progress.
Management Information In parallel with the Organisational review, Venture has reviewed the quality of its internal reporting.
Various actions are in process to enhance this and the management information systems will be reviewed during 2006.
Maintenance of HSE Performance Although Ventures performance in this area is good it was felt by the Board that it should continue to be reviewed and assessed as a key risk at Board level.
The strong emphasis on contractor safety performance must be retained together with senior management leadership in Venture.
The Board is in agreement that appropriate processes and controls are in place to effectively manage these risks and will review the actions on a regular basis.
The Directors acknowledge their responsibility, under the Combined Code of the Committee on Corporate Governance issued in June 1998, to establish and maintain the Companys system of internal control that safeguards its assets and to ensure the reliability of financial information for both internal use and external publication.
Internal control systems reflect the particular scale of operations, business risks, cost effectiveness and overall needs of the Company.
Controls are designed to identify and manage risk rather than eliminate all risks to which the Company is exposed.
As a result, any system of internal control can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The attention on internal control has been increased over 2005 with the appointment of the new Finance Director.
In addition, a process of internal control training was implemented for all staff and was lead by the Senior Management.
The process of identifying, evaluating and managing the risks faced by the Company is continuous.
The key procedures the Board have established with a view to providing effective internal control are as follows: Management Structure: There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for decision by the Board.
Each Executive Director has a defined sphere of overall responsibility and can also act as part of the Executive Committee of the Board on certain defined issues.
The Management Team, made up of the Executive Directors and senior managers, meet formally on a bi-weekly basis to review current business matters, take decisions and identify any areas of concern.
Financial Authority Listings: The Management structure is supported by a Financial Authority listing, which clearly specifies authority by role and type of expenditure across the organisation.
This document is maintained on the Business Management System together with supporting processes and is owned by the Finance Director.
VENTURE PRODUCTION PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 51 RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL Quality and Integrity of Personnel: High quality personnel are essential to the control environment.
The integrity and competence of personnel is ensured through high recruitment standards and the encouragement of personnel to identify and take responsibility for their own development training.
Identification of Business Risks: The Board is ultimately responsible for identifying the major business risks faced by the Group and for determining the appropriate course of action to manage those risks.
However, each employee has an active role in identifying and communicating business risks within the Group.
This involvement in identification and management of risk is encouraged through the annual risk review process.
The Board also engages independent professional advice on risk assessment matters as required.
Budget and Business Plan: Each year the Board approves a budget by month plus a business plan for the next four years.
This details the proposed work programme, production and financial performance indicators and incorporates sensitivity for factors such as commodity price.
Performance is reported to the Board monthly with significant variances explained, key risks identified and forecasts updated quarterly.
Executive management has a quarterly performance review meeting when the business to date is reviewed and the plan going forward is assessed with particular emphasis on delivery of that plan.
Investment Appraisal: Capital expenditure commitment is controlled by reference to the approved budget and authorisation levels.
Capital or non-routine operating expenditure above specified levels requires standard documented proposals and evaluations to be submitted to the appropriate financial authority holder.
Venture utilises its in-house expertise to implement rigorous review of all investment proposals at both peer and management levels.
Increasingly this will be supplemented by the use of external expertise where this is appropriate.
Complete technical, commercial, financial and legal due diligence work is carried out on potential asset and corporate acquisitions.
Monitoring of the Internal Control Systems: The Board has agreed reporting procedures to monitor key risk areas on an ongoing basis, including health and safety, legal and financial matters.
An annual risk assessment review is completed and presented to the Board, which identifies key risks, the probability of these risks occurring, their impact if they do occur, the strategy for handling the risk, an assessment of the controls and procedures in place and actions being taken to manage risks.
The assessment of risk is monitored throughout the year and formally reviewed once every quarter.
To supplement this annual risk review, Venture has instituted an annual review of fraud material error across the business.
This review covers all business areas and provides assurance to the Board that no instances of fraud are known to have occurred during the year and that areas at risk of fraud material error are assessed and mitigating actions put in place.
There is also a formal whistleblower policy that encourages anyone associated with Venture to bring forward any concerns in relation to its operation or reporting.
The policy is widely communicated and provides a route of discussion direct to the non-executive Chair of the Audit Committee.
No items for 2005 have been notified.
The Board considers that, having undertaken the procedures outlined, it has monitored the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls.
52 VENTURE PRODUCTION PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005
