793529 1090 3 6 05 10:39 Page 25 Risk Factors and Legal Proceedings acceptance could result in additional capital expenditures by the Group or a reduction Risk Factors in profitability.
Regulatory decisions and changes in the regulatory Expected benets from the One Vodafone programme may environment could adversely affect the Groups business.
Because the Group has ventures in a large number of geographic areas, it must The One Vodafone programme represents the Groups plan to achieve full integration of comply with an extensive range of requirements that regulate and supervise the its global operations and is designed to maximise the benets of Vodafones scale and licensing, construction and operation of its telecommunications networks and services.
The programme is premised on six core initiatives, further details of which can In particular, there are agencies which regulate and supervise the allocation of be found on page 13.
The Group has previously stated publicly that it expects to frequency spectrum and which monitor and enforce regulation and competition laws realise operational cash ow benets by the financial year ending 31 March 2008. which apply to the mobile telecommunications industry.
Decisions by regulators These expected benets have been formulated by management on the assumption that regarding the granting, amendment or renewal of licences, to the Group or to third all of the core initiatives which comprise the One Vodafone programme generate the parties, could adversely affect the Groups future operations in these geographic areas.
results anticipated and that the Group is able to take advantage of its size and exploit The Group cannot provide any assurances that governments in the countries in which it the associated economies of scale to their fullest extent.
Management still considers operates will not issue telecommunications licences to new operators whose services these targeted cost savings and revenue enhancements to be achievable.
However, no will compete with it.
In addition, other changes in the regulatory environment assurance can be given that the full extent of the anticipated benets of the One concerning the use of mobile phones may lead to a reduction in the usage of mobile Vodafone programme will be realised.
phones or otherwise adversely affect the Group.
Additionally, decisions by regulators could further adversely affect the pricing for services the Group offers.
Further details Challenging environment in Japan.
on the regulatory framework, in certain regions in which the Group operates, and on Vodafone continues to encounter difficult market conditions in Japan due to the regulatory proceedings can be found in Business Overview Regulation.
strength of competitor offerings, specically in 3G customer propositions.
The Group Increased competition may reduce market share or has strengthened Vodafone Japans management team and continues with the ongoing revenue.
However, in a constantly evolving competitive environment, no assurance can be provided with respect to Vodafones ability to perform in Japan either The Group faces intensifying competition.
Competition could lead to a reduction in the operationally or as a management team and secure a local competitive advantage.
rate at which the Group adds new customers and to a decrease in the size of the Groups market share as customers choose to receive mobile services, or other The Groups business would be adversely affected by the competing services, from other providers.
non-supply of equipment and support services by a major The focus of competition in many of the Companys markets continues to shift from supplier.
customer acquisition to customer retention as the market for mobile Companies within the Group source their mobile network infrastructure and related telecommunications has become increasingly penetrated.
Customer deactivations are support services from third party suppliers.
The removal from the market of one or measured by the Groups churn rate.
There can be no assurance that the Group will more of these third party suppliers would adversely affect the Groups operations and not experience increases in churn rates, particularly as competition intensies.
An could result in additional capital expenditures by the Group.
increase in churn rates could adversely affect profitability because the Group would experience lower revenue and additional selling costs to replace customers, although The Companys strategic objectives may be impeded by the such costs would have a future revenue stream to mitigate the impact.
fact that it does not have a controlling interest in some of its ventures.
Increased competition has also led to declines in the prices the Group charges for its mobile services and is expected to lead to further price declines in the future.
Some of the Groups interests in mobile licences are held through entities in which it is Competition could also lead to an increase in the level at which the Group must provide a significant but not controlling owner.
Under the governing documents for some of subsidies for handsets.
Additionally, the Group could face increased competition should these partnerships and corporations, certain key matters such as the approval of there be an award of additional licences in jurisdictions in which a member of the business plans and decisions as to the timing and amount of cash distributions require Group already has a licence, whether 2G or 3G.
the consent of the partners.
In others, these matters may be approved without the Companys consent.
The Company may enter into similar arrangements as it Delays in the development of handsets and network participates in ventures formed to pursue additional opportunities.
Although the Group compatibility and components may hinder the deployment has not been materially constrained by the nature of its mobile ownership interests, no of new technologies.
assurance can be given that its partners will not exercise their power of veto or their The Groups operations depend in part upon the successful deployment of continuously controlling inuence in any of the Groups ventures in a way that will hinder the Groups evolving mobile telecommunications technologies.
The Group uses technologies from a corporate objectives and reduce any anticipated cost savings or revenue enhancement number of vendors and makes significant capital expenditures in connection with the resulting from these ventures.
There can be no assurance that common standards Expected benets from investment in networks, licences and specications will be achieved, that there will be inter-operability across Group and and new technology may not be realised.
other networks, that technologies will be developed according to anticipated schedules, that they will perform according to expectations or that they will achieve commercial The Group has made substantial investments in the acquisition of 3G licences and in acceptance.
Commercially viable 3G handsets may not be available in the timeframe its mobile networks, including the rollout of 3G networks.
The Group expects to required or in the amounts needed, which may reduce the potential revenue benets continue to make significant investments in its mobile networks due to increased usage from 3G services.
The introduction of software and other network components may and the need to offer new services and greater functionality afforded by 3G technology.
The failure of vendor performance or technology performance to meet Accordingly, the rate of the Groups capital expenditures in future years could remain the Groups expectations or the failure of a technology to achieve commercial high or exceed that which it has experienced to date.
Business | 25 793529 1090 3 6 05 10:39 Page 26 Risk Factors and Legal Proceedings continued Please see Business Overview Licences and network infrastructure for more Between 18 September and 29 November 2002, nine complaints were led in the information on expenditures in connection with the acquisition of 3G licences and United States District Court for the Southern District of New York against the Company expected expenditure in connection with the roll-out of 3G services.
There can be no and Lord MacLaurin, the Chairman of the Company, and Sir Christopher Gent, Sir assurance that the introduction of 3G services will proceed according to anticipated Julian Horn-Smith and Mr. Kenneth Hydon, executive ofcers of the Company.
The schedules or that the level of demand for 3G services will justify the cost of setting up actions were brought under Sections 10 b and 20 a of the Securities Exchange Act of and providing 3G services.
Failure or a delay in the completion of networks and the 1934 and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder by the Securities and Exchange launch of new services, or increases in the associated costs, could have a material Commission.
The complaints, which purport to be brought on behalf of all purchasers adverse effect on the Groups operations.
of ADSs of Vodafone between 7 March 2001 and 28 May 2002, alleged that Vodafones financial statements and certain Vodafone financial disclosures were The Group may experience a decline in revenue per materially false and misleading.
More specically, the complaints alleged that, between customer notwithstanding its efforts to increase revenue 7 March 2001 and 28 May 2002, defendants made various material from the introduction of new services.
misrepresentations relating to Vodafones investments in xed-wire operations, goodwill, and prior acquisitions in an effort to inate artificially the price of Vodafone As part of its strategy to increase usage of its networks, the Group will continue to offer securities.
The complaints sought compensatory damages in an unspecified amount, new services to its existing customers, and seek to increase non-voice service revenue interest, reasonable costs including attorneys fees and experts fees, and equitable as a percentage of total service revenue.
However, the Group may not be able to and or injunctive relief as permitted by law.
introduce commercially these new services, or may experience significant delays due to problems such as the availability of new mobile handsets or higher than anticipated The plaintiffs led a consolidated class action complaint on 6 June 2003.
On prices of new handsets.
In addition, even if these services are introduced in 14 October 2003, the Court ordered that the complaint be dismissed, with leave for the accordance with expected time schedules, there is no assurance that revenue from plaintiffs to re-plead.
On 20 October 2003, the plaintiffs entered into a Stipulation such services will increase ARPU.
dismissing the complaint against Lord Ian MacLaurin without prejudice.
On 10 November 2003 the plaintiffs led a second consolidated amended class action The Groups business and its ability to retain customers and complaint against Vodafone, Sir Christopher Gent, Sir Julian Horn-Smith and Mr. attract new customers may be impaired by actual or Kenneth Hydon.
On 26 March 2004, the Court dismissed without prejudice the perceived health risks associated with the transmission of remaining individual defendants from this action.
On 7 May 2004, the plaintiffs led a radiowaves from mobile telephones, transmitters and third consolidated amended class action complaint naming only the Company as a associated equipment.
Thereafter, the parties entered into substantive discussions regarding the Concerns have been expressed in some countries where the Group operates that the possibility of settling the action.
Those discussions led to a mediation, following which electromagnetic signals emitted by mobile telephone handsets and base stations may the parties reached an  to settle the claims against all pose health risks at exposure levels below existing guideline levels and may interfere defendants in exchange for a settlement payment of $24.5 million to a settlement class with the operation of electronic equipment.
In addition, as described under Legal the Settlement Class comprised of all purchasers of Vodafone ADSs during the Proceedings below, several mobile industry participants, including the Company and period from 7 March 2001 to 28 May 2002 other than those Class Members that Verizon Wireless, have had lawsuits led against them alleging various health exclude themselves, or automatically are excluded, from the Class.
Following the consequences as a result of mobile phone usage, including brain cancer.
While the mediation, Vodafone and its insurers paid $24.5 million into an escrow account to fund Company is not aware that such health risks have been substantiated, there can be no the settlement in the event that i the parties reached a denitive settlement assurance that the actual, or perceived, risks associated with radiowave transmission agreement and ii that agreement received final approval by the Court after issuance of will not impair its ability to retain customers and attract new customers, reduce mobile the necessary notices and the conduct of the necessary hearings.
On 4 March 2005, telecommunications usage or result in further litigation.
In such event, because of the the parties entered into denitive settlement documents and, on that date, participated Groups strategic focus on mobile telecommunications, its business and results of in a conference and hearing before the Court, at which they submitted a motion for operations may be more adversely affected than those of other companies in the preliminary certication of the Settlement Class and preliminary approval of the telecommunications sector.
On 15 March 2005, the Court entered an Order that, among other things, preliminarily certied the Settlement Class, preliminarily approved the settlement, set Legal Proceedings 23 May 2005 as the deadline for the submission by Class members of objections to The Company and its subsidiaries are currently, and may be from time to time, involved the settlement or requests for exclusion from the Settlement Class, and scheduled a in a number of legal proceedings, including inquiries from or discussions with Settlement Fairness Hearing for 22 June 2005. governmental authorities, that are incidental to their operations.
However, save as A subsidiary of the Company, Vodafone 2, is responding to an enquiry by the UK Inland disclosed below, the Company and its subsidiaries are not involved currently in any Revenue with regard to the UK tax treatment of its Luxembourg holding company, legal or arbitration proceedings including any governmental proceedings which are Vodafone Investments Luxembourg SARL VIL, under the Controlled Foreign pending or known to be contemplated which are expected to have, or have had in the Companies section of the UKs Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 the CFC twelve months preceding the date of this report, a significant effect on the financial Regime.
The enquiry by the UK Inland Revenue relates to the tax treatment of profits position or profitability of the Company and its subsidiaries.
earned by the holding company for the accounting period ended 31 March 2001.
The The Company is a defendant in four actions in the United States alleging personal CFC Regime serves to subject a UK resident company to corporation tax in the UK in injury, including brain cancer, from mobile phone use.
In each case, various other respect of the profits of a controlled foreign company in certain circumstances.
carriers and mobile phone manufacturers are also named as defendants.
These Vodafone 2s position is that it is not liable to corporation tax in the UK under the CFC actions are at an early stage and no accurate quantication on any losses which may Regime in respect of VIL on the basis that the CFC Regime is contrary to EU law.
An arise out of the claims can therefore be made as at the date of this report.
The application for closure of the enquiry inter alia was made by Vodafone 2 to the Special Company is not aware that the health risks alleged in such personal injury claims have Commissioners of the UK Inland Revenue on 1 October 2004 on the basis that the been substantiated and will be vigorously defending such claims.
enquiry could not reasonably be continued as it is premised on UK legislation the CFC 26 | Business
