YELL GROUP PLC Excellence In Yell we have a philosophy of continuous Governance Elements improvement and constantly seek to make the best better.
We The elements that make up our Governance and Responsibility have leading brands and aim to provide high quality products framework are: and services in the most efficient and effective way.
The Yell Way our culture, our values and how we work Reliability We pride ourselves in meeting targets and Baseline compliance meeting all laws and regulations expectations, and in keeping our promises.
We give relevant to our business confidence to our shareholders through relevant and timely communications.
We provide advertisers with a wide choice Risk management maximising opportunities whilst of products and services of consistently high quality and our minimising risk users with timely access to comprehensive, relevant Responsibility adding value through being responsible information.
Brand integrity managing and maintaining our reputation Responsibility Yell is a sustainable business, accountable to all and intellectual capital its stakeholders.
We operate in a clear and transparent fashion Accountability and openness ensuring transparency and and take responsibility for all our actions.
clarity in our operations and communications Integrity We aim to operate with the highest ethical standards The framework is set out on the opposite page.
We have respect for each other and for all our stakeholders.
Trust, honesty and integrity are key values across our business.
Every Yell person is expected to carry out his or her role within our company in accordance with our Guiding Principles.
20 ANNUAL REPORT 2004 05 Governance and Responsibility Framework Element Sub-element The Yell Way Values Roles, responsibilities and accountabilities Culture Business excellence Baseline compliance Laws and regulations Listing rules Risk management Internal control Business continuity Internal audit Sarbanes-Oxley Act Responsibility Environment Investors Customers Yell people Suppliers Partners Community Brand integrity Reputation and brand management Fair selling Accountability and openness Stakeholder dialogue Reporting Combined Code Internal communications We report on Governance and Responsibility in a number of ways.
These include our Annual Report, our annual Corporate Responsibility Report, and online at www.
We will provide commentary on the activities and programmes which support the elements of our Governance and Responsibility framework, including reporting performance against targets where appropriate.
On the following pages we report on Responsibility, Risk Management and Accountability and Openness.
21 YELL GROUP PLC Responsibility Responsibility is at the very heart of our business.
It is one of Last November we held our first Investor Seminar where our our Guiding Principles and is integrated into the daily senior managers gave presentations to our shareholders.
In this section we report on our also held our second annual Yell UK Supplier Forum, attended performance using a Corporate Responsibility CR framework.
by more than 200 of our key suppliers, where we launched our Corporate Responsibility objectives and our Ethical In the UK, our Responsibility Programme is co-ordinated by our Purchasing Guidelines, which will be compulsory for UK CR steering group.
This group is responsible for identifying key suppliers from September 2005. social, ethical and environmental issues, reviewing strategy, policy and performance and setting objectives and targets.
It is In the UK, we retained our registrations to key international headed by our Strategy and Business Development Director management standards ISO 9001:2000, OHSAS 18001, and he reports to our Chief Executive Officer, who takes ISO 14001 and Tick-IT and in January 2005 our UK overall responsibility.
Information Services department achieved accreditation to the British Standard BS 15000.
We adopt a dual approach to CR to ensure we address the different needs of our UK and US operations.
Our UK business Workplace is mature and policies and processes have been in place for many years.
Our US business has quadrupled in size in terms Our 8,600 people are the foundation of our success.
Our of revenue since 1999, having acquired 26 companies.
We programmes and policies are designed to recruit, retain and are now meeting the challenge of integrating processes and motivate the very best people.
This is reflected in high consolidating our CR principles across our US operations.
In the US, we continued to reduce have made a number of commitments to managing CR in our turnover amongst sales people, achieving a retention rate of US business.
In the UK, we retained 80% of our sales people and 91% of our non-sales people.
We have some notable achievements, including the listing of Yell in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes World, which In FY05 we invested 4% of our UK payroll budget in training covers the top 10% of some 2,500 companies around the and developing our people and in the US around 2.8%.
globe, and a listing in the Dow Jones Indexes Stoxx which Currently almost 20% of our UK people take advantage of covers leading European companies.
flexible working options, including part-time working, job-sharing and career breaks.
In line with the requirements of full CR reporting, our separate, CR Report is based around two of the most widely recognised External recognition of our success in managing and guidelines: Business in the Community and the Global developing our people was provided in the form of two Reporting Initiative.
This report will be published in July 2005. special prizes at the European Quality Awards Leadership and Constancy of Purpose, and People Development and Corporate Practice Involvement.
In March 2005, Yell UK ranked 22nd in The Sunday Times 100 Best Companies to Work For list and in the Corporate Practice refers to our business standards and the US, Selling Power magazine voted us the 5th Best Company way we manage relationships with our economic stakeholders.
It includes providing community information in our directories, working with more than 30 reputable trade associations to In our annual UK employee survey, Tell Yell, our results uphold advertising standards and providing relevant and outperformed other high performing companies, as timely information to our investors about our performance benchmarked by research organisation International Survey and prospects.
In this survey, 88% of our people told us they would recommend Yell as a good place to work.
We have been recognised as an Investor in People since 1997 in the UK and In the US, we partner Yell is listed in the with Earth 911 to raise One of our UK charities Dow Jones Sustainability awareness of directory is Marie Curie Indexes World recycling Cancer Care 22 ANNUAL REPORT 2004 05 in March 2005 gained recognition under the Investors in We run our Yellow Woods Challenge, a schools based People Leadership and Management Model.
environmental programme, in areas where directory recycling facilities have been absent or very limited.
In 2004 more than Environment 50,000 was awarded to schools collecting the most directories and we donated an equivalent 50,000 to the Our biggest impact on the environment is our use of paper.
the UK, we hold regular face-to-face meetings with our paper, More than a third of Yell UK people supported our communities print and pre-press partners to discuss and review environmental last year, volunteering in our education programmes or performance.
In FY05, 46% of the text paper in our Yellow fundraising for local charities.
Activities include running a Pages directories was made from recycled fibres.
Our core pledging centre for Comic Relief and fundraising for the paper suppliers are certified in accordance with the Finnish Tsunami relief effort.
Forest Certification Scheme FFSC, which is endorsed by the Pan European Forest Certification Council PEFC.
In the US, In the US last year 800 Yellow Book people in more than over the last year we have increased the level of recycled fibre 42 offices raised more than $100,000 for United Way of in our Yellow Book directories from 12% to 19%.
America, an organisation that works with companies and local In the UK, we work with 94% of local authorities to manage communities to ensure donations from employees support the recycling of old directories and recently the first main newsprint most pressing local needs.
In January 2005 more than 400 mill accepted our recycled directories, a development we Yellow Book people, as well as the company, contributed to a hope will continue.
In 2004 market research indicated that for total donation of $45,000 to the American Red Cross for the the first time, more than half of UK households 51% were Tsunami disaster fund.
recycling their old directory, which compares favourably to the Overall, in FY05 we invested 0.6% of our pre-tax profits in 18% source: DEFRA 2003-2004 average recycling rate charitable activities and our sponsorship of the Marie Cure for municipal waste.
Daffodil Campaign and the Woodlands Trust resulted in almost In the US, we partner with Earth 911, an environmental 3.8 million in equivalent advertising value.
information network, to raise awareness of directory recycling within local communities.
Last year we donated $100,000 to Group community investments 000s Earth 911 as part of our commitment to the partnership.
Cash 552.0 Community Time 193.4 Our key charity programmes are sponsorship of the Marie In-kind 97.8 Curie Cancer Care Daffodil Appeal and running the Yellow Woods Challenge.
Management costs 53.0 In FY05 we helped raise 2.4 million for Marie Curie, which Total 896.2 will help to provide more than 150,000 hours of nursing care for terminally ill people in their own homes.
US Printed directories UK Proportion of Yellow UK Yellow Pages text paper recycled recycled fibre content % Pages recycled % fibre content % 48 48 51 46 46 19 46 41 39 12 FY04 FY05 FY02 FY03 FY04 FY05 FY02 FY03 FY04 FY05 23 YELL GROUP PLC Risk Management Accountability and Openness We undertake a range of activities to ensure that Statement of Application of Principles of the Combined Code appropriate internal controls are in place and that risks are Save where detailed below, Yell has applied the principles properly managed.
and complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the The Board has overall responsibility for establishing and 2003 Combined Code during the period 1 April 2004 to maintaining the systems of internal control and risk management 31 March 2005. and for reviewing their effectiveness.
These systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to The Board achieve business objectives and to provide reasonable but not The Board of Yell Group Plc comprises two executive directors absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Four out of the six We have an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and non-executive directors are independent as defined by the managing the significant risks we face.
This has been in place 2003 Combined Code.
for the reporting period, and up to the date of approval of the The executive directors are John Condron Chief Executive annual report and accounts.
A detailed risk assessment is Officer and John Davis Chief Financial Officer.
prepared by our Head of Risk, covering operational, financial and strategic risks.
This identifies the nature and extent of risks The Chairman, Bob Scott, was independent upon his facing the company, the likelihood of the risks concerned appointment.
The Board has determined that Lyndon Lea is materialising and appropriate mitigation plans.
This risk non-independent due to his previous partnership in Hicks assessment is reviewed by senior management and the Audit Muse, the private equity firm which, until January 2004, Committee.
In addition, each area of the business carries out held a significant shareholding in Yell.
The Board will its own risk assessment of its operations and ensures that key reconsider the issue of Mr Leas independence during the risks to the achievement of business objectives are identified current financial year.
During the reporting period, the Board appointed Lord Powell The Audit Committee approves an annual audit plan prepared of Bayswater as the Senior Independent Director with effect by the Head of Risk which is designed to ensure that our internal from 1 March 2005.
Notwithstanding his appointment, all audit activities are focused on priority areas.
The internal audit non-executive directors continue to be available to shareholders work provides assurance as to the effectiveness of Yells systems who wish to raise issues that cannot be addressed with the of internal control and risk management to the senior Chairman, either of the two executive directors, or since his management, the Audit Committee and the Board.
In order that the membership of the Audit Committee is Yell Finance BV, a wholly owned subsidiary of Yell Group plc, comprised exclusively of independent, non-executive directors, has registered debt in the USA.
It is required to provide with effect from the 1 March 2005, Bob Scott resigned from quarterly and annual financial reports to the US Securities and the Audit Committee and was replaced by Lord Powell.
Exchange Commission and, further, it is subject to the applicable requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
During the year we have undertaken a considerable amount of work to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act: internal controls over financial reporting.
We have fully documented the systems and processes which affect financial reporting and we have identified and tested the key controls within these processes.
The Board, with advice from the Audit Committee, has completed its annual review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control in accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull Report, and is satisfied that it is in accordance with that guidance.
24 ANNUAL REPORT 2004 05 It remains the Companys intention to recruit an additional The Board recognises the division in responsibility between the independent, non-executive director in order to fulfil the Chairman who ensures the effective working of the Board Remuneration and Nomination Committee membership and the Chief Executive Officer who runs our Company.
requirements recommended in the 2003 Combined Code.
The Board has agreed a schedule identifying matters reserved A search for a suitable candidate was initiated during the for its decision which include the approval of the financial reporting period, and is in progress.
statements, major acquisitions, Group strategy, and governance policies.
This schedule, which is in writing, Yells Articles of Association require one third of the Board to delineates the extent of the various delegated authorities retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting.
However, the granted by the Board.
Board have decided that, in order to optimise accountability to shareholders, all directors shall submit themselves for re-election All directors have access to the services of the Company at this years Annual General Meeting.
Secretary, Howard Rubenstein, the removal of whom is a matter reserved for the decision of the Board.
Mr Rubenstein John Condron and John Davis are full-time directors of companies acts as secretary to all of the Board Committees.
within the Yell Group and have no other commitments to external companies and, consequently, do not receive any other fees.
The Company Secretary works with the Chairman to ensure Details of the executive directors service contracts and the that all directors receive sufficient information on a timely basis non-executive directors letters of appointment can be found in to enable the Board to run efficiently.
In the reporting period a the report of the Remuneration Committee on page 37. secure website has been developed and launched as an The non-executive directors letters of appointment do not set exclusive channel for the Board to share information, receive out fixed time commitments, since the schedule of board and training material and Board papers, and generally enhance committee meetings is subject to changes, according to the the administration of the Board business.
All directors are expected to The directors are entitled, at the expense of the Company, to demonstrate their commitment to the work of the Board on an take independent professional advice in furtherance of their ongoing basis.
The Company has also arranged appropriate Directors Brief biographies of all directors appear on page 42.
The and Officers insurance cover in respect of legal action against Chairman, Bob Scott, and the rest of the Board in respect of the directors.
the Chairman confirm that all the directors have been diligent The Board is scheduled to meet at least six times in any and effective in their duties during the reporting period.
calendar year: February, March April, May, July, September and November.
During the reporting period, the Board met Operation of the Board five times.
The Board has overall responsibility for leading and The table on page 26 shows the individual attendance by controlling the Company and is accountable to shareholders directors at the board and committee meetings, during the for financial and operational performance, and for the open reporting period ended 31 March 2005. and transparent communication of information relevant to such performance.
25 YELL GROUP PLC Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Meetings Committee Meetings Committee Meetings Committee Meetings Name Attended Absent Attended Absent Attended Absent Attended Absent Bob Scott 5 4 John Condron 5 2 John Davis 5 Charles Carey 4 1 4 1 2 John Coghlan 5 4 2 Joachim Eberhardt 5 4 5 Lyndon Lea 4 1 2 Lord Powell Of Bayswater 5 During the reporting period, the Board conducted an Committees evaluation of its overall effectiveness.
Since the Board is The following committees have been established under the relatively new, the focus of the evaluation was on the overall overall direction of the Board.
Each committee has written performance of the Board as a unit addressing issues such as terms of reference, which are published on the Company information provision, quality of discussion, and overall Board website at www.
The exercise was conducted by means of a survey membership and terms of reference of each committee are completed by each director and the results were discussed at reviewed on an annual basis.
As a result of the exercise, the Board reviewed and revised its annual programme of The table on page 27 shows the chairman and members of business.
The Board intends that its next evaluation process will each committee during the reporting period.
also focus on the performance of individual directors, including the Chairman.
During the reporting period, the non-executive directors have met without the executive directors present.
26 ANNUAL REPORT 2004 05 Committee Membership and Role Name Status Audit Remuneration Nomination Bob Scott Chairman, Non-Executive Resigned Director 1 March 05 John Condron CEO, Executive Director John Davis CFO, Executive Director Charles Carey Non-Executive, Independent Director John Coghlan Non-Executive, Independent Director Chairman Joachim Eberhardt Non-Executive, Independent Director Chairman Lyndon Lea Non-Executive Director Chairman Lord Powell of Bayswater Senior Independent, Non-Executive Appointed Director 1 March 05 27
