BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 Operating and financial review Risk factors Outlined below is a description of the and market conditions in which it does of projects under construction: equipment principal risk factors that may affect BG business.
Specific country risks that could shortages: availability, competence and 35 Groups business.
Not all these factors are have an effect on BG Groups business and capability of human resources and within the Groups control.
Other factors reputation include: volatility of national contractors: unscheduled outages: besides those listed below may also currencies: unexpected changes in local mechanical and technical difficulties: adversely affect the Group.
Actions being laws, regulations and standards: aggressive and gas pipeline system constraints.
taken by management to mitigate some or changing interpretation of existing tax Projects may also require the use of new of these risks are identified where laws: regional and government instability: and advanced technologies, which can appropriate.
The risk factors should be government intervention in licence awards: be expensive to develop, purchase and considered in conjunction with the increased royalty payments or taxes implement and may not function as cautionary note to shareholders in mandated by governments: expropriation expected.
In addition, some development relation to forward-looking statements of assets: cancellation, variation or breach projects will be located in deepwater or set out on page 153. of contractual rights: and political other hostile environments or produce roadblocks to key project delivery.
EXPLORATION AND NEW VENTURES hydrocarbons from challenging reservoirs, BG Groups future gas and oil production is In addition, some of the countries where which can exacerbate such problems.
highly dependent upon finding, acquiring the Group has a presence may be subject OPERATIONS and developing new reserves.
In general, to certain international sanctions.
BG Groups revenues are dependent on the the rate of production from natural gas and The Group does not believe that the continued performance of its operating oil reservoirs declines as reserves are enforcement of such sanctions would facilities.
The Group needs to replace these have a material effect on its financial depleted reserves with new proved reserves performance in respect of its current asset integrity the integrity of the cost-effectively and on a consistent basis.
However, Groups assets can be affected by This could be affected by a number of the Group cannot predict the a number of factors including improper factors including: barriers to gaining interpretation or the implementation maintenance regimes, inadequate access to new exploration acreage: policy of governments with respect to planning of inspections and not inaccurate interpretation of geological such sanctions and the consequential operating equipment within and engineering data: unexpected impact on the Groups reputation, design parameters: drilling conditions or equipment failure: operations and financial performance.
plant availability production volumes and disruptions to the successful PROJECT PRE-SANCTION AND can be significantly impacted by implementation of the drilling programme.
COMMERCIALISATION unplanned shutdowns and LNG is an increasingly important element Certain activities are performed before equipment failure: of the Groups business and growth in this a decision or sanction is made by performance of joint venture JV management to invest in a project or area is dependent upon the level of partners the volume and or financial success it achieves in connecting a new venture.
These activities include targets of the Groups assets may opportunity creation, feasibility studies, competitively priced gas to high value depend on the performance of the markets.
This could be affected by: concept selection and definition.
There are Groups JV partners.
Business activities a number of risks during the pre-sanction barriers to the purchase or development conducted by the Group tend to be phases, including engineering, commercial of LNG volumes: availability of shipping conducted with partners and some and regulatory risks.
capacity to transport LNG: adverse assets are under the day-to-day weather conditions affecting LNG import The principal engineering related risk is management of these partners and may or production facilities: and unexpected failure to undertake adequate front-endtherefore be subject to risks which are shipping downtime or equipment failure.
engineering-design work during the outside the control of the Group: and pre-sanction phase to enable a sufficiently PORTFOLIO the location of some of the Groups accurate assessment of the project BG Group has a wide portfolio of assets, operations may expose them to natural schedule and cost.
Failure to consider spread across business segments and a hazards such as hurricanes, flooding and the full range of potential development wide geographical area.
Failure to manage earthquakes, each of which could options and select the most suitable these assets could have a material impact materially impact the Groups ability to concept based on full life cycle on the Groups business.
The Group carries deliver its products or services.
understanding of the project can expose out regular reviews to re-balance its projects to additional risk and cost.
portfolio as appropriate, looking at If these risks materialise, the Group may numerous factors including segmental If the Group is not successful in securing not meet its planned HSSE standards, weighting, geographical weighting, appropriate long-term commercial output levels or unit operating costs.
political risk weighting and gas oil mix.
agreements or, where required, applicable These factors may have an effect on cost Nevertheless, the Group may still be governmental or regulatory consents, control, or a potentially material impact exposed to risk factors such as a decline in permits, licences or approvals, it may be on the Groups reputation and the results the demand for gas and LNG as sources of unable to commercialise its reserves and of the Groups operations.
energy, adverse changes in the business this may have a material effect on the COMMODITY PRICES environment, increased taxes and Groups mediumto long-term cash flow BG Groups results are sensitive to crude and income.
oil and natural gas prices, which are POLITICAL CLIMATE PROJECT DELIVERY volatile, dependent on shifts in world Project delivery is subject to HSSE, As a global business, BG Group has assets supply and demand, policies of the in many diverse economies around the technical, commercial, contractor, and Organization of the Petroleum Exporting economic risks.
The overall success of the Group Countries OPEC and the general depends in part upon recognising and be delayed or unsuccessful for many economic and political climate.
In 2005, reasons, including: cost and time overruns managing the differing political, economic a significant part of the Groups upstream BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 Operating and financial review Risk factors continued revenues were partially indexed to transactions, as authorised by the Finance Committee for trading transactions: and international oil prices.
BG Group estimates that in under authorities approved by the Board 36 exposure to short-term changes in 2006, other factors being constant, a for specific investment decisions.
commodity prices is mitigated by the 10 cent strengthening or weakening in The Group analyses each counterpartys predominance of gas in its portfolio and the US Dollar would increase or decrease financial condition prior to entering into the use of long-term gas contracts, not operating profit by approximately trading sales agreements, swaps, futures directly or immediately linked to short- 120 million to 140 million.
The Groups and options contracts.
Credit exposures term changes in commodity prices.
net balance sheet exposure to currencies are monitored for individual transaction other than the US Dollar or pound Sterling The Groups exposure to commodity prices and concentration risk.
Where multiple principally comprise exposure to the also varies according to a number of transactions are undertaken with a Brazilian Real and the Indian Rupee.
These factors including the mix of production single counterparty, or group of related net exposures are managed on a case-byand sales.
Management estimates that, counterparties, the Group may enter into a case basis.
The Group mitigates its other factors being constant, a US$1.00 netting arrangement to reduce the Groups exposure to transactions in currencies rise or fall in the Brent oil price would exposure to credit risk.
Currently the Group other than pounds Sterling or US Dollars by increase or decrease operating profit in makes wide use of standard International hedging certain expected cash flows into 2006 by around 40 million to 50 million.
Swaps and Derivative Association ISDA pounds Sterling or US Dollars.
This provides netting of Over the medium term, the Groups undertakings which borrow without transactions covered by the specific ISDA financial position could also be affected by recourse to the Group are generally documentation.
For commodity trading, more indirect effects of commodity prices.
required to borrow in, or swap borrowing the Group seeks to put in place bespoke into, their respective functional currency.
Commodity price increases can cause master netting agreements.
supply or capacity constraints in areas FINANCING REGULATION such as specialist staff, construction or The Groups financing costs may be operations.
This in turn can create cost BG Groups business activities are significantly affected by interest rate conducted in many different countries and pressure on BG Groups operating and volatility.
The Group is also exposed to are therefore subject to a broad range of capital costs, which affect ongoing liquidity risks, including risks associated legislation and regulation.
with refinancing borrowings as they BG Group faces value erosion if the The Group does not, as a matter of course, mature, the risk that borrowing facilities conditions attached to licences, which hedge all commodity prices, but may are not available to meet cash govern operations, are not properly hedge certain gas and oil revenue streams requirements and the risk that financial managed or delivered.
In addition, future from time to time.
The Group uses forward assets cannot readily be converted to cash growth of assets may be affected if commodity contracts, including forward without loss of value.
Failure to manage required regulatory authorisations are derivative and option contracts, to offset financing risks could have a material not obtained.
partially the exposure of certain of its impact on the Groups cashflow, balance forecast oil and gas revenues to sheet and financial position.
The Groups T&D companies mainly commodity price variations.
As part of operate under a form of licence or The Groups interest rate management marketing its gas supply portfolio, the concession agreement awarded by state policy requires that the interest rate Group undertakes commodity hedging or national government.
Normally, the obligations of BGEH Borrowers as defined and trading activities.
The fair value of the tariff that gas customers are charged is on page 153 be substantially floating, and Groups commodity derivative contracts is determined by the regulator and reviewed sets limits on the maximum amount of calculated using forward price curves for periodically in line with licence terms and fixed rate exposure from time to time.
The Group may be at risk of change in exposure to fluctuations in The Group manages liquidity risk by unfavourable tariff reviews which may have natural gas sales prices is mitigated within maintaining adequate committed an impact on T&D income and growth.
certain LNG purchase contracts as the gas borrowing facilities and holding its Many of the countries in which the Group suppliers share price risk with BG Group.
financial assets primarily in short-term, The exposure is further managed using conducts and expects to conduct business highly liquid investments that are readily have recently developed, or are in the a combination of natural gas futures convertible to known amounts of cash.
contracts, financial and physical forwardprocess of developing, new regulatory and Refinancing risk is managed by limiting legal structures.
These regulatory and based contracts and swap contracts.
the amount of borrowing that matures legal structures and their interpretation within any specific period.
EXCHANGE RATE and application by administrative The Groups cash flow, income statement CREDIT agencies may be specific to a given market and balance sheet are reported in BG Group is exposed to credit risks, being and untested.
BG Group may be offered pounds Sterling and may be significantly the loss that would be recognised if the opportunity to help shape suitable affected by fluctuations in exchange rates.
counterparties failed to or are unable to regulations but with no guarantee that its A substantial proportion of the Groups meet their payment obligations.
These voice will be heard.
Regulatory frameworks business activity is conducted in US Dollars risks may arise in certain agreements in will continue to evolve as markets mature and the Group holds substantial US relation to amounts owed for physical and this will also affect the Group.
The Group product sales, the use of derivative mitigates its exposure to its holding of Any changes in the regulatory climate in instruments and the investment of US Dollar-denominated assets by which the Group operates may potentially surplus cash balances.
borrowing in, or swapping the majority have a material impact on the Groups of its borrowing into, US Dollars.
In The Groups credit risks are managed business.
Failure to meet regulatory general, the Group does not hedge under policies approved by: the Finance requirements may have a material effect US Dollar-denominated transactions, Committee in relation to Treasury on the Groups reputation and expose the although it may do so for specific transactions: the Energy Trading Risk Group to financial penalties.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 COMMERCIAL essential element in delivering business CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CR E&P operations are typically conducted performance, as are the security of BG Group defines CR as the practical 37 under licences granted to BG Group and its physical and intellectual assets and the application of the BG Group Statement of JV partners collectively the Contractors by protection of the natural environment.
Business Principles see page 31 for further the state or national government or by information.
CR risk occurs when any part Policies and measures at international and entry into a Production Sharing Contract of the business fails to implement the national level to tackle climate change will PSC between the Contractors and the Business Principles.
Each of the following increasingly affect business conditions, state or national government generally risks could affect the Groups ability to presenting environmental and regulatory represented by a state-owned company.
deliver projects on time and within risks.
Similarly, international and national The terms and conditions of the licences budget: failure to consider economic measures to tackle loss of biodiversity will and PSCs vary from country to country.
returns, environmental impacts, social start to present risks to gaining access to consequences and human rights in Licences give the Contractors the right oil and gas resources in areas deemed to investment decisions and project to explore for, and exploit a discovery of, be biologically sensitive.
planning: failure to identify stakeholder hydrocarbon resources whilst bearing the The increased threats from international expectations: and the ineffective risk of, and financing, the exploration, terrorism and violent crime could also implementation of anti-corruption development and production activities.
The interrupt the Groups operations to a policies.
Contractors are in principle entitled to all material extent.
production and agree to remit to the state HUMAN RESOURCES which remains the owner of the subsoil For further information on HSSE see BG Groups performance and its ability to hydrocarbon resources a production based page 32. mitigate those risk factors within its control royalty and income tax and possibly other depends on the skills and efforts of its INSURANCE taxes that may apply under local tax employees and management teams across A comprehensive insurance programme is legislation.
In addition, Contractors will the Group.
Future success will depend to maintained to mitigate significant losses enter into an operating agreement a large extent on the Groups continued which, as is consistent with good industry between the JV partners that normally ability to attract, retain and motivate practice, includes cover for physical damage, provides for the rights and liabilities of highly skilled and qualified personnel.
removal of debris, control of wells, redrill, each Contractor to be borne in proportion pollution and employers and third-party If the Group loses the services of key to their participating interest in the E&P liabilities.
Nevertheless, some of the major people or is unable to attract and retain operation.
However, licences granted by a consequences of the risks involved in employees with the right capabilities and state generally require Contractors to be BG Groups activities cannot, or may not, experience, it could have a material effect jointly and severally liable, which means reasonably and economically be insured.
on the Groups business and operations.
that the Group may be at risk for liabilities to host states if JV partners fail to perform The programme is subject to certain their contractual obligations or deliver their limits, deductibles, terms and conditions.
In addition, insurance premium costs are subject to changes based on the overall A PSC will set out the rules governing the loss experience of the insurance co-operation between the Contractors and markets accessed.
The Contractors usually bear the risk of funding the E&P STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT operations, although the state company A number of stakeholders including often participates in the funding of the employees, investors, governments, development.
Under the terms set out in civil society groups, non-governmental the PSC, the Contractors recover their organisations and those living in local costs from the future production revenues communities affected by BG Groups and, in exchange for the risk of the operations have legitimate interests investment, enjoy a share of the excess in the Groups business.
reputation and or share price could suffer due to inappropriate or inadequate Gas related projects usually require engagement with stakeholders including, a chain of commercial agreements, for example: failure to communicate frequently amongst different parties.
consistent or co-ordinated messages to Failure to complete this chain or to key stakeholders: failure to provide apportion risks appropriately prior to adequate explanations if performance project sanction can leave projects targets are not met or if performance is exposed to commercial risks which could perceived as poor against competitors: affect the profitability of the project.
and inadequate responses to any crisis.
HEALTH, SAFETY, SECURITY & The Group has controls in place to ENVIRONMENT HSSE make sure that all Group communication A major HSSE incident could result in corporate, regional and local is consistent injury or loss of life, damage to the and co-ordinated for all stakeholders.
environment or destruction of facilities, each of which could have a material impact on BG Group.
BG Group recognises that the protection of the health and safety of its employees and others affected by its operations is an
