Operating and Financial Review Underwriting managing the risk of the unpredictable From an underwriting perspective 2004 We are also well aware of the possibility of multiestimated.
Furthermore, the collateral insurance Reinsurance purchase Heat map showing exposures by county Enlarged Amlin Group Pro forma and 2005 have been a strong test for our line catastrophe events and we are careful to losses that arise from coverage that is given We have used reinsurance to protect the for large property risks 2006 GPI split underwriting philosophy with hurricane events control property insurance and reinsurance, for extra living expenses, business interruption business from volatility caused by either an Reinsurance Large commercial property testing the Groups ability to withstand both energy and other exposures which may clash.
cover and contingent business interruption needs extraordinarily large or a high frequency of Other non-marine Marine Aviation UK Commercial severe and frequent catastrophe events.
The to be identified and added to modelled losses.
It is typically purchased benefits of withstanding these events well are It is our policy to obtain as much transparency to protect specific class exposures and to not just relatively good calendar year financial as possible over the catastrophe coverage Amlins Katrina experience protect against catastrophes.
Insurers that have suffered higher being given.
We limit our underwriting of Hurricane Katrina was a major test of our than anticipated losses have been placed under worldwide retrocessional exposure, nationwide catastrophe management capabilities.
The Reinsurance spend and recoveries 9.0 42.1 greater scrutiny from clients, rating agencies, or worldwide coverage and give catastrophe hurricane was extraordinary due to its size 2001-2005 equity analysts and commentators.
coverage for direct accounts sparingly where and severity as well as its track over New Net earned reinsurance premium it clashes with our reinsurance account.
Orleans that eventually led to the breach of 12.1 Insurance claims and loss adjustment We believe that we have come through these levees and catastrophic flooding of the city.
expenses recoverable from reinsurers 11.5 8.4 events well and, with Amlin Bermuda now Line size 500 operating, we have increased the options The size of the Groups capital base allows us to It affected a number of classes of Amlins Source: Amlin 450 available to the Group for the future.
offer attractive lead lines to brokers and insureds business with claims arising from damage to 400 whilst maintaining an acceptable relationship energy installations in the Gulf of Mexico, 350 Syndicate 2001 300 The tenets of the philosophy that were set out between the maximum indemnity cost per risk damage from wind and flood to large Source: Amlin 250 2005 GPI split in last years annual report remain the same and overall gross premium income.
Amlins commercial property in New Orleans and 200 and are the foundation for our recent good largest individual risk line in 2005 was Modelling software is used to assess the losses Mississippi, and claims on property reinsurance 150 Reinsurance Large commercial property performance.
We believe in profit focused approximately 10% of our gross premium that may arise from a certain specified event.
and catastrophe reinsurance programmes for 100 Other non-marine Marine Aviation UK Commercial underwriting across a diverse range of short tail income and the average lines written were Having upgraded our software in 2004, we clients with their own exposures in the area.
50 0 classes of business with the business expanding considerably lower as shown in the table below.
commenced a review of our systems for 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 into improving market conditions and We believe that this risk profile makes us less capturing aggregating risk in 2005 with a view to The table below illustrates the sources 20.8 contracting with deterioration in conditions.
prone to single material losses relative to our significantly increasing the granularity of the of the loss and compares it to our modelled Source: Amlin We aim to have highly experienced individuals capital compared to some of our peers.
This has US$60 billion Gulf of Mexico hurricane 28.6 underwriting our classes who share our overall included the use of modern mapping technology realistic disaster scenario RDS.
Control of risk, both at individual Maintaining relatively modest gross lines as a with an ability to show, in very detailed form, the Following the events of the last two years, 11.1 Comparison of Gulf RDS policy and portfolio level, remains a core feature percentage of premium income and capital also exposure written in our direct accounts.
which have resulted in very significant losses for to Hurricane Katrina 10.3 that needs continuous focus and improvement.
makes us less reliant on reinsurance for most of retrocessional reinsurers in particular, the 15.0 Underwriting risks and associated controls are our direct classes of business and makes it easier Manhattan property exposures against amount of available retrocessional capacity has Katrina RDS 14.2 covered further within the risk disclosure section to adjust exposures if reinsurance becomes simulated bomb blast diminished and the price for such cover has claim claim Difference Class US$m US$m US$m of the notes to the accounts, starting on page 79. unavailable or unacceptably expensive.
Catastrophe reinsurance 175 281 -106 Source: Amlin Property reinsurance 85 38 47 Gross line limits in 2005 Managing through 2005 In these circumstances, we have so far chosen Property insurance 217 65 152 Given the nature of Amlins business we were not to purchase retrocessional reinsurance doing to increase the granularity of our exposure Normal maximum line Average line Energy 32 92 -60 size million size million not immune to the hurricanes, with our ultimate although we have renewed most of our direct management and catastrophe modelling Marine reinsurance 7 13 -6 Catastrophe per programme 44 3.8 gross losses from these events estimated to reinsurance programmes.
We are reducing peak will continue through 2006.
However, our Other 11 16 -5 Risk XL 18 1.9 be US$860.9 million, reducing to US$236.7 catastrophe exposures and have used Amlin underwriting strategy is designed to work well Gross claims 527 505 22 Property large risk 18 4.8 million net of reinsurance recoveries.
However, Reinsurance recoveries -429 -392 -37 Bermuda to reinsure Syndicate 2001 so that it in this environment.
Controlled per risk limits and Cargo 15 2.3 Net reinstatement premiums 6 -9 15 crucially, we still expect to deliver a 2005 net remains within the risk appetite agreed with focus on diversity mean that the spread of risk Energy 21 3.1 Total 104 104 0 underwriting year profit.
This has been possible, whilst allows us to absorb volatility.
War Terrorism 15 5.5 business significantly from many of its peers in containing Amlin Bermudas exposures within Specie 35 7.9 the London and Bermudian markets.
Overall, the estimated gross loss was remarkably the originally set limits, as Amlin Bermuda, whilst This is evident in the way that Amlin Bermuda Airline 72 24.8 Airports liability 49 22.3 close to our modelled event loss, although as can in start up mode, is not fully utilising its exposure is planned to operate a plan formulated Space 46 10.5 We believe that this outperformance is due to be seen above, the property insurance and limits on directly written business.
Higher before it was evident how short retrocessional three fundamental reasons, namely the diversity reinsurance losses were higher than modelled inwards premium and the resultant cost savings capacity would be.
The underwriting in of our business, our net risk appetite which was Catastrophe risk management and other classes were less than modelled.
from this approach also help compensate for the Bermuda is intended to provide exposure Source: Amlin commensurate with our balance sheet and The correct identification of accumulating higher risk.
This situation is being kept under to multiple catastrophe zones across the US strong risk management over our assumed exposures to a possible event and the modelling This is particularly beneficial for our large The loss emanating from the property insurance close review so that, in advance of the 2006 and internationally.
We are focused on getting exposures.
of potential damage factors are crucial property and terrorism portfolios where the portfolio was greater than envisaged due to the windstorm season, our net exposures remain adequate price for cover granted therefore components of catastrophe risk management.
information can be used to test the potential size severe surge and flood losses to commercial within levels where we do not expect to be over broad nationwide or worldwide reinsurance is Diversity and aggregation of risk We control catastrophe coverage both by way of losses by applying different damage factors.
As explained above the models exposing the balance sheet after taking account not being underwritten and we focus on primary Diversity was crucial to our financial performance of policy limits and territorial or zonal limits.
For example we can vary a wind path or strength employed did not cater well for these of profits capable of being generated in non reinsurance.
Importantly, strict zonal limits to in 2005.
In excess of one third of our 2005 or, in the case of terrorism risk, vary the size of a eventualities.
Conversely our modelled event catastrophe exposed areas.
exposure are being applied of a maximum premium income was not exposed to natural Historically, we believe that we have taken a potential bomb blast.
had a more severe impact upon the gulf energy US$250 million per single territory or US$300 catastrophe events and equally our exposure to prudent approach to potential accumulating installations than the actual Katrina event 2006 million for clashing zones, such as Florida and these events is well spread worldwide and also exposures.
For example, in estimating the The actual damage caused by wind alone has because the wind path of the storm passed over We are again looking to grow the business in Texas from a windstorm event.
possible loss from an earthquake, we have been reasonably well modelled by systems a lower concentration of values.
those classes which are experiencing stronger assumed significant damage to aircraft on the available to insurers.
However, damage caused rating, such as US property, catastrophe ground which is likely to exceed exposures at by storm surge or flood, which is often included What is also clear from the loss numbers is reinsurance and energy insurance.
and sub-limited in commercial policies, is more the extent of reinsurance protection that we difficult to model and has been less reliably had last year to reduce the volatility from such With a potential heightened risk of further extreme events.
hurricane activity this year, the importance of managing aggregate exposures cannot be underestimated and the work we have been 18 Amlin plc Annual Report 2005 Amlin plc Annual Report 2005 19 m
