Risk management Credit risk management Credit Risk Management During 2005 Barclays increased the available accuracy of its 12-grade Credit risk is the risk that the Groups customers, clients or internal rating scale for the wholesale parts of the bank.
This was achieved counterparties will not be able or willing to pay interest, repay by increasing the number of ratings across the same range to 21.
The capital or otherwise to fulfil their contractual obligations under loan 12-grade rating scale has historically been mapped to long-term agency agreements or other credit facilities.
Credit risk also arises through ratings.
The new 21 default grades represent the best estimate of the level the downgrading of counterparties whose credit instruments the of credit risk for each counterparty based on current economic conditions, Group may be holding, causing the value of those assets to fall.
so a static link to long-term rating agency ratings is no longer used.
Furthermore, credit risk is manifested as country risk where difficulties Exposure in the event of Default experienced by the country in which the exposure is domiciled may Exposure in the event of default represents the expected level of usage impede payment or reduce the value of the asset or where the of the credit facility when default occurs.
At default the customer may counterparty may be the country itself.
Settlement risk is another not have drawn the loan fully or may already have repaid some of the special form of credit risk which is the possibility that the Group may principal, so that exposure is typically less than the approved loan limit.
pay a counterparty for example, a bank in a foreign exchange When the Group evaluates loans, it takes exposure at default into transaction and fail to receive the corresponding settlement in return.
consideration, using its extensive historical experience.
It recognises Credit risk is the Groups largest risk and considerable resources, that customers may make heavier than average usage of their facilities expertise and controls are devoted to managing it.
The importance of as they approach default.
credit risk is illustrated by noting that nearly two-thirds of risk-based For derivative instruments, exposure in the event of default is the economic capital is allocated to businesses for credit risks.
Credit estimated cost of replacing contracts with a positive value if exposures arise principally in loans and advances.
counterparties should fail to perform their obligations.
Credit Risk Management Responsibility Severity of Loss-given-default In managing credit risk, the Group applies the five-step risk When a customer defaults, much of the amount outstanding on its management process and internal control framework described loan or loans is usually recovered.
The part that is not recovered, the previously page 51.
The credit risk management teams in each actual loss, is called the loss-given-default LGD.
The severity of the business are accountable to the Business Risk Directors in those loss is measured as a percentage of the amount outstanding when the businesses who, in turn, report to the heads of their businesses and default occurs.
also to the Risk Director.
From historical information, the Group can estimate how much is likely The Credit Risk function, led by the Credit Risk Director, provides to be lost, on average, for various types of loans.
To illustrate, LGD is Group-wide direction of credit risk-taking.
This functional team manages low for residential mortgages because of the property pledged as the resolution of all significant credit policy issues and administers the collateral.
In contrast, average LGD is about 70% for unsecured Credit Committee which approves major credit decisions.
personal lending and 30% for corporate loans.
The principal Committees that review credit risk management are the The level of LGD depends on the type of collateral if any : the seniority Risk Oversight Committee and the Board Risk Committee.
The Board or subordination of the exposure: the industry in which the customer Audit Committee reviews and approves impairment allowance decisions.
operates if a business : the jurisdiction applicable and work-out Credit Risk Measurement expenses.
The outcome is also dependent on economic conditions that 2.8 Barclays uses statistical modelling techniques throughout its business may determine, for example, the prices that can be realised for assets in its credit rating systems.
These systems assist the Bank in frontline or whether businesses can readily be refinanced.
Individual defaults credit decisions on new commitments and in managing the portfolio show a wide range of outcomes, varying from full to nil recovery and of existing exposures.
They enable the application of consistent risk all points in between.
measurement across all credit exposures, retail and wholesale.
The key Expected Loss: Risk Tendency building blocks in the measurement system, which are described The three components described above the probability of default, below, are the probability of customer default expressed through an exposure at default and LGD are building blocks used in a variety internal risk rating, exposure in the event of default, and severity of of applications that measure credit risk across the entire portfolio.
Using these, Barclays builds the analyses that lead to One of these applications is a measurement of expected loss called its decision support systems in the Risk Appetite context described Risk Tendency RT.
However, it should be noted that credit risk measurement, particularly Risk Tendency, can be contrasted with impairment RT is a statistical estimate of the average loss for the loan portfolio for allowances required under accounting standards, which are based on the forthcoming 12 months, taking into account the portfolios size and losses known to have been incurred at the balance sheet date and not risk characteristics under current credit conditions.
RT provides insight expected loss.
into the credit quality of the portfolio and assists management in tracking risk changes as the Groups stock of credit exposures evolves Probability of Default: Internal Risk Ratings in the course of business.
Barclays assesses the credit quality and assigns an internal risk rating to all borrowers and other counterparties, including retail customers.
Each RT is calculated for both corporate and retail loans as follows: internal rating corresponds to the statistical probability of a customer in RT probability of default x expected exposure at default x loss that rating class defaulting within the next 12-month period.
rating methodologies may be used to inform the rating decision on individual large credits.
For smaller credits, a single source may suffice such as a rating model result.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2005 57 Risk management Credit risk management The RT of each individual loan is aggregated to produce the RT of the RT is a statistical estimate of losses arising over the next 12 months various sub-portfolios in the Group and ultimately for the whole Group.
and therefore it is not calculated for non-performing loans in the At this aggregate level, RT is a statistical estimate of the loss inherent wholesale portfolio or for retail loans in recovery.
in the Groups credit exposures over the next 12 months.
Impairment can include significant additional charges, write-backs and recoveries arising during the year from impaired loans.
These Many models are used in the estimation of the components of RT items can materially affect the impairment allowance charge, but in each of the Groups businesses.
The majority of the models are are not included in RT.
internally developed using Barclays own historical data and other The actual credit impairment charge arising from new defaults in external information.
We also use externally developed models and any one year, from loans that are performing at the start of the rating tools.
These are validated for use within Barclays before they year, vary significantly around the RT value.
This can be due to are introduced.
It is a Barclays policy that all models are validated changes during the year in the economic environment or in the annually to ensure their applicability to the current portfolios and business conditions in specific sectors or countries and from credit conditions.
unpredictable or unexpected external events.
This applies To interpret RT, the following should be considered: especially in wholesale portfolios where the default of a small RT is calculated using probabilities of default that are relevant to number of large exposures will significantly increase the periods the current credit conditions for each customer.
The RT figures are impairment allowance but will not have been included in the RT therefore a point-in-time estimate based on current economic and figure.
For retail portfolios, consisting of a very large number of credit conditions.
small exposures, the variation in the rate of change in new RT is calculated for different purposes and on different methods to impairment compared to the RT figure is usually much smaller.
impairment allowances, so RT cannot be used as a forecast of the total allowances for impairment.
It is rather a statistical estimate RT increased 32% 450m to 1,845m, 2004: 1,395m.
The largest that reflects changes in the size and quality of the loan portfolio.
increase occurred in Barclaycard, which rose 240m to 1,100m.
RT does not equate to the Groups budget or internal forecast of The increase reflects the deteriorating credit conditions in the UK impairment allowance in the coming year.
RT increased in UK Business Banking due to the The principal reasons for the difference between impairment and growth in the loan book and the acquisition of the Iveco business.
RT are: International Retail and Commercial Banking RT increased 200% to RT is a forecast estimate of the average loss associated with the 195m, reflecting the inclusion of Absa in the second half of 2005 current performing portfolio, impairment is the accounting value and growth in the loan portfolio.
of incurred loss realised on the whole portfolio.
RT covers only the loans at the date of estimation and does not make allowance for subsequent growth or change in the composition of the loan book which can affect impairment.
Risk Tendency by Business m 1,200 1,100 1,000 860 800 600 450 400 375 195 200 2004 85 70 65 20 5 5 10 0 2005 UK Banking Barclays Wealth Barclaycard International Head office Capital Management Retail and functions Commercial and other a Banking operations Note a Head office functions and other operations comprises discontinued businesses in transition principally relating to Middle Eastern corporate banking businesses and airline leasing activities.
Barclays PLC 58 Annual Report 2005 Credit Risk Mitigation Barclays actively manages its credit exposures.
When weaknesses in Barclays employs a range of policies and practices to mitigate credit exposures are detected either in individual exposures or in groups of risk.
The most traditional of these is the taking of security for funds exposures action is taken to mitigate the risks.
These include steps to advanced which is common practice.
See the discussion of loan-toreduce the amounts outstanding in discussion with the customers, if value ratios for mortgages on page 61. appropriate, the use of credit derivatives and, sometimes, the sale of the loan assets.
Credit derivatives are traded for profit and used for Barclays manages the diversification of its portfolio to avoid unwanted managing non-trading credit exposures.
Details of these activities may credit risk concentrations.
Maximum be found in the statistical section page 85 and Note 15 to the exposure guidelines are in place relating to the exposures to any Accounts.
These permit higher exposures to highly rated borrowers than to lower rated borrowers.
They also distinguish The value of assets held as loans and advances to customers that between types of counterparty, for example, between sovereign have been securitised or subject to similar risk transfer increased governments, banks and corporations.
individually at the time of credit sanctioning, are reviewed regularly, and are reported to the Risk Oversight Committee and the Board Risk Committee.
Similarly the Country Risk policy specifies risk appetite by country and avoids excessive concentrations of credits in individual countries.
Finally, there are policies that limit lending to certain industries, for example, commercial real estate.
