Risk management Capital and liquidity risk management The Board Risk Committee has approved minimum control Liquidity Risk Management requirements for capital and liquidity risk management.
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group is unable to meet its payment obligations when they fall due and to replace funds when they are The Treasurer has established risk control frameworks and a policy withdrawn, the consequence of which may be the failure to meet and assurance structure to ensure that capital and liquidity risks are obligations to repay depositors and fulfil commitments to lend.
managed in accordance with the requirements of the Board.
Policies are set by the Treasury Committee which is chaired by the Group Liquidity management within the Group has several strands.
is day to day funding, managed by monitoring future cash flows to ensure that requirements can be met.
This includes replenishment Capital Risk Management of funds as they mature or are borrowed by customers.
The Group Capital risk is the risk that the Bank fails to comply with FSA mandated maintains an active presence in global money markets to enable that regulatory requirements, resulting in a breach of its minimum capital to happen.
The second is maintaining a portfolio of highly marketable ratios and the possible suspension or loss of its banking licence.
Capital assets that can easily be liquidated as protection against any risk also includes the risk that the capital base is not managed in a unforeseen interruption to cash flow.
Finally, the ability to monitor, prudent manner thereby endangering the Groups credit rating.
manage and control intraday liquidity in real time is recognised by the Barclays views its strong credit rating as a source of competitive Group as a mission critical process: any failure to meet specific intraday advantage.
A solid capital position, together with a diverse portfolio commitments would be a public event and may have an immediate of activities, an increasingly international presence, consistent profit impact on the Groups reputation.
performance, prudent risk management and a focus on value creation, Securitisation remains a proportion of the Groups current funding underpins that rating.
profile, providing additional flexibility, and is an important tool in the The Groups capital management will continue to maximise management of the Groups capital and funding.
During 2005 the shareholder value through optimising both the level and mix of its Group has continued to securitise elements of the balance sheet, such capital resources, seeking to: as credit cards, and has selectively securitised other parts, such as UK mortgages and commercial loans.
The Group will look to build on the meet the individual capital ratios required by our regulators: success of the existing securitisation programmes in broadening the maintain an AA credit rating: range of asset classes securitised.
generate sufficient capital to support asset growth and corporate activity: The ability to raise funds is in part dependent on maintaining the manage the currency exposure to its overall Sterling Risk Asset Ratio.
The funding impact of a credit downgrade is regularly estimated.
Whilst the impact of a single downgrade may See page 104 in the Financial Overview for information on the Groups affect the price at which funding is available, the effect on liquidity capital position.
is not considered material in Group terms.
Absa monitor their cash flow against limits expressed as a percentage of their total deposits and current accounts rather than against absolute mismatch limits.
Absa also continues to assess the ongoing Rand money markets appetite for the Absa name and to improve their stress testing.
The difference in approach is not a major risk, and the integration project is working to more closely align Absas policies and practices with the Barclays liquidity control requirements.
Barclays PLC 72 Annual Report 2005 Liquidity Risk Measurement Monitoring and reporting take the form of cash flow measurement and projections for the next day, week and month as these are key periods for liquidity management.
This is based on principles agreed by the UK Financial Services Authority.
In addition to cash flow management, Treasury also monitors unmatched medium-term assets and the level and type of undrawn lending commitments, the usage of overdraft facilities and the impact of contingent liabilities such as standby letters of credit and guarantees.
Treasury develops and implements the process for submitting the Groups projected cash flows to stress scenarios.
The output of stress testing informs the Groups contingency funding plan.
This is maintained by Treasury and is aligned with the Group and country business resumption plans to encompass decision-making authorities, internal and external communication and, in the event of a systems failure, the restoration of liquidity management and payment systems.
Sources of liquidity are regularly reviewed to maintain a wide diversification by currency, geography, provider, product and term.
Whilst 2005 saw relatively stable markets, with no significant consequences for the Groups liquidity, significant market events over recent years including corporate scandals contributed to a short-term flight to quality in financial markets from which Barclays benefited.
An important source of structural liquidity is provided by our core retail deposits in the UK, Europe and Africa, mainly current accounts and savings accounts.
Although current accounts are repayable on demand and savings accounts at short notice, the Groups broad base of customers numerically and by depositor type helps to protect against unexpected fluctuations.
Such accounts form a stable funding base for the Groups operations and liquidity needs.
To avoid reliance on a particular group of customers or market sectors, the distribution of sources and the maturity profile of deposits are also carefully managed.
Important factors in assuring liquidity are competitive rates and the maintenance of depositors confidence.
2.8 Such confidence is based on a number of factors including the Groups reputation, the strength of earnings and the Groups financial position.
For further details see contractual cash obligations and commercial commitments of the Group on page 62.
