Risk management Market risk management Market Risk is the risk that Barclays earnings or capital, or its ability to The Head of each business, assisted by the business risk management meet business objectives, will be adversely affected by changes in the team, is accountable for identifying, measuring and managing all level or volatility of market rates or prices such as interest rates, credit market risks associated with its activities.
In managing market risk, spreads, foreign exchange rates, equity prices, and commodity prices.
businesses also consider liquidity risk where relevant.
The main market risks arise from trading activities.
Barclays is also In Barclays Capital, the Head of Market Risk is responsible for the exposed to non-trading market risks relating to the Pension Fund and, market risk governance and control framework.
Day to day to a lesser extent, asset and liability management.
responsibility for market risk lies with the senior management of Barclays Capital, supported by the Global Market Risk Management Categorisation of Market Risk team that operates independently of the trading areas.
Daily market To facilitate the management, control, measurement and reporting risk reports are produced for the main Barclays Capital business areas of market risk, Barclays has grouped market risk into three broad covering the six main risk factor categories, namely interest rate, categories: credit spread, inflation, foreign exchange, equity and commodity risk.
Trading market risk A more detailed trading market risk presentation is discussed at These risks arise in trading transactions where Barclays acts as Barclays Capitals Traded Products Risk Review meeting, held principal with clients or with the market.
Barclays policy is that fortnightly.
The attendees at this meeting include the senior managers market risks arising from trading activities are concentrated in from Barclays Capital and the central market risk team.
Outside Barclays Capital, Treasury manages treasury market and Asset and liability risk structural interest rate risk.
Retail market risk, a consequence of the These risks arise from banking activities, including those incurred UK banking operations, is managed by the Retail Market Risk team.
on non-trading positions such as customer assets and liabilities and In the non-UK banking operations, market risk is managed mainly capital balances.
The chart overleaf gives an overview of the business control structure.
Other market risks Barclays also incurs market risks that do not fit into the above categories.
The principal risks of this type are defined benefit pension scheme risk and asset management structural market risk.
Market Risk Management and Control Responsibilities The Board Risk Committee approves the market risk appetite for all types of market risk.
The Market Risk Director is responsible for the market risk control framework and, under delegated authority from the Risk Director and Risk Oversight Committee, sets a limit framework within the context of the approved market risk appetite.
The Market Risk Director is assisted by a central market risk team and by risk management departments in the businesses.
A daily market risk report summarises Barclays market risk exposures against agreed limits.
2.8 This daily report is sent to the Risk Director, the Market Risk Director, the Finance Director and the appropriate Business Risk Directors.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2005 67 Risk management Market risk management Managing market risk organisational overview Risk Type managed by and reviewed by Market Risk and Trading risk Barclays Capital Traded Products Risk Review Committee.
Asset and liability risk Treasury Treasury Committee.
Market Risk Retail Market Risk Business-level Asset and Liability Committees.
Overseas Treasuries Business-level Asset and Liability Committees.
Barclays Market Risk supervision visits.
Other market risks Other Barclays Pension Governance Group.
Market Risk Measurement Also in 2005, a methodology enhancement was introduced for The measurement techniques used to measure and control market inflation products.
Inflation risk is reported within interest rate risk in risk include: the DVaR table.
Daily Value at Risk: The impact of these methodology changes was not material and has Stress Tests: not been reflected in the 2004 comparative data.
Annual Earnings at Risk: The effectiveness of the DVaR model is assessed principally by backEconomic Capital.
testing which counts the number of days when trading related losses Daily Value at Risk DVaR are bigger than the estimated DVaR figure.
Back-testing results are DVaR is an estimate of the potential loss which might arise from shown on page 70.
Outside Barclays Capital, Barclays uses a simplified unfavourable market movements, if the current positions were to be approach to calculate DVaR.
held unchanged for one business day, measured to a confidence level Stress Tests of 98%.
Daily losses exceeding the DVaR figure are likely to occur, on Stress tests provide an indication of the potential size of losses that average, twice in every 100 business days.
could arise in extreme conditions.
The stress tests carried out by In Barclays Capital, DVaR is an important market risk measurement Barclays Capital include risk factor stress testing where stress tool.
DVaR is calculated using the historical simulation method with a movements are applied to each of the six risk categories, namely historical sample of two years.
In 2005, the DVaR methodology for interest rates, credit spread, inflation, foreign exchange rates, and credit spread risk was enhanced.
The original methodology is currency equity and commodity prices: emerging market stress testing where dependent and incorporates seven credit categories, these being emerging market portfolios are subject to stress movements: and interest rate swaps and six credit rating based categories.
The enhanced ad hoc stress testing, which includes applying possible stress events specific credit spread method replaces the rating and currency-based to specific positions or regions, e. g. the stress outcome to a region approach with a name specific approach and was rolled out in phases following a currency peg break.
across a number of business lines.
The enhanced model captures If the potential stress loss exceeds the trigger limit, the positions concentration risk and responds quickly to changing market conditions captured by the stress test are reviewed and discussed by Barclays and individual company circumstances.
Specific credit spread risk is Capital Market Risk and the respective Business Head s. The minutes of reported within credit spread risk in the DVaR table.
the discussion, including the merits of the position and the appropriate course of action, are then sent to the Market Risk Director for review.
Barclays PLC 68 Annual Report 2005 Outside Barclays Capital, stress testing is carried out by the business Trading Market Risk centres and is reviewed by the senior management and business-level Barclays policy is to concentrate trading activities in Barclays Capital.
The stress testing is tailored to the This includes transactions where Barclays Capital acts as principal with business and is typically scenario analysis and historical stress clients or with the market.
For maximum efficiency, Barclays manages movements applied to respective portfolios.
client and market activities together.
In Barclays Capital, trading risk occurs in both the trading book and the banking book as defined for Annual Earnings at Risk AEaR regulatory purposes.
AEaR measures the sensitivity of annual earnings to shocks in market rates at the 99th percentile for change over a one-year period.
In anticipation of future customer demand, Barclays maintains access This shock is consistent with the standardised interest rate shock to market liquidity by quoting bid and offer prices with other market recommended by the Basel II framework for assessing banking book makers and carries an inventory of capital market and treasury interest rate risk.
instruments, including a broad range of cash, securities and derivatives.
Trading positions and any offsetting hedges are established as AEaR is used to measure structural interest rate market risk and appropriate to accommodate customer or Barclays requirements.
structural asset management risk see the Other Market Risks section page 71 for more details.
Derivatives entered into for trading purposes include swaps, forward rate agreements, futures, credit derivatives, options and combinations Economic Capital of these instruments.
For a description of the nature of derivative Economic capital methodologies are used to calculate risk sensitive instruments, see page 77. capital allocations for businesses incurring market risk.
Consequently, the businesses incur capital charges related to their market risk.
Analysis of Trading Market Risk Exposures The table below shows the DVaR statistics for Barclays Capitals trading activities trading book and banking book.
Barclays Capital DVaR: Summary table for 2005 and 2004 12 months to 12 months to 31st December 2005 31st December 2004 a a a a Average High Low Average High Low m m m m m m Interest rate risk 25.3 44.8 15.4 25.0 53.6 15.1 Credit spread risk 23.0 28.3 19.0 22.6 32.9 16.0 Foreign exchange risk 2.8 5.3 1.4 2.4 7.4 0.9 Equities risk 5.9 8.2 3.9 4.2 7.9 2.2 Commodities risk 6.8 11.4 4.5 6.0 14.4 2.2 Diversification effect 31.9 25.9 b Total DVaR 31.9 40.4 25.4 34.3 46.8 24.0 2.8 Notes a The high and low DVaR figures reported for each category did not necessarily occur on the same day as the high and low DVaR reported as a whole.
Consequently, a diversification effect number for the high and low DVaR figures would not be meaningful and it is therefore omitted from the above table.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2005 69 Risk management Market risk management Barclays Capitals market risk exposure, as measured by average total DVaR Back-testing Daily Value at Risk, decreased by 7% in 2005.
This was mainly a Barclays recognises the importance of assessing the effectiveness of its consequence of increased geographical and product diversification DVaR model.
The main approach employed is the technique known as resulting from business growth.
back-testing, which counts the number of days when trading losses are bigger than the estimated DVaR figure.
The regulatory standard for The graph below shows the history of total DVaR on a daily basis for backtesting is to measure DVaR assuming a one-day holding period 2004 and 2005. with a 99% level of confidence.
For Barclays Capitals regulatory trading book, there were no instances in 2005 or 2004, of a daily Total DVaR in 2004 and 2005 daily values m trading revenue loss exceeding the corresponding back-testing DVaR.
Asset and Liability Market Risk 50 Interest rate exposures arising from mismatches of fixed rate assets 40 and liabilities in UK banking operations are passed to Treasury.
Treasury aggregates these positions and then passes the net position 30 to the market via Barclays Capital.
Due mainly to timing considerations, 20 market risk can arise when some of the net position stays with 0 Treasury.
Similarly, market risk can arise due to the impact of interest 2004 2005 rates on customer behaviour.
The latter risk is managed and measured by the Retail Market Risk team using behavioural models.
The positions are converted into wholesale swap or option exposures, passed to Analysis of Trading Revenue Treasury and managed by the process described above.
The histograms below show the distribution of daily trading revenue for Barclays Capital in 2005 and 2004.
It includes dealing profits, net Structural interest rate risk arises from the variability of income from interest income and net fees and commissions relating to primary non-interest bearing products, managed variable rate products and the trading.
The average daily revenue in 2005 was 16.3m 2004: 12.5m Groups equity.
This risk is managed by Treasury, assisted by the Retail and there were 237 positive revenue days out of 252 2004: 246 positive Market Risk team.
The risk is comparatively modest.
The market risks are managed by local treasury functions and local asset and liability committees.
The central market risk team maintains regular contact with the businesses on treasury issues and oversees a comprehensive financial risk reporting framework.
Other Market Risks Defined benefit pension scheme risk Barclays maintains a number of defined benefit pension schemes for past and current employees.
The ability of the Pension Fund to meet the projected pension payments is maintained through investments.
Market risk arises because the estimated market value of the pension fund assets might decline or their investment returns might reduce or because the estimated value of the pension liabilities might increase.
In these circumstances, Barclays might be required or might choose to make extra contributions to the pension fund.
Financial details of the pension fund are in Note 38.
Asset management structural market risk Asset management structural market risk is the risk that fee and commission income is affected by a change in asset prices.
It affects Barclays Global Investors, International Retail and Commercial Banking, Wealth Management and Barclays Life.
The risk is controlled and managed by the respective businesses and the central market risk team.
