Risk management Management of operational risk and business risk Operational and business risks are inherent in Barclays operations and Governance and Control Committees in each business monitor are typical of any large enterprise.
The Group Governance and Control Committee receives reports from the committees in the businesses Operational Risk is the risk of direct or indirect losses resulting from and considers Group-wide control issues and their risk mitigation.
inadequate or failed internal processes or systems, human factors, In the corporate centre, the Operational Risk Director oversees the or from external events.
Major sources of operational risk include: range of operational risks across the Group in accordance with the operational process reliability, IT security, outsourcing of operations, Group Operational Risk Framework.
dependence on key suppliers, implementation of strategic change, The Internal Audit function provides assurance for operational integration of acquisitions, fraud, error, customer service quality, risk control across the organisation and reports to the Board and regulatory compliance, recruitment, training and retention of staff, senior management.
and social and environmental impacts.
The Management and Measurement of Operational Risk Business Risk is the risk of adverse outcomes resulting from a weak Risk Assessment A consistent approach to the identification and competitive position or from poor choice of strategy, markets, assessment of key risks and controls is undertaken across all business products, activities or structures.
Major potential sources of business units.
Scenario analysis and self-assessment techniques are widely risk include: revenue volatility due to factors such as macroeconomic used by business management for risk identification and for evaluation conditions: inflexible cost structures: uncompetitive products or of control effectiveness and monitoring capability.
Business pricing: and structural inefficiencies.
management determines whether particular risks are effectively Barclays is committed to the advanced management of operational managed within business risk appetite and otherwise take remedial and business risks.
In particular, we are implementing advanced action.
The risk assessment process is consistent with COSO principles.
management and measurement approaches for operational risk Risk Event Data Collection and Reporting A standard process is used to strengthen control, improve customer service and minimise Group-wide for the recognition, capture, assessment, analysis and operating losses.
This process is used to help identify where It is not cost effective to attempt to eliminate all operational and process and control requirements are needed to reduce the recurrence business risks and in any event it would not be possible to do so.
Risk events are loaded onto a central database and Events of small significance are expected to occur and are accepted as reported monthly to the Operational Risk Executive Committee.
inevitable: events of material significance are rare and the Group seeks Barclays also uses a database of external public risk events to assist in to reduce the risk from these in a framework consistent with its agreed risk identification and assessment.
Reporting Business units are required to report on both a regular and Responsibility for and Control of Operational Risk an event-driven basis.
The reports include a profile of the key risks to Barclays has a Group Operational Risk Framework, which is consistent their business objectives, control issues of Group-level significance, with and part of the Group Internal Control and Assurance Framework.
Specific reports are prepared on a regular Minimum control requirements have been established for all key areas basis for the Risk Oversight Committee, the Board Risk Committee and of identified risk.
The risk categories relevant to operational and the Board Audit Committee.
In particular the Group Operational Risk business risks are: Brand Management, Capital, Change, Corporate Profile Report is provided quarterly to the Risk Oversight Committee.
Responsibility, Financial Crime, Financial Reporting, Taxation and Budgeting, Legal, Operations, People, Regulatory Compliance, Strategic Economic Capital Methodologies are used for both operational and and Technology.
business risks to calculate risk sensitive capital allocations.
These are allocated to business units which incur risk-based capital charges, Responsibility for implementing and overseeing these policies is to be as a consequence, providing an incentive to manage the risk within found throughout the organisation as follows: appetite levels.
Additional investment is being made to enhance the The prime responsibility for the management of operational risk Operational Risk Capital model to improve risk sensitivity and to obtain and the compliance with control requirements rests with the approval to apply the Advanced Measurement Approach AMA business and functional units where the risk arises.
Frontline risk under the Basel II Accord when that option first becomes available managers are widely distributed throughout the Group in business in 2008. units.
They service and support these areas assisting line managers in managing these risks.
Business Risk Directors in each business are responsible for overseeing the implementation of and compliance with Group policies.
