Risk factors Risk Factors Moreover, a sufficiently strong capital base may assist the Groups The following discussion sets forth certain risk factors that the Group growth and strategic options.
Unforeseen circumstances may arise believes could cause its actual future results to differ materially from under which the Group is unable to maintain its desired capitalisation.
However, other factors could also adversely affect the Liquidity Risk Group results and so the factors discussed in this report should not be Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group is unable to meet its payment considered to be a complete set of all potential risks and uncertainties.
obligations when they fall due and to replace funds when they are Business Conditions and General Economy withdrawn: the consequence of which may be the failure to meet The profitability of Barclays businesses could be adversely affected by obligations to repay depositors and fulfil commitments to lend.
The a worsening of general economic conditions in the United Kingdom or risk that it will be unable to do so is inherent in all banking operations globally.
Factors such as the liquidity of the global financial markets, and can be impacted by a range of institution specific and market-wide the level and volatility of equity prices, interest rates, inflation, investor events including, but not limited to, credit events, merger and sentiment, and the availability and cost of credit could significantly acquisition activity, systemic shocks and natural disasters.
affect the activity level of customers.
A market downturn would be likely Operational Risks to lead to a decline in the volume of transactions that Barclays executes The Groups businesses are dependent on the ability to process a large for its customers and, therefore, lead to a decline in the income it number of transactions efficiently and accurately.
Operational risks and receives from fees and commissions.
A market downturn or worsening losses can result from fraud, employee errors, failure to properly of the economy could cause the Group to incur mark to market losses document transactions or to obtain proper internal authorisation, failure in its trading portfolios.
A market downturn also could potentially result to comply with regulatory requirements and Conduct of Business rules, in a decline in the fees Barclays earns for managing assets.
For example, equipment failures, natural disasters or the failure of external systems a higher level of domestic or foreign interest rates or a downturn in see page 74 for a fuller list.
Although the Group has implemented risk trading markets could affect the flows of assets under management.
An controls and loss mitigation actions, and substantial resources are devoted economic downturn or significantly higher interest rates could adversely to developing efficient procedures and to staff training, it is only possible affect the credit quality of Barclays on-balance sheet and off-balance to be reasonably, but not absolutely, certain that such procedures will be sheet assets by increasing the risk that a greater number of the Barclays effective in controlling each of the operational risks faced by the Group.
customers would be unable to meet their obligations.
Regulatory Compliance Risk Credit Risk The Group is subject to extensive supervisory and regulatory regimes Credit Risk is the risk that Barclays customers, clients or counterparties in all countries in which it operates.
Regulatory compliance risk arises will not be able or willing to pay interest, repay capital or otherwise to from a failure or inability to comply fully with the laws, regulations or fulfil their contractual obligations under loan agreements or other codes applicable specifically to the financial services industry.
compliance could lead to fines, public reprimands, damage to Market Risks reputation, enforced suspension of operations or, in extreme cases, 2.7 The most significant market risks the Group faces are interest rate, withdrawal of authorisation to operate.
credit spread, foreign exchange, commodity price and equity price risks.
Legal Risk Changes in interest rate levels, yield curves and spreads may affect the The Group is subject to a comprehensive range of legal obligations in interest rate margin realised between lending income and borrowing all countries in which it operates.
As a result, the Group is exposed to costs.
Changes in currency rates, particularly in the Sterling-Dollar, many forms of legal risk, which may arise in a number of ways.
Sterling-euro and Sterling-Rand exchange rates, affect the value of Primarily: assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies and affect earnings reported by the Groups non-UK subsidiaries and may affect the Groups business may not be conducted in accordance with revenues from foreign exchange dealing.
The performance of financial applicable laws around the world: markets may cause changes in the value of the Groups investment and contractual obligations may either not be enforceable as intended trading portfolios and in the amount of revenues generated from assets or may be enforced against the Group in an adverse way: under management.
The Group has implemented risk management the intellectual property of the Group such as its trade names may methods to mitigate and control these and other market risks to which not be adequately protected: and the Group is exposed.
However, it is difficult to predict with accuracy the Group may be liable for damages to third parties harmed by the changes in economic or market conditions and to anticipate the effects conduct of its business.
that such changes could have on the Groups financial performance, The Group faces risk where legal proceedings are brought against it.
business operations and the value of assets held in the Groups pension Regardless of whether such claims have merit, the outcome of legal and long-term assurance funds.
proceedings is inherently uncertain and could result in financial loss.
Capital Risk Defending legal proceedings can be expensive and time-consuming The Groups authority to operate as a bank is dependent upon the and there is no guarantee that all costs incurred will be recovered even maintenance of an adequate capital base.
Capital risk is the risk that if successful.
it is unable to meet capitalisation requirements in the UK and in Although the Group has processes and controls to manage legal risks, other markets where banking activities are undertaken.
As the level failure to manage these risks can impact the Group adversely, both of capitalisation may affect the Groups debt rating, the Group also financially and reputationally.
manages its capital to secure the maintenance of its strong rating.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2005 47 Risk factors Tax Risk in July 2005 stating that their provisional conclusion was that these The Group is subject to the tax laws in all countries in which it fees were excessive and need to be reduced to be fair.
A number of bilateral double taxation agreements entered Barclaycard, and seven other credit card companies, three months between two countries also impact on the taxation of the Group.
to provide suitable undertakings regarding the basis of these charges or otherwise to address the concerns of the OFT.
Tax risk is the risk associated with changes in tax law or in the Barclaycard responded to the OFT in October 2005 further interpretation of tax law.
It also includes the risk of changes in tax rates explaining the position Barclaycard takes in respect of late and and the risk of failure to comply with procedures required by tax authorities.
over-limit fees and has continued to work with the OFT to address Failure to manage tax risks could lead to an additional tax charge.
Barclays continues to consider the impact of the It could also lead to a financial penalty for failure to comply with provisional finding on the credit card industry and Barclaycard, required tax procedures or other aspects of tax law.
If, as a result of a including steps to mitigate any financial impact on shareholders.
particular tax risk materialising, the tax costs associated with particular These investigations are looking at several aspects of the UK transactions are greater than anticipated, it could affect the profitability consumer credit industry and the Group is co-operating with them.
Their outcome is not known but they may have an impact on the The Group takes a number of steps to manage its tax risk.
Primarily: consumer credit industry in general and therefore on the Groups business in this sector.
tax risks are assessed as part of the Groups formal governance processes and are reviewed by the Risk Oversight Committee and The OFT announced in January 2006 that it would be reviewing the the Board Risk Committee: undertakings given following the conclusion of the Competition the tax risks of proposed transactions or new areas of business are Commission Inquiry in 2002 into the supply of banking services considered before proceeding: to SMEs.
The OFT will commence that review in March 2006 and the Group employs high-quality tax professionals and provides anticipate that it will take them nine months.
The Group will ongoing technical training: co-operate fully with that review.
the tax professionals understand and work closely with the different Other areas where changes could have an impact include: areas of the business: the use of effective, well documented and controlled processes to the monetary, interest rate and other policies of central banks and ensure compliance with tax filing and reporting obligations.
regulatory authorities: general changes in government or regulatory policy that may Effect of Governmental Policy and Regulation significantly influence investor decisions in particular markets in The Groups businesses and earnings can be affected by the fiscal or which the Group operates: other policies and other actions of various governmental and regulatory general changes in the regulatory requirements, for example, authorities in the UK, the European Union, the US and elsewhere.
The prudential rules relating to the capital adequacy framework nature and impact of future changes in such policies and regulatory page 56 : action are not predictable and are beyond the Groups control.
changes in competition and pricing environments: There is continuing political and regulatory scrutiny of, and major further developments in the financial reporting environment: changes in, legislation and regulation of the retail banking and expropriation, nationalisation, confiscation of assets and changes in consumer credit industries in the UK and elsewhere.
legislation relating to foreign ownership: and other unfavourable political, military or diplomatic developments In the EU as a whole, this includes an inquiry into retail banking in all 25 producing social instability or legal uncertainty which in turn may member states by the European Commissions Directorate General for affect demand for the Groups products and services.
The inquiry is looking at retail banking in Europe generally and the Group is co-operating with the inquiry.
The outcome of the Impact of Strategic Decisions taken by the Group inquiry is unclear, but it may have an impact on retail banking in one or The Group devotes substantial management and planning resources to more of the EU countries in which the Group operates and therefore on the development of strategic plans for organic growth and identification the Groups business in that sector.
In the UK, in September 2005 the of possible acquisitions, supported by substantial expenditure to generate Office of Fair Trading OFT received a super-complaint from the growth in customer business.
If these strategic plans do not deliver as Citizens Advice Bureau relating to payment protection insurance PPI.
anticipated, the Groups earnings could grow more slowly or decline.
As a result of its inquiries, the OFT then announced in December 2005 Competition that it will commence a market study on PPI in March 2006.
The scope The global financial services markets in which the Group operates are and impact of the study is not known at present.
Innovative competition for corporate, institutional In relation to UK consumer credit: and retail clients and customers comes both from incumbent players and a steady stream of new market entrants.
The landscape is The OFT has carried out investigations into Visa and MasterCard expected to remain highly competitive in all areas, which could credit card interchange rates.
The decision by the OFT in the adversely affect the Groups profitability if the Group fails to retain and MasterCard interchange case is being appealed to the Competition attract clients and customers.
Appeals Tribunal and the appeal is expected to be heard towards the end of 2006.
The OFTs investigation in the Visa interchange case is at an earlier stage.
The OFT also has a continuing investigation into the level of late and over-limit fees on credit cards.
The OFT issued a press release Barclays PLC 48 Annual Report 2005 Impact of External Factors on the Group and Peer Group The Groups primary performance goal is to achieve top quartile TSR performance for 2004 to 2007 inclusive against a group of peer financial institutions.
This goal assumes that external factors will impact all peer group entities similarly.
The Groups ability to achieve the goal will be significantly impacted if the Group is disproportionately impacted by negative external factors.
Even if the Group performs well, if others perform better or the market believes others have performed better, we may not achieve our goal.
Barclays devotes considerable resources and expertise to managing the risks to which it is exposed.
Our risk management is described in the following pages pages 50 to 77.
Please also refer to the cautionary statement concerning forward-looking statements on the inside of the front cover in conjunction with this section.
