Risk management Risk management and control overview Introduction household budgets.
This has resulted in a deterioration in consumer Barclays business model is about building earnings growth, and one of credit quality that has been particularly evident in credit card portfolios.
the main responsibilities of Risk Management is to help manage this We have experienced higher average delinquency balances and faster growth effectively.
To support this, the identification and management movement from delinquency through the collection process and of risk remains a high priority and underpins all our business activity.
Combined with declining recovery rates, these Our approach is built on formal governance processes, relies on trends have led to a higher impairment charge in the retail sector for individual responsibility and collective oversight, uses advanced the year.
Throughout the year Barclaycard has reviewed its risk analyses, and is informed by comprehensive reporting.
Responsibility management processes and implemented a number of measures for risk resides at all levels of management, from the Board down designed to manage risk more effectively in this environment.
These through the organisation to individuals in offices around the world.
include revised underwriting rules and tighter guidelines for limit Each business manager is accountable for managing risk in his or her assignment and management.
The unsecured personal loan business business area, assisted, where appropriate, by risk specialists.
We has also been under some strain: however our mortgage book has measure the key risks and understand the viability of transactions had negligible impairment, being secured on residential property at while taking risk into account.
generally conservative loan to value ratios.
For all of these businesses the outlook for the UK economy is still key, and we expect a reasonable How we position and implement risk management is critical to our growth environment in 2006. plans.
We do that in two main ways: by developing a clear plan for our Risk Appetite and by ensuring that we develop the functional capability The credit environment in the larger wholesale and corporate sector to risk manage the new and expanding businesses.
For Risk Appetite, was more favourable than retail in 2005, without major corporate we look at our business plans three years forward and project the defaults and with relatively stable conditions.
Credit conditions possible financial earnings volatility and capital requirements for those benefited from widespread positive growth internationally and low plans.
We compare this with our targets for capital ratios, dividend inflation which also supported rising stock markets.
The favourable cover, and downside stress loss capacity, and we translate the results impairment performance, the positive market tone and a well into risk capacity for each of our main cluster business plans.
We capitalised banking industry resulted in very competitive market believe that this helps us to optimise risk and return characteristics conditions.
While broadly positive, this stability was not uniform across across our business after considering diversification benefits.
The sustained high energy prices seen in 2005 have not second factor we set business-level mandate and scale limits to ensure resulted in any material increase in portfolio impairment in the short that our individual risk components are appropriately balanced.
In term but the global effect on GDP a reduction in economic growth, broad terms, our Risk Appetite increased by about 25% through affecting both the corporate and retail businesses will be felt in the 2005.
To provide strong functional capabilities we have built specialised more cyclical sectors and may lead to increased impairment in the risk teams in each of our businesses, ensuring a responsive but medium term.
We believe that our lending portfolio is well structured independent risk management capability.
We have made a substantial and well diversified to mitigate these risks as we look ahead.
investment in the infrastructure we need to measure, model, track, and The Market Risk environment was also fairly stable in 2005.
Barclays report our risk positions.
Finally, as in all businesses, good people make Capital increased trading revenue while running steady levels of risk the difference.
We have worked hard to recruit and train strong risk as measured by DVaR and stress test estimates.
This was achieved professionals and to develop the right culture and attitude toward by diversified business growth from a number of new areas in 2005. incorporating good risk management as part of our everyday approach Pension risk remains an important focus for us and more generally to managing our business.
for UK corporates, where there has been high sensitivity to both the Risk diversification is an explicit part of our business model.
market and the actuarial factors that drive fund valuations.
We have A significant benefit from the acquisition of a majority stake in Absa a strong risk framework for managing our pension fund obligations was risk diversification, provided by earnings that are less correlated and we have recently updated our actuarial assumptions.
The same is true for Barclaycard US previously Our business plans forecast significant increases in business volumes, Juniper and the other areas of international growth we have and this implies greater challenges in operational risk management.
achieved within existing businesses like Barclays Capital and BGI.
We continue to work to improve our key end-to-end processes and The development across the Group of new products with new clients to increase their resilience and capacity to sustain the increasing and in new geographies has provided good diversification.
This synergy demands of higher business volumes.
is strengthened when we can use the risk skills and systems we have already developed in our core businesses to improve the performance Financial crime risk management received increasing focus in 2005. of these new and growing business areas.
Although our loss experience was comparable to 2004, a change in the loss mix was evident.
Plastic fraud losses decreased as a result of The risk environment in 2005 had conflicting characteristics, with preventative measures introduced, including Chip and Pin technology.
stable conditions in wholesale and corporate credit risk, market risk We have initiated additional measures to counteract an increase in and operational risk but a deterioration in the UK retail credit sector.
advances fraud in the credit card business, whilst the same category in The UK consumer portfolios were affected by the high level of personal loans and overdrafts is reducing slowly.
We have maintained household indebtedness in the UK and by non-discretionary household a good record in preventing cheque fraud.
In 2005 we continued to expenditure growing faster than income, as higher interest rates, strengthen our anti money laundering activities in an international energy costs, local taxes and other outgoings increased the strain on regulatory environment that is becoming more complex.
We are Barclays PLC 50 Annual Report 2005 concerned by the general rise in identity theft and we are taking extra Risk Management precautions to protect our brand.
The pages that follow describe our approach to risk management.
This first section deals with the overall approach applicable to all The principal area of regulatory change ahead of us is the new Basel II risks.
It is followed by material covering individual types of risk.
The successful implementation of the provisions of the Accord, scheduled for 2008, involves data, model and system changes The narrative contains quantitative information mainly in graphical in many of our businesses and we have made a significant investment format.
In most cases the same data appear in tables in a statistical in this area.
The main purpose of the Accord is to provide a more section beginning on page 78. sophisticated risk framework for the industry.
We have worked to Risk Management Process position Barclays at the leading edge of risk management and we Barclays applies a five-step approach to risk management.
believe that our goal of achieving advanced status is appropriate and realistic.
We expect our Basel II capital measures to be more closely Responsibilities aligned to our internal economic capital measures, and this should Direct Understand the principal risks to achieving allow us to manage our capital ratios more effectively over time.
We remain committed to our objective of increasing shareholder value Establish risk appetite.
by developing and growing business that is consistent with our risk Establish and communicate the risk management appetite, and through building more effective and sophisticated framework including responsibilities, authorities risk return management capabilities.
We are confident that we are and key controls.
achieving an appropriate balance in our business, and that we are Assess Establish the process for identifying and continuing to build the risk management capabilities that will help us analysing business-level risks.
to deliver our growth plans.
Agree and implement measurement and reporting standards and methodologies.
Robert Le Blanc Control Establish key control processes and practices, Risk Director including limit structures, provisioning criteria and reporting requirements.
Monitor the operation of the controls and adherence to risk direction and limits.
Provide early warning of control or appetite breaches.
Ensure that risk management practices and conditions are appropriate for the business environment.
Report Interpret and report on risk exposures, concentrations and risk-taking outcomes.
Interpret and report on sensitivities and Key 2.8 Risk Indicators.
Manage and Review and challenge all aspects of the Groups Challenge risk profile.
Advise on optimising the Groups risk profile.
Review and challenge risk management practices.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2005 51 Risk management Risk management and control overview Risk Responsibilities The principal responsibilities extend throughout the organisation.
The Board requires that management maintains an appropriate system of internal control and reviews its effectiveness.
The Board approves risk appetite and monitors the Groups risk profile against this appetite.
Business leaders are responsible for the identification and management of risk in their businesses.
The Risk Director, under delegated authority from the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, has responsibility for ensuring effective risk management and control.
Risk-Type Heads and their teams in Central Support are responsible for establishing a risk control framework and risk oversight.
Business risk teams, each under the management of a Business Risk Director, are responsible for assisting business leaders in the identification and management of their business risk profiles and for implementing appropriate controls.
Internal Audit is responsible for the independent review of risk management and the control environment.
Matrix of risk responsibilities at Barclays Group Board Group Chief Executive Internal Audit Business Heads Group Finance Director Risk Director Risk-Type Heads Business Risk Directors Corporate All Retail Wholesale Market Operational other Credit risk Credit risk risk risk risks UK Banking Barclaycard Barclays Capital Wealth Management International Retail and Commercial Banking Barclays Global Investors The internal control framework at Barclays is aligned with the internationally accepted standard Internal Control Integrated Framework published by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission COSO.
The Groups principal risk categories set out below are the subject of Board approved risk control requirements.
Brand Management Liquidity Capital Market Change Operations Corporate Responsibility People Credit Regulatory Compliance Financial Crime Strategic Financial Reporting, Taxation and Budgeting Technology Legal Detailed discussion of our risk management of certain risks follows, starting with credit risk on page 57.
The management of risk at Barclays is guided and monitored by a number of committees.
Each has specific functions as shown in the chart on the Governance Structure at Group Level on the next page.
Barclays PLC 52 Annual Report 2005 Governance Structure at Group Level Board oversight Board Board Audit Committee Board Risk Committee Considers the adequacy and effectiveness Approves the Group Internal Control of the Group Internal Control and and Assurance Framework.
Approves minimum control requirements Authority Reviews reports on control issues of for principal risks.
Approves overall Group risk appetite.
Appetite Reviews the Group risk profile.
Risk adjusted Group Chief Executive REPORTING ASSURANCE performance Group Executive Committee Monitors and manages risk adjusted performance of strategic business units.
Governance and Control Committee Treasury Committee Risk Oversight Committee Reviews the adequacy and Monitors the Groups liquidity and Debates and agrees actions on the risk effectiveness of the Group Internal maturity mismatch.
profile and risk strategy across Control and Assurance Framework.
Monitors usage of regulatory capital.
Monitors compliance with the Framework Ensures consistency with Group risk Reviews policy controls for liquidity, including remediation of significant appetite.
maturity transformation and structural control issues.
interest rate exposure Considers issues escalated by Risk- 2.8 Type Heads.
Assurance Internal Audit Assesses the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group Internal Control and Assurance Framework.
In addition to the Committees shown in the chart, there is a Brand and Reputation Committee reviewing emerging issues with potentially significant reputational impact.
These Committees are informed by regular and comprehensive reports.
The Board Risk Committee receives a quarterly report covering all significant risk types.
The Board Audit Committee receives quarterly reports on control issues of significance and half-yearly impairment allowances and regulatory reports.
Both Committees also receive reports dealing in more depth with specific issues relevant at the time.
The proceedings of both Committees are reported to the full Board, which also receives a concise quarterly risk report.
Internal Audit supports both Committees by attendance and or the provision of quarterly reports resulting from its work on governance, risk and control issues of significance.
The Board Audit Committee reviews and approves Internal Audits plans and resources, and evaluates the effectiveness of Internal Audit.
An assessment by external advisers is also carried out periodically.
When the new Basel II Accord is introduced, Barclays aims to achieve advanced status under all risk categories.
Barclays considers that the investment required to attain this status is warranted by the internal risk management improvements that will follow, the reputational benefits and the potential for greater capital efficiency.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2005 53 Risk management Risk management and control overview Work has been undertaken to align Absas internal control framework These ascending but increasingly less likely levels of loss are illustrated with Barclays.
Absa has adopted the Barclays, COSO aligned, internal in the following chart.
control framework or has in place suitable COSO aligned alternatives, which are acceptable to Barclays.
Risk Appetite concepts diagram not to scale The Barclays principal risk categories and control requirements see previous reference have been adopted by Absa and work is ongoing to achieve full compliance in 2006.
Expected Mean Risk Appetite Risk Appetite is the Groups chosen method of balancing return and Moderate Stress risk, recognising a range of possible outcomes, as business plans are implemented.
Barclays framework, approved by the Board Risk Severe Stress Committee, uses a formal, quantitive method based on advanced risk analysis, building on the capability developed and used in Barclays since the mid 1990s.
Extreme Stress The objectives of the Risk Appetite framework are to: help protect the Groups performance: Risk Economic capital enable unused risk capacity to be identified and thus profitable Tendency opportunities to be highlighted: Potential size of loss in one year improve management confidence and debate regarding our risk profile: and At 31st December 2005, the Groups expected credit loss in one year help executive management improve control and co-ordination was 1,845m see page 58.
The economic capital i. e. the loss in one of risk-taking across businesses.
year under extreme stress for all risk types was 14.1bn, estimated with a probability of 1 in 5,000 years.
The Risk Appetite framework considers credit, market and operational risk and is applied using two perspectives: earnings volatility and Mandate and Scale: This second perspective enables the setting of mandate and scale.
limits to control unacceptable levels of loss that may arise as a result of portfolio concentration.
It is our objective that unexpected losses Earnings volatility: This takes account of the potential volatility around remain within the scope of our communicated strategy and are of a our forecast financial performance each year, with appetite being set in scale that is appropriate for our Group.
This perspective uses simple, the context of strategic objectives, including dividend sustainability and descriptive measures and limits for relevant exposure types.
preservation of Barclays rating in stress environments.
The portfolio is analysed in this way at four representative levels: Overall, the Risk Appetite framework provides a basis for the allocation of risk capacity to each business.
Since the level of loss at each level of expected performance including the average credit losses based on probability is dependent on the portfolio of exposures in each business, measurements over many years : the statistical measurement for each key risk category gives the Group a moderate stress level of loss that is likely to occur only clearer sight and better control of risk-taking throughout the enterprise.
infrequently and is meant to correspond to a macroeconomic cycle: a severe stress which is much less likely: The Risk Appetite framework is designed to be: an extreme but highly improbable level of stressed loss which is simple and practical to apply by measurement and monitoring used to determine the Groups Economic capital.
of exposures: geared to risk return where capacity is directly related to opportunity: based on a top-down capacity for earnings volatility: based on bottom-up identification of risk factors in each business: relevant, recognising the impact and likelihood of losses: aggregated across businesses where appropriate.
Barclays PLC 54 Annual Report 2005 Probability of loss Stress Testing Barclays estimates the correlation between risk types and calculates The Risk Appetite numbers are validated by estimating the Group a diversification benefit which results in a reduction in allocated sensitivity to macroeconomic events using stress testing and scenario economic capital for the Group and each of the businesses.
Changes in certain macroeconomic variables represent Economic capital is fully embedded in the management culture of the environmental stresses which may reveal systemic credit and market Group via risk adjusted performance management e. g. economic risk sensitivities in our retail and wholesale portfolios.
The stresses profit, effective targeting of resources to value creating areas, pricing considered include, for example, the following sensitivities: tools, compensation and remuneration schemes and is integral to the Gross Domestic Product weaker: Risk Appetite framework.
The economic capital framework will be an employment weaker: important part to the Groups implementation of the Basel II Accord.
interest rates higher or lower: Movements within the business clusters are summarised as follows: interest rate curve shifts: equity prices lower: Within UK banking, UK Retail Banking economic capital allocation property prices weaker: increased 100m to 2.3bn.
The impact of growth was offset by a risk credit spreads wider: transfer transaction within UK mortgages.
UK Business Banking economic country exposure stressed: capital allocation increased 500m to 2.95bn as a consequence of industry exposure stressed: asset growth and the acquisition of the Iveco Finance business.
Barclays Capital economic capital increased 450m to 2.55bn More complex scenarios, such as recessions, can be represented by reflecting underlying growth in loan and derivative portfolios, combinations of variables.
These scenarios allow senior management additional equity investments and the recalibration of business and to gain a better understanding of how the Group is likely to react to operational risk economic capital.
changing economic and geopolitical conditions.
The stress test Wealth Management ongoing business economic capital allocation simulates the balance sheet and profit and loss effects of stresses increased 100m to 400m as a consequence of general growth across the Group, investigating the impact on profits and the ability across all businesses and the recalibration of business and operational to maintain appropriate capital ratios.
Insights gained are fully risk economic capital.
integrated into the management process and the Risk Appetite framework.
These analyses and insights, and the close involvement Wealth Management closed life assurance activities economic capital of management, also provide the basis for fulfilling the stress testing allocation reduced 50m to 50m reflecting the impact of IFRS requirements of the new Basel II Accord.
removing the volatility associated with embedded value accounting.
We estimate the capital needed to survive an extreme but highly Barclaycard economic capital allocation increased 350m to 2.8bn, improbable level of stressed loss.
The calculation is based on the due to growth in outstandings and the inclusion of Barclaycard US for historical volatility of losses.
Capitalisation occurs to a level sufficient the full year.
to provide a high level of confidence in the Group, with the level of International Retail and Commercial Banking excluding Absa economic confidence consistent with the Groups AA rating.
capital allocation increased 150m to 1.15bn due to the recalibration The Application of Economic Capital of business and operational risk economic capital together with growth 2.8 Barclays manages both its economic capital supply and demand for exposure in Africa and Spain.
Absa added 400m to the average economic capital in order to optimise capital efficiency.
economic capital demand reflecting five months of the annual change after excluding the risk borne by the minority interest.
The management of the supply of capital occurs via the Groups shareholders capital and regulatory capital ratios as discussed on Economic capital held at Group centre fell 350m to 1.05bn.
See also the management of capital risk on page 72. economic capital required to support Absa, is only partially offset by an increase in available funds to support economic capital.
The Group assesses the internal demand for capital using its own proprietary economic capital methodology developed and refined over more than a decade.
Economic capital is estimated primarily for the risks listed under principal risks on page 52 as well as insurance risk, risk associated with fixed assets, and risk in private equity investments.
The Group computes and assigns economic capital by the risk categories to all operating units.
This enables the Group to apply a common, consistent and additive metric to ensure that returns throughout the Group are commensurate with the associated risks.
An asset attracts the same cost of capital wherever it is acquired across the Group, although management may target differential hurdle rates which are appropriate to the use of capital.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2005 55 Risk management Risk management and control overview Average economic capital allocation by business m 6,000 5,250 5,000 4,650 4,000 2,800 3,000 2,550 2,450 2,100 2,000 1,550 1,400 1,000 1,050 2004 1,000 400 450 250 150 150 200 0 2005 UK Barclays Barclays Wealth Barclaycard International Head office Group b Banking Capital Global Management Retail and functions centre Investors Commercial and other a Banking operations In 2005, the average allocated economic capital of the Group was 14.1bn 2004: 12.4bn.
In addition, average economic capital held against unamortised goodwill was 6.5bn for the year ended 31st December 2005 2004: 5.6bn.
Average economic capital allocation by risk type m 5,000 4,800 4,400 4,150 4,000 3,700 3,000 c 2,000 1,850 2,000 1,150 900 2004 1,000 750 650 600 600 500 400 0 2005 Wholesale Retail Operational Market risk Business risk Fixed Other risks credit risk credit risk risk asset risk Management of Regulatory Capital Regulatory capital by tiers m In addition to the Groups internal assessment of economic capital demand, Barclays manages consumption of regulatory capital.
35,000 The Financial Services Authority FSA requires the Group to hold 30,502 sufficient capital to meet minimum regulatory capital requirements, 30,000 expressed as the ratio of capital to risk weighted assets Risk Asset 25,216 25,000 24,223 Ratio.
The risk weights applied to the Groups assets use calculations 20,000 developed by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision.
15,000 The Groups policy of disciplined capital management continued.
The 10,000 Tiers tier 1 ratio was 7% for the year ended 31st December 2005, reflecting d 2 & 3 5,000 strong cash flow generation and the efficient use of capital markets.
The mix of the Groups tier 1 capital altered during the year, with an 0 Tier 1 e increased use of preference share capital than previously.
2003 2004 2005 UK GAAP IFRS The graph opposite shows the Groups regulatory capital base for Barclays PLC Group broken down by tier.
As at December 2005, the Barclays PLC Group Risk Asset Ratio was 11.3%, which is in excess of the minimum requirements of our regulators.
Further information on the Groups capital base is provided in the Financial Overview on pages 103 and 104.
Notes a Includes Transition Businesses and capital for central functional risks.
b The Groups practice is to maintain an appropriate level of excess capital held at the Groups centre, which is not allocated to business units.
This variance arises as a result of capital management timing and includes capital held to cover pension contribution risk.
c Includes excess capital held of the Group centre: investments in associates: private equity risk: and insurance risk.
e The regulatory capital reported to the FSA at 31st December 2004 was based on UK GAAP and has not been restated under IFRS.
