INTERNATIONAL LIFE & PENSIONS ASSET MANAGEMENT GROUP FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE CONCLUSIONS AND OUTLOOK Key risks Focus on higher margin business Maintain diversity of earnings Risk of poor investment whilst leveraging scale performance, leading to the loss of key investment mandates.
The personnel selection processes We are targeting net new business in We are a diversified business by client during the integration of F&C and higher margin areas.
These include retail, type, asset mix and geography, which ISIS and other actions taken during LDI, alternatives and specialist provides us with a robust business 2005 and early 2006 have helped us institutional mandates yielding model across market cycles.
to strengthen the investment teams.
performance fees such as emerging We benefit from scale in terms of While investment performance has market debt, high yield, high alpha research, infrastructure, distribution stabilised or improved in a number of equities, hedge funds and a Private and access to the market.
key areas during 2005, there are Equity Fund of Funds.
some product areas to which we are devoting further attention.
2005 Key points 2005 Key points Impact of EU and other regulatory Growth in alternatives.
Completed Integration of F&C ISIS successfully developments.
fund raising for F&C Amethyst, our completed in just 15 months.
The Markets in Financial Instruments flagship hedge fund, and saw growth Annualised cost synergies of Directive and Capital Requirement from F&C Partners LLP, our fund of 33 million achieved with the full Directive present medium term hedge funds boutique.
benefits to come through in 2006. challenges for asset management Launch of the F&C Commercial Benefited from the growth of our businesses.
Programmes are in Property Trust.
European partners where we provide hand to prepare for implementation Purchase of a private equity fund of sub-advisory services.
and opportunities are taken as they funds team from Martin Currie and Growth in our UK retail business.
arise to influence the drafting and the addition of the F&C Private Growth in alternatives.
Depth and timeliness of Net sales in UK retail market with management information.
key products including Stewardship Processes and procedures have Income and F&C Multi-Manager been put in place that will in the Distribution Fund.
future enhance the reporting of Strong growth in Portugal through management information to the our sub-advisory relationship with F&C Board and business.
Development of operational Leading position in the VCT market platforms.
through our distribution partnership with ISIS Equity Partners on the Subsequent to F&Cs announcement Baronsmead VCTs.
in 2005 to terminate the outsourcing negotiations with Mellon, 2006 Priorities 2006 Priorities administrative operations continue on two legacy platforms, one LDI pooled funds launch in Continue to develop distribution outsourced and one in-house.
A The Netherlands build on our across Europe.
project is under way to build a data ALM LDI expertise.
Continue to develop the multi-boutique warehouse to consolidate data, Pursue institutional mandates and investment model.
enhance operating efficiency and retail assets in high alpha UK equities We will consider opportunities for improve the level of services and on the back of the recruitment of a acquisitions that would enable us to reporting to clients and new team.
leverage our platform whilst management.
Target specialist fixed income maintaining or increasing our diversity.
mandates in emerging debt and Progress the outstanding IT projects Development of front office high yield.
relating to the integration of F&C and control processes.
Continue to develop our multi-manager ISIS in accordance with timetable set.
New IT systems are being developed presence in the UK retail market.
and installed to complete the Retain leading position in the VCT integration of front office dealing, market.
decision support and pre and post Continue to develop our wholesale execution monitoring systems.
and sub-advisory relationships Substantial progress has been made in Europe.
with the installation of a new dealing platform and further supporting systems are anticipated to follow during 2006.
In the short term adequate controls, albeit more manual in nature, exist to manage the risk.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005 27
