INTERNATIONAL LIFE & PENSIONS ASSET MANAGEMENT GROUP FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE CONCLUSIONS AND OUTLOOK Key risks Use technology and e-commerce to Engage our people to maximise Further regulation and fiscal enhance our service offering our performance change materially impacts costs, capital requirements, distribution, regulatory responsibility or the market for products.
We aim to exploit technology and, where Our people are critical to the successful Project teams monitor the appropriate, find further synergies with running of our business and central to implementation of European the UK business, using common our ability to build relationships with directives and other legislative platforms and tools to deliver efficient intermediaries and customers.
We changes, seeking to ensure timely, and effective processes.
therefore need to recruit and retain the compliant and cost effective appropriate highly skilled and motivated solutions.
Detailed analyses of the people.
impact on distribution relationships and product offerings are undertaken to determine the required changes in 2005 Key points 2005 Key points distribution strategies.
Friends Provident International Friends Provident International The entry of new players increases Adopted the Friends Provident UK New bespoke training function competition.
systems as a base for further growth, developed.
The activities of competitors are to generate efficiencies and facilitate Executive management development monitored to identify potential extending e-commerce capabilities to programmes run in conjunction with challenges.
Proactive steps are taken International business.
Ashridge Business School and to review product offerings, and to New personal bond system delivered EurAPCo alliance.
consider our approach to particular and internet updates for selected Lombard territories as the competitive product illustrations enabled.
Introduced a 'coaching' programme environment changes.
Lombard and upgraded internal management Reliance on key territories or Extended electronic links with training programmes.
Developed business-wide seminars It is part of our business strategy to Significantly progressed the aimed at improving our peoples further diversify our International development and upgrade of policy understanding of our total business.
We have programmes in administration and related systems Initiated exchange of staff between hand both to increase the number of for launch in 2006. the UK and Luxembourg.
supporting intermediaries and strategic partners in existing 2006 Priorities 2006 Priorities territories and to explore Friends Provident International Friends Provident International opportunities to extend the reach of our business into fresh territories.
Rollout of online servicing facilities Accelerated development In assessing these opportunities, we to distributors.
Take further advantage of the Internal change programmes Groups e-commerce capabilities, focusing on enhancing service.
extending their use internationally Robust controls are operated in Lombard where appropriate.
recruitment, financial transaction Increase company-wide focus on processing and IT operations.
A risk-based approach allocates clear Launch new policy administration Further develop training and responsibility for business system.
acceptance decisions, leading to Continue to develop automated greater vigilance.
Training electronic links with our partners and programmes have been enhanced custodian banks including e-Lombard.
Impact on profitability of changes FPI operating expenses FPI Staff Engagement Index to lapse rates.
2005 14% 24m 2005 71% Lapse management programmes seek to identify alternatives to PVNBP 32% 2004 62% surrender for clients.
Particular 2004 21m 2003 69% sources of lapse risk are monitored.
PVNBP 5% A focus on service helps to maintain 2003 20m customer satisfaction and prevent This shows the level of FPI staff engagement surrenders.
PVNBP as measured by our annual staff survey.
In 2005 a record 90% of staff completed the This shows our operating expenses compared survey.
with the new business PVNBP growth rate.
Lombard does not currently have an equivalent The expense bars are drawn to a different measure.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005 21
