INTERNATIONAL LIFE & PENSIONS ASSET MANAGEMENT GROUP FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE CONCLUSIONS AND OUTLOOK Key risks Apply technology to enhance Develop our people to enhance our Changes to the distribution distribution, improve service and performance and foster a customer landscape.
For example, from reduce costs focused culture based on common unexpected consequences of values depolarisation and the emergence of multi-ties.
We aim to generate higher levels of We aim to create sustainable competitive We have secured places on many profitability by growing our new advantage through our ability to recruit best advice and multi-tie panels with business levels significantly faster and retain highly motivated and numerous leading distributor firms than costs.
We plan to achieve service appropriately skilled people.
We plan to and have been able to attract all types enhancements and efficiency gains enhance performance by developing and of distributors by delivering excellent through continued investment in our equipping our people with the appropriate service, products and technology.
people and in technology-based solutions.
knowledge and skills and engaging them Competitors develop more in our aims and strategies.
advanced IT solutions and capture technology leadership.
Our operating platforms are leading 2005 Key points 2005 Key points edge and our structure is designed Considerable growth in new business 93% response to our annual staff for continuous development to be volumes handled cost-effectively.
survey: Staff Engagement Index achieved.
We monitor competitor More than 70% of individual increased to 72%.
Progress made in improving the Changes in volume or profitability Voted the top Life & Pensions performance management process.
e-commerce provider Financial Adviser Executive management development We monitor our competitive position Practiv Service Awards and Advisers programmes undertaken.
and analyse our experience of policy Choice Online Finance Awards.
New Advanced Leadership claims and lapses.
We use this Development Programme initiated.
information to re-price our products to remain competitive and profitable, supported where necessary by appropriate use of reinsurance.
Impact of the Pensions 2006 Priorities 2006 Priorities Commission's recommendations Extend technology to more business Improve further the level of employee for changes to the UK approach to processes to reduce costs.
private pensions and long-term Actively promote customer and Continue to improve the leadership savings.
intermediary online self-service skills of our managers and the There is currently uncertainty over the capabilities.
Governments response to these Continue to improve financial Ensure that our top talent have clear recommendations.
We believe that management processes and career paths.
our industry can deliver the capability.
Commissions goals more effectively Explore further opportunities for than the State, building on the efficiency gains.
stakeholder model of pension provision, combined with automatic Operating expenses Staff Engagement Index enrolment and matching employer 2005 72% 2005 6% 251m contributions.
We support the PVNBP 21% Partnership Pensions proposals of 2004 64% the ABI, and believe that Government, 2004 236m 2003 68% employers, the pensions industry and PVNBP 4% individuals must each play their part in 2003 251m helping to provide a secure and more PVNBP 13% This measure is derived from our annual staff comfortable retirement for all.
survey and is based on staff answers to the Movements in equity markets.
2002 245m survey questions that align with engagement, We have set risk appetite for equity PVNBP using a methodology devised by the external provider agency.
risk across the different types of funds and have an investment This shows how operating expenses as defined on page 17 have remained broadly flat strategy that reflects this risk whilst new business PVNBP has grown.
We have adopted hedging strategies to mitigate against The expenses bars are drawn to a different adverse price movements in both scale to the PVNBP bars.
Where funds are backing guarantees, they are invested in secure assets such as Government bonds.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005 15
