309467 1-100 9 3 06 9:08 pm Page 55 aligning the taking of risk with the suitable controls.
Internal and external risks Risk Management achievement of business objectives are assessed, including control breakdowns, means that the control system is designed disruption of information systems, competition Risk Management to manage, rather than eliminate, risk and and regulatory requirements.
The assessment Introduction can provide only reasonable - and not process is designed to be consistent across HBOS is involved in the provision of absolute - assurance against material the divisions and group functions and uses retail, business and corporate banking, misstatement or loss.
an iterative challenge process to provide treasury services, investment management, Responsibility for risk is a key element of successive assurances to ascending levels insurance and life assurance.
Inherent within managers competencies at all levels.
For of management up to the Board.
the provision of financial services are a each major risk type, specialist teams have number of diverse risks, which may have been established where appropriate, both In judging the effectiveness of the Groups a material impact on the Groups financial in the divisions and at Group level, to controls, the Board reviews the reports of the performance.
These include, though not ensure that guidance is available for Audit Committee and management.
It also exclusively, credit, market, liquidity, managers within the Group.
considers key performance indicators and operational and insurance risk.
Staff and systems resources are dedicated reviews monthly financial and business to ensuring that risk management performance showing variances against budget.
Identification, measurement and information is accurate, timely and relevant management of risk is a strategic priority for to the business, reflecting the true position Divisional Chief Executives have responsibility the Group.
A comprehensive framework of at any given time.
for managing strategic, market, credit, internal controls for risk management has liquidity, regulatory and operational issues been established at both Group level and The Risk Management Framework and risks affecting their own operations within within all constituent businesses.
The Board HBOS follows a model that allocates specific the parameters of the Group policies set has overall responsibility for the Groups roles in the management of risk to specified by or under the authority of the Board.
Each system of control, including approval of the executives and senior managers and to Board business division also has its own risk principal risk policies and standards and of and Executive Committees.
This is undertaken management committee or committees.
the terms of reference of Board Committees, within an overall framework and strategy while some aspects are delegated to Board established by the Board.
This model is based Policy, performance and risk oversight and Executive Committees and to senior on the concept of three lines of defence: The Group Executive Risk Committees management within the Group.
The Board is Within the operating divisions, primary consider risks and risk management from the also responsible for reviewing the effectiveness management responsibility for strategy, Groups perspective and are supported by the of the systems and controls.
The system of performance management and risk control specialist Group Risk functions.
Together they controls described in this section has been in lies with the Divisional Chief Executives develop the policies and parameters within place throughout the period to the date of first line of defence : which business divisions are required to approval of the Annual Report and Accounts Centralised policies and standards are manage risk.
They provide central oversight unless otherwise stated.
It accords with the developed and objective oversight of risk by reviewing and challenging the work of the Turnbull guidance on internal control and has management is exercised by specialist risk business divisions own risk committees and also been reviewed by the Board specifically functions, supporting the Groups by providing functional leadership in the for the purposes of this statement.
Executive Committees and Executive Risk development and implementation of risk Committees second line of defence : and management techniques.
Information on the principal risks and the Independent and objective assurance on Groups approach to risk management and the effectiveness of control systems is Committees covering specific types the system of controls adopted is described provided by Group Internal Audit and the of risk assist the Board to formulate risk in the following sections.
Audit Committee third line of defence.
appetite, policies and strategies for that specific risk type, and are responsible for the This report has been audited by This model operates through a formal implementation and maintenance of the risk KPMG Audit plc from the section entitled governance structure, comprising management framework relating to that risk.
Credit Risk on page 56 to the end of the committees with specified areas of section on General Insurance on page 60. responsibility, supported by management The four specific Executive Risk functions with a similar remit.
Committees are: Overview: Management and controls Group Credit Risk Committee, which Principles Increasingly, the actions required to actively covers all credit risk matters: The system of internal control provides for manage the overall capital, liquidity and Group Market Risk Committee, formerly clear accountabilities for risk management operating position of the HBOS Group are the Group Asset & Liability Committee and applies across the Groups operations.
In recognition of this, and in which is responsible for all trading and It covers strategic, financial and operational anticipation of the potential changes to the market risk matters: risks and provides for assurances to overall risk sensitivity of the regulatory capital Group Insurance Risk Committee, successive levels of management and to position under a Basel II framework, a revised formerly the Group Insurance & the Board.
Additional information about the formal governance structure for the HBOS Investment Risk Committee which is particular types of risks faced by the Group Group will be incorporated within the risk responsible for insurance risks within the is given on the following pages.
This represents a insurance and investment businesses: and change to the governance structure that Group Operational Risk Committee, The Group seeks to maintain high standards operated in 2005.
To assist in comparison with responsible for operational and for the management of risk and the system previous years, the changes in governance regulatory risks.
of controls is continually evolving.
Specialist structure have been incorporated within the risk managers are tasked with researching detailed commentary on each risk area.
The Group has an established specialist industry best practice, and with ensuring that Group Risk function, reporting to the Group standards and policies within the Group are Strategy, performance measurement Risk Director, in support of these progressively developed to improve risk and risk control Committees.
Its accountabilities are: management practice.
The Groups risk appetite is established by to recommend Group policies, standards the Board.
The strategy for managing risk is and limits: Within the Group, risk is managed in formulated by the Executive Committee and to monitor compliance with those policies, accordance with the following principles: recommended to the Board for approval.
standards and limits: and Key risks are identified, measured where The Executive Committee also reviews the to aggregate risks arising in the business appropriate, and managed to achieve a effectiveness of risk management systems divisions and to monitor the overall Group balance between risk and reward, which through reports from management and from position independently from the divisions is acceptable to the Board.
Each year the the Group Executive Risk Committees.
Board carries out a formal strategic review of risk management, and also reassesses Management has primary responsibility for Group Risk is also responsible for oversight its appetite for risk in light of the Groups identifying and evaluating significant risks to of the Groups adherence to regulatory annual business plan.
This focus on the business and for designing and operating requirements and for oversight of Annual Report and HBOSplc Accounts 2005 55 309467 1-100 14 3 06 1:14 am Page 56 Risk Management continued HBOS Board First Line of Defence Second Line of Defence Third Line of Defence Group Chief Executive Audit Group Functions Committee Group Capital Committee Group Finance Director Group Funding & Liquidity Committee Share Market Activity Committee Regulatory Capital Adequacy Committee Group Credit Risk Committee Supported by GWCC Group Market Risk Committee Group Divisional Executive Divisional Risk Chief Executives Committee Risk Control Group Insurance Risk Committee Director supported by Committees Divisional Risk Committees Group Operational Risk Committee Diagram 1 communications with regulators on a Groupthe Group Market Risk Committee provide a clear focus on delivering wide basis, with direct responsibility for formerly the Group Asset & Liability sustainable income streams to generate relations with the Financial Services Authority Committee : added shareholder value.
FSA, the Groups principal regulator.
Establishing and reviewing stress, scenario and contingency planning and Regulatory guidance is still evolving with management strategies in that regard the publication of the FSA Strengthening Integrated capital and liquidity management in co-operation with the Executive Risk Capital Standards, Feedback Statement Committees : due in mid 2006 and FSA Near Final Rules A critical element of the HBOS management philosophy is the consideration of capital, Establish and recommend for approval in October 2006. to the Board, the Groups appetite for liquidity and balance sheet management on an integrated basis.
As a result, from 2006 liquidity risk, including relevant policy We continue to play an active role in Group Liquidity Policy Statement and discussions within the industry and the responsibility for the capital and funding related activities of the Group will be minimum standards and monitoring the FSA to shape the regulatory approach.
implementation of those policies and Based on our current understanding integrated into a single Capital Committee, with appropriate sub-committees reporting standards within the HBOS Group.
of the requirements, we intend to apply for the Advanced approach to regulatory into the main committee, focused on the core aspects of the overall Group requirements.
Certain responsibilities are delegated to the This serves to clarify and reinforce that Audit Committee, including ensuring that HBOS continues to promote a prudent and responsible approach to the management the prime responsibility, ownership and there is regular review of the adequacy and accountability for managing and controlling efficiency of internal control procedures.
Management and the Boards view of future requirements will continue all matters relating to funding and capital This role provides independent and objective rests with the Group Finance Director, whilst assurance that there is an appropriate control to be the main determinant of total capital holdings.
Whilst Basel II advocates a risk supporting the separation of management structure throughout the Group.
and control of risk at the highest level.
The sensitive regulatory capital framework, HBOS believes that management of capital Group Capital Committee, chaired by the The Audit Committee, which is supported by Group Finance Director, operates under Divisional Risk Control Committees, obtains volatility is of paramount importance.
delegated authority from the Board, to: assurance about the internal control and risk Oversee and manage the Groups balance management environment through regular Management of key risks sheet and capital in accordance with the reports from Group Risk and Group Internal The Group is committed to developing Board approved Group Business Plan Audit.
It also considers external auditors its risk management techniques and through: reports and reviews the minutes and work methodologies, both to maintain high Establishing and monitoring compliance of the Divisional Risk Control Committees.
standards of risk management practice with the Groups Capital Plan in line with and to fulfil the requirements of UK and the Board approved Group Capital Further details of the work of the Audit international regulators.
Policy: Committee are provided in the Corporate Establishing and monitoring compliance Governance Report on pages 68 to 72. Credit Risk with the Group Funding Plan: Credit risk is the risk of financial loss from Establishing policies and minimum Basel II Accord a counterpartys failure to settle financial standards to measure and monitor the The HBOS approach to Basel II has obligations as they fall due.
The Group Credit financial resource requirements of the consistently focused on improving how Risk Committee, one of the Executive Risk Group in accordance with regulatory we do business as opposed to regulatory Committees, is chaired by the Group Risk requirements, including: compliance per se.
Our Basel programme Director and comprises senior executives Establishing and monitoring execution is aligned with internal plans to deliver from across the business divisions and of strategies for the management of improved risk management capability at both group functions.
It meets monthly and non-trading related balance sheet risks a divisional and Group level.
These activities reviews the Groups lending portfolio.
It also within approved risk appetite, policy and will enhance our ability to measure and assists the Board in formulating the Groups minimum standards as monitored by monitor the risks facing the Group and credit risk appetite.
The Group Credit Risk HBOSplc Annual Report and 56 Accounts 2005 309467 1-100 13 3 06 9:34 pm Page 57 Policy Statement, to be applied across all measurement systems in preparation for the by the Group Capital Committee formerly businesses subject to credit risk, is approved introduction of the Basel II Accord.
delegated to the Group Asset & Liability by the Board on an annual basis.
Within the insurance and investment Group Credit, a specialist support function businesses, formal policies and an overall Interest Rate Risk within Group Risk, provides centralised risk appetite, approved by the Board of the The primary market risk faced by the Group expertise in the area of credit risk relevant insurance subsidiary, are in use is interest rate risk.
Interest rate risk exists measurement and management techniques.
together with a regular monitoring process where the Groups financial assets and In addition to reporting on the performance to help ensure compliance.
liabilities have interest rates set under of each divisional portfolio to the Group different bases or reset at different times.
Credit Risk Committee, Group Credit Market Risk exercises independent oversight over the Market risk is defined as the potential loss The Board limit for structural interest rate risk is effectiveness of credit risk management in value or earnings of the organisation expressed in terms of potential volatility of net arrangements and adherence to agreed arising from: interest income in adverse market conditions policies, standards and limits.
Day-to-day changes in external market factors such using an Earnings at Risk EaR methodology.
management of credit risk is undertaken by as interest rates interest rate risk, foreign The EaR methodology combines an analysis of specialist credit teams working within each exchange rates foreign exchange risk, the Groups interest rate risk position overlaid division in compliance with policies commodities and equities: or with behavioural assessment and re-pricing approved by the Board.
Typical functions the potential for customers to act in a assumptions of planned future activity.
In undertaken by these teams include credit manner which is inconsistent with addition to this primary control, a number sanctioning, portfolio management and business, pricing and hedging of other risk methodologies are applied to management of high risk and defaulted assumptions.
The objectives of the Groups market risk Present Value of a Basis Point PVBP - To mitigate credit risk, a wide range of framework are to ensure that: PVBP is a measure of market value policies and techniques are used across the market risk is taken only in accordance sensitivity and quantifies the change in Group: with the Boards appetite for such risk: present value of cash flows for a one basis For Retail portfolios use is made, where such risk is within the Groups financial point change in interest rates.
This method it is practical to do so, of software capability, management understanding is primarily used for HBOSTS Banking technology in credit scoring new and staff competence: Book activities where there is a limited applications.
In addition, where practical, the Group complies with all regulatory impact from behavioural and or internal behavioural scoring is used to provide an requirements relating to the taking of re-pricing issues.
assessment of the conduct of a customers market risk: Net asset liability re-pricing maturity accounts in granting extensions to, and the quality of the Groups profits is matrices - EaR analysis focuses on setting limits for, existing facilities.
appropriately managed and its reputation positions over the detailed planning Collections activity for credit card, current safeguarded: and horizon and can be directly related back accounts and personal loans is centralised appropriate information on market risk is to reported performance.
To ensure that for the various products and software known to those making decisions, such the Group does not have long term systems are used to prioritise action.
that the taking of market risk is designed embedded risks that are not being Mortgage collection is conducted through to enhance shareholder value.
appropriately controlled limits are set on a number of payment collection net asset liability positions that re-price departments.
Small business customers Risk appetite is set by the Board which beyond one year.
may be rated using scorecards in a similar allocates responsibility for oversight and manner to retail customers.
management of market risk to the Group The Board has delegated authority to the For Corporate portfolios, a full Market Risk Committee formerly the Group Group Market Risk Committee formerly the independent credit assessment of the Asset & Liability Committee, one of the Group Asset & Liability Committee to allocate financial strength of each potential Executive Risk Committees, and chaired limits to business areas as appropriate within transaction and or customer is undertaken, by the Group Risk Director.
Market risk is the overall risk appetite, as approved by the awarding an internal risk rating.
Internal controlled across the Group by setting limits Board each year.
In turn, the Group Market ratings are reviewed regularly.
The same using a mixture of measurement Risk Committee formerly the Group Asset & approach is also used for larger SME methodologies.
Detailed market risk Liability Committee has granted limits, which small to medium enterprise customers.
framework documents and limit structures represent the risk tolerance for each division.
Within HBOS Treasury Services plc have been developed for each division.
Interest rate risk arising in the course of HBOSTS, largely incorporating the These are tailored to the specific market risk business is required to be transferred Groups wholesale, sovereign and banking characteristics and business objectives of to HBOSTS from the banking divisions.
related exposures, focused credit risk each operating division.
Each divisional The residual risk in the banking divisions is policies are established and reviewed by policy requires appropriate divisional primarily that related either to behavioural the Group Wholesale Credit Committee sanction, and is then forwarded to the Group characteristics or to basis risk arising from GWCC a sub-committee of the Group Market Risk Committee formerly the Group imperfect correlations in the adjustment of Credit Risk Committee.
Asset & Liability Committee for approval rates earned and paid on different instruments on at least an annual basis.
Risk in An additional measure within the credit risk the business divisions is measured by EaR.
framework is the establishment of industrial Market risk within the insurance and With respect to HBOSTS the primary risk sector and country limits to avoid excessive investment businesses arises in a number of measure is the impact attributable to a one concentrations of risk within volatile ways and depending upon the product, some basis point parallel move in the yield curve.
economic sectors or individual countries.
risks are borne directly by the customer and These two measures have been calibrated and All such limits are set and monitored by the some by the insurance and investment expressed as an EaR equivalent.
The Group Group Credit Risk Committee.
In the case of the risk borne by the Market Risk Committee formerly the Group applied to lending assessment processes customer, this is controlled by adherence to, Asset & Liability Committee undertakes to consider environmental risk and the potential and regular monitoring of, investment ensure that the aggregate exposure does not impact this may have on the value of the mandates and, if appropriate, unit pricing exceed the total Group risk appetite.
In the case of the company, the overall risk appetites and Sensitivity to interest rate movements is Minimum standards have been established policies are approved by the companys shown in Note 44 to the Accounts on pages across the Group for the management Board and monitored thereafter.
159 and 160 which provides the year end of credit risk.
All divisions are committed re-pricing profile for the Groups financial to continuously improving credit risk Group items centrally managed net free assets and liabilities in the non-trading book, management and there have been significant reserves, subordinated debt and structural which includes lending, funding and liquidity levels of investment in the development of foreign exchange are managed within activities.
The methodology used in analysing risk rating tools, including portfolio risk separate policies and limits mandates, as set the year end re-pricing profile does not take Annual Report and HBOSplc Accounts 2005 57 309467 1-100 14 3 06 12:30 am Page 58 The Group recognises that the VaR liquidity management is delegated to Risk Management methodology cannot guarantee the maximum HBOSTS: the Group Funding & Liquidity loss that may be suffered in any trading Committee a sub-committee of the Group continued period, particularly in the event of market Capital committee oversees the controls turmoil.
Therefore, stress testing is used exercised by HBOSTS.
into consideration the effects of behavioural to simulate the effect of selected adverse market movements.
The Board requires that prudential liquidity and basis risk issues, hence for internal management of risk the Group relies on limits should be set by the Group Capital The Groups trading market risk exposure Committee formerly delegated to the Group a number of methodologies, including EaR.
for the year ended 31 December 2005 is Asset & Liability Committee, both at analysed in Note 45 to the Accounts on page aggregate levels and for individual currencies Foreign Exchange Risk The Board has delegated authority to the 161.
The regulatory capital charge in which the Group has significant wholesale for market risk trading exposures represents funding.
These limits are established by way Group Market Risk Committee formerly the Group Asset & Liability Committee to set only 1.31% of the Groups capital base.
of cashflow mismatch and are quantified over two time horizons - from sight to eight days structural foreign exchange limits.
The Group Market Risk Committee formerly the Group Derivatives and from sight to one month.
In the normal course of banking business, Asset & Liability Committee has established limits for foreign exchange transaction and the Group uses a limited range of derivative For the purpose of calculation, marketable instruments for both trading and non-trading assets are subject to both instrument translation risk.
The principal derivative concentration limits and prudential discount instruments used are interest rate swaps, factors.
An assessment is also made for the Transaction exposures arise primarily from profits generated in the overseas operations, interest rate options, cross currency swaps, possible outflow from customer deposits and forward rate agreements, forward foreign committed facilities, determined by which will be remitted back to the UK and then converted into sterling.
The Group prudential behavioural modelling.
uses derivatives as a risk management tool Translation exposures arise due to earnings for hedging interest rate and foreign The Groups approach to the management exchange rate risk.
of liquidity goes beyond the Sterling Stock that are retained within the overseas operations and reinvested within their own Liquidity approach used by the FSA, in that Examples of how derivatives are used in it includes measures of liquidity cover out to balance sheet.
managing and mitigating market risk one month, and measures for currencies exposures arising from banking services other than Sterling.
Whilst following this Structural foreign exchange exposures are set out in Note 46 to the Accounts and activities are: approach, the Group also adheres to the Fixed interest rate swaps, to manage the FSAs Sterling Stock Liquidity policy, of which on page 161. sensitivity of the investment of reserves a key element is that a bank should hold a and other non-interest bearing liabilities stock of high quality liquid assets that can be Trading The Groups market risk trading activities to falls in interest rates: and sold quickly and discreetly in order to replace Purchase of interest rate caps, to manage funding that has been withdrawn due to an are principally conducted by HBOSTS.
This Group activity is subject to a Trading Book exposure to capped rate mortgage actual or perceived problem with the bank.
The objective is that this stock should enable Policy Statement, which is approved by the Board, and limits set by the Group Market the bank to continue business, whilst The Groups activity in derivatives is providing an opportunity to arrange more Risk Committee formerly the Group Asset & Liability Committee.
controlled within risk management limits permanent funding solutions.
set by the Board and overseen by the Group HBOSTS trading primarily centres around Market Risk Committee formerly the Group The FSA has a prescriptive regime for Asset & Liability Committee.
This framework retail banks that specifies the formula for two activities: proprietary trading and trading on the back of business flows.
Both recognises the principal risks including determining both the quantum and type of credit, operational, liquidity and market risk assets qualifying for Sterling Stock Liquidity.
activities incur market risk, the majority being interest rate and foreign exchange rate associated with derivatives.
Details of Sterling Stock Liquidity is regarded as a cost derivative contracts outstanding at the of doing business.
It is not regarded as an exposure.
The framework for managing the market risk in these activities requires year-end are included in Note 40 to the operational liquidity pool as it will always Accounts on page 152 and 153. be required in case of emergency.
From an detailed and tailored modelling techniques, which are the responsibility of the HBOSTS operational perspective, the Group will place Liquidity Risk Funding greater reliance on market access to funding Market Risk team.
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group does sources and the retention of a pool of not have sufficient financial resources to diversified assets that can be sold in an The Group employs several complementary techniques to measure and control trading meet its obligations when they come due, efficient and discreet manner.
or will have to do so at excessive cost.
This activities including: Value at Risk VaR, sensitivity analysis, stress testing and risk can arise from mismatches in the timing The funding capacity of the Group is of cashflows relating to assets, liabilities and dependent upon factors such as the strength position limits.
The VaR model used forecasts the Groups exposure to market off-balance sheet instruments.
of the balance sheet, earnings, asset quality, ratings and market position.
The Group risk within an estimated level of confidence over a defined time period.
The Group Liquidity Policy Statement is Capital Committee assesses the Group approved by the Board and defines the core funding mix to ensure that adequate diversity The average VaR value in 2005 was principles for identifying, measuring, is maintained.
It is Group policy to manage managing and monitoring liquidity risk across its balance sheet profile to ensure customer 6m.
The calculation is based upon a confidence level of 99% with a one-day the Group.
Detailed liquidity risk framework deposits sourced outside of HBOSTS documents and limit structures are in place represent a significant component of its holding period.
The principal areas of market risk taken are interest rate outright for the Groups operations in the UK and overall funding, and the Group Funding Australia, where liquidity is managed on a & Liquidity Committee, a sub-committee of positioning, basis, credit spread and volatility risk, and foreign exchange risk.
group basis, and for overseas banking units the Group Capital Committee, directs and subject to specific regulatory requirements.
co-ordinates the activities of the operating The current methodology for providing an The responsibility to direct the management divisions in raising liabilities from a range of of liquidity and to report against policy is sources.
Within HBOSTS, the Group avoids aggregated VaR for the business uses conservative assumptions.
In order to assess delegated to the Group Capital Committee undue concentration by maintaining both a formerly delegated to the Group Asset & widespread mix of counterparties and inward the effectiveness of VaR the Group uses a technique known as back testing, which Liability Committee.
credit lines and a core set of bank and non-bank depositor relationships providing compares the daily profit and loss from trading activities to the VaR estimate for that Policy is reviewed at least annually to ensure a stable source of funding.
The Group Capital its continued relevance to the Groups Committee approves the appropriate day.
Daily standard deviation of trading profit and loss was 0.7m.
Operational balance of short to medium term funding HBOSplc Annual Report and 58 Accounts 2005 309467 1-100 14 3 06 12:31 am Page 59 formerly delegated to the Group Asset business, other non profit business and unit linked funds are subject to credit and & Liability Committee.
The Group has with-profits business described as insurance market risks in the form of interest rate, established a liquidity contingency planning contracts and investment contracts with equity prices, foreign exchange and other framework to identify liquidity stress discretionary participating features DPF market risks depending on the fund.
These situations at an early stage.
written within the with-profits fund.
changes are matched by changes in the contract liabilities.
Accordingly, the Group General Insurance and Long Term Several companies within the insurance and is not directly exposed to significant liquidity, Assurance Business Risks investment business transact either unit credit or market risks, although the investors Insurance risk is the potential for loss, linked and or other non profit business, but benefits will vary as a consequence.
arising out of adverse claims, expense all with-profits business is underwritten by Decreases in the capital value of unit linked and persistency experience, from both Clerical Medical Investment Group Limited funds as a result of falls in market values of life and general insurance contracts.
Clerical Medical, part of HBOS Financial equities, property or fixed interest assets will Services Limited.
however reduce the future annual investment Investment risk is the potential for financial management charges that will be earned loss arising from the risks associated with The key characteristics of long term assurance from unit linked business.
The Group the investment management activities of the that give rise to insurance and investment risk estimates that if the capital value of the Group.
Investment risk includes market, are its long term nature, the guarantees unit linked funds classified as investment credit and liquidity risks.
The loss can be provided to policyholders, the dependency contracts had been reduced, on average by as a result of: on the performance of investment markets 10% for the year, the profit before tax for the Direct risks relating to changes in the value and the extent to which assets backing the year would have decreased by 33m.
For of Group assets in support of the general contractual liabilities are matched.
unit linked contracts classified as either insurance and long term insurance insurance contracts or investment contracts contracts: The quality, mix and volume of business with DPF the Group has considered the Indirect risks arising from policyholder have a significant influence on the extent sensitivities to a number of risks in Note 23 funds where the assets and policyholder of insurance and investment risk assumed to the Accounts on page 131 and 132. liabilities are matched: and by the Group and resulting profits.
The Indirect risks associated with the quality of business written is influenced by Unit linked products provide some discretion management of assets held on behalf variations in product terms as well as the for variation in annual administration charges, of third parties.
average premium size, age and term profile and therefore management of variations in within the particular products.
Accordingly, expenses can be achieved through variation The Group Insurance Risk Committee the mix in products written may impact on in charges.
formerly the Group Insurance and profits, depending on the nature, extent and Investment Risk Committee, one of the profitability of new business in addition An additional risk the Group faces in respect Executive Risk Committees described to existing business.
This risk is managed of unit linked business is the risk that on page 55, considers regular reports on through the application of clear pricing increases to surrender rates for investment specified aggregate insurance risks across policies that require full financial contracts reduces the value of future all of the Groups insurance and investment assessment for each new product, investment management charges.
The Committee takes a technical incorporating consideration of expected control and monitor this risk include charges and expert perspective on insurance risks hurdle rates of return.
applicable on some products where the within these businesses.
It oversees the investor surrenders early, regular experience development, implementation and Additionally, variations in administration and monitoring, consideration of the sensitivity maintenance of the overall insurance risk development costs may impact the available of product profitability to levels of lapse rates management framework, covering insurance profit margin within the product charges.
To at the product development stage and risk in each business individually, as well manage this risk, there is a regular process initiatives within the relevant businesses as in aggregate.
As part of the overall Group of expense budgeting and reporting with to encourage customer retention.
risk management framework, the Group appropriate targets set for new insurance Insurance Risk Committee formerly the and investment products that are developed.
Non-profit business Group Insurance and Investment Risk The Group has a large and diversified portfolio Committee provides regular support to the The risks associated with particular sections of life insurance and annuity policies within its Group Market Risk Committee formerly the of the long term assurance business are set portfolio of non-profit insurance contracts, Group Asset & Liability Committee and to out below.
which includes the insurance risk component the Group Credit Risk Committee on the of unit linked policies classified as insurance inter-relationship between insurance risk Unit linked funds contracts.
The principal investment risk in and investment risks market, credit and For unit linked funds, including consolidated respect of the non profit business is interest liquidity risks respectively arising within collective investment schemes, which rate risk which arises because assets and these businesses, and the development comprise 64% of the Groups long term liabilities may exhibit differing changes in of appropriate policies and standards for insurance and investment contract liabilities, value as a result of changes in interest rates.
the management of those risks.
investors bear the significant majority This may potentially impact on the results and of the investment risk, with changes in the the capital position.
The investment risk also The majority of the Groups long term underlying investments being matched by includes the risk of increases in corporate insurance and investment contract liabilities changes in the underlying contract liabilities.
bond yield spreads over government risk free are managed within the HBOS Insurance and The investment risk which the investor yields or the ratings downgrade of certain Investment division and Insight Investment assumes depends on the funds in which the securities, both of which reduce the capital with approximately 7% operated by the life deposits are invested and is an intrinsic part value of the bonds.
These risks are controlled businesses outside the UK.
Day-to-day of the risks and returns for the investor.
The by processes carried out to help ensure an management of insurance and investment risk investor selects from a range of investment appropriate level of matching is maintained is undertaken both by divisional and business opportunities available from the Group in in the funds so that changes in fixed interest management supported by specialist risk accordance with their personal risk appetite assets are substantially mitigated by functions.
Use is made of the statutory and circumstances.
offsetting changes in liabilities, including the actuarial roles, both to help ensure regulatory use of and monitoring against fund mandates.
compliance in respect of the authorised On a day-to-day basis, cash outflows which insurance companies in the Group and to are necessitated by investors withdrawing The ultimate amounts payable under these help meet Group standards in respect of the their funds are met by cash inflows from new policies are sensitive to general trends in operation of comprehensive Insurance and investors.
In circumstances where funds are mortality rates.
For annuitants comprising Investment Risk Management frameworks.
contracting, or to meet unusually high levels 3% of the Groups long term insurance and of withdrawals, the Group sells assets in the investment contract liabilities, there is a risk Long Term Assurance fund in order to meet the cash demands with that increases to life expectancy through The insurance and investment business that any dealing costs charged to the underlying medical advances will prove greater than that is transacted by the life insurance companies unit linked fund and consequently the anticipated.
For protection business, the risk within the Group comprises unit linked policyholders.
The underlying assets in the is that an unforeseen event such as a natural Annual Report and HBOSplc Accounts 2005 59 309467 1-100 13 3 06 9:47 pm Page 60 As well as pooling of risks, the other Operational Risk Risk Management important measures in controlling the Operational risk is defined within the Basel investment risk within the with-profits fund Capital Accord as the risk of loss resulting continued include having agreed management actions from inadequate or failed internal processes, to adjust the nature and extent of investment people and systems or from external events.
disaster will cause a material increase exposure in response to certain investment The definition includes legal risk but excludes in death rates.
conditions: by recognising and holding strategic and reputational risk.
Major sources appropriate levels of risk capital: by of operational risk may include fraud, system The extent of the Groups exposure to restricting holdings to assets which meet reliability, human error, failure of key suppliers, insurance risks is set out in Note 25 to the admissibility criteria: and using derivative IT security, business continuity, change Accounts on pages 133 to 137. strategies to reduce downside risk.
management, operational outsourcing and failure to comply with legislation or regulation.
With-Profits Fund Accordingly, the insurance and other The insurance and investment business investment risks credit, liquidity and market HBOS has recently revised its approach includes the Clerical Medical With-Profits risks within the with-profits fund are to align the definition to day-to-day Fund which comprises 27% of the Groups generally expected to be borne by the withmanagement activity.
The key enhancement long term insurance and investment contract profits insurance and investment contracts is to focus on the explicit risk management liabilities.
The with-profits fund takes some with DPF policyholders except in extreme of specialist areas that underpin the HBOS investment risks with the aim of enhancing scenarios.
The sensitivity of the Group result Operational Risk Framework.
The four most policyholder returns but aims to limit payouts to certain changes in key variables relating to material areas are Customer Risk, to policyholders to that supportable by the insurance and investment contracts with DPF Information and IT Risk, Human Resources with profit funds assets.
within the with-profits fund have been Risk and Financial Crime Prevention.
included in Note 23 to the Accounts on For unitised with-profits contracts the pages 131 and 132.
All specialist functions have clear roles Group receives an annual management defined to help lead the identification, charge.
For traditional with-profits Additionally, in order to demonstrate the management and measurement of risks contracts, which form the minority of sensitivity of the with-profits fund to certain relevant to their areas across the Group.
the with-profits fund business, the Group key market variables, and consequently the The Group Operational Risk team defines the receives one ninth of bonuses declared ability of the with-profits fund to meet its operational risk framework, co-ordinates the to policyholders as long as there is a policyholders expectations, the Group has specialist areas, designs and maintains two distributable surplus within the fund.
set out a sensitivity analysis of unallocated group-wide operational risk systems and divisible surplus in Note 27 to the Accounts owns the modelling programme.
Ordinarily, variations in the capital value of on page 137. the funds assets would result in variations Each of the specialist areas is led by a Group in the level of benefits available to the withGeneral Insurance function which leads and co-ordinates a profits contract holders and accordingly a For general insurance household contracts community of specialists in the eight Operating variation in the insurance and investment the most significant risks to claims Divisions.
The responsibilities of the Group contracts with DPF liabilities.
Included in the experience arise from weather events.
specialists are laid down in the Board Control with-profits fund are certain contracts with For repayment insurance contracts the most Manual and the revised operational risk minimum payment guarantees at certain significant risks arise from changes in approach reinforces and strengthens their roles.
policy durations and on death.
with-profits contracts issued between 1997 The main components of the operational risk and 2001, a significant proportion have The Group manages its exposure to framework include risk and control assessment, guaranteed benefits which are in the money insurance risk through a strategy which internal loss reporting and capture of risk event at the balance sheet date.
The costs of includes limitation of the risks underwritten.
information, key risk indicator monitoring and meeting these guarantees, up to a certain For all classes of insurance there are pricing evaluation of external events.
The Group level, are met by the changes to the benefits models that are regularly adjusted for actual specialist functions have a specific challenge available to all with-profits contract claims experience.
For household insurance and oversight role over the risk information policyholders, this is also known as pooling the Group limits its exposure to large generated through these components.
The value of these weather events through the use of guaranteed benefits, net of charges to be catastrophe reinsurance.
The Group Operational Risk Committee is levied on policyholder funds, was less than one of the four Executive Risk Committees 1% of the Groups long term insurance and The majority of claims are reported and chaired by the Group Risk Director.
It is investment contract liabilities at the balance settled within 12 months and generally there attended by senior executives from the sheet date.
Above this level the costs are met is limited reserving uncertainty for events divisions and Group specialist areas.
The by the free assets of the fund the assets before the valuation date.
committee meets a minimum of six times a maintained in the fund which are not held year to consider the management of cross to meet contractual liabilities.
There remains For some renewable contracts household, Group issues and exposures, oversight of the a risk that Clerical Medical may suffer an travel and some repayment insurance, the operational risk communities, the Groups additional charge in exceptional circumstances longer term exposure to risk is managed in operational risk capital requirement and where even after management action the conjunction with the ability to re-price approval of policy and standards.
fund is unable to meet the costs of contracts to take account of changes in the guarantees within the fund.
This is set out level of risk within those contracts.
in the Principles and Practices of the With-Profits Fund, available from the Set out in Note 25 to the Accounts on pages Jo Dawson Clerical Medical Investment Group web Group Risk Director 133 to 137 is the Groups exposure to general site www.
insurance contracts by policy type.
28 February 2006 HBOSplc Annual Report and 60 Accounts 2005
