Risk management, Internal Audit and Compliance 79 Group Risk Management operates within an integrated Introduction geographical and divisional structure, in line with our management approach, ensuring that the appropriate Effective risk management is critical to Investec.
Taking processes are used to address all risks across the group.
Group international best practice into account, we follow a Risk Management divisions with international responsibility are comprehensive risk management process, which involves locally responsive yet globally aware.
This helps to ensure that identifying, understanding and managing the risks associated all initiatives and businesses operate within our defined risk with each of our businesses.
We monitor and control risk exposure through focused Group Risk Management continually seeks new ways to market, credit, liquidity, operational and legal risk reporting enhance its risk management techniques.
This approach is core to assuming a tolerable risk and can completely or accurately predict or fully assure the reward profile, helping us to pursue growth across our effectiveness of its policies and procedures for managing risk.
A culture of risk awareness, control and compliance is also embedded in our day-to-day activities.
While each business unit retains primary responsibility for managing the risks that come with its business, a centralised division, Group Risk Management part of Group Services, independently monitors, manages and reports on our risk, as mandated by the Board of Directors through the Board Risk Review Committee.
Group Risk Management has established operational divisions in South Africa and the UK, and smaller risk divisions in other regions.
Group Risk Management's objectives are to: Be the custodian of our risk management culture.
Set, approve and monitor adherence to risk parameters and limits across the group and ensure they are implemented and adhered to consistently.
Aggregate and monitor our exposure across risk classes.
Co-ordinate risk management activities across the organisation, covering all legal entities and jurisdictions.
Give the boards reasonable assurance that the risks we are exposed to are identified and, to the best extent possible, managed and controlled.
Facilitate various risk committees, as mandated by the Board of Directors.
Risk management Risk management framework Investec plc and Investec Limited Board of Directors Board Risk Review Group Audit and Committee Audit Sub-Committees Group Risk Management consolidation of information Credit Risk Market Risk team team Legal Asset and Liability Operational Risk Documentary Risk Internal Audit Compliance Management team team team Australia, Botswana, Hong Kong, Mauritius, South Africa, UK and Europe, USA Banking, Trading, Securities, Asset Management 81 Risk management committees and forums A number of committees and forums identify and manage risk at both a business unit level in various locations and at a group level, as shown in the diagram and described more fully below.
These committees and forums operate together with Group Risk Management.
Investec plc and Investec Limited Board of Directors Group Audit and DLC Capital Board Risk Review Audit Committee Committee Sub-Committees Group Market Risk Executive Risk Group Deal Forum Forum Review Forum Internal Compliance Audit Group Credit Legal Risk Forum Committee Asset and Liability Operational Risk Country Risk Committees Forums Forums Committee Function Board Risk Review Committee Members: executive and non-executive directors: The roles and responsibilities of the Board Risk Review senior management Committee are described on page 121.
Chairman: Stephen Koseff CEO Frequency: monthly Executive Risk Review Forum Members: executive directors and senior management The roles and responsibilities of the Executive Risk Review Chairman: Stephen Koseff CEO Forum are described on page 122.
Frequency: weekly Risk management Committee Function Group Credit Committee Members: executive and non-executive directors: Considers and approves the granting of credit to senior management counterparties in excess of the mandates granted to Chairman: Glynn Burger Risk director divisional and other credit forums on a global basis.
Frequency: weekly Sets the level of our maximum acceptable counterparty, geographic, asset, concentration and industry exposures.
Reviews and approves changes to credit policy and methodologies.
These include: - Large exposure policy - dealing with the control of concentration risk and exposure measurement methodology.
- Provisioning policy - dealing with classification of past due amounts and minimum acceptable provisions.
- Excess management policy - dealing with classification of excesses and prescribed escalation procedures.
- Long dated exposure policy - dealing with tenor limitations on exposures by counterparty and instrument type.
- Property valuation policy - specifies framework for valuation of physical security.
Group Market Risk Forum Members: global head s of risk, market risk and Manages market risk by identifying and quantifying risks on the trading desks: senior management: members the basis of current and future expectations and ensuring of the market risk teams: other members from that trading occurs within defined parameters.
Group Risk Management Chairman: Glynn Burger Risk director Frequency: monthly or ad hoc if required Asset and Liability Committee s Members: executive and non-executive directors: Sets and reviews our funding and liquidity policy and senior management: economist: treasurer: business non-trading interest rate risk policy and reviews regional heads: head of asset and liability management strategies, taking market conditions into account.
Chairmen: Glynn Burger Risk director : Directs the implementation of the methodology, techniques, Alan Tapnack executive director models and covering risk factors, and expected economic Frequency: monthly or ad hoc if required conditions, including stress tests.
Manages the risk reward relationship that exists between liquidity and interest rate risk on an ongoing basis.
Group Legal Forum Members: executive: senior management: divisional Considers and manages legal risks throughout the group.
legal managers Chairman: David Nurek Global Head of Legal Risk Frequency: half yearly or ad hoc if required 83 Group Deal Forum Members: executive and non-executive directors: Considers, approves and mitigates the risks inherent in any senior management acquisition, disposal, new product or other non-standard Chairman: Glynn Burger Risk director transactions that we are considering.
Frequency: weekly DLC Audit Committee Members: non-executive directors The roles and responsibilities of the Audit Committee are Chairman: Sam Abrahams non-executive director described on pages 118 to 119.
Frequency: at least three times a year The Internal Audit, Compliance and Operational Risk departments report to the Audit Committees.
DLC Capital Committee Members: executive and non-executive directors: The roles and responsibilities of the DLC Capital Committee senior management are described on page 123.
Chairman: Stephen Koseff CEO Frequency: every six weeks Risk management information and the Risk, policies and procedures board In our ordinary course of business, we are exposed to various risks, including credit, market, interest rate and liquidity, The executive and non-executive directors are widely operational, legal and reputational risks.
represented on our risk management committees and forums see above.
Directors' involvement in these committees and Below is an overview of these types of risks and related forums shows a hands on style, which facilitates a detailed developments that occurred during the period under review.
understanding of our day-to-day activities.
Management provides detailed risk information reports to the Boards of Directors in the UK and South Africa.
Reports Credit risk management framework contain a balanced assessment of significant risks and the effectiveness of the risk management procedures and systems Credit risk represents the potential loss to the group as a in managing these.
The risk management reports generally result of a counterparty being unable or unwilling to meet its include: obligations.
Credit risk arises from two types of transactions: Balance sheet management review, including our liquidity Lending transactions, giving rise to counterparty risk the risk position and non-trading interest rate mismatch.
The analysis that a counterparty to a transaction will be unable or is presented by region and includes a high level summary unwilling to repay capital and interest on advances and loans with detailed supporting schedules.
Market risk review, including a desk-by-desk analysis of the Trading transactions, giving rise to issuer, settlement and positions on book, value at risk and expected tail losses.
Issuer risk is the risk that payments due Credit exposure reports, including large exposures, level of from the issuer of a financial instrument will not be received.
arrears, sector analysis, draw downs, provisions and Settlement risk is the risk that the settlement of a recoveries.
transaction does not take place as expected, with one party New credit facilities approved during the period.
effecting required settlements as they fall due but not Property investments, corporate finance information receiving settlements to which they are entitled.
underwriting commitments and group investments.
Replacement risk is the risk that an in-the-money derivative Operational risk information, including risk assessments, instrument needs to be replaced following default by the indicators and incident data.
Risk management We have credit risk exposure in most of our geographies.
The operational risk capital charge, the total capital charge under nature and degree of credit risk vary depending on the type of Basel II is not expected to be materially different from that business transactions entered into.
Information in this regard is under Basel I. provided below.
Regular reporting of the credit risk within our activities is Management and measurement of credit risk made to management, the executives and the board.
The board regularly reviews the appetite for credit risk, which is To manage, measure and mitigate credit risk, we have documented in policy statements and implemented by the independent credit committees in each geography where we Group Credit division.
These committees operate under board approved delegated discretionary limits, policies and Credit risk classification and provisioning policy procedures.
A centralised decision making structure with fidecentralised limits is the basis on which applications for credit It is our policy that each operating company makes provision are entertained.
fide-centralised limits tend to be relatively low for specific impairments and calculates the appropriate level of to ensure a high degree of centralised involvement in all areas general provisions promptly when required and on a where credit risk is incurred.
All decisions to transact are consistent basis, in accordance with established group unanimous.
We use the following fundamental principles to manage credit Provisions are reviewed by the Executive Risk Review Forum risk: and the Board Risk Review Committee and by the external A clear definition of our target market.
auditors during the course of the audit when any differences A quantitative and qualitative assessment of the would be referred to the Audit Committee.
Two types of provisions are in place: specific and general.
An analysis of all related risks, including concentration risk concentration risk includes asset class, industry, Specific provisions counterparty, and geographical concentration.
The specific provision represents the quantification of actual Prudential limits.
and inherent losses from individually identified exposures.
Due Regular monitoring of existing and potential exposures once to the relative high value and low volume nature of our retail facilities have been approved.
exposures, it is not considered appropriate to manage these A high level of executive involvement in and non-executive accounts on a portfolio basis.
awareness of decision-making and review.
Specific provisions are evaluated on a case-by-case basis for all In addition to the Group Credit Committee, the following non-performing exposures.
In determining specific specialist forums assist in managing, measuring and monitoring impairments, the following factors are considered: credit risk: Our or reporting entities depending on context exposure Intensive Care Committee, which reviews the management to the customer.
of distressed loans, potential problem loans and exposures in Capability of the client to generate sufficient cash flow to arrears that require additional attention and supervision.
service debt obligations and the viability of the client's Watch List Committee, which oversees and manages business.
exposures that may potentially become distressed as a result Likely dividend available on liquidation or bankruptcy.
of changes in the economic environment or adverse share Nature and extent of claims by other creditors.
price movements, or that are vulnerable to volatile exchange Amount and timing of expected cash flows.
rate or interest rate movements.
Realisable value of security held or other credit mitigants.
Country Risk Forum, which considers and manages risk Ability of the client to make payments in the foreign associated with the countries in which we assume credit currency, for foreign currency denominated accounts.
Deduction of any recovery related costs.
A dedicated team, which ensures the implementation of necessary systems and models to meet the forthcoming General provisions requirements relative to Basel II.
The most recent Pillar 1 The general provision supplements the specific provision quantitative impact study performed reflected a significantly defined above and provides cover for anticipated future lower credit capital charge for private banking activities due impairments which are supported by expected future market to the high credit quality of assets financed and the private conditions and current default statistics.
Other business units are relatively capital neutral, with some business streams absorbing more capital and others less.
In combination with the additional 85 Arrears Interest suspension An exposure is in arrears if interest due and or principal Interest is suspended where the cash flow available for debt repayments are overdue by more than 30 days.
This is servicing from a particular counterparty ceases and it is felt irrespective of the interest payment terms, i. e. whether there is insufficient surplus in the value of the security over monthly, quarterly, semi-annually or annually.
capital to ensure repayment of the loan and allow unpaid interest to be capitalised to the loan.
Managed book Exposures in arrears are continually scrutinised.
Based on this Interest will be charged to the account to enable us to claim scrutiny, if it becomes evident that the exposure requires correctly for the liability in the event of future settlement.
additional supervision and attention, it will be included in the However, an equivalent amount of interest will be debited to managed book and fall under the Watch List Committee, an interest suspense account in the profit and loss account so comprising members of the Group Credit Committee and the that interest is not included in our reported net income.
Write-offs Non-performing loans Exposures or a portion of an exposure will be written off in An exposure is considered to be non-performing where the event of the recovery being deemed unrealistic and where interest due and or principal repayments are overdue by more there will be no further proceeds from realisation of the than: security provided for such exposures.
90 days in the case of exposures that are not considered to be fully secured.
365 days in the case of exposures that are considered to be fully secured.
Qualitative criteria indicating a well-defined weakness that could lead to loss would also result in an exposure being classified as non-performing.
Performing Arrears Non-performing Classification Standard Special mention Sub-standard Doubtful Loss Days in 0 to 30 31 to 90 91 to 180 181 to 365 365 arrears - insufficient security Days in 31 to 365 365 Not classified Not classified arrears - fully as doubtful as loss secured Risk management Asset quality and provisions UK GAAP 'million 31 March 2005 31 March 2004 Total loans and advances to customers 7 481 6 437 Less: cash equivalent debtors 1 543 1 501 Core loans and advances to customers 5 938 4 936 Managed book 113 134 Net loans and advances to customers 5 825 4 802 Average net loans and advances to customers 5 314 4 450 Consolidated profit and loss provision charge 21 21 Specific provisions 22 30 General provisions 68 60 Total provisions 90 90 Gross non-performing loans 57 90 Security 35 65 Net non-performing loans 22 25 Adequacy of provisions Consolidated profit and loss provision charge as a % of average loans and advances to customers 0.40% 0.47% Specific provisions as a % of core loans and advances to customers 0.37% 0.61% General provisions as a % of net loans and advances to customers 1.17% 1.25% Total provisions as a % of core loans and advances to customers 1.52% 1.82% Total provisions as a % of gross non-performing loans 157.89% 100.00% Total provisions as a % of net non-performing loans 409.09% 360.00% Specific provisions as a % of gross non-performing loans 38.60% 33.33% Specific provisions as a % of net non-performing loans 100.00% 120.00% Gross non-performing loans as a % of core loans and advances to customers 0.96% 1.82% As defined on page 85.
87 The table below shows our loans and advances to customers by loan type UK GAAP 'million 31 March 2005 31 March 2004 Category analysis Corporate and public sector 2 877 2 585 Commercial property 2 057 1 651 Other secured private bank lending 1 083 1 007 Residential mortgages 1 019 853 Lease and instalment debtors 280 196 Other loans and advances 165 146 7 481 6 437 Problem country exposure Total advances to problem countries 20 19 Problem country risk provisions -- The advances are secured by 100% pledge over the assets with additional risk cover in the form of Credit Guarantee Insurance Corporation CGIC, commercial CGIC political cover and cash collateral.
Asset quality information by geography 31 March 2005 UK GAAP 'million Core loans General Specific Total Gross Security Net NPLs and advances provisions provisions provisions NPLs held against NPLs Southern Africa 3 643 42 17 59 34 18 16 UK and Europe 1 972 24 4 28 22 17 5 Australia 323 2 1 3 1 - 1 --- - - - - Israel Total group 5 938 68 22 90 57 35 22 31 March 2004 UK GAAP 'million Core loans General Specific Total Gross Security Net NPLs and advances provisions provisions provisions NPLs held against NPLs Southern Africa 3 036 36 19 55 67 47 20 UK and Europe 1 443 19 4 23 14 9 5 Australia 257 3 1 4 1 1 Israel 200 2 6 8 8 8 Total group 4 936 60 30 90 90 65 25 Where: NPLs are non-performing loans.
The sale of Investec Bank Israel Limited was concluded on 22 December 2004.
Risk management The Specialised Finance, Project Finance and Resource Finance Credit risk in South Africa businesses involve lending money on a structured basis, with full recourse, to either a suitable asset or to an entity's balance Credit risk is assumed mainly through our Private Banking, sheet to which the funds are advanced.
The Resource business Treasury and Specialised Finance and Asset Finance activities is increasingly exposed to countries presenting complex legal ReichmansCapital.
Extensive knowledge of Africa, good technical and financial skills and strong adherence to prudent Private Banking country risk limits ensure that concentration risks are well The Private Bank provides an extensive range of banking managed.
Exposures are monitored continuously and assets services and products, foreign exchange, daily transactional provided as security in support of borrowing facilities are banking, deposits, treasury and cash investments, and lending generally easily realisable.
products, to professionals and high net worth individuals, privately owned corporates and other client entities e. g. family Typical asset classes that are funded will include property, plant trusts.
and equipment, fixed infrastructure and aircraft.
Lending products offered, support the needs of the Private Specific credit limits are set for each counterparty and Bank's target market.
Residential mortgages and commercial monitored to ensure failure risk is mitigated.
The credit property make up the bulk of the Private Bank lending appetite for each counterparty is based on the financial exposure.
The residential property portfolio reflects good strength of the principal borrower, underlying security, cash quality residential properties at fairly conservative loan to flow and, in the case of trading products, the nature of the value ratios in desirable areas.
Exposure to commercial, retail and industrial properties are ReichmansCapital generally at conservative loan to security values.
Income ReichmansCapital is an asset finance business which operates producing assets are generally let to good quality anchor on a premium margin business model for small and medium tenants.
The business is a relatively small component of the overall credit risk we face.
Exposure to the South African property market as a result of the nature of private client borrowing activities is well spread Year in review in South Africa among the regions in which the Private Bank mainly operates Over the past financial year, a number of notable financial Pretoria, Johannesburg, Cape Town, Durban and Port market trends had an impact on the assessment of our credit Elizabeth.
This risk is mitigated by reviewing all properties risk.
These trends include: offered as security prior to advancing funds.
Our internal A stable, low interest rate environment with an upward valuers or a bank approved panel of external valuers also sloping yield curve.
regularly review commercial property values.
Furthermore, Continued Dollar weakness resulting in relative Rand serviceability of a loan advanced against property is a primary strength.
consideration in the credit assessment process and not only Increased volatility of energy prices with expectations of asset value.
Clients have used and are increasingly making use continued high oil prices resulting in inflationary pressure.
of fixed rate funding, which should serve to mitigate potential As a result of expected interest rate increases and a more upward shifts in interest rates and increased interest rate favourable equity market, a concern both at a local and a volatility.
global level at the level of residential property prices which have experienced strong growth for some time.
We constantly monitor property exposures by stress testing the property portfolio.
This is undertaken by assuming a sharp The stable, low interest rate environment resulted in improved fall in property values, the inability of the borrower to service loan serviceability.
Consequently, we were able to widen our or repay from independent means and interest rate shocks credit net as more people were able to borrow at lower resulting in rental income falling below interest expenses.
Furthermore, commercial rent collection improved under the low interest rate conditions.
Treasury and Specialised Finance Investec Corporate Treasury provides a broad range of money The high net worth and or stable income streams of the market and foreign exchange products to corporates and target market were fairly immune to decreases in property investors.
We are an active market maker in the spot and values.
As property values increased, these clients built an forward US Dollar Rand inter-bank markets.
Trading effective equity buffer, resulting in lower average loan to value transactions giving rise to issuer, settlement and replacement ratios which has served to minimise potential losses.
risk in a continued low interest rate, strong local currency and volatile energy price environment were among the primary areas of potential credit risk in the year under review.
91 High commodity prices and the weak Dollar resulted in Credit risk in the UK and Europe increased exposures for local customers who entered into hedging structures some years ago in order to denominate The UK and European group comprises businesses in the UK, income streams in Rands.
In order to assess the impact of including a branch in Dublin and subsidiary companies in future price movements and act proactively in this regard, Guernsey and Zurich.
scenario analyses are provided to the Board Risk Review Committee of the impact of a range of commodity and Credit risk mainly arises through Private Banking and Treasury currency combinations on credit exposures to key and Specialised Finance activities, which include inter-bank counterparties.
Some settlement risk is assumed in the Investment Banking areas but is to market counterparties.
Due to Rand strength and lower volatility levels, the extent of hedging activity declined over the current financial year, Private Banking is conducted in the UK, Guernsey, Zurich and resulting in Treasury trading exposures becoming a smaller Dublin, with the bulk of Treasury and Specialised Finance part of our total exposure.
For both interest rate and foreign exchange products, we Private Banking have advanced exposure simulation methodologies, which The business focuses on high net worth individuals, privately enable us to identify more accurately the level of potential owned corporates and other client entities.
exposures to counterparties for these trading activities.
These simulation methodologies recognise volume of trading, volatility Facilities are secured by property or easily realised liquid of products traded, deal tenor and credit mitigants in deriving security.
Repayment is from clearly identifiable income streams granular counterparty exposure profiles and in so doing allow or, for property development loans, from the sale of the for roll-off risk assessments.
Credit risk in Mauritius While there is a predominance of lending exposures towards the property market, which comprises residential and Investec Bank Mauritius Limited offers various banking commercial properties, the portfolio is well spread with no services and its primary business activities are corporate individual concentration risk.
Conservative loan to security lending, property finance and structured finance to corporate values are adopted and income producing assets are generally and private clients.
Prudential limits have been set and are let to good quality tenants.
monitored daily to ensure that excesses are identified timeously and remedial action is taken promptly, if necessary.
Residential properties are located in quality locations for which there is international demand.
Commercial property valuations Investec Bank Mauritius Limited is an autonomous subsidiary are driven by the calibre of location and tenant.
There is little of Investec Bank Limited.
It has a decentralised credit approval lending against speculative commercial property development and management process in compliance with our credit unless this is pre-let or against clients' surety.
Development philosophy, policy and procedures, as well as the Central Bank lending comprises predominantly residential properties, with of Mauritius' regulatory framework.
an aversion to high value single unit developments.
All facilities are reviewed regularly and property values are monitored by our appointed panel of valuers.
Treasury and Specialised Finance The Treasury and Specialised Finance division, as part of the daily management of liquidity, places funds with banks and other financial institutions.
These banks and financial institutions are highly rated and usually of a systemic nature.
Risk management Trading for customers is undertaken in interest rates, foreign market making, arbitrage, underwriting and investments in the exchange, commodities and equities.
These positions are commodity, foreign exchange, equity, capital and money marked to market daily with margin calls where necessary to markets.
The focus of these businesses is on supporting client mitigate credit exposure in the event of default.
Our philosophy is that trading should be conducted largely to facilitate primary clients in deal execution.
Credit exposures also arise through project finance, resource finance, corporate lending and structured transactions.
Market risk exists since the market value of these positions including derivatives has the potential to change, caused by There are pre-approved limits as to the maximum exposure adverse movements in market factors such as interest and for each individual counterparty to ensure there is no foreign exchange rates: equity, bond and commodity prices: concentration risk.
The Market Risk Management team's role is to independently identify, quantify, monitor and Most facilities are secured on the assets of the underlying manage these risks.
For those facilities that are unsecured, the standing of the counterparty is investment grade or better.
In line with our policy, local risk management teams manage the risks that we assume in each geography.
Local limits have Year in review in the UK been set to keep potential losses within acceptable risk The property market showed elements of stagnation due to tolerance levels.
A Global Market Risk Forum mandated by an imbalance between buyer and seller expectations.
Low the various boards of directors manages the market risks in interest rates helped the market but the threat of interest rate accordance with pre-approved principles and policies.
Our increases contributed to a slow down.
Against this background, market risk position is further reported to the Executive Risk the spread of our exposures to high net worth and market Review Forum, the executive, the Board Risk Review professional individuals who can afford rate rises and have Committee and the Board of Directors.
equity at risk gives comfort.
We have not pursued the buy-tolet market, remaining client rather than asset focused.
Good Role of the Market Risk Forum and Market Risk quality investment property remains strong, with a number of Management team funds underweight in this asset class.
The Market Risk Forum performs the following functions: Credit risk in Australia Articulates the policy for the Market Risk Management team for the boards approval and ensures compliance with this Investec Bank Australia Limited operates within a clearly policy.
defined framework for managing credit risk.
The policies and Proposes risk limits for approval by the board.
This involves: procedures for credit risk management are consistent with - Preparing an in-depth analysis of the various risks those of the group and comply with the prudential standards considering both normal market conditions and extreme issued by the domestic regulator.
- Deciding on appropriate methodology and manner in Credit risk is assumed through traditional lending to target which to set a limit.
private and corporate clients, project finance and the - Determining an appropriate level at which the risks should placement of surplus liquidity with rated domestic banks and be set.
Reviews and approves pricing and other risk models.
Year in review in Australia The Market Risk Management team is responsible for: The loan portfolio performed exceedingly well during the year Ensuring the complete capture of market risk in risk and the underlying quality of the book is considered high.
During the year, the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority Monitoring risk limits and the nature of market risks on a conducted an on site, indepth review of Investec Bank daily basis, including reviewing concentrated positions.
Australia Limited's credit risk environment.
This included an Calculating and analysing Value at Risk VaR daily.
assessment of the incumbent credit risk capabilities, credit risk Performing a profit attribution, where our daily traded policies and procedures, and compliance with these.
The income is attributed to the various underlying risk factors on outcome of this review was positive and complementary.
An understanding of the sources of profit and loss is essential to understanding the risks of the business.
Reviewing the market risks on our books and ensuring that Market risk management framework it is prudently positioned, taking into account agreed policies, prevailing markets and liquidity, hedging strategies and the Within our trading activities, we act as principal with clients or relationship between risk and reward.
Market risk, therefore, exists where we have taken Dealing with any excesses to risk limits.
on principal positions, resulting from proprietary trading, 93 Measurement of market risk Year in review Measurement techniques used to quantify the market risk The following major external events occurred during the arising from our trading activities include sensitivity analysis and period under review: VaR.
Stress testing and scenario analysis are also used to The Rand exchange rate against the Dollar remained fairly simulate extreme conditions to supplement these core volatile in the 5.62 to 7.00 range.
The relative volatility of the measures.
currency had a favourable effect on foreign exchange trading portfolios.
VaR estimates future potential losses on current portfolios, The Rand trading books were well positioned for the due to adverse price movements over a given time horizon, at 175 basis point interest rate hikes that occurred in the US a stated level of confidence.
Our assessment of past markets over the period, but not aggressively enough to movements is based on data for the past year.
We apply these have a significant effect.
historical changes in risk factors directly to our current Liquidity in both the Rand interest rate derivative and equity positions, a method known as Historical Simulation.
We use derivative markets continued to remain low as speculators historically simulated VaR based on historical prices over a remained out of these markets.
This resulted in the Equity 250-day period, a 95% confidence level and a one-day holding Derivatives desk developing various exotic products to period.
The table on the next page represents our VaR on service client needs.
trading portfolios as at 31 March 2005, for a 95% confidence Volatility levels on the SAFEX Index products reached level and a one-day holding period, assuming no mitigating historic lows.
While this had an unfavourable impact on our action is taken.
This means that there is a one in 20 chance Index portfolios, these losses were more than offset by that daily losses will be at least as large as the reported VaR profits on the single stock portfolios.
VaR, however, does not indicate how much we can Volatility levels of equity stocks and indices globally fell and expect to lose in these cases.
We further analyse the results reached historic lows.
This had an unfavourable impact on beyond the 95% confidence level - the tails of the distribution the UK Equity Derivatives desk, as the desk was long stock - to better understand the potential risks of the portfolio.
Expected Tail Loss ETL quantifies the amount we can expect Volatility levels of base metals fell sharply negatively to lose when the VaR threshold is exceeded.
impacting the performance of the Commodities desk.
Risk management VaR 95% one-day 31 March 2005 '000 Investec plc Investec Limited Consolidated Interest rates 10 223 215 Equity 856 178 774 Foreign exchange 11 188 170 Commodities 24 - 24 Consolidated 836 375 867 Limits aggregated 2 325 1 928 4 253 Highest 836 645 1 060 Lowest 171 139 222 Average 323 350 482 31 March 2004 '000 Investec plc Investec Limited Consolidated Interest rates 4 283 282 Equity 358 112 378 Foreign exchange 20 247 238 Commodities 125 - 125 Consolidated 424 453 599 Limits aggregated 3 050 2 143 5 193 Highest 462 1 013 1 156 Lowest 214 273 315 Average 330 637 623 The consolidated VaR is significantly lower than the sum of the VaR figures for each traded market.
This is due to offsets which take place as a result of the correlation between the various asset classes.
All VaR models, while forward-looking, are based on past events and are dependent on the quality of available market data.
The accuracy of the VaR model as a predictor of potential loss is continuously monitored by a process called Backtesting.
This involves comparing the actual trading revenues arising from the previous days closing positions with the 1-day VaR calculated for the previous day on these same positions.
If the revenue is negative and exceeds the 1-day VaR, a backtesting breach is considered to have occurred.
Considering 1-day 95% VaR, a backtesting breach is expected on average one day in twenty.
The graphs on the next page provide a visual representation of the backtesting process.
They compare the daily profits and losses with the 95% 1-day VaR for Investec plc and Investec Limited respectively over the past financial year.
Based on these graphs, we can gauge the accuracy of the VaR figures.
Out of 250 trading days in this period there were 11 4.4% and 1 0.5% 'backtesting breaches' in Investec Bank UK Limited and Investec Bank Limited respectively.
These indicate that the VaR figures provide a fairly accurate predictor of potential losses.
95 Investec Bank UK Limited daily profit and losses pnl vs 95% VaR 1,000,000 800,000 600,000 400,000 200,000 0 -200,000 -400,000 -600,000 -800,000 -1,000,000 VaR Pnl Most of the outliers in Investec Bank UK Limited were due to large declines in equity and base metal volatility see year in review where the moves were significantly larger than the normal moves experienced in the past year and hence resulted in losses that were larger than the corresponding VaR figures.
Investec Bank Limited daily profit and losses pnl vs 95% VaR R 8,000,000 R 6,000,000 R 4,000,000 R 2,000,000 R 0 R -2,000,000 R -4,000,000 R -6,000,000 R -8,000,000 R -10,000,000 VaR Pnl Risk management ETL 95% one-day 31 March 2005 '000 Investec plc Investec Limited Consolidated Interest rates 15 407 408 Equity 1 180 251 1 134 Foreign exchange 14 318 304 Commodities 36 - 36 Consolidated 1 160 584 1 269 31 March 2004 '000 Investec plc Investec Limited Consolidated Interest rates 6 461 462 Equity 503 148 512 Foreign exchange 84 406 377 Commodities 143 - 143 Consolidated 554 633 871 The consolidated ETL is significantly lower than the sum of the ETL figures for each traded market.
Stress testing The portfolio stress tested under extreme market conditions 15 standard deviations will result in a loss of 6.9 million in Investec plc, 4.5 million in Investec Limited and 11.4 million on a consolidated group basis based on a one-day holding period.
31 March 2005 '000 Investec plc Investec Limited Consolidated Interest rates 77 1 705 1 783 Equity 6 551 1 363 7 915 Foreign exchange 84 1 437 1 521 Commodities 182 - 182 Consolidated 6 895 4 505 11 400 31 March 2004 '000 Investec plc Investec Limited Consolidated Interest rates 29 2 163 2 192 Equity 2 743 858 3 601 Foreign exchange 151 1 887 2 038 Commodities 959 - 959 Consolidated 3 883 4 908 8 791 97 The notional principal indicates our activity in the derivatives Market risk - derivatives market and represents the aggregate size of total outstanding contracts at year-end.
The fair value of a derivative financial We enter various derivatives contracts, both as principal for instrument represents the present value of the positive or trading purposes and as customer for hedging foreign negative cash flows which would have occurred had we closed exchange, commodity, equity and interest rate exposures.
out the rights and obligations arising from that instrument in These include financial futures, options, swaps and forward rate an orderly market transaction at year-end.
The risks associated with derivative instruments reflect only derivatives exposure and exclude the value of the are monitored in the same manner as for the underlying physical financial instruments used to hedge these positions.
Risks are also measured across the product range in order to take into account possible correlations.
The tables below reflect our derivative trading portfolio over the reporting period on the basis of the notional principal and the fair value of all derivatives.
Notional principal 'million 31 March 2005 31 March 2004 Foreign exchange derivatives 5 804 8 055 Interest rate derivatives 63 444 98 789 Equity and stock index derivatives 2 681 14 705 Commodity derivatives 4 377 6 329 Credit derivatives 43 59 Fair value 31 March 2005 31 March 2004 'million Positive Negative Positive Negative Foreign exchange derivatives 205 131 481 315 Interest rate derivatives 576 521 473 394 Equity and stock index derivatives 121 85 209 189 Commodity derivatives 105 66 296 233 1 007 803 1 459 1 131 Effect of netting 577 577 936 936 Net fair values 430 226 523 195 Further information in this regard can be found on pages 217 to 222. trading interest rate risk arising from our asset and liability Balance sheet risk management portfolios.
In this regard, Treasury is required to exercise tight framework control of funding, liquidity, concentration and non-trading interest rate risk within defined parameters.
Balance sheet risk management encompasses the financial risks relating to our asset and liability portfolios, comprising liquidity, Balance Sheet Risk Management's objective is to independently funding, concentration and non-trading interest rate risks on identify, quantify and monitor risks, providing independent balance sheet.
governance and oversight of the Treasury activities.
To achieve this, Balance Sheet Risk Management combines traditional gap The Treasury unit within Treasury and Specialised Finance analysis, economic value sensitivity analysis and simulation centrally directs the raising of wholesale liabilities, establishing where appropriate.
These include quantitative models and and maintaining access to funds, and management of liquid stress tests designed to measure the range of possible future securities and collateral.
Most non-trading interest rate risk is liquidity needs and potential distribution of net interest income transferred from the originating business to the central and economic value over a range of scenarios.
Once aggregated and netted, Treasury, as the sole process is supported by ongoing technical and economic interface to the wholesale market for both cash and derivative analysis.
transactions, actively manages the liquidity mismatch and nonRisk management Our overall group liquidity policy requires each geography to following fundamental steps: be self-funding so that there is no reliance on intra-group lines Measurement and assessment of interest rate mismatch gaps either from or to other group entities.
detailing the sources of interest rate exposure at a point in time, which forms the basis for: Group policy is to centralise asset and liability oversight within - Translation into interest income sensitivity analysis, each geography.
Regional Asset and Liability Management economic value sensitivity analysis and simulation where Committees ALCOs are mandated by their respective appropriate over a wide range of interest rate scenarios.
boards of directors to manage the balance sheet risks on a - Technical interest rate analysis and economic review of consistent basis with pre-approved principles and policies.
Detailed policies cover both domestic and foreign currency - Daily management of interest rate risk by Treasury subject funds and set out sources and amounts of funds necessary to to independent ALCO review.
ensure the continuation of our operations without undue interruption.
We aim to match-fund in currencies, other than the domestic currency, where it is practical and efficient to do Liquidity risk so and hedge any residual currency exchange risk arising from deposit and loan banking activities.
The size, materiality, Liquidity risk is the risk that we do not have sufficient cash to complexity, maturity and depth of the market as well as access meet our financial obligations, especially in the short term, at to stable funds will determine the risk appetite for the region.
Specific statutory requirements further dictate what policies are adopted in each region.
Sources of liquidity risk include unforeseen withdrawals of demand deposits, restricted access to new funding with Our balance sheet position is regularly reported to appropriate maturity and interest rate characteristics, inability management, the Executive Risk Review Forum, the Board Risk to liquidate a marketable asset timeously with minimal risk of Review Committee and the Board of Directors.
capital loss, unpredicted customer non-payment of a loan obligation and a sudden increased demand for loans.
Non-trading interest rate risk Liquidity management is vital to preserving market confidence, safeguarding our reputation and ensuring sustainable growth.
Interest rate risk is the impact on the net interest earnings and sensitivity to economic value, as a result of increases or We acknowledge the importance of our retail and private decreases in the levels of interest rates.
client base as the principal source of stable and well diversified funding for our Private Banking risk assets.
We continue to Sources of interest rate risk include volatility and changes in develop products to attract and service the investment needs the shape of the term structure of interest rates, as shown by of the growing Private Bank client base.
Although the a widening or narrowing of margin, when these changes are contractual repayments of many retail customer accounts are applied to our rate sensitive asset and liability portfolios.
on demand or at short notice, in practice, the retail shortterm deposit balances remain a stable source of funds.
In the Interest rate risk management comprises ongoing UK, our Private Banking division continued to successfully fund measurement of the interest rate mismatch and basis risk, itself despite significant asset growth.
translated into sensitivity of interest income and economic value across varying interest rate scenarios.
Once interest rate We have instituted an offshore syndicated loan programme to risk is transferred from the originating business to the central broaden and diversify term-funding in supplementary markets Treasury and aggregated netted, Treasury implements and currencies, enhancing the proven capacity to borrow in appropriate on and off balance sheet strategies to mitigate any the money markets.
Treasury is the sole interface to the external market for both cash and derivative transactions.
We engage in transactions that involve the use of both special Treasury reserves the option to take advantage of purpose entities and asset securitisation structures in opportunities which may arise during changing interest rate connection with the sale of certain mortgages.
These entities cycles, being able to respond quickly to market opportunities, form part of the consolidated group balance sheet as within our predefined risk appetite.
Our funding and liquidity capacity is not reliant on these entities to any material extent.
Interest rate risk arising from fixed interest loans and deposits with a term of more than one year is materially hedged Our liquidity management processes are based on the through the purchase and sale of interest rate swaps on a following essential elements, using principles approved by the back-to-back basis.
Financial Services Authority in the UK, the South African Reserve Bank and the Australian Prudential Regulatory We base our interest rate risk management processes on the Authority: 99 Maintenance of a stock of readily available, high quality liquid 2004 to 2.75% by 31 March 2005, with further rises assets and near cash in excess of the statutory requirements anticipated, creating a steep yield curve at the short end.
as well as strong balance sheet liquidity ratios.
Preparation of cash flow projections assets and liabilities We took advantage of these market conditions and and funding requirements corresponding to the forecasted successfully embarked on several initiatives which had the cash flow mismatch, which are translated into shortand effect of depositor substitution via permanent capital raising long-term funding strategies within each legal entity and and term debt funding.
This ensured that we maintained globally.
liquidity well above internal and external liquidity targets, while Management of concentration risk, being undue reliance on growing our profitable lending portfolios.
These initiatives were: any single counterpart or counterpart group, sector, market, Investec Bank Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Investec product, instrument, currency and tenor.
Limited, issued R461.4 million in redeemable preference Daily management of funding and liquidity risk by Treasury shares approximately 38.5 million during the year under subject to independent ALCO review.
Maintenance of liquidity contingency plans and the Investec Bank Limited redeemed R1.26 billion in convertible identification of alternative sources of funds in the market so debentures approximately 102.2 million in December as to ensure that cash flow estimates and commitments can 2004. be met under various adverse business and economic Investec Limited issued R2.3 billion 207.3 million in, nonscenarios, while minimising detrimental long-term redeemable non-cumulative and non-participating preference implications for the business.
Investec Bank Limited raised syndicated loans of $367 million Year in review with a $147 million three-year tranche in November 2004 at very attractive rates, reflecting the decreasing risk premium Significant market events within the last year include the of South Africa and emerging markets.
following: Investec Finance plc implemented an EMTN Euro MediumThe low global interest rate environment created a search Term Note programme in August 2004, followed by its for yield, with hedge funds and real money investors moving debut bond issue in October - a three-year a175 million progressively down the credit curve.
with appetite from structured credit products, resulted in A second, three-year fixed rate bond issue of 175 million credit spreads that reached historical lows in January 2005. by Investec Finance plc in February 2005 took advantage of Associated with the tight credit spread environment was an appetite in the Sterling market.
Investec Finance plc created an ECP Euro Commercial - GBP interest rates - The beginning of the financial year saw Paper programme for issuance of short-dated commercial a continuation of the rapid increase in short rates, with the paper to institutional investors.
At 31 March 2005, amounts base rate being raised by a quarter point in May, June and raised by the programme were 10 million, a45.5 million August.
The base rate remains range-bound to date.
is no clear consensus as to the direction of the next rate In Mauritius, restrictions placed on foreign banks were move.
removed, with a change in the Banking Act in October 2004.
- ZAR interest rates - The sharp interest rate hikes widely Investec Bank Mauritius Limited now enjoys the same expected in April 2004 did not materialise and a 50 basis status as any domestic bank.
point cut in the repo rate occurred in August 2004, Investec Bank Mauritius Limited successfully negotiated a bringing it down to 7.5%.
As a result, the yield curve three-year $70 million syndicated loan in January 2005.
This experienced a high degree of volatility in the past financial committed facility is currently undrawn.
The continuing disinflationary path in South Africa, The global Private Banking deposit book grew by 21.4% to aided by the strong Rand, reflected a sharp drop in long- 3.2 billion.
The yield curve at the end of March 2005 was anticipating an essentially flat interest rate environment for We are currently unaware of any circumstances that could the next 12 months.
significantly detract from our ability to raise term funding.
- Euro interest rates - The ECB Refinancing rate remained on hold at 2% for the full financial year, with no immediate indication of a change, either up or down.
The Libor curve, however, was pricing in regular quarter point rate increases, creating a relatively steep yield curve.
- USD interest ratesThe dollar market saw a shift in the Fed attitude to rate increases, moving from an accommodative monetary policy to one of measured tightening.
Thus the Fed funds target moved via seven quarter point hikes from 1.0% at the beginning of June Risk management Enterprise-wide operational risk programmes Operational risk management framework Business continuity risk We have a comprehensive programme to assess and We recognise that operational risk is inherent in our operations.
enhance our capability to support the availability of systems, We seek to manage this risk within acceptable levels and to restore technology platforms, resume operations and deliver minimise unexpected events.
The business continuity capability is subject to independent monitoring, review and assessment Senior management is responsible for identifying and mitigating by Group Operational Risk and Internal Audit.
Group Operational Risk Management is an No significant disruptions to operations occurred during the independent specialist function that is responsible for year.
promoting sound practices, facilitating operational risk initiatives and monitoring the operational risk environment.
Information security risk Information security continued to receive attention to assess Group Operational Risk Management focuses on: and respond proactively to threats to data, systems and Sound operational risk management practices.
Our policies and practices are based on - Identification and assessment of operational risks.
There were no significant incidents during the year.
- Incident and loss event data recording and analysis.
IT change management risk - Business continuity risk.
Changes to IT systems can introduce risk if not planned, - Information security risk.
assessed and implemented with care.
Changes to line and - IT change management risk.
business continuity environments are subject to a robust Financial crime.
Year in review Financial crime Matters of financial crime, both internal and external, are Sound operational risk management practices one of our particular concerns.
Incidents are fully investigated to understand source and cause, achieve Key developments during the year include: recovery and initiate legal action, and implement appropriate A risk assessment framework was developed during the year mitigating action.
based on the existing Turnbull risk assessment process and incorporating operational risks.
Reference was made to leading practices in developing the framework.
Risk Reputational risk management identification and assessment is an ongoing process to ensure relevance and appropriateness.
External events are Reputational risk is the risk caused by damage to an monitored for emerging issues, as are internal risk incidents organisation's reputation, name or brand.
Such damage may and loss events.
result from a breakdown of trust, confidence or business An integrated technology solution linking risk assessment, relationships.
Reputational risk may arise as a result of other indicators and incidents was sourced and is being risks manifesting and not being mitigated.
During the year further progress was made on recording We have various policies and practices to mitigate reputational and reporting risk incidents and loss events.
These are risk, including a strong values statement that is regularly and monitored and appropriate corrective action taken to proactively reinforced.
We also subscribe to sound corporate minimise losses and reoccurrence.
governance practices, which require that activities, processes Operational risk management practice disclosures will and decisions are based on carefully considered principles.
continue to be assessed and refined as the discipline develops internally and industry-wide.
We are acutely aware of the impact of practices that may Outsourcing arrangements were reviewed, a register result in a breakdown of trust and confidence in the established and the group outsourcing policy enhanced in organisation.
We regularly reinforce our policies and practices line with the Bank of International Settlements Outsourcing through transparent communication, accurate reporting, in Financial Services recommendations.
continuous group culture and values assessment, internal audit Gaps in compliance with the proposed Basel II requirements and regulatory compliance review, and risk management for operational risk are being assessed so as to ensure practices.
readiness on the effective dates.
Evolving regulatory developments are being monitored.
101 Legal risk management A Legal Risk Forum is constituted in each significant legal entity within the group.
Each forum meets at least half yearly and Legal risk is the risk of loss resulting from any of our rights not more frequently where business needs dictate, and is chaired being fully enforceable or from our obligations not being by the Global Head of Legal Risk or an appointed deputy.
This includes our rights and obligations Minutes of the meetings are circulated to the Chief Executive under contracts entered into with counterparties.
Such risk is Officer of each legal entity as well as to the Group Risk especially applicable in circumstances where a counterparty Operational division.
defaults and the relevant documentation may not give rise to the rights and remedies anticipated when the transaction was entered.
Basel ll Our objective is to identify, manage, monitor and mitigate legal risks throughout the group.
We seek to actively mitigate these The revised international capital adequacy framework Basel ll risks by identifying them, setting minimum standards for their was published during the year.
This framework is designed to management and allocating clear responsibility for such differentiate minimum regulatory capital requirements in a risk management to legal risk managers, as well as ensuring sensitive manner and incentivise and recognise sound risk compliance through proactive monitoring.
management, internal control and governance practices.
Basel ll allows choices in terms of approaches to be adopted for the Overall responsibility for this policy rests with the Board of determination of minimum regulatory capital, subject to Directors.
The board delegates responsibility for demonstrating practices as part of the regulatory approval implementation of the policy to the Global Head of Legal Risk process.
who, in turn, assigns responsibility for controlling these risks to the managers of appropriate departments and focused units Basel ll provides additional approaches to credit risk capital throughout the group.
determination and introduces operational risk capital requirements.
The scope of our activities, which brings about legal risk, is continuously reviewed and includes the following areas: During the year under review, additional resources were Relationship contracts.
employed in order to implement a Basel II compliant Legislation governance.
which were achieved are as follows: Corporate events.
Credit risk Dual Listed Companies structure.
Developing an enterprise-wide security register, to be used Ongoing quality control.
as an input into the Pillar 1 calculation engine.
Successful implementation of financial institutions and The legal risk policy is implemented through: sovereign rating models the corporate rating model was Identification and ongoing review of areas where legal risk is already in place in the prior financial year.
Development of specialised lending and retail models.
Allocation of responsibility for the development of Consolidation of transactional data required for exposure at procedures for management and mitigation of these risks.
default calculation into an input data warehouse.
Installation of appropriate segregation of duties, so that legal documentation is reviewed and executed with the Operational risk appropriate level of independence from the persons involved in proposing or promoting the transaction.
Implementation of sound operational risk management Ongoing examination of the inter-relationship between legal practices, which are supported by an integrated operational risk and other areas of risk management, so as to ensure risk technology solution that facilitates risk identification, that there are no gaps in the risk management process.
indicators and incidents and loss events to be recorded and Establishment of minimum standards for mitigating and linked.
This allows for a dynamic informed approach to controlling each risk, including the nature and extent of work operational risk management as well as providing the to be undertaken by our internal and external legal appropriate building block approach to migrate to advanced resources.
Establishment of procedures to monitor compliance, taking into account the required minimum standards.
Establishment of legal risk forums, bringing together the various legal risk managers, to ensure we keep abreast of developments and changes in the nature and extent of our activities, and to benchmark our processes against best practice.
Risk management Whilst there is emphasis on Pillar 1 minimum capital General requirements determination principles, we recognise that Pillar 2 supervisory practices, including capital allocation, and Pillar 3 We are an active participant in the SARB Accord market discipline, which covers disclosure, are key areas.
Implementation Forum, which aims to allow for consultation Accordingly, attention is given to reviewing practices and on implementation matters of Basel ll between the industry disclosures in line with Basel ll expectations.
Engagement with the Financial Services Authority in the UK and the Australian Prudential Regulation Basel ll issues are reported on at Board Risk Review Authority is also taking place, to understand the expectations Committee and Board Audit Committee level, as well as of the various supervisors on this significant change to the monitored at the Executive Risk Review Forum.
In line with operating environment.
our strong focus on risk management practices, we are integrating the Basel ll expectations into our practices, An immediate capital saving is not expected since supervisors enhancing processes and technology requirements as needed.
and banks will need to gather experience and confidence in the processes and practices that will need to be relied on, while avoiding capital dilution and supporting financial stability.
During the year, various readiness assessments were concluded, which assist in informing implementation aspects.
Certainty on supervisor specific requirements, particularly in the area of national discretion, is beginning to emerge as supervisors consult and publish draft regulatory requirements.
Capital management 103 context of their implications to capital to ensure that the Capital Management operators achieve the threshold targets in terms of return on capital to shareholders as this directly impacts their incentive We are acutely aware that the astute management of the remuneration.
capital at our disposal is paramount to our success.
Therefore, we are strategically focused on ensuring that we only enter Accordingly, the benefit of such practice is that the into business activities that are expected to earn appropriate management of capital is effectively conducted at the very returns on our capital and satisfy the demands of our initial level of deal initiation which forces a wider population shareholder base.
Our objective is to increase shareholder beyond the formal governance committees to understand value through a group-wide discipline that links capital the capital implications of business activity and ensure that it is allocation and structuring, performance measurement, priced appropriately.
investment decisions and capital-based incentive compensation into one integrated framework.
As this has been embedded in the culture and philosophies of Investec, it is regarded as a cornerstone to the comprehensive Background management of capital.
The Investec group comprises Investec plc and its Responsibility for capital management subsidiaries as well as Investec Limited and its subsidiaries.
In terms of the group's DLC structure these two companies are The Investec plc and Investec Limited Boards of Directors are treated separately from a credit perspective notwithstanding ultimately responsible for the silos' capital and its effective the shareholder arrangements that are in place to ensure that management.
At the highest level, the boards have delegated shareholders have common economic and voting interests as if direct responsibility for capital management to the DLC Investec plc and Invested Limited were a single unified Capital Committee to oversee the various components enterprise.
Furthermore, the UK Financial Services Authority contributing towards the effective control and usage of capital.
regulates Investec plc and the South African Reserve Bank This forum was constituted in June 2002 and its roles and regulates Investec Limited.
responsibilities are discussed on page 123.
Consequently, the management of capital is effected on a siloIn order to feed into this forum, Investec plc convenes a basis at the lowest level but considered in aggregate from a separate Capital Committee on a bi-weekly basis so as to group perspective.
Regardless of the statutory entity, we monitor the capital positions within its UK and Australian recognise the following key principles relating to the purpose subsidiaries while the Southern African operations meet of capital, namely to: monthly via its DI Forum which analyses regulatory Allow each area to grow organically and achieve its business information including capital utlisation in Investec Bank Limited objectives as strategically determined by executive and Investec Bank Mauritius Limited.
In addition to these management and approved by the relevant Boards of three committees, a formally constituted capital management Directors.
This structure ensures that Afford the group the opportunity to explore acquisition capital is actively managed from the lowest reporting level and opportunities that would allow it to position itself within its cascades up to the ultimate responsible body, being the DLC chosen markets.
Protect the group against losses and risks inherent in the business, which would otherwise affect the security of funds Organisational structure deposited with or loaned to the various banking entities.
In terms of capital management, the components of the Within our capital management environment, a key assumption organisational structure are as follows: assumed is the understanding of the difference between The business units, especially those which conduct their economic capital and regulatory capital.
The former relates business out of a regulated entity and utilise large amounts to the resultant capital determined when all risks are of capital Private Banking and Treasury and Specialised considered including reputational, liquidity etc and is derived Finance.
The transactional consultants within the business from the regulatory capital utilised by each division.
Hence, the units consider the capital implications on a deal by-deal basis quantification of the regulatory capital is the first step in the as this ultimately impacts the economic capital utilised and, process and the nature of modifications to this amount is hence, the pricing and profitability of the transaction.
Risk management - As part of credit risk management, the presentation of At the heart of this distinction lies the fundamental transactions is conducted via the governance structures implications flowing from the widespread practice of Economic embodied within the risk management function.
At the Value Added EVA incentive schemes which embodies, as its deal structuring phase as well as the credit approval phase, base, economic capital.
Essentially, this means that all the capital implications of transactions are considered transactions conducted by us have to be considered in the independently from the business unit presentation to Capital management ensure that it is accurate and reasonable.
This serves as an In terms of the current process, the following features exist: additional verification of the capital implication of the Board and senior management oversight in relation to both particular transaction.
the nature and level of risk taken and how this risk relates to - As part of market risk management, the market risk the adequate capital levels.
Strategic plans outline our capital management team performs the quantification of the needs, anticipated capital expenditure, desirable capital level trading capital utilised by the trading activities throughout and external capital sources.
This is tested for reasonableness at the various Sound capital assessment through the establishment of capital management forums explained above.
capital adequacy goals supported by a process of internal - As part of operational risk management, the quantification controls, reviews and audit to ensure the integrity of the of the operational capital utilised is conducted and overall management process.
reported into the Executive Risk Review Forum on a Comprehensive assessment of risks by a number of regular basis.
governance committees guided by methodologies and - Underpinning all risk management functions is their IT policies, supported by sophisticated systems which ensure support division which ensures that all applications the adequacy and completeness of information on which employed by the group to calculate and report risk decisions are based.
To this end, detailed reports are information are functioning properly and reconcile to prepared on a regular basis on our risk profile and capital underlying source systems.
Group Finance - The financial control functions throughout the organisation The key challenge facing the group in terms of Pillar II work closely with risk management to ensure that capital compliance will be twofold: reporting is accurate, appropriate and timely.
The training of deal and credit forum members as well as - The responsibility for regulatory reporting forms part of business unit practitioners of the changes to capital the Finance function.
computations and the resultant impact on risk, pricing, - Furthermore, Group Finance as part of the annual audit profitability and capital levels.
process independently determines the economic capital The actual capital computations themselves as these would per business unit as it forms the basis of the operating have to be determined at deal initiation such that the units' incentive remuneration.
resultant amount is presented to the various committees at - As with Risk Management, the Group Finance IT division the appropriate time to ensure effective decision making plays a critical role in ensuring the integrity of the ledger within a Basel II framework.
and all supporting applications which contribute towards to the regulatory and business intelligence reporting Conclusion processes.
The combination of Investec's sophisticated and intellectually Basel II resourced risk management environment together with its performance orientation which emphasises the optimal usage At a high level, the group is intended to have implemented the of capital from the inception of a transaction, ensures that the Basel II Advanced Approaches for credit, operational and linkage of risk to targeted capital levels is entrenched in the market risk across the Investec divisions and geographies by deal facilitation culture of the group.
Clearly, this intention will have a significant impact on the capital management process, more from a calculation This results in a capital management process driven by capital perspective than a principle or philosophical standpoint.
The adequacy goals which are closely monitored by strategic reason is that the acute sensitivity of transactions to capital capital plans approved by a sub-committee of the board.
utlisation is already embedded in the deal credit approval and performance measurement ethos within the organisation as detailed above.
However, the basis for quantifying the capital utilisation will become more sophisticated under the Basel II framework.
Hence, although the underlying process for capital adequacy assessment in relation to risk profile and strategy formulation for capital level maintenance will remain essentially the same, refinement will be needed to quantify capital in terms of the more advanced approaches and evaluate the results against the risk appetite of the group.
Internal Audit 105 Internal Audit proactively reviews its audit practices and Internal Audit resources for adequacy and appropriateness, to meet our increasingly demanding corporate governance and regulatory Internal Audit provides objective assurance to the board that environment.
Audit teams comprising well-qualified staff with management processes are adequate to identify the significant appropriate experience ensure that the function has the risks which the business is subject to and that the control competencies to match our diverse requirements.
Where environment is effective enough to manage those risks.
Internal specific specialist skills or additional resources are required, Audit recommends enhancements to risk management, control these will be obtained from third parties as appropriate.
The and governance processes where weaknesses are identified.
Internal Audit resources are subject to annual review by the respective Audit Committees.
An Internal Audit charter, approved by the Group Audit Committees and reviewed annually, governs internal audit Significant control weaknesses are reported, in terms of an activity within the group.
The charter defines the role, escalation protocol, to the Audit and Compliance objectives, authority and responsibilities of the function.
Implementation Forum, where rectification procedures and progress are considered and monitored at a detailed level by As a result of the silo specific regulatory responsibilities arising management.
The Audit Committee receives a report noting from the Dual Listed Companies structure, there are significant issues and actions taken by management to enhance essentially two group Internal Audit divisions located in controls.
London and Johannesburg, responsible for Investec plc and Investec Limited respectively.
An Internal Audit function reporting into Investec plc also exists in Sydney.
All the Internal Audit departments use similar risk based methodologies.
The heads of Internal Audit report at each Audit Committee meeting and have a direct reporting line to the chairman of their entity's Audit Committee.
They operate independently of executive management but have ready access to their local Chief Executive Officer and the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
For administrative and co-ordination purposes, they also report to the Global Head of Corporate Governance and Compliance.
Annually, Internal Audit conducts a formal risk assessment of all businesses, incorporating management's assessment of risk, which is summarised in the business unit's Turnbull document.
A comprehensive risk based annual audit plan is derived from this assessment, which identifies areas of focus.
These are then confirmed with executive management and approved by the responsible Audit Committee.
High risk businesses and processes are audited annually, with other areas covered at regular intervals based on their risk profile.
Given our dependence on IT systems, there is an ongoing focus on auditing technology risks.
The annual plan is reviewed regularly to ensure that it remains relevant and responsive, given changes in our operating environment.
The Audit Committee approves any changes to the plan.
Compliance Introduction Developments Compliance risk is the risk of non-compliance with, or failure Southern Africa to comply with, the letter and spirit of all relevant statutes, regulations, supervisory requirements and industry codes of Implementation of the Financial Intelligence Centre Act conduct which govern us.
In keeping with our core values, we FICA also endeavour to maintain the highest standards of integrity As required under FICA, the Money Laundering Control and ethical behaviour in our dealings with all stakeholders.
Officer and Money Laundering Reporting Officer continue to manage compliance with money laundering control legislation.
We are subject to extensive supervisory and regulatory FICA requirements have been built into business processes governance in South Africa, the UK, Europe, the US, Australia, and undergo ongoing monitoring.
Hong Kong, Mauritius and the other countries in which we operate.
The South African Reserve Bank, however, is our lead The regulatory focus of enforcement this year was on the reregulator.
Compliance requirements increased substantially in identification of existing clients.
As the Minister of Finance the past year, accompanied by closer scrutiny by the respective determined that the initial completion date, 30 June 2004, was regulatory authorities and new regulations.
unachievable, a regulatory extension was granted, giving accountable institutions additional time in which to complete In order to meet the regulatory requirements arising from the the requirements.
This averted the risk of substantial client implementation of the Dual Listed Companies structure, account freezing across the industry.
Significant effort was independent Group Compliance functions exist within both made to meet this compliance challenge, including contacting Investec plc and Investec Limited.
These functions operate existing clients and requesting all outstanding information and under terms of reference approved by the board and the documentation, systems development to monitor progress and Audit Committee.
A Group Compliance Officer, who operates quarterly reporting to the supervisory bodies.
Although most independently from executive management and is responsible clients were co-operative, in instances where clients did not for ensuring adequate management of compliance risk within meet the relevant target dates, their accounts were frozen each silo, heads each function.
Each Group Compliance Officer pending compliance.
reports directly to the Chief Executive Officer and the Global Head of Compliance, with unrestricted access to the Chairman We have maintained a policy of strict adherence with FICA, of the Audit Committee.
The Global Head of Compliance is despite significant challenges.
responsible for management of the compliance function across the Dual Listed Companies structure.
Implementation of the Financial Advisory and Intermediary Services Act FAIS Group Compliance functions are structured on a decentralised The introduction and implementation of FAIS was a major operating model that consists of a central Group Compliance imperative for the business and Compliance over the last year.
function, supported by specialist operational compliance The process was complex and placed significant pressure on functions within the relevant operating entities or divisions.
Compliance officers have been appointed in all significant business units.
The operational compliance functions report to A number of business units applied for authorisation to the Group Compliance Officer, as part of a matrix operate as financial services providers FSPs.
Twenty nine management reporting structure.
licence applications were submitted and two are awaiting processing.
Compliance risk is addressed through the development and implementation of effective compliance processes.
These All representatives and key individuals were screened to include development of policies and procedures in line with ensure they comply with the fit and proper criteria imposed regulatory requirements, providing regular training to ensure by the act.
Criminal record checks were conducted and that all employees are familiar with their regulatory obligations, academic qualifications were verified.
Prospective applicants for providing advice on regulatory issues and monitoring FAIS-related positions will be subject to the same review adherence to these policies and procedures through the process.
implementation of a risk-based monitoring methodology.
We launched a major training initiative to sensitise all Group Compliance functions work closely to ensure consistent employees to the impact of FAIS.
This was followed by management of compliance risk group-wide.
A key intensive detailed training in each of the registered FSPs, responsibility of the Groups Compliance Officers is to develop conducted by the Operational Compliance Officers and key and maintain constructive working relationships with regulators individuals.
The Learning and Development division will provide and supervisors in all our geographies.
ongoing training to all new employees.
Formal assessments were introduced as a new innovation and key individuals and representatives are required to complete an assessment under test conditions to show competence.
107 The complexity of FAIS yielded a number of unintended On 31 October 2004 and 14 January 2005, all mortgage and consequences, more particularly regarding its impact on general insurance businesses respectively, including both investment banking activities.
As part of a banking industry providers and distributors of these products, became regulated initiative, we were instrumental in obtaining an exemption by the FSA and subject to new FSA Handbook rules.
The from FAIS for investment banking activities, provided the regulation of these businesses affected two Investec plc counterparties in any transaction are not natural persons and businesses: Carr Sheppards Crosthwaite, which acts as an pension funds.
intermediary for insurance products, and Investec Bank UK Limited, which offers mortgages.
Industry representation The Compliance function continues to manage compliance risk After lengthy negotiation, the FSA reached an agreement with and keeps abreast of major legislative developments through certain firms to establish a compensation fund for qualifying high-level representation on industry bodies.
In this capacity, investors who suffered losses on particular split capital Compliance participated in industry debates on legislative investment trusts.
The compensation fund was established at development as well as the production of industry standard the end of 2004.
Carr Sheppards Crosthwaite was not asked training material in co-operation with the respective Sector to contribute to the fund but, as a broker of the product, will Educational Training Authorities.
The industry bodies include be providing the information its clients need in order to the Banking Association of South Africa, the Compliance register claims.
The firm will not be able to make the claims on Institute of South Africa, the Life Offices Association, the behalf of its clients, although it will be responsible for Money Laundering Forum and the FAIS Advisory Council.
distributing claim forms to the relevant nominee clients.
Members of Group Compliance actively participated in During 2004, the industry consulted on proposals to amend industry initiatives to develop industry-based compliance soft commission and bundled brokerage rules.
The new training programmes on the importance of compliance and proposals will restrict the use of brokerage commissions to corporate governance.
pay for services other than research and will require firms to disclose the costs of research and execution services paid Mauritius under a commission fee.
Investec Asset Management, which discloses its commission expenses, and Investec Bank UK A number of new acts governing the financial services industry Limited, which provides investment research, will be affected were passed during the year, including a new Banks Act and a by these proposals when they come into force in 2006. revised Code on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing.
The Bank of Mauritius also enhanced its During the year, Investec plc management strengthened regulatory overview of local banks.
compliance by centralising the compliance reporting lines for all Investec plc companies to the Head of Compliance for UK and Europe Investec plc.
In 2004, the Financial Services Authority FSA, the UK financial Looking ahead to 2005, UK firms will have to absorb new services regulator, issued twenty two policy statements, market abuse rules and changes to exchange listing rules and seventeen consultation papers and three discussion papers.
After 2005, the major initiatives Many of these rule releases and proposals relate to EU will be the new capital adequacy requirements under Basel II financial services directives.
This new tier of European and significant changes to the conduct of business and Community law requirements will continue to require supervisory rules under the EU Markets in Financial significant attention over the next two years.
Parliament and EU member states must complete and implement legislation to harmonise the European Community Australia financial markets by 2007.
During the past year, the Australian regulatory environment The FSA focused on two key regulatory themes in 2004: the underwent further reform with the introduction of new continued scrutiny of practices relating to treating customers legislation, Australian Securities and Investments Commission fairly and the management of conflicts of interest.
These policy statements and Australian Prudential Regulation themes are part of the FSA's 11 Principles for Business.
The year was also spent bedding down Investec Asset Management participated in an FSA market the requirements of the Financial Services Reform Act, which review on treating customers fairly, the results of which will be brought about a uniform licensing, conduct and disclosure published in 2005.
Regarding conflicts of interest, the FSA set regime for Australian financial markets, products and services.
out its expectations for firms to manage any conflicts created Investec Bank Australia Limited developed its compliance between firms and customers or the competing interests of framework to ensure compliance with this expanding customers in presentations and a general letter to investment regulatory and legislative environment and to align itself with banking chief executive officers.
Compliance USA Regulatory scrutiny continues to be a focal point of US brokerage compliance.
Anti-money laundering regulations remain a priority in connection with examinations conducted by self-regulatory organisations.
Investigations regarding mutual fund market timing and late trading culminated in a series of substantial fines against many large brokerage firms.
To date, Investec US is neither a target nor a subject of any such investigations.
Current regulatory focus appears to be on ensuring fixed income trading transparency.
Changes in the regulations include increasing the number of reportable corporate bond transactions and decreasing the allowable time to report such transactions.
Moreover, the self-regulatory organisations are focusing on internal controls and supervision.
The regulations are imposing ever-increasing responsibility for compliance oversight by executive management.
Credit ratings 109 Credit ratings In general, we were assigned strong ratings for credit quality, capacity for timely repayment and financial strength.
In terms of our Dual Listed Companies structure, Investec plc and Investec Limited are treated separately from a credit point of view.
As a result, the rating agencies have assigned ratings to the significant banking entities within the group, namely Investec Bank UK Limited, Investec Bank Limited and Investec Bank Australia Limited.
Certain rating agencies have assigned ratings to the holding companies, namely, Investec plc and Investec Limited.
The ratings as at 31 March 2005 are set out as follows: Ratings for Investec plc Moody's Short-term deposit rating Prime-3 Long-term deposit rating Baa3 Ratings for Investec Bank UK Limited - a subsidiary of Investec plc Fitch Individual rating C Support rating 5 Foreign currency short-term rating F2 Foreign currency long-term rating BBB Global Credit Rating Co. Short-term rating A2 Long-term rating AMoody's Financial strength rating CShort-term deposit rating Prime-2 Long-term deposit rating Baa2 Ratings for Investec Bank Australia Limited - a subsidiary of Investec Bank UK Limited Moody's Financial strength rating D Short-term deposit rating Prime-2 Long-term deposit rating Baa2 Credit ratings Ratings for Investec Limited CA Ratings Local currency short-term rating A1 Local currency long-term rating A Fitch Individual rating B C Support rating 5 Foreign currency short-term rating F3 Foreign currency long-term rating BBB Ratings for Investec Bank Limited - a subsidiary of Investec Limited CA Ratings Local currency short-term rating A1 Local currency long-term rating A Capital Intelligence Ratings Domestic strength rating AForeign currency short-term rating A3 Foreign currency long-term rating BBBFitch Individual rating B C Support rating 2 Foreign currency short-term rating F3 Foreign currency long-term rating BBB Local currency short-term rating F1 Local currency long-term rating A Global Credit Rating Co. Local currency short-term rating A1 Local currency long-term rating A Moody's Financial strength rating CForeign currency short-term deposit rating Prime-2 Foreign currency longterm deposit rating Baa1 National scale short-term rating Prime-1 National scale long-term rating Aa3 Constrained by the sovereign rating for South Africa.
