Competition Our risks Online gaming is a highly competitive market with over 2,400 9 sites in operation in 2005.
In online poker, as the number of players increases, the Groups competitive advantage due to its superior player liquidity may be diluted as an increasing number of competitors build up a comparable number of customers.
There is also expected to be a trend toward industry consolidation among the Groups competitors, so smaller competitors today may become much larger in the future.
If the legal status of online gaming in the US, where the Group continues to derive the majority of its revenue, were to be PartyGaming faces a number of challenges in the day-to-day clarified such that US-based operators decided to enter the running of its business.
The key risks to the Groups current and sector, then PartyGaming is likely to face increased competition future business performance can be categorised into industryfrom such operators that do not currently offer online gaming specific as well as company-specific issues.
include changes to the regulation of online gaming around the world, especially in the US, as well as technology-related risks Taxation and increased competition.
The Group aims to ensure that each Group company is resident for tax purposes only in the jurisdiction in which it is incorporated Online gaming regulation or domiciled and that it has no taxable permanent establishments Although the regulatory regime for land-based gaming or other taxable presence in any other jurisdiction.
The Groups operations is well established in many countries, the gaming laws customers are located worldwide.
Revenues earned from in some of them will not necessarily have been updated to take customers located in a particular jurisdiction may give rise to account of the internet.
This can cause uncertainty and affect further taxes in that jurisdiction.
If such taxes are levied, either on the Groups ability to operate effectively, as can the application the basis of existing law or the current practice of any tax or enforcement of gaming laws or regulations, a change in authority, or by reason of a change in law or practice, then this sentiment by regulatory authorities or the taking of any action by may have a material adverse effect on the amount of tax relevant authorities which restricts the processing of payments payable by the Group.
relating to online gaming transactions or the advertising of online In calculating the tax provision, in addition to any amounts due gaming.
The Group actively monitors legislative developments in all of the key territories in which it operates and aims to in respect of jurisdictions in which Group companies are currently incorporated or domiciled, a provision has been made to cover ensure that its business is able to adapt to changes in the regulatory environment.
the Directors best estimate of additional taxation exposures which may arise.
Technology The Company and its Gibraltar subsidiaries are registered as PartyGaming is reliant on the continued growth and exempt companies for Gibraltar tax purposes.
As a result, the maintenance of the internet infrastructure and the integrity Group pays relatively little tax in Gibraltar.
The exempt company and operation of the Groups computer and communication tax regime is due to be phased out by the end of 2010.
The Group employs a series of intrusion detection and Government of Gibraltar has reiterated its commitment to the prevention measures to ensure that its operating systems continuation of Gibraltars fiscal competitiveness stating that it are safeguarded against hackers, email viruses, distributed intends to seek to introduce alternative arrangements to the denial of service DDoS attacks and other forms of cyber exempt companies legislation by the end of 2010 which will crime.
Any failure in these measures could result in a decline in meet EU requirements and which will be designed to retain user traffic and impact the Groups operations, reputation and Gibraltars fiscal competitiveness.
The loss by the Company of its tax exempt status and that of all PartyGaming regularly upgrades its technology and network the Companys subsidiaries which currently have tax exempt infrastructure to handle increased traffic on its websites and status could have a material adverse effect on the overall tax also to roll out new products and services.
Any failureto rate of the Group.
implement such upgrades successfully might affect both the A more detailed description of the risks faced by the quality of its gaming products and services and the experience Group was included in the Listing Particulars, a copy of of its customers.
which is available on the Groups website: PartyGaming has to rely on third-party bandwidth providers, www.
pdf communications carriers, and data centres for key aspects of the process of providing gaming products and services to its customers.
While the Group is in the process of formalising its disaster recovery and business continuity plans, there can be no assurance that, if invoked, the implementation of such plans would not significantly disrupt its technology systems and have a consequent impact on its business performance.
35 PartyGaming Plc 9 GBGC EiG presentation 8 November 2005.
