Man Group plc Annual Report 2005 30 Financial Review Risk and risk management Introduction Risk governance Risk is inherent in the Groups business Setting risk policies, delegated authorities and activities.
Our ability to identify, assess, and limits consistent with the risk strategy.
monitor and manage each type of risk Establishing clear functional responsibilities, to which the Group is exposed is an reporting lines and committee structures important factor in our financial soundness, for the management of risk.
performance, reputation and future success.
Ensuring appropriate skills and resources are applied to risk management.
The sections below describe our approach to risk management.
The first section Risk infrastructure s applicable to all risks and covers the Establishing and continually refining the Groups risk governance structure, risk necessary infrastructure to support the management process and its risk appetite.
risk management process including The second section explains the way in systems, data, tools, management which Man categorises risks and principal information and external disclosure.
factors that drive each type of risk faced by the Group and the measurement and Risk identification processes for mitigation of these risks.
Assessing the potential impact on the The final section discusses future Group of internal and external factors that developments in risk management.
might give rise to a direct or indirect loss or demand for liquidity.
Effective risk management has always been central to the Groups business model Risk measurement and the Group has continued to make Using a range of methodologies including significant investments in enhancing its value-at-risk, risk of worst loss, stress risk management capability during the year.
testing, scenario analysis and qualitative This is in response both to the growth in assessment and judgement to assess the business and to changing regulatory the potential impact and likelihood of requirements.
The enhancements include the identified risks arising on both an changes to the terms of reference and independent and aggregate basis.
membership of various risk governance committees, revisions of risk policies at Risk monitoring and reporting both Group and Divisional level, and the Monitoring and reporting on the Groups introduction of new risk measurement risk profile against its risk appetite, methodologies.
Improvements also include exposures against limits, potential losses, better reporting of the Groups risk profile compliance issues and the effectiveness against its risk appetite and revised of the Groups internal controls.
delegations of authority and limit structures.
Risk mitigation There are seven key elements in the Taking informed decisions on the nature Groups risk management process: and extent of risk to retain and on the appropriate internal control environment Risk strategy and appetite needed to manage risk.
Setting the overall direction and objectives for risk management.
Risk governance Responsibility for the overall framework of risk governance and management lies with Risk committee governance structure Group Board MF Executive MI Strategy ARCom Committee Board MI Management GRC Committee MF Divisional Risk MI Divisional Risk Product Development Supervisory Investment Other Committee Committee and Funding Committee Committee Committees Group Brokerage Division Daily Risk Other Other Man Financial MF Credit Committee Committees Committees Committees Man Investments MI Man Group plc Annual Report 2005 31 Financial Review the Board of Directors.
The Board is Maintenance of a sound system of internal In addition there are several committees within responsible for determining risk strategy, control to manage the risk profile and each division that focus on the day to day setting the Groups risk appetite and periodically to review the effectiveness of implementation of decisions relating to the ensuring that risk is monitored and this system.
principal risks faced by each division.
It is also responsible Delegation of decision making authority for establishing a clearly defined risk within specified financial limits.
Credit and market risk issues arise daily management structure with distinct roles in the business activities of Brokerage.
The Audit and Risk Committee ARCom A dedicated risk committee structure is a sub-committee of the Board which is is in place across locations to address Within that structure business managers are comprised of the independent non-executive these risks in a timely manner including accountable for all the risks assumed within directors.
It provides independent challenge committees that, within the authority their areas of responsibility and for the to, and oversight, of the risk management delegated by the Board, authorise limits for execution of appropriate risk management processes.
The wider responsibilities of customers and counterparties, and monitor discipline within the framework of policy and the Board and ARCom are explained in the adequacy of collateral held in respect delegated authority set out by the Board.
more detail in the Directors Report on of customer positions.
The principle of individual accountability and pages 45 to 49. responsibility within a disciplined approach In Asset Management, the Product to risk management is an important feature The Group Risk Committee GRC is chaired Development and Funding Committee, of our culture.
by the Finance Director and its membership within the delegated authority and policies is drawn from the senior management of set by the Board, considers the financial, Independent and objective assessment and each division and from the independent risk, operational and reputational risk issues in monitoring of risk is provided by various risk audit and compliance functions.
It reports the approval of investment products and control functions at both Group and to both the Board and ARCom and is related product financing.
These risk control functions responsible for: Investment Committee, within limits include the Group Risk department, risk approved by the Board, monitors the risks management professionals embedded Reviewing the risk profile relative to risk associated with fund allocations including within each division, Legal and Compliance appetite for the Group and its divisions manager and style concentration risk and departments in each division and Internal and agreeing actions in relation to risk risks relating to proprietary investments.
Close attention is paid to the formal profile, strategy and key controls.
segregation of duties within business units Reviewing the adequacy of the Groups Risk appetite and there are independent reporting lines capital and its liquidity resources.
Risk appetite is the quantum and type of for the key risk, compliance and finance Approving risk decisions that are beyond risk that it is appropriate for the Group to functions.
In addition, the processes which the divisions or executives delegated bear.
At the beginning of the year the Board turn a risk decision into a concluded authorities.
formalised its approach to this in nine risk transaction verification, confirmation, Reviewing the suitability of risk appetite statements.
These were set in reconciliation, valuation, payment and methodologies, metrics and policies.
the context of the Groups capacity to bear settlement are carried out by functions that Assessing and guiding major risk related risk and the requirements of various are distinct from those which make the risk projects.
stakeholders, including those constraints decision.
The key responsibilities of core set by the regulatory framework.
functions in this regard are explained in Each Divisional Risk Committee DRC has more detail in the sections that follow.
a reporting line both to the GRC and the These include quantitative metrics relating divisions Executive Board or Committee, to regulatory capital and economic capital In addition to individual responsibilities for thereby maintaining a risk reporting line discussed further in the earlier section on risk management there is a structure of independent of the divisions executive.
Capital and capital management, liquidity committees that, under authority delegated Membership of each DRC includes availability in stress scenarios discussed from the Board, have formal responsibility representation from Group Risk and other further in the Liquidity risk section below for and powers in relation to defined relevant corporate functions as well as and earnings volatility.
These are senior management and compliance staff illustrated in the chart and their key from the division.
The principal The risk appetite statements also include responsibilities in relation to risks faced responsibilities of each DRC are to: qualitative metrics relating to regulatory and by Man are described further below.
reputational risks, operational risks in the Review the risk profile of each division, execution of business plans and risk related The Board of Directors is responsible for: including by reference to key risk decision making.
The overall framework of risk governance Agree actions in relation to the risk profile, Risk appetite is reviewed by the Board at and management, including definition of strategy and key controls for that division.
least annually and provides the benchmark the Groups risk culture and principles for Assess and guide risk projects for that against which the Groups risk profile is risk management.
reported to the Board, ARCom and GRC.
Overall risk strategy and policy, including Maintain an effective risk governance It also forms the basis for the calibration definition of the risk appetite of the Group.
and setting of the delegated authorities and Monitoring the Groups risk profile against Review Internal Audit reports relating to financial limits for all aspects of market, this appetite.
the divisions and the status of management credit and liquidity risk.
The Groups mediumactions in response to those reports.
term plan is also reviewed by the Board and Man Group plc Annual Report 2005 32 Financial Review GRC and subjected to sensitivity analysis to In addition, both divisions are subject to the margins earned by either of the Divisions or assess in terms of its impact on the risk risk of losing key people or teams resulting in fees earned by Asset Management.
in the loss of corporate knowledge or includes losses from any adverse reputational capability that is not readily replaceable.
consequences of events in any of the other Risk categorisation risk categories.
There is an overlap between The Group categorises risks as shown in Risk measurement the factors that drive strategic risk and those the chart below.
The principal strategic risks referred to that underlie business risk.
The distinction is above, and the underlying drivers of such the time period during which such factors are Risk categorisation risks, are monitored by management and expected to materialise and the time frame regularly discussed at Divisional and Group over which they are expected to persist.
The potential impact of these risks Strategic Business Credit Risk Risk Risk on the Groups earnings is modelled Within Asset Management, revenues may fall through specific stress scenarios as part of if funds under management, fund performance Market Operational Liquidity the planning process.
This is discussed in or fee levels decline.
These could arise from Risk Risk Risk the section on Business risk below.
In the market conditions that affect the relative course of Mans continuous and detailed attraction of alternative investments as an Strategic risk monitoring of industry, competitive and asset class, which might, for example, result Risk identification regulatory themes, we do not see any in the elimination of profit opportunities for This is the risk that the Groups profitability current indications that our business is not specific fund styles.
Such changes could may be eroded by changes in the business well adapted to the business environment also arise from factors specific to the environment or by failures in its choice of in which we compete.
The Board is of the performance of funds under the management strategy or execution of strategy.
It is opinion that the fundamental downside of the Group or from the Groups ability to distinguished from business risk in that it strategic risks as broadly defined above access fund content or the flow of funds includes risks that are considered to arise under 'Risk identification' have not from private or institutional investors.
Fee over a longer timeframe and, should they crystallised during the period under review.
levels could also be eroded by competition.
arise, to be long lasting and fundamental in their effect.
Risk mitigation Within Brokerage, revenues may fall if market An annual strategic planning process is volumes decline or as a result of competitive Strategic risk is inherent to Mans business carried out within the divisions and at pressure.
In addition Brokerage earns net model and how well this is adapted to the Group level.
The Board is responsible for interest income on balances held on behalf business environment in which we compete.
determining the long-term strategy and the of customers.
The amount of this income Asset Management is exposed to the risk markets in which the Group will operate.
would be lower if interest rates were to fall.
that the trend of an increasing allocation of Medium-term plans include downside stress investor funds to the alternative investments tests to ensure that adequate capital and Most of the Groups revenues arise in sector reverses because of, for example, liquidity would be available in the event of US dollars, but it incurs costs in other weaker performance or regulatory change.
any of the strategic risks crystallising.
currencies, principally sterling liabilities for In addition Mans ability to access the flow Regular reports are provided by overheads, dividends and taxation.
US dollar of funds into the sector and to retain its management to the respective divisional reported earnings will be lower to the extent existing funds under management could be Executive Committee or Board and to the that the dollar weakens against sterling and, impaired for reasons of the performance of Group Board on the Groups progress in to a lesser extent, against the Swiss franc.
the funds it manages, its inability to access respect of key strategies, plans and any capacity in underlying content or through initiatives to mitigate specific strategic risks.
Business risk also includes the indirect investors preference for products and consequences that might result from losses distribution channels provided by competitors.
Mitigation is also provided by the diversification in other risk categories.
For example, a Management and performance fees for both of the Groups business between the divisions significant loss resulting from a process directly managed funds, such as AHL, and and geographically.
Within Brokerage, the failure might adversely affect Mans for fund of funds could also be eroded by revenue stream is diversified between financial reputation.
Reputation risk is discussed competition in both the private investor and products and within Asset Management further in a separate section below.
Brokerage is exposed between the private investor and institutional to the risk that volumes in the markets and segments and across several fund styles.
Risk measurement products in which it offers execution and The potential effects of business risks clearing services decline or that margins Significant acquisitions require approval by are evaluated by subjecting the forecast in these markets decline as a result of the Board in addition to due diligence by earnings of the Group to downside stresses competitive pressure.
In addition it is exposed the Groups corporate finance team and relating to the factors referred to above.
to the risk of disintermediation, for example review by the GRC.
These are formulated through joint as a result of the application of new discussion between divisional management technology by competitors.
Business risk and Group Risk, and reviewed by the GRC Risk identification and Board.
The Group holds economic Both divisions are exposed to the risk of Business risk is the possibility that the capital to the extent that such evaluations fundamental regulatory change that might Groups revenues in the near-term suffer an identify the possibility that, in aggregate, adversely affect their ability to compete and unexpected decline and costs cannot be the Groups revenues are insufficient to to the risk of a poor acquisition, whether in reduced either sufficiently or immediately cover its costs, excluding the effect of any terms of price paid or in its execution to offset this.
This includes the effect of any possible losses resulting from any of the and integration into the existing business.
declines in volumes of business or in the other risk categories.
An overall loss did Man Group plc Annual Report 2005 33 Financial Review not arise in any of the scenarios of extreme the indirect consequence for the Groups Risk mitigation shocks that were modelled.
reputation and any losses resulting from this, Our approach is not designed to eliminate which are treated as a component of operational risk, but rather to identify the Risk mitigation business risk.
areas in which it might arise and to contain it In addition to the stress testing referred to within acceptable limits through the continued above, the Group has a number of control Losses can arise from: application and improvement of effective processes that address business risk.
Chief Operating Officers in the annual budget is approved by the Board Process failures involving, for example, businesses have a particular responsibility and monthly financial reporting to the Board in Asset Management, breaches of in this regard and have played a prominent includes comparison against budget and investment mandate, prospectus errors, role during the year in initiatives to strengthen forecasts for the full financial year, together valuation or modelling errors or, in risk management across a range of areas with a review of key performance indicators.
Brokerage, the credit and collateral including outsourced service provision, This review includes regular monitoring of management or settlement processes investor identification and various IT systems.
the cost to income ratio in each division.
or errors made in placing customer orders Ultimately the management of operational Monthly business updates are also provided on the market.
risk is dependent on the high importance in writing to the Board by the chief Software or hardware failure, project risk that we attach to the integrity of the internal executive of each division.
Any material in relation to critical IT developments and control environment and the application of capital or non-budgeted expenditure also breakdowns of information security.
requires approval by the Board.
Compliance failure from, for example, mis-selling or a breakdown in anti-money Key components in the operational risk Business risk is also mitigated by the laundering controls.
framework applied across the Group include diversification between the income streams Fraud from internal or external sources or the principle that prime responsibility for its of the two divisions and by the diversification from rogue trader activity.
management lies with the line management within each division between products People related issues such as inadequate of each business area and function.
This and markets in Brokerage, and across fund resources, skills or departure of key includes the design of appropriate processes styles and between private and institutional personnel or employee related litigation.
and controls as well as risk and control investor channels in Asset Management.
Legal risks from inadequate contractual assurance, reporting of key risk indicators documentation.
and the investigation of losses, operational Business risk is also mitigated to the extent External events leading to the loss of a incidents and errors referred to above.
In that the costs of the Group are variable critical site or a failure by a major provider addition, the Board has established a clear with respect to revenues.
The bonus pool, of outsourced services.
organisation and reporting structure, with which in 2005 amounted to 25% of total business units operating under clearly operating expenses 2004: 26%, is directly Risk measurement defined policies and within written levels of proportional to an agreed internal measure The Group has developed a scenario delegated authority, including requirements of profit and so provides this element approach to address, at a high level, the to escalate issues to the appropriate function of mitigation.
potential effect of low frequency high impact or committee.
Careful attention is given to events and the amount of capital the Group segregation of duties in the business units.
Since revenues are principally in US dollars, should prudently hold to cover these risks.
appropriate hedges, using mainly forward The scenarios represent an evolution of The Groups processes are dependent on foreign exchange contracts are put in place some of the output from the enterprise risk the integrity and robustness of its IT systems for the following year in accordance with management process used in prior years and significant resource is devoted to criteria approved by the Board to fund and are based on management judgement, protecting the resilience of these systems.
non-dollar expenses that can be forecast supported and validated by relevant external This includes formal business continuity with reasonable certainty and where the loss information and any internal loss plans and appropriate remote data back-up contracts can be treated as effective hedges experience.
They have been developed and disaster recovery facilities for each of under International Financial Reporting jointly by risk professionals and line Mans key locations to ensure the rapid Standards.
Reputation risk is recognised as managers and are subject to continuous recovery of business critical systems and a significant component of the risks facing refinement during the current year.
functions in the event of disruption at any the Group and forms the basis for one of the key location.
Business continuity risk appetite statements reported on to each At a more detailed level, risk and control arrangements are regularly updated and meeting of the GRC.
It is discussed in more assurance is undertaken by managers within tested to ensure their effectiveness.
detail in a separate section below.
the divisions on the risks and related control effectiveness within their areas of responsibility.
The system of internal control is subject Operational risk These risk assessments are subject to review to regular review by Internal Audit, based Risk identification by internal audit and the overall framework is on an audit programme approved annually Operational risk is the risk that the Group validated by Group Risk.
The programme is focused suffers a loss directly or indirectly from on the businesses and processes that are inadequate or failed internal processes, people, Management is responsible for preparing most significant in terms of the Groups systems or external events.
It is inherent in all and reviewing key risk indicators.
These risk profile and where there are key controls the Groups business and support activities, are discussed at monthly meetings of each on which the Group relies to contain and comprises a large number of disparate Divisional Risk Committee together with that profile.
This prioritisation of work is risks including losses resulting from events reports relating to any operational losses influenced by any recent losses or incidents such as human error, IT failures, fraud, legal or significant near misses experienced by experienced by the Group or in comparable risk and external threats.
It does not include each division.
areas by third parties and by any significant Man Group plc Annual Report 2005 34 Financial Review Man Group plc Annual Report 2005 35 Financial Review changes in markets, geographic locations, party lenders to the funds, which are In 2004 the Group established two external products and business processes or major explained further below.
facilities under which third parties make new initiatives or projects.
financing facilities available to its products The Group provides short-term loans to for shorter periods, usually whilst the Within Asset Management a structure certain composite fund products principally product is commencing operations and of investment committees is responsible for the following purposes: before they are refinanced for longer for determining, monitoring and overseeing periods.
One of these requires Man to internal and external investment management To provide bridging finance where invest in a Note issued by the third party processes and compliance with investment investors are offered an enhanced liquidity rated A1 and A by Moodys and Standard management mandates.
In addition, a service and the Group holds shares in & Poors respectively, which is repayable at separate function is responsible for the funds for the period between making the less than par if the borrowing party defaults independent valuation of, or review of, redemption payment to the investor and to the third party.
third party valuations of fund products.
receiving payment from the manager of Compliance with local regulatory and the underlying funds.
Brokerage is primarily an intermediary and legal requirements and appropriate Group As part of the regular rebalancing of fund matched principal business offering policies is monitored by compliance of hedge fund products where funding is execution and trading services, mostly in teams embedded within each division.
provided to bridge a timing mismatch exchange traded products.
For executionbetween making payments to increase only customers, the sole credit risk arising Within Brokerage, the use of taped customer holdings in some underlying hedge fund is that of collection of commissions lines, rapid confirmation of customer orders investments and the receipt of redemption receivable after invoicing.
The credit risk and real time reconciliation of positions with proceeds from exiting underlying hedge for cleared customers is in paying variation exchanges minimises the risk of errors.
margin to the exchanges before receiving To provide leverage to funds that has not it from customers.
Most customers are Asset Management maintains a programme been provided by external parties, required to cover initial and variation of independent validation that its processes typically in the early stages of a fund life or margins with cash and must pay any and controls have operated as defined and in respect of small funds where it is more margin deficits within 24 hours.
This includes extensive use of difficult or not cost effective to obtain market practices, Brokerage provides SAS 70 certificates and other reviews by external financing.
unsecured credit lines to some customers third party experts in relation to the For some funds to meet margin calls for initial and variation margin.
processes that are critical to providing where cash is not available in the fund services to the funds.
and without the fund having to sell assets Brokerage is also exposed to the risk of or close positions.
default by counterparties in respect of The Group has also purchased insurance positions held with these counterparties.
cover from a number of third party insurers Where loans to funds are refinanced These are mainly exchanges, clearing for both physical and business interruption externally, it is usually in the form of total houses and highly rated and internationally risks, as well as various financial and liability return swaps or other similar OTC contracts recognised banks.
The Group maintains and with major financial counterparties.
When both pre-settlement and settlement risk.
continues to develop dynamic insurance executing these transactions the Group Pre-settlement risk is the possibility that, programmes to respond to its identified sometimes entered into committed purchase should a counterparty default on its operational risk profile.
The approach is agreements CPAs under which, in the event obligations under a derivative contract, designed to maximise breadth of cover and of default, the external provider has the right the Group could incur a loss when it certainty of response in respect of key third to require the Group to buy the underlying covers the resulting open position because party as well as proprietary asset, business fund assets held as collateral.
In previous the market price has moved against the interruption and personnel related exposures.
years, in a few instances, the Group has also Group.
Settlement risk is the possibility granted a small first risk of loss guarantee to that the Group may pay a counterparty, Credit risk the external provider.
The market risk such as a bank in a foreign exchange Risk identification associated with CPAs is considered in the transaction, and fail to receive the Credit risk is the possibility that the Group may Market risk section below.
suffer a loss from the failure of counterparties, customers or borrowers to meet their financial Private investors in Mans composite fund The Group and its divisions are also obligations to the Group, including failing to products are typically offered guarantees of exposed to counterparty risk with respect meet them in a timely manner.
It includes the return of capital at maturity of the product by to deposits placed with various banks.
risks that the Group may suffer a loss as a highly rated and internationally recognised Country risk is a particular form of credit risk result of guarantees issued or commitments banks.
In most cases, the guarantee is fully and arises from the possibility that a financial given to third parties, as a result of settlement collateralised by US Treasury zero coupon transaction or obligor will fail to complete failure or because of country risk.
The direct bonds or bank deposits and there is no according to its anticipated terms as a result taking of credit risk in order to earn a return is residual risk to the Group.
On a small number of political or economic failure, action or not a central feature of the Groups business: of products, a partially defeased structure has embargo imposed on or by a specific country.
rather credit risk arises as a result of activities been utilised whereby the bank will provide a that support the Groups business model guarantee with no, or reduced, collateral in both divisions.
In Asset Management the being provided up front.
In exchange Man Group is exposed to credit risk mainly in has provided a first risk of loss guarantee to respect of its lending to funds and indirect risk the bank, up to a level of 5% of the value of in respect of contingent exposures to third the bonds outstanding.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2005 36 Financial Review Risk measurement This represents less than 1% of net accordance with agreed risk limits.
Daily and, Loans were provided to 98 funds at operating income.
if required, intra-day margin calls are made on 31 March 2005 and amounted to $505 clients to reflect market movements affecting million 2004: $354 million.
As a result of Risk mitigation client positions.
Stress testing is performed the Groups modelling and management The Groups aggregate lending to funds and to evaluate the effect of potential market of the risks associated with these loans the amount it lends to an individual fund are movements on customer positions and may which are described in more detail below subject to limits approved under delegated result in customers being asked to reduce the Board is confident that the probability authorities from the Board.
The division reserves the right to of the Group incurring a loss is remote.
limits are lower than the single large exposure liquidate any customer position immediately The fide-gearing process referred to in the limits that the Group must comply with under in the event of a failure to meet a margin call.
Credit risk mitigation section below, regulatory requirements.
The risk exposure a critical control over the risk, has been is modelled extensively before any credit is Credit lines to Brokerage customers are triggered in seven funds since the Group extended to a fund and the Groups lending approved by the Brokerage Division Credit first began to provide leverage to its funds is predominantly repayable on demand.
Committee or Group Risk Committee in in 1996.
Six of these funds have re-geared accordance with delegated authority limits since the fide-gearing process was initiated.
Leverage is monitored daily for these set by the Board.
All credit lines are The Group has never incurred any credit different fund products and a review is reviewed at least annually.
losses on loans made to funds.
triggered if levels approach certain predefined multiples of prevailing net asset Counterparty exposures are typically First risk of loss guarantees amounting value.
These multiples are derived from with major exchanges or highly rated and to $18 million at 31 March 2005 2004: computer supported models that calculate internationally recognised banks.
Many $24 million have been given to external proprietary risk indicators, similar to value of these exposures are subject to netting lenders to eight funds.
These would at risk, which provide an estimate of risk, agreements which reduce the net exposure normally be triggered if the fide-gear process based on the positions held and margin to the Group.
Limits for counterparty failed to ensure that these funds could exposures, sector investments, correlation exposures are based on the creditworthiness return the contractually guaranteed amount between markets and individual market of the counterparty and are subject to to its investors at maturity.
Risk modelling volatility and liquidity.
Through this strict approval by either the Brokerage Division techniques indicate that the probability of fide-gearing process and the ability to Credit Committee or Group Risk Committee the Group incurring any loss from these liquidate most positions quickly, Man can in accordance with delegated authority limits guarantees is less than 0.5%.
confidently manage its credit risk exposure.
The credit risk is diversified between customers and counterparties The Groups investment in the Note issued The same risk monitoring and controls across a wide range of markets.
The majority by a third party, referred to above, in relation apply equally to those fund products which of customers and counterparties are based to the financing provided by that third party borrow externally and these support the in OECD countries.
The Group grades at 31 March 2005 amounted to $41 million Group's contingent exposures under first countries according to its perception of 2004: $105 million.
This Note is included risk of loss guarantees and its investment risk and limits for aggregate exposures within current asset investments in the in the Note relating to the external facility to countries are set by the Group Risk Groups balance sheet.
A credit default provided by a third party.
Committee in accordance with delegated swap with an AA-rated counterparty has authority limits set by the Board.
The been put in place, which protects the Group The amounts owing to Brokerage by credit risk management processes in from the risk that the Note issuer is unable customers and counterparties are largely both divisions are subject to regular to repay amounts contractually due up to in respect of instruments, such as futures review by Internal Audit.
and other derivative contracts, whose value changes as market prices change.
Market risk Brokerage had, at 31 March 2005, granted Accordingly Brokerage monitors both Risk identification credit lines to customers which amounted to current exposures, computed by reference Market risk is the possibility that the Group $927 million 2004: $680 million.
At 31 March to the mark-to-market value of positions, may suffer a loss resulting from the 2005, $711 million 2004: $465 million of this and potential futures exposures, computed fluctuations in the values of, or income from, amount related to initial margin that customers by reference to stressed values based proprietary assets or liabilities.
It includes were not required to cover with cash collateral largely on modelling of the effect of extreme losses on those assets or liabilities arising and the remainder related to credit lines given market movements on these values.
from fluctuations in interest rates and for variation margin.
Utilisation of these lines exchange rates.
It also includes the at 31 March 2005 amounted to $373 million In Brokerage, a key control to mitigate credit contingent market risks which could arise 2004: $245 million, of which $350 million risk on cleared business is the initial margin if external lenders were to claim under the 2004: $216 million related to initial margin.
paid by customers as a deposit before they Groups CPAs with them or from those CPAs In addition customers owed Brokerage, can commence trading.
Brokerage uses which relate to the Groups normal practice largely in respect of margin calls and software to test the adequacy of initial of offering enhanced liquidity to investors in commissions receivable for execution margins and, where appropriate, sets margin certain products.
business, a further $99 million at 31 March requirements at higher levels than those 2005 2004: $83 million.
requested by the exchanges to minimise The Group does not take market risk for the credit risk.
Most customers are required to purpose of earning a return on that risk as a Brokerage has experienced only small cover initial and variation margins with cash.
central feature of its overall business model: losses from credit risk amounting to Client activity levels are monitored daily to rather this risk arises from supporting $2.4 million in 2005 2004: $1.3 million.
ensure credit exposures are maintained in activities in the business of each division.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2005 37 Financial Review Asset Management is exposed to market The Groups earnings are potentially These limits are set in accordance with risk on proprietary investments in various exposed to the effect of movements in delegated authorities approved by the fund products.
These include seed capital interest rates to the extent that there is a Board.
Approval of new investments is provided to a new manager, where Man mismatch between floating rate deposits granted by the Supervisory Investment purchases shares in a fund before selling and other investments and fixed rate Committee in Asset Management or, in them to third party investors or redeeming borrowings.
However, it is the Groups the case of larger investments, by the them at a later date, typically holding the policy to hedge this risk and, after taking GRC.
A series of risk measures relating investment for a period between six and into account interest rate swaps, there was to these investments is reviewed regularly 12 months.
Proprietary holdings are also no net exposure to interest rate movements usually weekly and appropriate action is taken in established funds in order to test a in either 2004 or 2005 other than the taken if the risk deviates from predetermined new model, market or instruments, revised exposure to Brokerage referred to above.
software or changes in investment processes before exposing third party investor money Risk measurement Proprietary investments inventory with a to these changes.
For certain funds, Asset Proprietary investments in fund products value of $85 million, previously held for the Management will also buy shares from at 31 March 2005 amounted in aggregate purpose of making markets in fund units, investors between the funds quarterly to $236 million 2004: $312 million, was realised during the year when Asset dealing dates, and will hold these shares including $26 million resulting from the Management entered into an agreement until they can be sold to a third party provision of enhanced liquidity to investors with Credit Suisse First Boston, who investor or transferred into another product 2004: $111 million.
acquired these assets on 31 March 2005 structure or redeemed.
This enhanced and now provide the market making liquidity service is discretionary and does The Group assesses the risk on these services to investors in such funds.
investments using a risk of worst loss methodology, which is similar to value at risk.
In order to reduce the market and liquidity Asset Management is also exposed to The style allocations of the investments are risks associated with CPAs, the Group now market risk as a result of the contingent jointly modelled using forward-looking seeks to obtain external funding without the exposures that arise on the CPAs it has assumptions, including correlations during requirement to provide a CPA to the third entered into in respect of some of the third times of market stress, and a high proportion party lender.
Group Risk Committee party loans to fund products.
In the event of of the resulting worst loss distribution is approval is required for any external loan to a certain default clauses being triggered the taken.
Using this methodology the annual fund that is subject to a CPA.
third party lender has the right to require risk of loss in the Groups continuing activities Man to purchase the fund shares held as was modelled at $25 million at 31 March Tight limits are also imposed on the net collateral.
If a third party purchaser cannot 2005 at a 99.8% confidence interval 2004: positions that can remain open at the end be found for such shares, these would $24 million.
of each day in Brokerage in the products become a proprietary holding of the Group traded as principal such as the metals, which is exposed to market risk for the At 31 March 2005, the aggregate risk of foreign exchange and energy markets.
period between issuing a redemption notice loss to which the Group was exposed and the redemption date typically of up to through its normal practice of providing Liquidity risk four and a half months.
monthly liquidity to investors and its Risk identification committed purchase agreements with This is the risk that the Group, even if it has In most markets Brokerage acts as an external lenders amounted to $71 million adequate capital resources, does not have intermediary, resulting in limited market risk 2004: $67 million using the same annual sufficient financial resources that can be to the Group.
The exceptions are intra-day risk of loss methodology to a confidence used to enable it to meet its obligations as positions in foreign exchange, metals and level of 99.8% and after taking into account they fall due, or can secure them only at energy where Brokerage acts as principal the contingent nature of these exposures excessive cost.
and there may be time delays between and the likelihood of them arising.
The division Group funding and liquidity risk is managed may also maintain small positions overnight The gains and losses from all proprietary centrally.
The Group finances its operations in these markets.
investments are included within Asset from the cash flow generated by its Management net performance fee income operations, bank borrowings on both a The Groups net assets are exposed to the and in 2005 a net gain of $27 million was committed and uncommitted basis and effect of movements in the exchange rate recorded 2004: $20 million.
The Group through finance obtained from the wider between the US dollar and other currencies recorded a net gain on these holdings in capital markets.
Substantially all of the to the extent that the Group has net assets 9 out of 12 months in 2005 2004: 12.
Groups borrowings are via Man Group plc or liabilities in currencies other than the US the Company or its two central finance dollar.
The effect of exchange rate variation Note 22 c to the Accounts shows subsidiary companies, which on-lend on revenues and expenses is considered a exposures that give rise to net currency to other subsidiaries in the divisions.
In business risk and is discussed further above.
gains and losses recognised in the profit ordinary circumstances Brokerage is selfBrokerage is also exposed to interest rate and loss account.
As that note shows, financing with the inflows of initial margin variation in respect of balances held on unmatched net assets are not significant.
and variation margin received from behalf of customers.
In this respect, an customers and counterparties capable of increase in short-term interest rates is Risk mitigation meeting the outflows of margin payments beneficial to the earnings of the division.
Limits are placed on proprietary to exchanges and other counterparties.
This is considered a component of business investments in funds, both at the level In stress scenarios Brokerage may find it risk and is discussed further above.
of the individual fund and in aggregate.
necessary to utilise the Groups bank Man Group plc Annual Report 2005 38 Financial Review facilities to meet exceptional cash outflows.
to use some of the other mitigants that are take to manage its funding requirements.
These would typically result from a situation available and are under its complete control.
These actions could include the recall of in which there has been a settlement These are discussed further in the section loans to funds which are, substantially, failure in respect of a large transaction or in on Risk mitigation below.
Since the tenor discretionary facilities repayable to the circumstances where there have been very of external loans to funds is typically shorter Group on demand.
large movements in market prices and there than the term to maturity of the related is a requirement to pay significant amounts funds, the Group has considered the Available liquidity of margin before an equivalent amount has possibility that it may not be able to roll over At 31 March 2005 the Group had total been collected from customers.
They could or find alternative providers of such funding facilities of $4.05 billion 2004: $3.11 billion also arise from a much greater drawdown in time in the event that one or more providers of which $2.77 billion 2004: $1.97 billion of credit lines by those customers to whom of this funding did not wish to renew.
The bank credit facilities total Brokerage has granted credit.
the basis of the maturity profile of the external $2.84 billion of which 87% are committed.
loans, the number of competing providers Within Asset Management the principal of such funding and, ultimately, since the The following table summarises the Groups usage of liquidity is by the funds Group would be under no obligation to available debt by maturity as at 31 March themselves.
While the majority of this replace external funding with loans of its 2005 based on final stated maturity.
funding is provided by external parties, the own, the Board is confident that this does Maturity by period Group also provides some of the credit not result in unacceptable liquidity risk.
Less After used by the funds, as explained in the than 1-3 4-5 5 Credit risk section above.
Risk mitigation Total 1 year years years years $m $m $m $m $m The liquidity risk management framework Short-term Risk measurement and significant related policies are reviewed bank debt 513 513 Liquidity risk is assessed by means of stress and approved by the GRC, Board and Long-term testing and scenario analysis.
The effect of ARCom and these bodies are informed bank debt 2,325 2,325 each of the factors referred to above which monthly about the Groups current and Exchangeable drive the level of funding that the Group prospective liquidity conditions.
They are Bond 755 755 might be called on to provide to the divisions also responsible for approving settlement Senior Private Placement 300 45 145 110 is considered against the background of limits for individual counterparties under Subordinated seven scenarios and five combinations of delegated authorities approved by the Board.
The scenarios, which were Total facilities 4,053 513 45 3,385 110 developed by Group Risk in conjunction with The short-term tactical management of the divisions and approved by the Group liquidity takes place largely within the The tenor of the Groups debt has changed Risk Committee, included the effect of major divisions, which also provide Group significantly during the year with 86% of the adverse market movements, extreme levels Treasury with forecasts of their likely future total facility having a maturity of more than of net redemptions in Asset Management, cash flows and any requirements for funding one year 2004: 53%.
substantial increases in margin levels at from the Groups central facilities.
exchanges, a major settlement failure, In June 2004 the Group entered into a unusually high net flows into segregated The Groups overall approach is to provide new five-year $2.275 billion syndicated accounts within Brokerage and various sufficient liquidity to be able to meet, from credit facility which increased and replaced triggers of default provisions within its available facilities under stressed the previous facility.
At 31 March 2005 committed purchase agreements.
scenarios, the planned requirements of the $2.225 billion of this facility was unused business to a 99% confidence level.
This facility expires in The parameters of the scenarios were extreme liquidity stresses are to be met June 2009.
There are no circumstances determined through a combination of from other mechanisms under the Groups under which this facility would not be statistical analysis and the application of control.
The guiding principle is to ensure available for use.
experienced judgement to provide what that funding both directly to the Group and is felt to be a prudent view of what to the funds managed by the Group is The Group has a 400 million $755 million could happen in the relatively remote obtained from diverse markets and seven-year Exchangeable Bond with a circumstances defined by the scenarios.
providers and with a range of maturities.
coupon of 3.75% which has no put option The analysis also considered the time This is to ensure a stable flow of financing and which can be called by the Group from period over which and the time zone in and to provide protection in the event of its fifth anniversary in November 2007 in which the liquidity demands might arise market disruption.
Its final maturity is as well as the currency and geographic in 2009.
During the year the Group issued location.
These were compared with the The amount of the potential liquidity $300 million of senior debt by way of a availability of funding from the Groups requirement is assessed through the scenario private placement in the US which has a committed bank lines.
Group Treasury series of maturities as shown in the table is responsible for securing the appropriate above.
This is in addition to $160 million of On the basis of these parameters, the analysis funding to meet this requirement.
subordinated debt issued in the US private shows that the Group can meet the required placement market in March 2004, which has liquidity under any of the stress scenarios with The Group also has a contingency funding a 10-year final maturity with a call option in a confidence level of 99% from its committed plan in place under which a Funding year five.
This latter debt qualifies as Tier 2 bank facilities alone.
The Group can meet and Liquidity Taskforce would meet in capital for regulatory capital purposes.
modelled liquidity requirements to higher circumstances of extreme liquidity stress to levels of confidence than 99% if it chooses consider the actions that the Group should Man Group plc Annual Report 2005 39 Financial Review The Group also has uncommitted bilateral products, potential conflicts of interest, Groups risk management framework to facilities of $370 million 2004: $330 million.
money-laundering, know your customer ensure that it meets what the Board regards These facilities are all on broadly similar requirements and confidentiality and privacy.
as best practice for asset management and terms to the main syndicated facility and These policies and procedures are reviewed brokerage businesses.
frequently to ensure that they are consistent with our high standards and meet or The quantitative work shows that the External financing initiatives exceed regulatory requirements.
regulatory capital requirement is likely to There is an element of leverage in many of increase as a result of the introduction of the private investor product structures and The Group aims to ensure that appropriate the new category relating to operational also for some of the products provided to structures are in place to protect the risk.
However, current forecasts indicate institutional investors.
The Group continues interests of investors in the funds managed that the Group will continue, including to arrange for provision of this requirement by the Group.
even in various stressed scenarios and from external providers on behalf of these after taking into account the effect of fund entities.
The more temporary bridging Future developments changes in reporting under IFRS, to hold funding requirements of fund entities are In June 2004 the Basel Committee on surplus regulatory capital when the new provided by the Group.
Banking Supervision issued a new capital rules take effect in 2007. adequacy framework referred to as Basel At 31 March 2005 the funds had borrowings II, which is intended to replace the existing from the Group totalling $0.5 billion 2004: framework for determining regulatory capital.
$0.4 billion, a further $0.7 billion from In Europe, Basel II will be implemented two collateralised fund obligations 2004: via the Capital Requirements Directive $0.7 billion and borrowings totalling $6.8 which will apply to credit institutions and billion from 23 banks 2004: $3.5 billion.
A draft text, which largely The Group, as a matter of policy, now seeks incorporates the requirements set out in to pre-arrange the funding requirements for Basel II, was issued by the European Union the private investor fund products, thus in July 2004, and will be subject to a formal avoiding the need for the Group to provide EU legislative process.
the initial funding for funds shortly after launch.
The changes will be embodied in the FSAs rules and guidance and the FSA published The Group now seeks to obtain external a consultation paper in January 2005 funding without the requirement to provide setting out its proposed approach to the any committed purchase agreement to the implementation of the EU directives.
At 31 March 2005 the to further consultation, the changes are committed purchase agreements in place currently scheduled to take effect from in respect of third party loans to funds 1 January 2007. amounted to $3.8 billion 2004: $3.0 billion.
The new capital framework will consist of Ratings three pillars: The Groups long-term senior debt ratings are Afrom Fitch Ratings and Baa1 from Pillar 1 sets out the alternative Moodys, both with stable outlooks.
During approaches for calculating capital, the year Fitch reaffirmed its rating and including a new category to cover Moodys downgraded its rating from A3 to operational risk.
The Group aims to maintain a rating Pillar 2 requires firms to provide their own of at least BBB Baa1 over the long-term.
internal assessment of capital requirements and which deals with the Reputation risk supervisory review process.
In common with other financial services Pillar 3 deals with disclosure and market businesses, our success depends not only discipline.
on the effective management of the risks outlined above, but also on the maintenance The Group has, since September 2003, of our reputation among many stakeholders been carrying out a programme, which is shareholders, investors in funds, lenders, integrated across all its principal businesses regulators, key business partners and the and locations, to ensure that it will be ready general public for the way in which we for the changes to the regulatory conduct our business.
requirements including both quantitative aspects relating to regulatory capital Man has established several policies and calculation and qualitative aspects relating procedures to ensure that high standards of to systems and controls.
The qualitative ethical conduct are applied across its aspects will also address changes to ensure business globally.
These address issues compliance with the Markets in Financial such as our fiduciary duty to investors and Instruments Directive.
This programme customers, sales and trading practices, new forms part of a broader evolution in the Man Group plc Annual Report 2005 40 Board of Directors 1 2 34 5 67 8 9 10 11
