Operating and financial review Risk factors In addition to the other information contained in this Annual 3.
Technological changes in communication and information Report, investors in Cable & Wireless should consider carefully the technology may render the Groups products and services risks described below.
The Groups financial condition or results of obsolete or non-competitive resulting in an adverse impact operations could be materially adversely affected should any of on financial results.
The telecommunications industry is subject to rapid and significant changes in technology.
The development of new technologies could Risks specific to Cable & Wireless business render its current services obsolete and non-competitive and 1.
The restructuring of the Group may not result in an require the Group to write-down further the book values of improvement to performance and financial position.
investments it has made in existing technologies.
In June 2003 Cable & Wireless announced that it was undertaking, over a three year period, a restructuring of its businesses to improve The Groups business plan contemplates the introduction of its position in a rapidly changing market place.
Cable & Wireless services using new technologies and it may have to make substantial restructuring plans continue to be implemented and developed.
additional investments in new technologies in order to remain In November 2004, a Group re-organisation was announced, which competitive.
In particular, Cable & Wireless is investing in a is intended to result in 35 million annualised cost savings by broadband access network through Bulldog and a Next Generation March 2006, with a planned headcount reduction of 600 in the Network in the UK, and has also invested in a GSM mobile network European business and Corporate Office being key elements of this in the National Telcos.
Such new technologies that the Group reorganisation.
It is also planned to reduce headcount in the UK sales chooses to invest in may not prove to be successful, and the cost channels by 480 over the same period.
Delays in implementation of implementation for emerging and future technologies could be may lead to management not being able to concentrate on significant and constitute a negative return on the investment.
developing their businesses with certainty, or to pursue opportunities in their respective marketplaces: in addition, forecast In addition, Cable & Wireless may not receive the necessary licences cost savings may not be achieved in full and costs incurred in to provide services based on new technologies in jurisdictions in connection with restructuring efforts may be higher than estimated.
It may also be forced to change its product and service offerings or pay higher costs if the third-party technology In April 2005, Cable &Wireless announced the investment of that it employs changes or if the price of such technology increases.
190 million, over the next three years, on a Next Generation As a result, the Group could lose customers, fail to attract new Network NGN in the UK.
NGN is designed to, among other customers or incur substantial costs to maintain its customer base.
things, protect margins in the UK.
However, NGN may fail to achieve the cost savings expected, costs incurred may be higher than 4.
Network and critical IT system failures may expose the Group expected and the efforts may fail to attract and keep new customers.
to potential liability or loss of customers.
The Groups operations are dependent upon networks which 2.
Transformation initiatives by the Group may not be may or may not be controlled by Cable & Wireless.
the Group is dependent on a number of critical IT systems to be The Group has been in rapid transition in the past few years, able to conduct its business and process financial information.
acquiring and disposing of a number of businesses, as well as Catastrophic network failure, a major network interruption or an IT adapting to a changing telecommunications business environment, system failure may occur as a result of natural disasters, a loss of a and implementing a number of reorganisation initiatives as a result.
major element of the network, security breaches, terrorist action or In June 2003 Cable & Wireless announced its intention, over time, computer viruses.
Such catastrophic failures or interruptions could to expand its investment in national telecommunications operations, result in the loss of customers as well as exposure to potential such as the Groups investment in June 2004 in Monaco Telecom.
claims from customers based on the loss of service.
A failure or This may include acquiring further entities and businesses.
interruption could also require expensive repairs or modifications to the Groups assets and infrastructure.
The Group has in the past dedicated, and expects in the future to dedicate, significant resources to integrate any businesses that it has Regulatory risk or will acquire and to effect any rationalisation of its operations.
Unforeseen changes in regulation and government policy in Implementation of both these elements is complex, time-consuming the countries in which Cable & Wireless operates may result and expensive, and without proper planning and execution, could in planned business objectives not being met.
significantly disrupt the Groups business.
The Group operates in some highly regulated markets, and its flexibility to manage its business can be constrained by regulation In addition, the acquisition of Bulldog is an important step in in these markets.
advancing the Groups access strategy.
We believe LLU strengthens the Groups presence in the access network market by enabling The Groups ability to provide telecommunications services Bulldog to take control of the last mile copper link to the depends, in most countries, on receiving and maintaining customers home or office.
Our initiatives with Bulldog and LLU government licences and authorisations.
could fail and our investment in LLU may not achieve the expected return on investment or access to new markets.
Performance Operating and financial review Risk factors Compliance with these licences and applicable local laws requires cannot obtain the capacity it requires to adequately serve all of its that Group companies obtain consents or approvals from regulatory existing customers or to connect all of its potential new customers, authorities for certain activities.
the Group may lose them to its competitors.
All of this could have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial results.
Furthermore, regulatory regimes in some countries in which the Group operates are less well established than in other countries 7.
The Group may lose revenue if unlicensed operators are able to where competition in the telecommunications sector has been gain access to the Groups network.
As a result, the Groups business in these In certain markets where the Group operates, unlicensed operators countries could be subject to unexpected political, economic or may seek to gain access to the Groups network unlawfully without legal developments that impact telecommunications regulations and paying for such access and or usage.
The Group has processes in lead to the Group being unable to acquire or retain the regulatory place to identify and prevent such occurrences, but actions available approvals necessary to its business.
Failure to acquire and retain such to it may be limited by local regulation.
To the extent that the consents and approvals or in other ways to comply with regulatory Groups efforts to prevent the unlawful conduct are not wholly requirements could have a material adverse effect on its results or successful, it may lose revenue and the Groups financial operations either in that jurisdiction or in aggregate.
performance may be adversely impacted.
Future regulation may materially impact the Group, for example by Risks specific to the telecommunications industry resulting in changes to the terms of interconnection agreements 8.
The Groups operations could suffer from adverse effects of with other network operators and other similar agreements: competition and price pressures on the demand for products imposing market-access barriers: setting price caps or other forms and services.
of price regulation: imposing limitations or investment obligations on The Group faces competition and downward pressure on prices construction of new facilities and restrictions on repatriation of cash.
in many areas and markets of its business.
The Groups competitors The number of regulatory measures may also significantly increase, may be able to expand their network infrastructures and service or become significantly more onerous where jurisdictions in which offerings more quickly than the Group.
The Group also believes the Group operates reform their telecommunications and related the sector may experience consolidation in the near future, which laws and regulations.
Complying with new or more onerous could result, amongst other things, in competitors with greater regulations and restrictions may be costly for the Group, and may scale that would make it more difficult for Cable & Wireless to have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial results.
In the UK, the LLU initiative through Bulldog is an important step As the markets for some of the Groups services expand in in advancing the Groups access strategy.
Ofcoms commitment certain locations, additional competition may emerge and existing to ensuring equality of access is key to Bulldogs success in LLU.
competitors may commit more resources to the markets in which However, there is no guarantee Ofcom will have the power to it participates.
For example, governments in various countries in make the required changes to the regulatory or competitive which the Group provides telecommunications services, in some framework to be able to deliver the competitive environment cases on an exclusive basis and in others where it until recently necessary, and therefore Bulldog may not reach the financial success provided services on an exclusive basis, have begun liberalising the it expects from LLU.
telecommunications industry by introducing regulated competitive markets for some products and services in place of exclusive 6.
Exposure to other telecommunications operators and the licences.
The Group is not able to predict accurately the extent to behaviour of other market participants may have a detrimental which it will lose market share to some of the competitors entering effect on the Groups operations.
the market as a result of this transformation and its operating results The Groups operations are, in part, dependent upon access to and revenues may be adversely affected.
networks that it does not own or entirely control.
In these cases, Cable & Wireless operations depend on network operators to 9.
Continued overcapacity and other factors could lead to lower provide interconnection services for the origination, carriage and or prices for the Groups products and services.
termination of some of its telecommunications services.
Many of the markets in which Cable & Wireless operates are experiencing considerable levels of overcapacity.
Coupled with low The Group has experienced interconnection capacity shortages in levels of demand growth this has contributed to a severe price the past, and it may do so again if it is unable to obtain and maintain decline in these markets.
This continuing trend could compel the the necessary interconnection and other transmission services in a Group to lower prices to prevent erosion of its market share or timely fashion and on acceptable commercial terms in each country to continue attracting new customers.
in which it intends to introduce or continue to offer its telecommunications services.
If the current overcapacity situation is not resolved or worsens, prices may continue to decline in the affected regions and such The Group may also be subject to the constraints, including financial price decline could have a material adverse effect on the Groups constraints, of the relevant network operator, which may be unable financial results.
to provide any or all of the capacity that the Group requests.
Mobile communications devices may pose health risks.
The significant key risks identified are as follows: Media reports have suggested that radio frequency emissions from mobile telephone handsets and transmission facilities may pose failure of reinsurance including reinsurances secured via the various health risks, including cancer, and may interfere with various Mutual post-April 2003 : electronic medical devices, including hearing aids and pacemakers.
Research and studies into the health risks posed by mobile telephone deterioration in known claims: and handsets and transmission facilities are ongoing.
Cable & Wireless provides mobile services principally in the Caribbean, Panama, Macau notification of new claims under long tail losses occurring and Monaco and also provides national and international network liability policies.
Cable & Wireless continues to monitor scientific and medical research and studies, media, legal, regulatory Certain of Penders re-insurers have instituted proceedings and other developments, as well as the public perception of risk seeking a declaration that they are entitled to avoid some of their arising from the use of mobile telephone handsets.
on mobile telephone handsets and health has been reviewed by a number of independent expert scientific panels.
None of these If any of these risks materialise Pender may be subject to panels has concluded that the use of mobile telephone handsets significant liabilities which its assets may not be sufficient to meet.
Moreover, there can be no assurance that these arrangements will not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of the Nonetheless, increased speculation regarding health risks associated Cable & Wireless Group.
with mobile telephone handsets and transmission facilities or any subsequent substantiation of such risks could have a material The suit commenced by Cable and Wireless plc and Pender on adverse effect on the Groups business including through: 30 March 2004, against five companies and six individuals five of whom were former Cable & Wireless employees has now been a reduction in the number of actual and potential customers: widened to cover seven corporate defendants and nine individuals.
Three of these defendants have lodged a counter-claim against the reduced usage per customer: Company.
The Cable & Wireless Board continues to believe that the circumstances giving rise to this suit have not had nor will have a exposure to potential litigation or other liability: material adverse effect on the Cable & Wireless Group.
regulatory intervention and new legislation: or 12.
The ongoing US Securities Act Class action might adversely impact the Groups financial condition.
exposure to adverse publicity and damage to reputation.
The class action detailed in Operations and financial review Legal proceedings on page 93 was filed against the Company in the Legal and Other United States.
If the settlement agreement for which all parties are 11.
The historic activities of the Groups insurance subsidiary may seeking the Courts approval does not reach the stage of receiving result in material claims.
final Court approval for any reason, the plaintiffs may seek to appeal Pender Insurance Limited Pender is the companys Isle of Man the initial decision of the District Court.
Since its establishment in 1990 it has underwritten global insurances for both Cable & Wireless, and In addition, Cable & Wireless is from time to time involved in other in later years, third party companies.
It ceased to underwrite any material litigation, which if decided adversely to the Group could, new business from April 2003. individually or in the aggregate, adversely impact its financial condition or reputation.
The insurances provided included property damage, business interruption, natural catastrophe, general liability, professional 13.
The Groups withdrawal from the US domestic market may indemnity and directors and officers liability.
result in unforeseen claims against Cable & Wireless.
Details of the Groups withdrawal from the US domestic market Pender purchased reinsurance for many of the risks it underwrote, through a Chapter 11 bankruptcy process of its US subsidiaries including, from 2003, reinsurance via a telecommunications insurance are set out in the Business overview Acquisitions and disposals industry mutual the Mutual.
Pender remains liable for all policies on page 23. it underwrote in the first instance notwithstanding the reinsurances.
Although the Plan of Liquidation is ongoing and, as part of that plan, Pender has an independent board of directors and is managed Cable and Wireless has taken measures to reduce its exposure to by Thomas Miller Risk Management Isle of Man.
Penders risk third party claims by means of measures including the reduction of exposures are identified and regularly monitored by the directors.
its claims against CWA in exchange for releases from any liability from CWA: and the assignment of a portion of the distributions, to Performance Operating and financial review Risk factors which it would otherwise have been entitled, to individual unsecured creditors in exchange for individual releases for claims against the Company, there is no guarantee that Cable and Wireless plc will not be the target of claims from third parties who believe they might have contractual or other rights enforceable directly against the Company.
In addition, despite the existence of contractual rights in its favour from SAVVIS in relation to the guarantees and letters of credit in favour of CWA landlords as described in the Business overview, Cable and Wireless plc is subject to the risk that SAVVIS is unable to meet its contractual obligations to reimburse it for payments made under those guarantees and letters of credit.
Changes in the pension regulatory framework and volatility in the financial markets may require the Group to provide further cash funding to its pension funds.
Cable & Wireless currently maintains a number of defined benefit plans, which cover various categories of employees and retirees.
The Groups obligations to make contributions to fund benefit obligations under these plans are based on actuarial valuations, which themselves are based on certain assumptions about the long-term operation of the plans, including employee turnover and retirement rates, the performance of the financial markets, interest rates and expected longevity mortality.
If the actual operation of the plans differs from the assumptions, additional contributions may be required.
The equity markets can be, and recently have been, volatile, and therefore the estimate of future contribution requirements can change significantly in a short period of time.
Similarly, changes in interest rates may also impact funding requirements.
In the UK, which has the most significant defined benefit scheme, changes to the regulatory environment, and the introduction of the Pension Act 2004 may also lead to an increasingly conservative actuarial valuation approach and investment strategy.
If the Group is required to make significant contributions to fund the defined benefit plans, the financial position could be materially and adversely affected and the cash flow available for other uses may be significantly reduced.
Fluctuations in currency exchange rates in the countries where Cable & Wireless operates may adversely affect the Groups reported results and financial condition.
A significant percentage of Cable & Wireless business is conducted outside the United Kingdom.
The Group is thus exposed to movements in exchange rates in relation to foreign currency receipts and payments, dividend and other income from foreign subsidiaries, reported profits of foreign subsidiaries and the net asset carrying value of foreign investments.
The Group manages its exposure to movements in exchange rates on a net basis, and where appropriate, uses forward foreign exchange contracts and other derivative and financial instruments to reduce the exposure.
To the extent that this hedging activity does not cover the exposure, then the Groups results of operations, cash generation and financial condition may be negatively impacted by currency exchange rate movements.
