Risk factors The International Organisation of Securities Commissions IOSCO In all markets in which Prudential operates, its businesses has recommended that annual reports of publicly held companies are susceptible to general economic conditions and changes include a section on risk factors which discusses inherent risks in investment returns which can change the level of demand in the business and trading environment.
The US Securities and for Prudentials products.
Past uncertain trends in international Exchange Commission SEC requires listed companies to disclose economic and investment climates which have adversely affected prominently risk factors that are specific to the companies or Prudentials business and profitability could be repeated.
This their industries in their annual reports on Form 20-F filed with adverse effect would be felt principally through reduced the SEC.
The Accounting Standards Boards Reporting Statement: investment returns and credit defaults.
In addition, falling Operating and Financial Review OFR, recommends as best investment returns could impair Prudentials operational capability, practice, that the OFR has a description of the principal risks and including its ability to write significant volumes of new business.
The European Union EU Prudential in the normal course of business enters into a variety of Prospectus Directive also requires disclosure of risk factors.
transactions, including derivative transactions with counterparties.
Failure of any of these counterparties, particularly in conditions of A number of factors risk factors affect Prudentials operating results, major market disruption, to discharge their obligations, or where financial condition and trading price.
The risk factors mentioned adequate collateral is not in place, could have an adverse impact below should not be regarded as a complete and comprehensive on Prudentials results.
statement of all potential risks and uncertainties.
The information given is as of the date of this report, is not updated, and any Prudential is subject to the risk of exchange rate forward-looking statements are made subject to the reservations fluctuations owing to the geographical diversity of specified on the inside back cover of the Annual Report.
Due to the geographical diversity of Prudentials businesses, it Prudentials businesses are inherently subject to market is subject to the risk of exchange rate fluctuations.
Prudentials fluctuations and general economic conditions.
international operations in the US and Asia, which represent a Prudentials businesses are inherently subject to market significant proportion of operating profit and shareholders funds, fluctuations and general economic conditions.
In the UK, this is generally write policies and invest in assets denominated in local because a significant part of Prudentials shareholders profit is currency.
Although this practice limits the effect of exchange rate related to bonuses for policyholders declared on its with-profits fluctuations on local operating results, it can lead to significant products, which are broadly based on historic and current rates fluctuations in Prudentials consolidated financial statements upon of return on equity, real estate and fixed income securities, as well translation of results into pounds sterling.
The currency exposure as Prudentials expectations of future investment returns.
relating to the translation of reported earnings is not separately In the US, fluctuations in prevailing interest rates can affect results managed.
Consequently, this could impact on the Groups gearing from Jackson National Life JNL which is predominantly a spreadratios defined as debt over debt plus shareholders funds.
The based business with the majority of its assets invested in fixed impact of gains or losses on currency translations is recorded as income securities.
In particular, fixed annuities and stable value a component of shareholders funds within the statement of products in JNL expose the Group to the risk that changes in changes in equity.
interest rates which are not fully reflected in the interest rates Prudential conducts its businesses subject to regulation and credited to customers will reduce spread.
The spread is the associated regulatory risks, including the effects of changes difference between the amounts that JNL is required to pay in the laws, regulations, policies and interpretations and under the contracts and the rate of return it is able to earn on its any accounting standards in the markets in which it operates.
general account investments to support the obligations under the Changes in government policy, legislation or regulatory contracts.
Declines in spread from these products or other spread interpretation applying to companies in the financial services businesses that JNL conducts could have a material impact on its and insurance industries in any of the markets in which businesses or results of operations.
Prudential operates, which in some circumstances may be applied For some non unit-linked investment products, in particular those retrospectively, may adversely affect Prudentials product range, written in some of the Groups Asian operations, it may not be distribution channels, capital requirements and, consequently, possible to hold assets which will provide cash flows to exactly reported results and financing requirements.
For instance, match those relating to policyholder liabilities.
This is particularly regulators in jurisdictions in which Prudential operates may change true in those countries where bond markets are not developed the level of capital required to be held by individual businesses.
Also and in certain markets such as Taiwan where regulated surrender these changes could include possible changes in the regulatory values are set with reference to the interest rate environment framework for pension arrangements and policies, the regulation prevailing at time of policy issue.
This is due to the duration and of selling practices and solvency requirements.
In the UK, the uncertainty of the liability cash flows and the lack of sufficient Financial Services Authoritys FSA depolarisation reforms and assets of a suitable duration.
This results in a residual asset liability the rules relating to stakeholder products could have a significant mismatch risk which can be managed but not eliminated.
Where effect on types of products sold by Prudential, how its products interest rates in these markets remain lower than surrender values are priced, distributed and sold and on shareholders return over a sustained period this could have an adverse impact on the on with-profits business.
Similar changes in regulation in other Groups reported profit.
jurisdictions could also have an impact elsewhere in the Group.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2005 201 Risk factors continued The EU Financial Conglomerates Directive FCD requires Prudentials businesses are conducted in highly European financial services groups to demonstrate net aggregate competitive environments with developing demographic surplus capital in excess of solvency requirements at the Group trends and Prudentials continued profitability depends level in respect of shareholder-owned entities.
The test is a on its managements ability to respond to these pressures continuous requirement so that Prudential needs to maintain a and trends.
somewhat higher amount of regulatory capital at the Group level The markets for the UK, US and Asian financial services are highly than otherwise necessary in respect of some of its individual competitive, with several factors affecting Prudentials ability to sell businesses to accommodate, for example, short-term movements its products and continued profitability, including price and yields in global foreign exchange rates, interest rates, deterioration offered, financial strength and ratings, range of product lines and in credit quality and equity markets.
In addition, changes in the product quality, brand strength and name recognition, investment local regulatory regimes of designated territories could affect the management performance, historical bonus levels, developing calculation of the Groups solvency position under FCD.
The EU is demographic trends and customer appetite for certain savings also currently reviewing future solvency requirements Solvency II products.
In some of its markets Prudential faces competitors that with a directive expected during 2007 for implementation by member are larger, have greater financial resources or a greater market states.
Inconsistent application of these directives by regulators in share, offer a broader range of products or have higher bonus different EU member states may place Prudential at a competitive rates or claims-paying ratios.
Further, heightened competition for disadvantage to other European financial services groups.
talented and skilled employees with local experience, particularly in Asia, may limit the Groups potential to grow its business as Various jurisdictions in which Prudential operates have created quickly as planned.
investor compensation schemes that require mandatory contributions from market participants in some instances in the Within the UK, Prudentials principal competitors in the life market event of a failure of a market participant.
As a major participant include many of the major stock and mutual retail financial services in the majority of its chosen markets, circumstances could arise companies including, in particular, Aviva, Legal & General, HBOS where Prudential, along with other companies, may be required and Standard Life.
JNLs competitors in the US include major stock and mutual Any further changes or modification of the recently introduced insurance companies, mutual fund organisations, banks and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS accounting other financial services companies.
JNLs principal life insurance policies and European Embedded Value EEV guidance may company competitors in the US include AIG, Allstate Financial, require a change in the reporting basis of future results or a Allianz Life of North America, AXA Financial Inc, Hartford Life Inc. restatement of reported results.
ING, John Hancock, Lincoln Financial Group, Met Life and Prudential Financial.
The resolution of several issues affecting the financial services industry could have a negative impact on Within Asia, the Groups main regional competitors are Prudentials reported results or on its relations with international financial companies, including AIG, Allianz, ING current and potential customers.
Prudential is, and in the future may be, subject to legal and Prudential believes competition will intensify across all regions regulatory actions in the ordinary course of its business, both in in response to consumer demand, technological advances, the the UK and internationally.
This could be a review of business impact of consolidation, regulatory actions and other factors.
sold in the past under previously acceptable market practices at Prudentials ability to generate an appropriate return depends the time.
Pending legal and regulatory actions include proceedings significantly upon its capacity to anticipate and respond relating to aspects of Prudentials business and operations which appropriately to these competitive pressures.
are typical of the business it operates in such as the requirement in the UK to provide redress to certain past purchasers of pension Downgrades in Prudentials financial strength and credit and mortgage endowment policies and regulatory reviews on ratings could significantly impact its competitive position products sold and industry practices, including in the latter case and hurt its relationships with creditors or trading businesses it has closed.
Prudentials financial strength and credit ratings, which are In the US, federal and state regulators have focused on, and intended to measure its ability to meet policyholder obligations, continue to devote substantial attention to, the mutual fund, are an important factor affecting public confidence in most variable annuity and insurance product industries including new of Prudentials products, and as a result its competitiveness.
federal regulations in respect of broker-dealers.
As a result of Downgrades in Prudentials ratings could have an adverse effect publicity relating to widespread perceptions of industry abuses, on its ability to market products and retain current policyholders.
there have been numerous regulatory inquiries and proposals In addition, the interest rates Prudential pays on its borrowings are for legislative and regulatory reforms.
affected by its debt credit ratings, which are in place to measure Although Prudential believes it has adequately reserved in all Prudentials ability to meet its contractual obligations.
Prudential material aspects for the costs of litigation and regulatory matters, believes the credit rating downgrades it experienced in 2002 no assurance can be provided that such reserves are sufficient.
and 2003, together with the rest of the UK insurance industry, It is possible that Prudentials future performance could be affected have not to date had a discernible impact on the performance by an unfavourable outcome in these matters.
202 Prudential plc Annual Report 2005 Prudentials long-term senior debt is rated as A2 stable outlook A further example is the assumption that Prudential makes about by Moodys, AA negative outlook by Standard & Poors and future expected levels of the rates of early termination of products AA stable outlook by Fitch.
This is particularly relevant to its lines of business other than its UK annuity business.
Prudentials Prudentials short-term debt is rated as P-1 by Moodys, A1 by persistency assumptions reflect recent past experience for each Standard & Poors and F1 by Fitch.
Any expected deterioration in future The PAC long-term fund is rated Aa1 stable outlook by Moodys, persistency is also reflected in the assumption.
If actual levels of AA stable outlook by Standard & Poors and AA by Fitch.
future persistency are significantly lower than assumed that is, policy termination rates are significantly higher than assumed, Adverse experience in the operational risks inherent Prudentials results of operations could be adversely affected.
in Prudentials business could have a negative impact on its results of operations.
In common with other industry participants, the profitability of Operational risks are present in all of Prudentials businesses, the Groups businesses depends on a mix of factors including including the risk of direct or indirect loss resulting from mortality and morbidity trends, policy surrender rates, investment inadequate or failed internal and external processes, systems performance, unit cost of administration and new business and human error or from external events.
Prudentials business is acquisition expense.
dependent on processing a large number of complex transactions As a holding company, Prudential is dependent across numerous and diverse products, and is subject to a number upon its subsidiaries to cover operating expenses of different legal and regulatory regimes.
In addition, Prudential and dividend payments.
outsources several operations, including certain UK processing Prudentials insurance and investment management operations and IT functions.
In turn, Prudential is reliant upon the operational are generally conducted through direct and indirect subsidiaries.
processing performance of its outsourcing partners.
As a holding company, Prudentials principal sources of funds Further, because of the long-term nature of much of Prudentials are dividends from subsidiaries, shareholder-backed funds, the business, accurate records have to be maintained for significant shareholder transfer from Prudentials long-term funds and any periods.
Prudentials systems and processes are designed to amounts that may be raised through the issuance of equity, debt ensure that the operational risks associated with its activities are and commercial paper.
appropriately controlled but, for example, any weakness in the Certain of the subsidiaries have regulatory restrictions that can limit administration systems or actuarial reserving processes could have the payment of dividends, which in some circumstances could limit an impact on its results of operations during the effective period.
the Groups ability to pay dividends to shareholders.
Prudential has not experienced or identified any operational risks in its systems or processes during 2005, or which have Prudential operates in a number of markets through joint subsequently caused, or are expected to cause, a significant ventures and other arrangements with third parties.
These negative impact on its results of operations.
arrangements involve certain risks that Prudential does not face with respect to its consolidated subsidiaries.
Adverse experience against the assumptions used in pricing Prudential operates, and in certain markets is required by local products and reporting business results could significantly regulation to operate, through joint ventures.
Prudentials ability to affect Prudentials results of operations.
exercise management control over its joint venture operations and Prudential needs to make assumptions about a number of factors its investment in them depends on the terms of the joint venture in determining the pricing of its products and for reporting the agreements, in particular, the allocation of control among, and results of its long-term business operations.
continued co-operation between, the joint venture participants.
For example, the assumption that Prudential makes about Prudential may also face financial or other exposure in the event future expected levels of mortality is particularly relevant for its that any of its joint venture partners fails to meet its obligations UK annuity business.
In exchange for a premium equal to the under the joint venture or encounters financial difficulty.
In addition, capital value of their accumulated pension fund, pension annuity a significant proportion of the Groups product distribution is policyholders receive a guaranteed payment, usually monthly, for carried out through arrangements with third parties not controlled as long as they are alive.
As part of its pension annuity pricing and by Prudential and is dependent upon continuation of these reserving policy, Prudential assumes that current rates of mortality relationships.
A temporary or permanent disruption to these continuously improve over time.
During the year, Prudential distribution arrangements could affect Prudentials results carried out a review of its mortality experience across all of its nonof operations.
As a result of this review, it strengthened the realistic and statutory male assumptions and weakened the realistic female assumptions to align the realistic assumptions with recent experience.
Prudential continues to assume future improvements in mortality for males and females at levels projected on the Continuous Mortality Investigations CMI medium cohort table as published by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries.
If mortality improvement rates significantly exceed the improvement assumed, Prudentials results of operations could be adversely affected.
