Economic and monetary environment which required that legacy currency notes and coins be Monetary policy withdrawn by 30 June 2002.
"Also on 1 January 1999, the The Groups earnings are affected by domestic and global European Central Bank ""ECB"" assumed responsibility for the economic conditions."
The policies of the UK government, and operation of monetary policy throughout the euro zone.
The of governments in other countries in which the Group operates, ECB sets one short-term interest rate to cover all twelve also have an impact.
The UK government sets an inflation target, which changed in The UK government continues to support EMU entry in principle, December 2003 from a 2.5% target based on the retail prices but has decided the UK will not adopt the single currency until index excluding mortgage interest payments to a 2% target based it is in the UKs economic interests, with a positive referendum 253 on the consumer prices index, in line with other European countries.
The Chancellor of the Exchequer has laid down five key economic conditions for UK participation.
An assessment of The Bank of England has operational independence in setting these five tests took place in June 2003, resulting in the the repo rate to achieve the inflation target.
The Bank was given publication of HM Treasurys assessment, the 18 supporting independence by the Chancellor of the Exchequer in 1997, with EMU studies, and a third outline National Changeover Plan.
the aim of making monetary policy free from political influence, While indicating that these five economic tests have yet to be and therefore more stable and credible.
The Banks Monetary fully met, the government has set out a programme of economic Policy Committee MPC meets each month to agree any reforms and structural assessments necessary to achieve change to interest rates, and the minutes of these meetings are readiness for entry.
The Chancellor made a progress statement published two weeks later.
One-off meetings can also be held in Budget 2004, at which point he decided not to undertake an in exceptional circumstances.
In response to the downturn in immediate further assessment of the entry tests.
the global economy and the terrorist attacks, the Bank of England, along with other major central banks around the world, The Group continues to co-operate with the UK government, and cut rates sharply in 2001.
Rates remained at exceptionally low to work within the financial services sector, to develop thinking levels throughout 2002, and were reduced again in the first half of and plans regarding a range of practical issues that would arise 2003, reflecting the uncertain nature of the global and domestic if the UK were to decide to enter EMU.
In particular, the Group economic circumstances.
Signs of recovery in the global continues its involvement in discussions as to how a phased economy led the Bank of England to increase rates five times transition could be achieved, in order to minimise cost and risk.
since November 2003, to 4.75%, before interest rates were cut In addition, due attention is being paid to the implications, for to 4.5% in August 2005. elements of the Group and for customers, of the introduction of euro notes and coins and the withdrawal of sterling.
The value of sterling is also important for UK monetary conditions.
The monetary authorities do not have an exchange Uncertainty continues on the likelihood and timing of the euro rate target, but movements in sterling play a role in the MPCs being introduced in the UK.
It is not possible to estimate with monthly debates.
any degree of certainty the ultimate cost of making systems and operations fully compliant.
Expenditure in the year ended European Economic and Monetary Union EMU 31 December 2005 in preparation for the possible introduction The European single currency, the euro, came into being on 1 of the euro in the UK was minimal.
The third stage of EMU started on schedule on 1 January 1999.
During the course of 1998, it was determined Supervision and regulation that eleven countries Austria, Belgium, Finland, France, 1 United Kingdom Germany, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal 1.1 The regulatory regime applying to the UK financial and Spain would participate.
The UK, along with Denmark, services industry exercised its right to opt out at that stage, and Sweden also The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 FSMA determined not to be part of this first wave.
2000, containing an integrated legislative framework for regulating most of the UK financial services industry, came section On 31 December 1998, the European Currency Unit the into force at the end of 2001.
This and subsequent ECU was replaced by the euro on the international currency amendments established the Financial Services Authority 04 markets, on a one-for-one basis.
The rates for the euro against the FSA as the single statutory regulator responsible for other international currencies were based upon the official regulating deposit taking, insurance and investment closing rates for the ECU.
The bilateral rates for the legacy business in the UK.
currencies of the participating states were derived from their rates within the Exchange Rate Mechanism and the closing Under the FSMA 2000, businesses require the FSAs value of the ECU.
These rates, between the legacy currencies permission to undertake specified types of activities and between these currencies and the euro, were fixed as of including entering into and carrying out contracts of 1 January 1999.
The euro became the formal currency for all insurance: managing, dealing in or advising on, eleven then-participating states.
investments: accepting deposits: and issuing electronic money regulated activities.
The FSA has published Euro notes and coins were introduced into circulation on detailed regulatory requirements contained in a Handbook 1 January 2002 in accordance with the Maastricht Treaty, of Rules and Guidance.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Additional information Additional information Additional information continued The FSAs statutory objectives are to maintain confidence in, Setting standards for firms and to promote public understanding of, the UK financial The FSA carries out the prudential supervision and system: to secure an appropriate degree of consumer conduct of business regulation of all authorised firms and protection: and to reduce the scope for financial crime.
In also regulates the conduct of their business in the UK.
achieving these objectives, the FSA must take account of Currently, the application of its conduct of business rules certain principles of good regulation which include to banking business is limited but detailed conduct of recognising the responsibilities of authorised firms own business requirements apply to general insurance management, facilitating innovation and competition and intermediary activities, mortgage businesses and acting proportionately in imposing burdens on the industry.
254 1.2 Authorised firms in the Group Prudential supervision includes monitoring the adequacy of As at 31 December 2005, 35 companies in the Group, a firm's management, its financial resources and internal spanning a range of financial services sectors banking, systems and controls.
Firms are required to submit regular insurance and investment business, are authorised and returns to the FSA which provide material for supervisory regulated to conduct regulated activities by the FSA.
Different prudential requirements have companies are referred to as authorised firms.
applied to different sectors of the financial services industry.
However, the FSA has prepared an Integrated The FSA supervises the banking business of the UK Prudential Sourcebook IPSB aimed at applying a more based banks in the Group, including the Royal Bank, harmonised and consistent approach to prudential NatWest, Coutts & Co, Ulster Bank Limited and Tesco regulation across the whole industry.
From 1 January 2005, Personal Finance Limited.
insurers were the first industry segment to comply with the FSA's new IPSB requirements.
Implementation for the General insurance business is principally undertaken by remainder of the industry is expected in stages, from companies in the RBS Insurance division, whilst life 1 January 2005 until 1 January 2008. assurance business is undertaken by Royal Scottish Assurance plc and National Westminster Life Assurance Many of the standards relating to the capital which firms Limited with the Groups partner, the AVIVA Group and must hold to absorb losses arising from risks to its Direct Line Life Insurance Company Limited.
Investment business are determined by EU legislation or are management business is principally undertaken by negotiated internationally.
The current capital adequacy companies in the Wealth Management division, including regime requires firms to maintain certain levels of capital, Adam & Co Investment Management Limited and Coutts & of certain specified types or tiers, against particular Co Investment Management Limited, and in the Corporate business risks.
Markets division, RBS Asset Management Ltd.
In its supervisory role, the FSA sets requirements relating 1.3 The FSAs regulatory approach and supervisory standards to matters such as consolidated supervision, capital The regulatory regime focuses on the risks to the FSA of adequacy, liquidity, large exposures, and the adequacy of not meeting its statutory objectives and uses the full range accounting procedures and controls.
Banks are required to of regulatory tools including the authorisation of firms, set out their policy on large exposures and to inform the rule-making, supervision, investigation and enforcement FSA of this.
The policy must be reviewed annually and any available to the FSA.
It is founded on a risk based, significant departures from policies must be discussed integrated approach to regulation.
Large exposures must be monitored and controlled.
The FSA can request information from and give directions to, authorised firms.
It may also require authorised firms to As regards the insurance industry, the FSAs primary provide independent reports prepared by professionals.
objective is to regulate and supervise the industry so that The FSA can exercise indirect control over the holding policyholders have confidence that they have bought companies of authorised firms via its statutory powers to appropriate products, and so that UK insurers are able to object to persons who are, or will become, controllers of meet their liabilities and treat customers fairly.
requirements relating to margins of solvency i. e. the excess of the value of assets over the amount of liabilities.
As part of its regulatory approach the FSA carries out regular Companies carrying out insurance business are required risk assessments of the firms in the Group and they are to submit regular returns covering reserves and solvency to subject generally to direct and on-going FSA supervision.
Additional information Firms must also meet standards relating to senior 1.6 Enforcement management and internal systems and controls and must Where appropriate, the FSA may discipline and or comply with rules designed to reduce the scope for firms prosecute for breaches of the legislative or regulatory to be used for money laundering.
The FSA works closely with the criminal Laundering Steering Group Guidance Notes will come into authorities and uses both civil and criminal powers.
It can force approximately mid 2006.
The EU has published its withdraw a firms authorisation, discipline firms and draft Third Money Laundering Directive which will individuals, prosecute for various offences and require supersede the two previous Anti Money Laundering funds to be returned to customers.
The FSA also has powers under certain consumer 255 Conduct of business standards essentially govern key legislation to take action against authorised firms to aspects of firms relationships with customers, and require address unfair terms in financial services consumer the provision of clear and adequate information, the contracts.
managing of conflicts of interest and the recommending of products suitable to the needs of customers.
The 1.7 Extension of the FSAs responsibilities marketing of financial products particularly investment From 31 October 2004, the scope of the FSAs products is subject to detailed requirements.
responsibilities was widened to cover the regulation and supervision of mortgage lending and administration and 1.4 Focus on customers the provision of mortgage advice.
Arrangements relating to An important element in securing an appropriate degree of the sale and administration of general insurance and consumer protection is ensuring that suitable certain other insurance contracts became regulated from arrangements are made for dealing with customer 14 January 2005. complaints.
Firms are required to establish appropriate internal complaint handling procedures and to report 1.8 Other relevant UK agencies and Government departments complaints statistics to the FSA.
Where an issue cannot be Consumer credit issues are covered by the Department of resolved by the parties it may be referred for independent Trade and Industry DTI and the Office of Fair Trading assessment to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
OFT and competition issues are dealt with by the OFT.
The FSAs high level principles require all regulated firms to Changes to consumer credit regulation are being treat their customers fairly.
The FSA has undertaken a promulgated at both national and EU levels.
A number of number of industry wide thematic reviews on this issue, and changes to the UK regime took effect in May 2005, and the this is expected to continue in 2006.
The FSA has indicated Consumer Credit Bill, once enacted in 2006, will make that it will include assessment of firms' effectiveness in this further, more fundamental, changes.
Negotiations also area in regular risk assessments of firms.
continue on a draft EU Consumer Credit Directive, to harmonise core regulatory standards in each EU Member The Financial Services Compensation Scheme financed State.
The UK regime will need to change again when this by levies on authorised firms is available to provide Directive is implemented in 2008 or later.
compensation up to certain limits if a firm collapses owing money to investors, depositors or policyholders.
1.9 The European dimension Much of the regulatory agenda in the UK and other 1.5 Fraud European Member States in which the Group operates Towards the end of October 2004, the FSA launched its continues to be set by the European Union.
Legislation new policy on combating fraud in the financial services comprising the Unions Financial Services Action Plan is industry Fighting Fraud in Partnership.
The FSA is working nearly complete and implemented, with attention now on a programme of activities focusing on i actions that the turning to the policy agenda through to 2010.
The FSA will take, ii FSA support for work by trade Commission wishes to pursue a different approach to section associations and the industry, iii creating closer policymaking: costed, evidence-based and targeted.
relationships with law enforcement agencies and, iv the Nonetheless, there are some major initiatives already in the 04 Government making fraud a higher law enforcement priority pipeline: including a revised Consumer Credit Directive, a and leading the development of a fraud strategy.
On 26 directive to establish a Legal Framework for the Euro October 2005, the Attorney General announced that the Payments Area, Solvency II a revised EU capital Government will carry out a wide ranging review of fraud to framework for insurance companies, and possible consider the scale and costs to the country of fraud.
The legislation on mortgage credit.
In addition, the Capital final report is to be produced by late spring 2006.
Requirements Directive and Markets in Financial Instruments Directive, both of which apply to the Group are expected to be implemented in the next two years.
The Group has been increasingly engaged with EU and national policymakers on all these priority measures, and will aim to maintain this level of involvement.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Additional information Additional information Additional information continued 2 United States 3 Regulatory developments for capital and risk management As the ultimate parent of Citizens subsidiary US banks, the The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, which company is a bank holding company within the meaning of, meets at the Bank of International Settlements in and subject to regulation and supervision under, the US Switzerland, sets the standards for firms weighted risk Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended the asset calculations and associated regulatory capital BHCA, by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve triggers.
This Committee published a revised framework, System the Federal Reserve Board.
Under current called Basel 2, in June 2004.
Federal Reserve Board policy, the company is expected to act as a source of financial strength to its US bank In the EU, the framework became law through the Capital subsidiaries.
Requirements Directive EU CRD and associated changes 256 to national laws or regulatory guidelines for example the The BHCA generally prohibits the company from acquiring, FSAs Integrated Prudential Sourcebook.
Within the US, directly or indirectly, the ownership or control of more than regulators have the flexibility to implement Basel 2 directly, 5% of the voting shares of any company engaged in nonafter a Final Notice of Prudential Rulemaking expected banking activities in the United States unless the Board has later in 2006.
Full adoption of these new rules comes into determined, by order or regulation, that such activities are force across the EU on 1 January 2008 and the US on so closely related to banking or managing or controlling 1 January 2009. banks as to be a proper incident thereto.
In addition, the BHCA requires the company to obtain the prior approval of Application of Basel 2 differs between jurisdictions.
The EU the Federal Reserve Board before acquiring, directly or is applying Basel 2 to all banks and investment firms.
indirectly, the ownership or control of more than 5% of any The US is taking a different approach, mandating that their class of the voting shares of any US bank or bank holding largest internationally active banks use the Advanced company.
With passage of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act approaches for credit and operational risk calculations: of 1999 the GLBA, bank holding companies that have other banks can either remain on Basel 1 or a modified met certain eligibility criteria and elected to become version thereof, called Basel 1a or opt-into Basel 2.
Our financial holding companies are permitted to engage US subsidiary, Citizens, currently falls outside the group of in a significantly expanded set of non-banking activities, mandated Basel 2 banks for the purposes of US regulation.
including making controlling investments in non-bank business ventures without prior approval from the Federal Basel 2, based around three Pillars, presents a Reserve Board under the Federal Reserve Boards fundamental change to the current capital adequacy merchant banking authority.
The company elected to regime and will have wide ranging consequences for the become a financial holding company effective in banking industry as a whole.
RBS is making good February 2004.
In November 2005, the company notified progress in satisfying the requirements for credit, market the Federal Reserve Board that it had commenced its and operational risk which, together, represent the merchant banking activities through its US subsidiary, minimum capital standards Pillar 1.
Work on the other Greenwich Capital Markets, Inc. Pillars of Basel 2, supervisory review Pillar 2 and market disclosures Pillar 3 are also progressing as the standards The companys US bank and non-bank subsidiaries, and are emerging from the regulatory authorities.
the Royal Banks US offices, are subject to direct supervision and regulation by various other federal and state authorities.
Citizens state chartered bank subsidiaries are subject to regulation and supervision by state banking authorities and the US Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the Royal Banks New York branch is supervised by the New York State Banking Department.
The company's US insurance agencies are regulated by state insurance authorities.
The companys US securities affiliates, including Greenwich Capital Markets Inc. are subject to regulation and supervision by the US Securities and Exchange Commission and various self-regulating organisations.
The futures activities of Greenwich Capital Markets, Inc. are also subject to oversight by the US Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the Chicago Board of Trade.
Citizens Bank NA, and RBS National Bank are regulated and supervised primarily by the US Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.
