Operating and financial review continued Risk management Governance framework The Board sets the overall risk appetite and philosophy for the Group.
Various Board and executive sub-committees support these goals, as follows: Group Board of Directors 86 Group Audit Committee Advances Committee Group Executive Management Committee Key Group Asset and Group Risk Committee Group Credit Committee Liability Management Board Committees Committee Executive Committees Group Audit Committee is a non-executive committee that Group Credit Committee GCC is a credit approval supports the Board in carrying out its responsibilities for committee which deals with all transactions that exceed the financial reporting including accounting policies and in delegated authority of divisional credit committees.
respect of internal control and risk assessment.
The Group Audit Committee monitors the ongoing process of the Group Asset and Liability Management Committee identification, evaluation and management of all significant GALCO, is an executive committee which is responsible risks throughout the Group.
The Committee is supported by for reviewing the balance sheet, funding, liquidity, structural Group Internal Audit which provides an independent foreign exchange, intra-group limits, capital adequacy and assessment of the design, adequacy and effectiveness of capital raising across the Group as well as interest rate risk the Groups internal controls.
In addition, GALCO monitors and reviews external, economic and environmental changes Advances Committee is a board committee that deals with affecting such risks.
all transactions that exceed the Group Credit Committees delegated authority.
These Committees are supported by two dedicated group level functions, Group Risk Management GRM, which has In addition to the responsibilities at Board level, operational responsibility for credit, market, regulatory and enterprise risk authority and oversight is delegated to the Group Executive and Group Treasury which is responsible for the management Management Committee GEMC, which is responsible for of the Groups balance sheet, capital raising, intra group credit implementing a risk management framework consistent with exposure, liquidity and hedging policies.
Both functions report the Boards risk appetite.
The GEMC, in turn, is supported by to GEMC and the Group Board through the Group Finance the following committees: Director and play an active role in assessing and monitoring the effectiveness of the divisional risk management functions.
Group Risk Committee GRC is an executive risk Heads of Group Risk Mangement and Internal Audit have governance committee which recommends and approves direct access to the Group Chief Executive and the Chairman limits, processes and policies in respect of the effective of the Group Audit Committee.
management of all material non-balance sheet risks across the Group.
Operating and financial review e v i t k a s t i i r l a y u r o Q t a l u g e R e v i t a t i t n a u Q e v i t a t i l a u Q k s i r y t i d Policies i u q i L Stress testing e v i t Principles a t i t n Concentration a u Q Procedures EL, PD, EAD, LGD Impact assessment e v Principles i t a t i l a Procedures u k Q s i r Policies t e k r Policies a M e v i t Procedures a t i t n Principles a u Q Procedures Risk management The principal risks that the Group manages are as follows: Credit risk: is the risk arising from the possibility that the Principal risk types Group will incur losses from the failure of customers to meet their obligations.
Regulatory risk Liquidity risk: is the risk that the Group is unable to meet its Liquidity Insurance Credit risk Market risk risk risk obligations as they fall due.
87 Market risk: the Group is exposed to market risk because of Enterprise risk positions held in its trading portfolios and its non-trading businesses.
Insurance risk: the Group is exposed to insurance risk, either directly through its businesses or through using insurance as a tool to mitigate other risk exposures.
Enterprise risk: the Group separately defines operational and external risk.
Operational risk is defined as the risk arising from the Groups people, processes, systems and assets.
External risk comprises business, political and environmental risk.
Regulatory risk: is the risk arising from failing to meet the requirements and expectations of our many regulators, or from a failure to address or implement any change in these requirements or expectations.
Qualitative and quantitative elements of risk management Risk appetite Risk management across the Group is based on the risk appetite and philosophy set by the Board and the associated risk committees.
The Board establishes the parameters for risk appetite for the Group through: Setting strategic direction.
Contributing to, and ultimately approving annual plans for each division.
Regularly reviewing and monitoring the Groups performance in relation to risk through monthly Board Reports.
The Board delegates the articulation of risk appetite to GEMC and ensures that this is in line with the strategy and the desired risk reward trade off for the Group.
Risk appetite is an expression of the maximum level of residual risk that the Group is prepared to accept in order to deliver its business objectives and is assessed against regular often daily controls and stress testing to ensure that the limits are not compromised in abnormal circumstances.
section Risk appetite is usually defined in both quantitative and 01 qualitative terms.
Whilst different techniques are used to ensure that the Groups risk appetite is achieved, generically they can be classified as follows: Quantitative: encompassing stress testing, risk concentration, value at risk and credit related metrics, including the probability, loss and exposure at default.
Qualitative: focuses on ensuring that the Group applies the correct principles, policies and procedures.
The annual business planning and performance management process and associated activities ensure the expression of risk appetite remains appropriate.
GRC and GALCO support this work.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Stress testing Policies e v i t Mismatch limits a t i t n Stress testing a u Q Stock of liquid assets k Principles s i r t i d Guidelines e r C Policies e v i Policies t a t i l a Procedures u Q Stress testing Risk criticality Value at risk e v i Operating and financial review Operating and financial review t k a s t i i l r a e u c Q n a r u s e n v i I t a t i t n a u Q e v i t k a s t i i r l a e u s i Q r p r e t n E e v i t a t i t n a u Q Operating and financial review continued Risk organisation Divisional CEOs are supported by divisional Chief Risk Divisional CEOs are specifically responsible for the Officers CROs and Chief Financial Officers CFOs.
An management of risk within their divisions.
As such, they are important element that underpins the Groups approach to the responsible for ensuring that they have appropriate risk management of all risk is independence.
In the case of CROs, management frameworks that are adequate in design, effective it is enforced by joint reporting lines, both operationally to the in operation and meet minimum Group standards.
divisional CEO and functionally to the Group Chief Risk Officer.
Credit risk All credit exposures, once approved, must be effectively 88 Key principles of credit risk management monitored and managed and reviewed periodically against The objective of credit risk management is to enable the Group approved limits.
Lower quality exposures are subject to a to achieve sustainable and superior risk versus reward greater frequency of analysis and assessment.
performance whilst maintaining credit risk exposure in line with approved risk appetite.
Customers with emerging credit problems must be identified early and classified accordingly.
Remedial actions must be Group Risk Management is responsible for setting standards implemented promptly to minimise the potential loss to the Group.
for maintaining and developing credit risk management throughout the Group.
This is achieved via a combination Portfolio analysis and reporting must be used to identify and of governance structures, credit risk policies, control manage credit risk concentrations and credit risk quality processes and credit systems collectively known as the migration.
Groups Credit Risk Management Framework CRMF.
The framework is defined in detail in the Groups Principles for Each Division must establish its own CRMF consistent with the Managing Credit Risk.
Divisional credit departments are responsible for maintaining the CRMF and ensuring that asset quality is within The key principles for credit risk management as defined in the specified parameters.
Divisional credit departments are CRMF include: independent of business management and have no direct responsibility or accountability for revenue generation.
This Approval of all credit exposure must be granted prior to any independence is supported by the divisional head of credit advance or extension of credit.
having dual reporting lines to the both the divisional CEO via the divisional Chief Risk Officer and to the Head of Group An appropriate credit risk assessment of the customer and related credit facilities must be undertaken prior to approval Credit Risk.
This must include a review of, amongst other things, the purpose of the credit and sources of GRM undertakes regular assessment of the effectiveness of repayment, compliance with affordability tests, repayment each divisional CRMF to ensure it complies with Group history, capacity to repay, sensitivity to economic and market standards and is appropriate for the business being developments and risk-adjusted return.
GRC and the GEMC review reports on the Groups portfolio of credit risks on a monthly basis.
The Board delegates authority to Executive Advances Committee, Group Credit Committee and divisional credit Credit approval process committees.
Different credit approval processes exist for each customer type in order to ensure appropriate skills and resources are Credit risk authority must be specifically granted in writing to employed in credit assessment and approval whilst following all individuals involved in the granting of credit approval, the key principles relating to credit approval.
whether this is exercised personally or collectively as part of a credit committee.
In exercising credit authority, the Wholesale risk exposures are aggregated to determine the individuals must act independently and with balanced appropriate level of credit approval required and to facilitate commercial judgement.
Where credit authority is exercised personally, the individual must not have any responsibility or accountability for business revenue generation.
Operating and financial review Credit authority is not extended to relationship managers: Credit risk models used by the Group can be broadly grouped into four categories.
Assessments of corporate borrower and transaction risk are undertaken using a range of credit risk models supplemented, Probability of default PD customer credit grade these where appropriate, by management judgement.
Specialist models assess the probability that the customer will fail to internal credit risk departments independently oversee the make full and timely repayment of credit obligations over a credit process and make credit decisions or one year time horizon.
Each customer is assigned an recommendations to the appropriate credit committee.
internal credit grade which corresponds to probability of default.
There are a number of different credit grading Financial Markets counterparties are subject to similar models in use across the Group, each of which considers 89 modelling techniques but are approved by a dedicated credit particular customer characteristics in that portfolio.
The function which specialises in traded market product risk.
credit grading models use a combination of quantitative inputs, such as recent financial performance and customer Consumer lending and personal businesses employ best behaviour, and qualitative inputs, such as company practice credit scoring techniques to process small scale, management performance or sector outlook.
Scores from such systems are combined with management judgement to ensure an effective Every customer credit grade across all grading scales in ongoing process of approval, review and enhancement.
Credit the Group can be mapped to a Group level credit grade decisions for loans above specified thresholds are individually see page 90. assessed.
Exposure at default EAD these models estimate the Credit risk models expected level of utilisation of a credit facility at the time of Credit risk models are used throughout the Group to support a borrowers default.
The EAD will typically be higher than the analytical elements of the credit risk management the current utilisation e. g. in the case where further framework, in particular the quantitative risk assessment part drawings are made on a revolving credit facility prior to of the credit approval process, ongoing credit monitoring as default but will not typically exceed the total facility limit.
well as portfolio level analysis and reporting.
The methodologies used in EAD modelling recognise that customers may make more use of their existing credit Credit risk modelling governance facilities in the run up to a default.
The Groups Principles for Managing Credit Risk outline the governance structure under which all credit risk models must Loss given default LGD these models estimate the be developed, reviewed and approved.
GRM is responsible for: economic loss that may be suffered by the Group on a credit facility in the event of default.
The LGD of a facility represents Establishing high level standards to which all credit risk the amount of debt which cannot be recovered and is models across the Group must adhere and thus ensuring a typically expressed as a percentage of the EAD.
The Groups consistency of approach to credit risk modelling across the LGD models take into account the type of borrower, facility Group.
and any risk mitigation such as the presence of any security or collateral held.
The LGD may also be affected by the Approving all credit risk models prior to implementation and industry sector of the borrower, the legal jurisdiction in which the borrower operates as well as general economic conditions reviewing existing models on at least an annual basis.
which may impact the value of any assets held as security.
Divisional credit risk departments own the particular models Credit risk exposure measurement these models calculate and are responsible for: the credit risk exposure for products where the exposure is not 100% of the gross nominal amount of the credit Developing credit risk models appropriate for the types of obligation.
These models are most commonly used for borrower and facilities in their credit portfolios and obtaining derivative and other traded instruments where the amount of approval from GRM for their implementation.
section credit risk exposure may be dependent on external variables such as interest rates or foreign exchange rates.
Validating the models on at least an annual basis every two 01 years for credit risk exposure measurements models and submitting documentation of these validations to GRM with appropriate recommendations on recalibration, where applicable.
Obtaining approval from GRM for any new methodology or parameter estimates used in existing credit risk models prior to implementation.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review Operating and financial review continued Credit risk assets Credit risk assets are typically analysed excluding reverse Credit risk assets measure the exposure to all products in the repurchase agreements due to the short-term nature and low Groups credit portfolios which consist of loans and advances credit risk associated with this product.
A breakdown of credit including overdraft facilities, instalment credit, finance lease risk assets by division is shown below.
receivables, debt securities and other traded instruments across all customer types.
2005 2004 Credit risk assets bn bn Corporate Markets 273.0 235.2 90 Retail Banking 78.0 72.2 Retail Direct 26.6 21.7 Wealth Management 8.9 10.7 Citizens 74.5 59.4 RBS Insurance 6.7 6.1 Ulster Bank 30.5 22.3 498.2 427.6 Excluding reverse repurchase agreements, credit risk assets at 31 December 2005 were 498.2 billion 2004 427.6 billion, an increase of 70.6 billion 17% during the year.
An analysis of reverse repurchase agreements is shown below.
1 January 2005 2005 Reverse repurchase agreements bn bn Banks 41.8 34.5 Customers 48.9 64.6 90.7 99.1 Reverse repurchase agreements as at 31 December 2005 were 90.7 billion 1 January 2005 99.1 billion, a decrease of 8.4 billion 8% during the year.
Credit risk asset quality Distribution of credit risk assets by asset quality Internal reporting and oversight of risk assets is principally Overall credit asset quality remained stable during 2005. differentiated by credit ratings.
Internal ratings are used to As at 31 December 2005, exposure to investment grade assess the credit quality of borrowers.
Customers are counterparties AQ1 accounted for 47% 2004 49% of assigned credit ratings, based on various credit grading credit risk assets and 98% 2004 97% of exposures were to models that reflect the probability of default.
All credit ratings counterparties rated AQ4 or higher.
The exposure to the lowest across the Group map to a Group level asset quality scale.
asset quality AQ5 reduced from 2.6% at 31 December 2004 to 2.2% at 31 December 2005.
Expressed as an annual probability of default, the upper and lower boundaries and the midpoint for each of these Group 50% level asset quality grades are as follows: 2005 2004 40% Asset Annual probability of default quality Minimum Midpoint Maximum S&P grade % % % equivalent 30% AQ1 0.02 0.10 0.20 AAA to BBBAQ2 0.21 0.40 0.60 BB to BB 20% AQ3 0.61 1.05 1.50 BBto B AQ4 1.51 3.25 5.00 B to B AQ5 5.01 15.00 B and below 10% 0% AQ1 AQ2 AQ3 AQ4 AQ5 Note: Graph data are shown net of provisions and reverse repurchase agreements.
Operating and financial review Distribution of credit risk assets by industry sector Industry analysis plays an important part in assessing potential concentration risk from within the loan portfolio.
Particular attention is given to industry sectors where the Group believes there is a high degree of risk or potential for volatility in the future.
The Group also uses scenario analysis and stress testing in order to monitor the risk to clusters of correlated industry sectors.
Individuals Public sectors and quasi government 91 Property Banks Financial services Transport and storage Manufacturing Wholesale and retail trade Tourism and leisure Building and construction Business services Technology, media and telecommunications Power and water 2005 2004 Natural resources and nuclear Agriculture and fisheries 5% 10% 15% 20% 25% 30% Note: Graph data are shown net of provisions and reverse repurchase agreements.
As at 31 December 2005, 30% of credit risk assets 2004 30% relate to individuals personal and retail customers and include mortgage lending and other smaller loans that are intrinsically well-diversified.
Corporate industry sectors, including public sector and quasi government, account for 48% 2004 46% of credit risk assets, with banks and other financial institutions representing the remaining 22% 2004 24% of credit risk assets.
section 01 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review Operating and financial review continued Distribution of credit risk assets by geography The Group is currently active in 27 countries, with its principal focus on the UK, North America and Europe.
100% During 2005 there was further geographic diversification of 5.1 5.2 credit risk assets away from the UK and into the rest of Europe 16.7 and North America.
As at 31 December 2005, 49.3% of credit 18.2 80% risk assets were within the UK.
North America and Europe account for 45.5% of credit risk assets with the remaining 5.2% 60% 25.9 in the rest of the world.
27.3 92 40% 20% 52.2 49.3 0% 2004 2005 Europe North America United Kingdom Rest of world Distribution of credit risk assets by product and customer type Lending to corporate customers Lending to individuals mortgages Debt securities to banks, sovereigns and quasi-government Lending to individuals other Debt securities to corporate customers Lending to small businesses Lending to banks, sovereigns and quasi government Asset-backed securities 2005 2004 Other and off-balance sheet 0% 5% 10% 15% 20% 25% 30% 35% The Group also monitors the breakdown of the credit portfolio by customer type and product type.
The Groups largest exposure by credit risk assets is corporate customer lending products which represent 31% of credit risk assets as at 31 December 2005 2004 30%.
As illustrated in the industry analysis this exposure is well diversified across industry sectors.
Operating and financial review Loan impairment The Group classifies impaired assets as either Risk Elements in Lending REIL or Potential Problem Loans PPL.
REIL represents non-accrual loans, loans that are accruing but are past due 90 days and restructured loans.
PPL represent impaired assets which are not included in REIL but where known information about possible credit problems causes management to have serious doubts about the future ability of the borrower to comply with loan repayment terms.
Both REIL and PPL are reported gross of the value of any security held, which could reduce the eventual loss should it occur, and gross of any provision marked.
Therefore impaired assets which are highly collateralised, such as mortgages, will have a low coverage ratio of provisions held against reported impaired balance.
93 The adoption of IAS 39 under IFRS at the start of 2005 resulted in changes to the methodology used to identify impaired assets and therefore the way that REIL is calculated.
Comparative financial information is given in the following tables for both 1 January 2005 and 31 December 2004.
Commentary is based on comparison with information at 1 January 2005, which reflects the impact of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4.
The table below sets out the Groups loans that are classified as REIL and PPL: 1 January 31 December 2005 2005 2004 REIL and PPL m m m 1 Non-accrual loans 5,926 5,836 4,733 2 Accrual loans past due 90 days 9 52 713 3 Troubled debt restructurings 2 24 Total REIL 5,937 5,888 5,470 4 PPL 19 11 280 Total REIL and PPL 5,956 5,899 5,750 5 REIL and PPL as % of lending to customers loans and advances gross 1.60% 1.84% 1.92% following the implementation of IAS 39, the sub-categories of REIL and PPL are calculated as per notes 1 to 4 below.
1 All loans against which an impairment provision is held are reported in the non-accrual category.
2 Loans where an impairment event has taken place but no impairment recognised.
This category is used for over-collateralised non-revolving credit facilities.
3 Troubled debt restructurings represent loans that have been restructured following the granting of a concession by the Group to the borrower.
4 Loans for which an impairment event has occurred but no impairment provision is necessary.
This category is used for over-collateralised advances and revolving credit facilities where identification as 90 days overdue is not feasible.
5 Gross of provisions and excluding reverse repurchase agreements.
REIL as at 31 December 2005 was 5,937 million 1 January 2005 5,888 million, an increase of 49 million 1% during the year.
As a % of customer lending, REIL and PPL in aggregate show an improving trend, amounting to 1.60% of customer loans and advances at 31 December 2005 1 January 2005 1.84%.
REIL by division The table below shows REIL by division.
1 January 31 December 2005 2005 2004 section REIL m m m Corporate Markets 1,465 2,098 1,892 01 Retail Banking 2,988 2,526 2,399 Retail Direct 889 671 601 Wealth Management 58 65 99 Ulster Bank 342 389 341 Citizens 195 136 135 RBS Insurance 33 Total REIL 5,937 5,888 5,470 During 2005 REIL in Corporate Markets reduced by 633 million reflecting continued favourable conditions in the corporate environment in UK, Europe and the US.
This was offset by a combined increase in REIL in Retail Banking and Retail Direct of 680 million 21% due to the weakening of the consumer environment in the UK.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review Operating and financial review continued Impairment loss provision methodology Provision analysis Provisions for impairment losses are assessed under three The Groups consumer portfolios, which consist of small value, categories as described below: high volume credits, have highly efficient largely automated processes for identifying problem credits and very short Individually assessed provisions are the provisions required for timescales, typically three months, before resolution or individually significant impaired assets which are assessed on adoption of various recovery methods.
a case by case basis, taking into account the financial condition of the counterparty and any guarantor.
This incorporates Corporate portfolios consist of higher value, lower volume an estimate of the discounted value of any recoveries and credits, which tend to be structured to meet individual realisation of security or collateral.
The asset continues to customer requirements.
Provisions are assessed on a case by 94 be assessed on an individual basis until it is repaid in full, case basis by experienced specialists, as well as professional transferred to the performing portfolio or written-off.
valuations of collateral and the expert judgement of accountants.
The Group operates a clear provisions Collectively assessed provisions are provisions on impaired governance framework which sets thresholds whereby suitable credits below an agreed threshold which are assessed on a oversight and challenge is undertaken.
These opinions and portfolio basis, to reflect the homogeneous nature of the levels of provision are overseen by the divisions Provision assets, such as credit cards or personal loans.
The provision is Committee chaired by its Chief Executive, with representation determined from a quantitative review of the relevant portfolio, from Group Risk Management.
In addition, significant cases taking account of the level of arrears, security and average are presented to, and challenged by, the Group Problem loss experience over the recovery period.
Exposure Review Forum chaired by the Group Chief Executive or the Group Finance Director.
Latent loss provisions are provisions held against the estimated impairment in the performing portfolio which have yet to be Early and active management of problem exposures ensures identified as at the balance sheet date.
To assess the latent that credit losses are minimised.
Specialised units are used for loss within the portfolios, the Group has developed different customer types to ensure that the appropriate risk methodologies to estimate the time that an asset can remain mitigation is taken in a timely manner.
impaired within a performing portfolio before it is identified and reported as such.
Portfolio provisions are reassessed regularly as part of the Groups ongoing monitoring process.
The adoption of IAS 39 under IFRS at the start of 2005 resulted in changes to the methodology used to identify impaired assets and to calculate required provisions.
The following table therefore shows 2004 on both a pro forma and statutory basis.
Commentary is based on comparisons with the pro forma information which reflects the impact of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4.
Pro forma Statutory 2005 2004 2004 Loan impairment charge m m m Latent loss provisions charge 14 75 Collectively assessed provisions charge 1,399 1,059 Individually assessed provisions charge 290 373 Specific provision charge 1,386 General provision charge 16 Total charge to income statement 1,703 1,507 1,402 1 Charge as a % of customer loans and advances gross 0.46% 0.47% 0.47% Notes: 1 Gross of provisions and excluding reverse repurchase agreements.
Provisions for loan impairment charged to the income statement in 2005 were 1,703 million, up 196 million 13% from pro forma 2004.
As a percentage of customer lending, the impairment charge improved slightly from 0.47% to 0.46%.
Operating and financial review Summary of loan impairment provisions A summary of the total customer provisions balance is shown in the table below.
1 January 31 December 2005 2005 2004 1 Loan impairment provisions m m m Latent loss provisions 543 570 Collectively assessed provisions 2,587 2,484 Individually assessed provisions 754 1,086 Specific provisions 3,607 General provision 561 Total provisions 3,884 4,140 4,168 95 2 Total provision as a % of customer loans and advances gross 1.0% 1.3% 1.4% Notes: 1 Excludes provisions against loans and advances to banks of 3 million 1 January 2005 5 million: 31 December 2004 6 million.
2 Gross of provisions and excluding reverse repurchase agreements.
As at 31 December 2005 total customer provisions were 3,884 million, down 256 million 6% from 1 January 2005.
The movement in provisions balance is shown at the bottom of the page.
Provisions coverage The Groups provision coverage ratios are shown in the table below.
1 January 31 December 2005 2005 2004 Total provision expressed as a: % of REIL 65% 70% 76% % of REIL and PPL 65% 70% 72% The coverage ratio of closing provisions to REIL and PPL decreased from 70% to 65% during 2005.
The lower coverage ratio reflects a change of mix in the portfolios to more secured assets e. g. residential mortgages which, due to the level of collateral held, require a much lower level of provision.
Movement in loan impairment provisions balance The movement in provisions balance during 2005 is shown in the table below.
m Balance as at 1 January 2005 4,145 Currency and other adjustments 51 Amounts written-off 2,040 Recoveries of amounts previously written-off 172 Charge to income statement 1,703 1 Discount unwind 144 2 Balance as at 31 December 2005 3,887 Notes: 1 The impact of discounting inherent within the provisions balance is unwound as the time to receiving the expected recovery cash flows draws nearer.
section 2 Includes provisions against loans and advances to banks of 3 million 1 January 2005 5 million.
01 An impairment provision calculated using the effective interest rate method leaves a discounted asset: the discount unwinds at a constant effective rate until the outstanding asset is completely realised.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review Operating and financial review continued Liquidity risk function, both in respect of internal policy and the regulatory Liquidity risk management within the Group focuses on both requirements of the Financial Services Authority.
overall balance sheet structure and the day-to-day control, within prudent limits, of risk arising from the mismatch of Detailed liquidity position reports are compiled each day by maturities across the balance sheet and from undrawn Group Treasury and reviewed daily and weekly with Financial commitments and other contingent obligations.
Markets, who manage day-to-day and intra-day market execution within the policy parameters set.
The management of liquidity risk within the Group is undertaken within limits and other policy parameters set by In addition to their consolidation within the Groups daily GALCO, which reviews monthly, and receives on an exception liquidity management process, it is also the responsibility of all 96 basis, reports detailing compliance with those policy Group subsidiaries and branches outside the UK to ensure parameters.
A weekly report is also provided to the Groups compliance with any separate local regulatory liquidity executive management.
Compliance is monitored and corequirements where applicable, subject to Group Treasury ordinated daily under the stewardship of the Group Treasury oversight.
Diversification of funding sources The structure of the Groups balance sheet is managed to maintain substantial diversification, to minimise concentration across its various deposit sources, and to contain the level of reliance on total and net short-term wholesale sources of funds within prudent levels.
As part of the Groups planning process, the forecast structure of the balance sheet is regularly reviewed over the plan horizon and funding strategies and options are developed by Group Treasury and implemented after review and approval by GALCO.
The level of large deposits taken from banks, corporate customers, non-bank financial institutions and other customers, and significant cash outflows therefrom, are also reviewed regularly to monitor concentration and identify any adverse trends.
During 2005 the composition of the Groups funding sources remained well diversified by counterparty, instrument, market and maturity.
2005 2004 Sources of funding m % m % Customer accounts excluding repos Repayable on demand 172,853 27 169,016 32 Time deposits 121,260 19 72,165 14 Total customer accounts excluding repos 294,113 46 241,181 46 Debt securities over 1 year remaining maturity 22,293 3 9,931 2 Subordinated liabilities 28,274 4 20,366 4 Shareholders equity 35,435 6 33,905 6 380,115 59 305,383 58 Debt securities up to 1 year remaining maturity 68,127 11 54,068 10 Repo agreements with customers 48,754 7 42,134 8 Deposits by banks excluding repos 62,502 10 56,541 11 Repo agreements with banks 47,905 7 43,342 8 Short positions 37,427 6 28,923 5 Total 644,830 100 530,391 100 Customer accounts excluding repos, term debt securities of 52,932 million 22%, to maintain 46% of total funding over 1 year remaining maturity, subordinated liabilities and excluding other liabilities at 31 December 2005. capital continue to represent the core of the Groups funding.
These core funds in total increased by 74,732 million 24% Term debt securities with an outstanding term of over 1 year over the course of 2005 to represent 59% of total funding increased 12,362 million 124% to represent 3% of the excluding other liabilities at 31 December 2005.
Groups funding at 31 December 2005, reflecting the activity of the Group in raising term funds through its Euro and US Customer accounts continue to provide a substantial Medium Term Note and securitisation programmes.
proportion of the Groups funding and comprise a well diversified and stable source of funds from a wide range of Capital shareholders equity and subordinated debt increased retail, corporate and non-bank institutional customers.
by 9,438 million 17% and provides around 10% of total Excluding repo agreements, customer accounts grew by funding excluding other liabilities.
Operating and financial review Short term wholesale deposits are taken from a wide range of Greenwich Capital in the US and by Financial Markets.
Repo counterparties, with the largest single depositor continuing to and short positions increased by 19,687 million 17% to represent less than 1% of the Groups total funding.
The level represent 21% of total funding excluding other liabilities at 31 of funding from short term unsecured debt issuance and bank December 2005. deposits, excluding repos and short positions, has increased by 20,020 million 18% to represent 20% of total funding The Group remains well placed to access various wholesale excluding other liabilities at 31 December 2005, reflecting the funding sources from a wide range of counterparties and higher rate of growth in customer loans and advances see markets.
The changing mix evident between customer repo, net customer activity below.
deposits by banks, debt securities in issue, and shorts primarily reflects comparative pricing, maturity considerations 97 Short positions and repos with corporate, institutional and investor counterparty demand rather than a material customers and banks are undertaken primarily by RBS perceived trend.
Net customer activity Net customer lending, excluding repos, rose by 20,056 million as the growth in loans and advances to customers continued to exceed the growth in customer accounts, thus increasing the degree of reliance on wholesale market funding to support loan growth.
2005 2004 Net customer activity m m Loans and advances to customers gross, excluding reverse repos 372,223 299,235 Customer accounts excluding repos 294,113 241,181 Customer lending less customer accounts 78,110 58,054 Loans and advances to customers as a % of customer accounts excluding repos 126.6% 124.1% In prevailing economic conditions and with interest rates at Given its strong credit ratings, the impact of a single notch relatively low historical levels in the UK, US and Europe, it is downgrade would, if it occurred, be expected to have a anticipated that the growth in demand for further borrowing by relatively small impact on the Groups economic access to customers is likely, in the medium term, to continue to exceed liquidity.
More severe downgrades would have a progressively that for customer deposits received, thus increasing net greater impact but have an increasingly lower probability of customer lending further and increasing gradually over time occurrence.
the Groups dependence on the wholesale market for funding.
As part of its stress testing of its access to sufficient liquidity, The Group evaluates on a regular basis a range of balance the Group regularly evaluates the potential impact of a range sheet management and term funding strategies to address the of levels of downgrade in its credit ratings and carries out consequent potential impact on its structural liquidity risk stress tests of other relevant scenarios and sensitivity analyses.
position and maintain that within its normal policy parameters.
Contingency funding plans are maintained to anticipate and Management of term structure respond to any approaching or actual material deterioration in The degree of maturity mismatch within the overall long-term market conditions or in the Groups credit ratings, and the structure of the Groups assets and liabilities is also managed Group remains confident of its ability to manage its liquidity within internal policy limits, to ensure that term asset requirements effectively in all such circumstances.
commitments may be funded on an economic basis over their life.
In managing its overall term structure, the Group analyses Daily risk management section and takes into account the effect of retail and corporate The primary focus of the Groups day to day risk management customer behaviour on actual asset and liability maturities activity is to ensure access to sufficient liquidity to meet its 01 where they differ materially from the underlying contractual cashflow obligations within key time horizons out to one month maturities.
The short-term maturity structure of the Groups liabilities and assets is managed on a daily basis to ensure that Stress testing all material cashflow obligations, and potential cashflows The maintenance of high quality credit ratings is recognised as arising from undrawn commitments and other contingent an important component in the management of the Groups obligations, can be met as they arise from day to day, either liquidity risk.
Credit ratings affect the Groups ability to raise, from cash inflows, from maturing assets, new borrowing or the and the cost of raising, funds from the wholesale market and sale or repurchase of various debt securities held after the need to provide collateral in respect of, for example, allowing for appropriate haircuts.
changes in the mark-to-market value of derivative transactions.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review Operating and financial review continued Short-term liquidity risk is managed on a consolidated basis for Internal liquidity mismatch limits are set for all other the whole Group excluding the activities of Citizens and subsidiaries and non-UK branches which have material local insurance businesses, which are subject to regulatory regimes treasury activities in external markets, to ensure those activities that necessitate local management of liquidity.
do not compromise daily maintenance of the Groups overall liquidity risk position within the Groups policy parameters.
2005 2004 Net short-term wholesale market activity m m Debt securities, treasury bills and other eligible bills 126,503 100,018 Reverse repo agreements with banks and customers 90,691 82,159 98 Less: repos with banks and customers 96,659 85,476 Short positions 37,427 28,923 Insurance Companies debt securities held 5,724 5,029 Debt securities charged as security for liabilities 9,578 4,852 Net marketable assets 67,806 57,897 By remaining maturity up to 1 month: Deposits by banks excluding repos 35,153 34,041 Less: loans and advances to banks gross, excluding reverse repos 16,381 17,067 Debt securities in issue 20,577 15,505 Net wholesale liabilities due within 1 month 39,349 32,479 Net surplus of marketable assets over wholesale liabilities due within 1 month 28,457 25,418 The Groups net surplus of marketable assets over net shortLiquidity in non-sterling currencies term wholesale liabilities due within one month increased by For non-sterling currencies, no specific regulatory liquidity 3,039 million to 28,457 million at 31 December 2005. requirement is currently set for the Group by the FSA.
However, Overall access to liquidity to meet all foreseen needs remains the importance of managing prudently the liquidity risk in its comfortably within the Groups policy parameters.
non-sterling activities is recognised and the Group manages its non-sterling liquidity risk daily within net mismatch limits set for Sterling liquidity the 0-8 calendar day and 0-1 month periods as a percentage Over 42% of the Groups total assets are denominated in of the Groups total deposit and debt liabilities.
For its sterling activity the FSA requires the Group on a consolidated basis to maintain daily a minimum ratio In measuring its non-sterling liquidity risk, due account is taken of 100% between: of the marketability within a short period of the wide range of debt securities held.
Appropriate adjustments are applied in 1. a stock of qualifying high quality liquid assets primarily UK each case, dependent on various parameters, to determine the and EU government securities, treasury bills, and cash held Groups ability to realise cash at short notice via the sale or in branches and repo of such marketable assets if required to meet 2. the sum of: unexpected outflows.
sterling wholesale net outflows contractually due within five working days offset up to a limit of 50%, by 85% The level of contingent risk from the potential drawing of of sterling certificates of deposit held which mature undrawn or partially drawn commitments, back-up lines, beyond five working days : and standby lines and other similar facilities is also actively 5% of retail deposits with a residual contractual maturity monitored and reflected in the measures of the Groups nonof five working days or less.
Particular attention is given to the US$ commercial paper market and the propensity of the Groups The Group exceeded the minimum ratio requirement corporate counterparties who are active in raising funds from throughout 2005. that market to switch to utilising facilities offered by the Group in the event of either counterparty specific difficulties or a The FSA also set an absolute minimum level for the stock of significant widening of interest spreads generally in the qualifying liquid assets that the Group is required to maintain commercial paper market.
The Group has exceeded that minimum stock requirement at all times during 2005.
The Groups operational processes are actively managed to ensure that both the minimum sterling liquidity ratio and the minimum stock requirement are achieved or exceeded at all times.
Operating and financial review The Group also provides liquidity back-up facilities to both its for the Group.
The Group Market Risk function, independent own conduits and certain other conduits which take funding from the Groups trading businesses, is responsible for setting and monitoring the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups from the US$ commercial paper market.
Limits sanctioned for market risk management processes.
such facilities totalled less than 11 billion at 31 December 2005.
The short-term contingent liquidity risk in providing such Value-at-risk back-up facilities is also mitigated by the spread of maturity VaR is a technique that produces estimates of the potential dates of the commercial paper taken by the conduits.
negative change in the market value of a portfolio over a specified time horizon at given confidence levels.
For internal The Group has operated within its non-sterling liquidity policy risk management purposes, the Groups VaR assumes a time mismatch limits at all times during 2005 and operational 99 horizon of one day and a confidence level of 95%.
The Group processes are actively managed to ensure that is the case uses historical simulation models in computing VaR.
approach, in common with many other VaR models, assumes that risk factor changes observed in the past are a good Developments in liquidity risk management regulation estimate of those likely to occur in the future and is, therefore, Following the Basel Committees publication of Sound limited by the relevance of the historical data used.
The Practices for Managing Liquidity in Banking Organisations in Groups method, however, does not make any assumption February 2000, a number of regulatory bodies internationally about the nature or type of underlying loss distribution.
began reviewing their regulatory liquidity frameworks.
The Group typically uses the previous two years of market data.
The Groups VaR should be interpreted in light of the In the UK, the FSA published a discussion document DP24 limitations of the methodology used.
These limitations include: in October 2003 setting out draft proposals for a new quantitative framework to operate in the UK.
Comments made Historical data may not provide the best estimate of the joint to the FSA, by the Group and other banks collectively, in distribution of risk factor changes in the future and may fail response to these proposals, made clear the desirability of an to capture the risk of possible extreme adverse market internationally coordinated approach to the regulation of movements which have not occurred in the historical window liquidity.
An international forum of regulators, chaired jointly by used in the calculations.
the FSA and the US Federal Reserve Bank, was also established in 2004 to review regulation across the OECD.
VaR using a one-day time horizon does not fully capture the Their report is awaited.
In 2005, the European Commission has market risk of positions that cannot be liquidated or hedged within one day.
also begun to consider the subject.
VaR using a 95% confidence level does not reflect the extent Following earlier consultation, the FSA also introduced in of potential losses beyond that percentile.
January 2005, new requirements for liquidity management systems and controls, particularly in respect of stress testing, The Group largely computes the VaR of trading portfolios at contingency funding plans and related documentation.
The the close of business and positions may change substantially Group has complied with these requirements and will continue during the course of the trading day.
Controls are in place to to do so going forward.
limit the Groups intra-day exposure: such as the calculation of the VaR for selected portfolios.
These limitations and the nature The Group has been, and continues to be, actively involved in of the VaR measure mean that the Group cannot guarantee working with the various regulatory bodies to assist the that losses will not exceed the VaR amounts indicated.
development of an appropriate future regulatory liquidity regime which takes into account local national considerations Trading but also gives due recognition to the integrated cross-border The principal focus of the Groups trading activities is client approach to the management of liquidity risk within most facilitation providing products to the Groups client base at international banking groups.
The Group also undertakes: market making quoting firm bid buy and offer sell prices with the intention section Taking account of the indicative future regulatory requirements of profiting from the spread between the quotes: arbitrage published to date, the Group continues to develop its liquidity entering into offsetting positions in different but closely related 01 risk reporting, management and stress testing capabilities.
markets in order to profit from market imperfections: and proprietary activity taking positions in financial instruments as Market risk principal in order to take advantage of anticipated market The Group is exposed to market risk because of positions held conditions.
The main risk factors are interest rates, credit in its trading portfolios and its non-trading business including spreads and foreign exchange.
Financial instruments held in the Groups treasury operations.
The Group manages the the Groups trading portfolios include, but are not limited to, market risk in its trading and treasury portfolios through its debt securities, loans, deposits, securities sale and repurchase market risk management framework, which is based on valueagreements and derivative financial instruments futures, at-risk VaR limits, together with, but not limited to, stress forwards, swaps and options.
For a discussion of the Groups testing, scenario analysis, and position and sensitivity limits.
accounting policies for, and information with respect to, its Stress testing measures the impact of abnormal changes in exposures to derivative financial instruments, see Accounting market rates and prices on the fair value of the Groups trading policies and Note 19 on the accounts.
GEMC approves the high-level VaR and stress limits Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review Operating and financial review continued The VaR for the Groups trading portfolios segregated by type of market risk exposure, including idiosyncratic risk, is presented in the table below.
behaviouralised repricing for each product.
It is Group policy Treasury activity and mismatches between the repricing of to include in the gap report, non-financial assets and liabilities, assets and liabilities in its retail and corporate banking mainly property, plant and equipment and the Groups capital and operations account for most of the non-trading interest rate reserves, spread over medium and longer term maturities.
Non-trading currency risk derives from the Groups report also includes hedge transactions, principally derivatives.
investments in overseas subsidiaries, associates and branches.
The Groups venture capital portfolio and investments held by Any residual non-trading interest rate exposures are controlled its general insurance business are the principal sources of by limiting repricing mismatches in the individual balance 101 non-trading equity price risk.
The Groups portfolios of nonsheets.
Potential exposures to interest rate movements in the trading financial instruments mainly comprise loans including medium to long term are measured and controlled using a finance leases, debt securities, equity shares, deposits, version of the same VaR methodology that is used for the certificates of deposits and other debt securities issued, loan Groups trading portfolios but without discount factors.
To reflect their distinct nature, the accrual income exposures are measured and controlled in Groups long-term assurance assets and liabilities attributable terms of sensitivity over time to movements in interest rates.
to policyholders have been excluded from these market risk disclosures.
Risk is managed within limits approved by GALCO through the execution of cash and derivative instruments.
Execution of the Interest rate risk hedging is carried out by the relevant division through the Non-trading interest rate risk arises from the Groups treasury Groups treasury functions.
The residual risk position is activities and retail and corporate banking businesses.
reported to divisional asset and liability committees, GALCO and the Board.
Treasury The Groups treasury activities include its money market Non-trading interest rate VaR business and the management of internal funds flow within the Non-trading interest rate VaR for the Groups treasury and retail Groups businesses.
Money market portfolios include cash and corporate banking activities was 81.5 million at 31 instruments principally debt securities, loans and deposits December 2005 2004 72.4 million with the major exposure and related hedging derivatives.
VaR for the Groups treasury being to changes in longer term US dollar interest rates.
portfolios, which relates mainly to interest rate risk including During the year, the maximum VaR was 104.2 million 2004 credit spreads, was 3.5 million at 31 December 2005 2004 89.7 million, the minimum 10.8 million 2004 51.5 million 5.7 million.
During the year the maximum VaR was 5.8 and the average 65.5 million 2004 71.2 million.
million 2004 9.3 million, the minimum 2.8 million 2004 5.7 million and the average 4.0 million 2004 7.3 million.
Citizens was the main contributor to the Groups non-trading interest rate VaR.
It invests in a portfolio of highly rated and Retail and corporate banking liquid investments, principally mortgage-backed securities.
Structural interest rate risk arises in these activities where This balance sheet management approach is common for US assets and liabilities have different repricing dates.
It is the retail banks where mortgages are originated and then sold to Groups policy to minimise the sensitivity of net interest income Federal agencies for funding through the capital markets.
to changes in interest rates and where interest rate risk is VaR, like all interest rate risk measures, has its limitations when retained to ensure that appropriate resources, measures and applied to retail banking books and the management of limits are applied.
Citizens interest rate exposures involves a number of other interest rate risk measures and related limits.
Two measures Structural interest rate risk is calculated in each division on the that are reported both to Citizens ALCO and the Board are: basis of establishing the repricing behaviour of each asset and liability product.
For many products, the actual interest rate the sensitivity of net accrual earnings to a series of parallel repricing characteristics differ from the contractual repricing.
section movements in interest rates: and In most cases, the repricing maturity is determined by the 01 market interest rate that most closely fits the historical economic value of equity EVE sensitivity to a series of behaviour of the product interest rate.
For non-interest bearing parallel movements in interest rates.
current accounts, the repricing maturity is determined by the stability of the portfolio.
The repricing maturities used are approved by Group Treasury and divisional asset and liability committees at least annually.
Key conventions are reviewed annually by GALCO.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review Operating and financial review continued The limits applied to these measures are set to parallel movements of -1% and -2%.
The EVE methodology captures deposit repricing strategies and the embedded option risks that exist within both the investment portfolio of mortgage-backed securities and the consumer loan portfolio.
EVE is the present value of the cash flows generated by the current balance sheet.
EVE sensitivity to a 2% parallel movement upwards and downwards in US interest rates is shown below.
Percent increase decrease in Citizens EVE 2% parallel upward 2% parallel downward movement in movement in US interest rates US interest rates no negative rates allowed 2005 % % Period end 9.1 8.2 Maximum 10.1 9.8 102 Minimum 7.1 4.4 Average 9.2 7.9 2004 Period end 9.2 4.4 Maximum 12.6 18.5 Minimum 5.2 4.4 Average 9.3 9.2 For the Group, the other major structural interest rate risk arises Currency risk from a low interest rate environment, particularly in sterling, The Group does not maintain material non-trading open sustained for a number of years.
In such a scenario, deposit currency positions other than the structural foreign currency pricing may reach effective floors below which it is not translation exposures arising from its investments in foreign practical to reduce rates further whilst variable rate asset subsidiaries and associated undertakings and their related pricing continues to decline.
A sustained low rate scenario currency funding.
The Groups policy in relation to structural would also generate progressively reduced income from the positions is to match fund the structural foreign currency medium and long term hedging of non-interest bearing exposure arising from net asset value, including goodwill, in liabilities.
GALCO regularly reviews the impact of stress foreign subsidiaries, equity accounted investments and scenarios including the impact of substantial declines in rates branches, except where doing so would materially increase the to ensure that appropriate risk management strategies are sensitivity of either the Groups or the subsidiarys regulatory employed.
Resulting action may involve execution of capital ratios to currency movements.
The policy requires derivatives, product development and tactical pricing changes.
structural foreign exchange positions to be reviewed regularly by GALCO.
Foreign exchange differences arising on the Note 34 on the accounts includes, on pages 195 and 196, translation of foreign operations are recognised directly in tables that summarise the Groups interest rate sensitivity gap equity together with the effective portion of foreign exchange for its non-trading book at 31 December 2005 and 31 December differences arising on hedging liabilities.
The tables show the contractual re-pricing for each category of asset, liability and for off-balance sheet items and do not reflect the behaviouralised repricing used in the Groups asset and liability management methodology and the nontrading interest rate VaR presented above.
Operating and financial review The tables below set out the Groups structural foreign currency exposures.
Foreign currency Structural Net investments borrowings foreign in foreign hedging net currency operations investments exposures 2005 m m m US dollar 15,452 6,637 8,815 Euro 2,285 139 2,146 Swiss franc 431 430 1 Chinese RMB 914 914 Other non-sterling 76 72 4 103 19,158 7,278 11,880 2004 US dollar 12,367 6,580 5,787 Euro 2,086 1,349 737 Swiss franc 398 392 6 Other non-sterling 116 112 4 14,967 8,433 6,534 The US dollar open structural foreign currency exposure reflects the action taken to mitigate the effect of the acquisition in 2004 of Charter One on the Groups capital ratios.
However, the increase in this position and the Euro structural exposure over 2004 is largely a result of the exclusion from the table of preference shares classified as equity under IFRS.
These instruments continue to be considered part of the currency funding of foreign operations for asset and liability management purposes.
The exposure in Chinese RMB arises from the Groups strategic investment in Bank of China.
Equity risk Insurance risk is predictable, especially with the analysis of Non-trading equity risk arises principally from the Groups large volumes of data over time.
There is, however, uncertainty strategic investments, its venture capital activities and its around the predictions from various sources, for example, general insurance business.
General insurance investment volatility of the weather.
However, the Group has documented strategy is discussed below under insurance risk.
risk policies, coupled with governance frameworks to oversee and control and hence minimise the risks.
VaR is not an appropriate risk measure for the Groups venture capital investments, which comprise a mix of quoted and Underwriting and pricing risk unquoted investments, or its portfolio of strategic investments.
The Group manages underwriting and pricing risk through a These investments are carried at fair value with changes in fair wide range of processes and forums, which include: value recorded in profit or loss, or in equity.
Underwriting guidelines which exist for all business Insurance risk transacted restricting the types and classes of business that The Group is exposed to insurance risk, either directly through may be accepted: its businesses or through using insurance as a tool to reduce other risk exposures.
Pricing policies which are set by pricing committees, by product line and by brand: An insurance contract transfers risk from the policyholder to the insurer, whereby, in return for a premium paid, Centralised control of policy wordings and any subsequent the insurer indemnifies the policyholder on the occurrence of changes specified events.
section Reinsurance and insurance of Group assets are centrally 01 Insurance risk is the risk of fluctuations in the timing, frequency controlled in the same department as insurance risk and both and severity of insured events, relative to the expectations of have a similar framework of robust controls and processes.
the Group at the time of underwriting.
This risk is managed according to the following separate components: Underwriting and pricing risk, Claims management risk, Reinsurance risk, Reserving risk Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review Operating and financial review continued Claims management risk provision will be held which will initially write down any Claims management risk is the risk that claims are paid deferred acquisition asset held.
Claims are managed using a range of IT acquisition asset has been exhausted, an additional liability system controls and manual processes conducted by adequacy provision will be established.
experienced staff, to ensure that claims are handled in a timely and accurate manner.
Detailed policies and procedures exist b Claims reserves to ensure that all claims are handled appropriately, with each It is the Groups policy to hold undiscounted claims reserves member of staff having a specified handling authority.
The including reserves to cover claims which have occurred but processes include controls to avoid claims staff handling or not been reported IBNR reserves for all classes at a paying claims beyond their authorities, as well as controls to sufficient level to meet all liabilities as they fall due, having 104 avoid paying invalid claims.
Loss adjustors are used to handle regard to actuarial estimates and the volatility observed and certain claims to conclusion.
expected in the claims in each class.
Reinsurance risk The Groups policy is to hold provisions for the major classes of Reinsurance is used to protect the insurance results against business in excess of the actuarial best estimate.
The the impact of major catastrophic events or unforeseen volumes percentage margin in excess of this estimate is assessed by of, or adverse trends in, large individual claims and to transfer senior management, with particular reference to the volatility risk that is outside the Groups current risk appetite.
observed and expected in the claims in each class.
The following types of reinsurance are used where appropriate: The Groups focus is on high volume and relatively straightforward products, for example home and motor.
This Excess of loss per individual risk reinsurance to protect facilitates the generation of comprehensive underwriting and against significantly large individual losses.
claims data, which is used to monitor and accurately price the risks accepted.
This attention to data analysis is reinforced by Excess of loss catastrophe event reinsurance to protect tight controls on costs and claims handling procedures.
against major events, for example, windstorms or floods.
Frequency and severity of specific risks and Quota share reinsurance to protect against unforeseen sources of uncertainty adverse trends, where the reinsurer takes an agreed Most general insurance contracts written by the Group are percentage of premiums and claims.
issued on an annual basis, which means that the Groups liability extends for a 12 month period, after which the Group is Other forms of reinsurance may be utilised according to entitled to decline or renew or can impose renewal terms by need, subject to approval by senior management or the amending the premium or excess or both.
The following paragraphs explain the frequency and severity of Reinsurance is only effective when the counterparty is claims and the sources of uncertainty for the key classes that financially secure.
Before entering a contract with a new the Group is exposed to: reinsurer, it must satisfy the Credit Risk Approval process that uses information derived internally and from security a Motor insurance contracts private and commercial ratings agencies.
Acceptable reinsurers are rated at AClaims experience is quite variable, due to a wide number or better unless specifically authorised by the RBS Insurance of factors, but the principal ones of these are age of driver, Group Board.
Reserving risk There are many sources of uncertainty that will impact the Reserving risk relates to both premiums and claims.
It is the Group's experience under motor insurance, including risk that reserves are assessed incorrectly such that operational risk, reserving risk, premium rates not matching insufficient funds have been retained to pay or handle claims claims inflation rates, the social, economic and legislative as the amounts fall due, both in relation to those claims environment and reinsurance failure risks.
which have already occurred in relation to the claims reserves, including claims handling expense reserves b Property insurance contracts residential and commercial or will occur in future periods of insurance in relation to the The major causes of claims for property insurance are theft, premium reserves.
flood, escape of water, fire, storm, subsidence and various types of accidental damage.
a Premium reserves In respect of premium reserves, it is the Groups policy to The major source of uncertainty in the Groups property ensure that the net unearned premium reserves and accounts is the volatility of weather.
Weather in the UK can deferred acquisition costs are adequate to meet the affect most of the above perils.
Over a longer period, the expected cost of claims and associated expenses in relation strength of the economy is also a factor.
There are many to the exposure after the balance sheet date.
To the extent other sources of uncertainty which include operational, that the unearned premium reserves and deferred reserving and reinsurance issues.
acquisition costs are inadequate, a liability adequacy Operating and financial review c Commercial other insurance contracts The Group is not exposed to price, currency, credit, or interest Other commercial claims come mainly from business risk on unit linked life contracts but it is exposed to variation in interruption and loss arising from the negligence of the management fees.
A decrease of 10% in the value of the assets insured liability insurance.
Business interruption losses would reduce the asset management fees by 5 million per come from the loss of income, revenue and or profit as a annum 2004 5 million.
The Group also writes insurance result of property damage claims.
Liability insurance can be contracts with minimum guaranteed death benefits that expose broken down between employers liability and it to the risk that declines in the value of underlying investments public products liability.
The first is to indemnify employees may increase the Groups net exposure to death risk.
for injury caused as a result of the insureds negligence.
Public products liability is to indemnify a third party for injury Frequency and severity of claims for contracts where death 105 and or damage as a result of an act of the Insureds is the insured risk, the most significant factors that could negligence.
As liability insurance is written on an increase the overall frequency of claims are epidemics or wide occurrence basis, these covers are still subject to claims spread changes in lifestyle, resulting in earlier or more claims that manifest over a substantial period of time, but where than expected.
loss was in existence during the life of the policy.
For contracts where survival is the insured risk, the most Fluctuations in the social, economic and legislative climate significant factor is continued improvement in medical science are a source of uncertainty in the Groups general liability and social conditions that would increase longevity.
account, and in particular court judgements and legislation for example periodic payments under the Courts Act, a review For contracts with fixed and guaranteed benefits and fixed of the Ogden tables used by the courts when setting personal future premiums, there are no mitigating terms and conditions injury claim values, significant events for example terrorist that reduce the insurance risk accepted.
Participating attacks and any emerging new heads of damage, types of contracts can result in a significant portion of the insurance claim that are not envisaged when the policy is written.
risk being shared with the insured party.
d Creditor insurance Sources of uncertainty in the estimation of future benefit Creditor insurance contracts are designed to cover payments payments and premium receipts the Group uses base tables on secured or unsecured lending.
These contracts are for a of standard mortality appropriate to the type of contract being maximum term of 5 years.
The causes of creditor insurance written and the territory in which the insured person resides.
claims are loss of income through accident, sickness or These are adjusted to reflect the Groups experience, mortality unemployment or, in some circumstances, loss of life.
improvements and voluntary termination behaviour.
The main source of uncertainty affecting the Group's Purchased insurance creditor accounts is the economic environment.
The Insurance Sourcing Department is responsible to GEMC A recession could lead to an increased number and for the Group-wide purchase of insurance as a means of cost of unemployment, accident and sickness claims.
Other sources of uncertainty include operational and reserving issues.
Enterprise risk In order to adequately identify and manage the full range of Life business Enterprise risk, the Group has separately defined operational The three regulated life companies of RBSG, NatWest Life and external risk: Assurance Limited, Royal Scottish Assurance plc and Direct Line Life Limited, are required to meet minimum capital Operational risk is defined as the risk arising within the requirements at all times under the Financial Service organisation from: Authoritys Prudential Sourcebook.
The capital resources covering the regulatory requirement are not transferable to People risks arising from an inappropriate level of staff, section other areas of the Group.
To ensure that the capital inadequately skilled or managed.
requirement is satisfied at all times, each company holds an 01 additional voluntary buffer above the absolute minimum.
Process risk caused by inadequate or failed internal Sufficient capital resources are held to ensure that the capital processes.
requirements are covered over a two year projection period.
Life insurance results are inherently uncertain, due to actual Systems risks of inadequately designed or maintained experience being different to modelled assumptions.
differences affect regulatory capital resources, as do varying levels of new business.
Therefore, projections are formally Assets risk of damage, misappropriation or theft of the reviewed twice a year.
Where there is a shortfall of capital, Groups physical, logical and intangible assets.
various options are available to provide new capital.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review Operating and financial review continued External risk is defined as the risk arising outside of the organisation in three main areas: Business risks arising from product performance, competitor activity, supplier unreliability or customer activity.
Political risks caused by political unrest or uncertainty, activity by public interest groups or extremists, and noncompliance with, or changes to, current legislation.
106 Environment risks arising due to demographic, macroeconomic, technical, cultural or environmental change.
Enterprise risk also includes the potential or actual impact on corporate reputation arising from any of the Groups activities.
Enterprise risk management is achieved through monitoring the Groups exposure to direct or indirect loss using a range of policies, procedures, data, analytical tools and reporting techniques.
In particular, Group-wide risk management processes ensure that enterprise risk issues are quickly escalated and resolved, that the risks inherent in new products are fully evaluated, and that emerging external risks are actively monitored.
Operational risk exposures and loss events for each division are captured through monthly Risk and Control returns, which provide details on the change of risk exposures for each risk category in the light of trends and the risk profile of each division.
Regulatory risk Regulatory risk is the risk arising from failing to meet the requirements of our regulators.
To mitigate this risk, the Group is active in various regulatory developments affecting risk, capital and liquidity management.
This includes working with domestic and international trade associations, being active with various regulators, especially the FSA and the main regulatory groups, including the Basel Committee see page 256, the Committee of European Banking Supervisors, the EU Commission and US regulators.
Operating and financial review Governance Contents 107 108 Board of directors and secretary 110 Report of the directors 115 Corporate governance 121 Directors remuneration report 130 Directors interests in shares 131 Statement of directors responsibilities section 02 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Governance Governance
