Operating and financial review continued Risk factors Operational risks are inherent in the Groups business Set out below are certain risk factors which could affect the The Groups businesses are dependent on the ability to Groups future results and cause them to be materially different process a very large number of transactions efficiently and from expected results.
The Groups results are also affected by accurately.
Operational losses can result from fraud, errors by competition and other factors.
The factors discussed in this employees, failure to document transactions properly or to report should not be regarded as a complete and obtain proper authorisation, failure to comply with regulatory comprehensive statement of all potential risks and requirements and Conduct of Business rules, equipment uncertainties.
failures, natural disasters or the failure of external systems, for example, the Groups suppliers or counterparties.
Although the The financial performance of the Group is affected by Group has implemented risk controls and loss mitigation 56 borrower credit quality and general economic conditions, actions, and substantial resources are devoted to developing in particular in the UK, US and Europe efficient procedures and to staff training, it is only possible to Risks arising from changes in credit quality and the be reasonably, but not absolutely, certain that such procedures recoverability of loans and amounts due from counterparties will be effective in controlling each of the operational risks are inherent in a wide range of the Groups businesses.
Adverse changes in the credit quality of the Groups borrowers and counterparties or a general deterioration in UK, US, Each of the Groups businesses is subject to substantial European or global economic conditions, or arising from systemic regulation and regulatory oversight.
Any significant regulatory risks in the financial systems, could affect the recoverability developments could have an effect on how the Group and value of the Groups assets and require an increase in the conducts its business and on the results of operations provision for impairment losses and other provisions.
The Group is subject to financial services laws, regulations, administrative actions and policies in each location in which Changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity prices the Group operates.
This supervision and regulation, in and other market factors affect the Groups business particular in the UK and US, if changed could materially affect The most significant market risks the Group faces are interest the Groups business, the products and services offered or the rate, foreign exchange and bond and equity price risks.
Changes in interest rate levels, yield curves and spreads may affect the interest rate margin realised between lending and Future growth in the Groups earnings and shareholder value borrowing costs.
Changes in currency rates, particularly in the depends on strategic decisions regarding organic growth and sterling-dollar and sterling-euro exchange rates, affect the potential acquisitions value of assets and liabilities denominated in foreign The Group devotes substantial management and planning currencies and affect earnings reported by the Groups nonresources to the development of strategic plans for organic UK subsidiaries, mainly Citizens, RBS Greenwich Capital and growth and identification of possible acquisitions, supported Ulster Bank, and may affect income from foreign exchange by substantial expenditure to generate growth in customer dealing.
The performance of financial markets may cause business.
If these strategic plans do not meet with success, changes in the value of the Groups investment and trading the Groups earnings could grow more slowly or decline.
The Group has implemented risk management methods to mitigate and control these and other market risks to The risk of litigation is inherent in the Groups operations which the Group is exposed.
However, it is difficult to predict In the ordinary course of the Groups business, legal actions, with accuracy changes in economic or market conditions and claims against and by the Group and arbitrations arise: the to anticipate the effects that such changes could have on the outcome of such legal proceedings could affect the financial Groups financial performance and business operations.
The Groups insurance businesses are subject to inherent risks The Group is exposed to the risk of changes in tax legislation involving claims and its interpretation and to increases in the rate of corporate Future claims in the Groups general and life assurance and other taxes in the jurisdictions in which in operates business may be higher than expected as a result of changing The Groups activities are subject to tax at various rates around trends in claims experience resulting from catastrophic the world computed in accordance with local legislation and weather conditions, demographic developments, changes in practice.
Action by governments to increase tax rates or to mortality and other causes outside the Groups control.
Such impose additional taxes would reduce the profitability of the changes would affect the profitability of current and future Group.
Revisions to tax legislation or to its interpretation might insurance products and services.
The Group re-insures some also affect the Group's results in the future.
of the risks it has assumed.
