Governance Risk management and internal control 42 Risk management and internal control In this section we detail the work undertaken in connection with the Interest rate and market risk The Group does not run a trading Groups risk management process and system of internal controls.
The Private Banking subsidiaries hold certain financial instruments debt securities, forward foreign exchange contracts Risk management and interest rate swaps for customer facilitation purposes.
It is Group policy to hedge interest rate risk which is largely mitigated The Board is accountable for risk and is responsible for oversight by the short term nature of our holdings of interest-bearing assets of the risk management process.
The Board has considered the and liabilities.
The Group has a number of overseas subsidiaries principal risks facing the Group and the exposure in relation to whose shareholders funds, revenues and expenses are each of those risks.
denominated principally in local currencies.
Forward foreign exchange contracts with third parties are used to mitigate The Group Management Committee has approved a risk exposure to currency movements where it is considered that the management framework and structure established by the Group sterling values of such amounts are at risk.
The use of such Risk function.
The framework defines the principal risk categories instruments is limited and is subject to approval by the Group and sets out the methodology for the identification, assessment, Capital Committee.
mitigation and reporting of risks.
A risk management structure is in place which embeds risk management within the business.
In addition, the Groups seed capital investments may also be hedged in respect of market risk where it is possible to construct The Group Management Committee reviews the key corporate an effective hedge and there is a perceived risk of volatility in the risks facing the Group and receives regular reports as to the value of the investment due to market movements.
The decisions current status of each risk.
to hedge market risk on seed capital investments, typically using futures, are taken by the Group Capital Committee in consultation Group Risk Committee The Group Risk Committee oversees with the business.
the key risks and the risk management process.
The Committee is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, and includes representatives Monitoring risks The liquidity of the banking entities within the from the businesses and the control functions.
Local management Group is monitored by the Principal Risk Committee and that of is responsible for operational risk controls where appropriate and, the Group by the Group Capital Committee.
The Group Capital depending on the size and complexity of the business unit, risk Committee monitors and controls the use of the Groups nonand control maps have been prepared which have been captured operating capital resources.
on an on-line worldwide risk management system.
The Group Risk Committee receives reports from line management regarding any matters giving cause for concern and ensures appropriate Dedicated personnel are responsible for producing and remedial action is taken.
maintaining market and liquidity risk reports based upon the Financial Services Authoritys methodologies under the Capital Adequacy Directive.
The underlying methodologies and limits are Credit risk In respect of credit risk, limits are reviewed and set reviewed and set centrally by the Principal Risk Committee.
Local centrally by the Group Agency and Principal Risk Committees risk committees and the Principal Risk Committee review supported by a dedicated team of credit professionals.
Local exposures against limits on a regular basis.
management is responsible for monitoring exposure against these limits and reporting to Group management by exception.
In Group Compliance undertakes detailed monitoring activities to respect of principal risk, the Group sets the overall Group limit and review compliance with legal and regulatory requirements.
Group delegates authority to set credit limits within the overall limit to the Internal Audit carries out a programme of audits approved by the Groups banking businesses in London and Switzerland.
Audit Committee, including reviews of the risk management process and advice and recommendations on improving the control environment.
Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Risk management and internal control 43 Internal control The Board is of the view that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and that: and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material it has been in place for the year ended 31 December 2005 financial misstatement or loss and is designed to mitigate, not and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and eliminate, risk.
Accounts: and On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee has carried out its it is regularly reviewed by the Board and complies with the annual assessment of the effectiveness of internal control during internal control guidance for directors in the Combined Code.
2005 using the following to support its conclusions: The Board advocates, encourages and supports continuous the assessment of the Group Management Committee of key improvements in all Group activities, systems and procedures.
corporate risks and responsibilities for those risks: reports from the Group Compliance and Risk Director on the results of the twice-yearly business risks and controls evaluation survey, summarising the work undertaken by the Group Risk Committee and highlighting any significant control issues arising: a report from the Group General Counsel outlining the Groups legal risks: a report from the Group Compliance and Risk Director on the fraud prevention measures in place within the Group: a report from Group Compliance summarising activity during the year and highlighting any major instances of non-compliance: Group Internal Audits review of the effectiveness and application of the risk management process and its report on Group Internal Audits work during the year: and annual and regular reports from the Head of Group Internal Audit on the control environment.
