Principal risks and uncertainties Our business, financial condition and For example, the move towards results of operations, and consequently inner-city residential development in the price of the Hanson shares and the the UK, and consequently an increase amount and timing of any dividends that in the number of apartments being built we pay, will be influenced by a range in place of houses, has reduced the of factors, many of which are beyond demand for bricks.
the control of Hanson and its Board.
The risk factors set out below and the Inclement weather conditions other information in the Annual Report could significantly impact levels and Form 20-F should be considered of construction activity and hence carefully.
There may be other risks which demand for Hansons products.
are not known to the Company or which Extended periods of inclement weather, may not be material now but could turn especially periods of heavy or sustained out to be material.
rainfall during peak construction periods during the year and other acts of nature Risk management such as hurricanes, can result in a The Board of Hanson PLC reviews the material reduction in demand for our effectiveness of the system of internal products at important times, as well control, covering, inter alia financial, as impact our ability to produce our operational, compliance and risk products, and consequently result in management, at least annually.
Changes in economic conditions could Hanson operates in an extremely have a material adverse effect on the competitive market.
level of demand for Hansons products.
Most, if not all, of the markets in which Our performance is affected significantly we operate are extremely competitive.
by changes in economic conditions, both The competitive environment in which globally and in the particular countries we operate can be significantly affected in which we conduct our operations, by local factors, such as the number of especially in the USA, the UK and competitors and production capacity in Australia where we have our most the local market, the proximity of natural significant operations.
The demand resources to the local market and for our products, which are mainly economic conditions and product aggregates, concrete products, readydemand in the local market.
The pricing mixed concrete, asphalt and clay bricks, policies of competitors and the entry of is closely linked to general economic new competitors in the local markets in conditions in each of the territories in which we operate can have an adverse which we operate.
As a result, depressed effect on the demand for, and price of, economic conditions could have an our products and on the results of our adverse effect on demand for, and pricing operations and profitability.
of, our products, which could result in reduced sales and reduced profits.
Changes in government policy or legislation relating to planning, the Changes in government policy or environment, health and safety and legislation relating to public works industry related tax could significantly expenditure and housing could have affect Hansons industry related a material adverse effect on the levels regulatory compliance and other of demand for Hansons products.
operating costs and Hansons ability National governments policies with to establish additional reserves.
regard to the development of transport Our performance is affected infrastructure and housing have significantly by national and or local a significant effect on demand for government policy and legislation in our products and, as a result, our the regions and territories in which profitability.
Decreases in governmental we operate.
Many of our products are funding or in the allocation of those subject to government regulation in funds for transport infrastructure and various jurisdictions regarding their housing projects could reduce the production and sale, and our operating amount of money available for spending units are subject to extensive regulation on our products, potentially thereby by national and local agencies reducing sales and profits.
concerning such matters as planning and environmental and health and safety compliance.
Numerous governmental permits and approvals are required for our operations.
We believe that our operating units are currently operating in substantial compliance with, or under approved variances from, various Principal risks and uncertainties 45 Principal risks and uncertainties continued national and local regulations in all impact operating costs and consequently applicable jurisdictions.
In the past, reduce profitability.
The group has our subsidiaries have made significant several funded defined benefit pension capital and maintenance expenditures plans, which cover a majority of the to comply with planning, water, air and groups employees who participate solid and hazardous waste regulations, in the groups pension plans.
Hanson and these subsidiaries may be required also provides benefits from unfunded to do so in the future in order to ensure non-qualified plans in the USA and postbusiness continuity.
retirement employee benefits in the USA and Canada.
Various assumptions are The existence of these national and made in calculating our assets and local regulations in many jurisdictions obligations under our pension plans in which we operate also means that it is which, if incorrect, could have a material often difficult to establish new greenfield adverse effect on our financial condition.
aggregates reserves and brick factories with clay reserves in areas where Ineffective implementation of computer demand would justify the capital software systems could significantly expenditure required.
The implementation of software to The imposition of industry related taxes improve the efficiency and effectiveness such as the Aggregates Levy and the of various business processes is an Climate Change Levy in the UK increase important contributor to our ongoing our costs and encourage imports of operations and growth strategy.
Failure competing products and product to design, select appropriate suppliers substitution.
or implement such systems effectively could result in unplanned costs or Disruption to, or increased costs of, reduced levels of customer satisfaction the supply of materials, energy and fuel which could adversely affect the results to Hanson and the supply of finished of our operations and profitability.
products to Hansons customers could significantly reduce Hansons profitability.
Hansons acquisition strategy may We are a significant purchaser of be unsuccessful due to an inability to materials, energy and fuel, including identify suitable acquisition targets and cement for use in our ready-mixed to integrate acquired companies into concrete and concrete product its business.
operations, steel for use in our concrete We plan to continue making selective product and steel pipe operations, acquisitions to strengthen, develop and bitumen for use in our asphalt activities, expand our existing aggregates, concrete gas and other energy supplies for use products, ready-mixed concrete, asphalt, in our cement and brick manufacturing clay bricks and related heavy building operations and fuel for the processing material activities.
and transport of our products.
The cost of such materials, energy and The successful implementation of our fuel fluctuates, sometimes by material acquisition strategy depends on a range amounts.
Increases in the costs of of factors, including our ability to identify such materials, energy and fuel or their appropriate opportunities, complete non-availability, can significantly impact acquisitions and achieve an acceptable our costs and disrupt our operations.
rate of return from those acquisitions, The profitability of our operations could including past acquisitions.
There may be adversely affected if we are not able also be substantial challenges or delays to recoup such costs in the prices of in integrating and adding value to our products.
the businesses which we acquire.
In addition, the costs of integration, which Transport logistics play an important are not presently capable of being part in the groups supply chain, whether estimated, could be material and the by road, rail, sea or river, and any material projected synergies resulting from disruption or non-availability of such such acquisitions may not be realised.
transport support could significantly Material costs or delays in connection impact operating costs and reduce with the integration of the operations profitability.
that we acquire or the inability to realise synergies from those acquisitions could Increased employment costs could result in increased expenditure and, significantly reduce Hansons profitability.
consequently, reduced profitability We are a significant employer of labour and rates of return for us from such and any increased costs of employment, acquisitions.
including pension and post-retirement healthcare costs, could significantly Principal risks and uncertainties 46 Hanson is subject to risks relating cause actual results to differ from these to changes in exchange rates.
estimates and expectations include: In the year ended December 31, 2005, i adverse trends in the ultimate number approximately 76% of our operating of asbestos claims filed against the profit before impairments was earned Companys US subsidiaries: ii in currencies other than pounds sterling, increases in the cost of resolving current and a significant portion of our revenue and future asbestos claims as a result is denominated in US dollars.
of adverse trends relating to settlement costs, dismissal rates, legal fees and or At December 31, 2005, approximately judgment sizes: iii decreases in the 67% of our capital employed was located amount of insurance available to cover outside the UK, and approximately asbestos claims as a result of adverse 148% of our net debt and foreign changes in the interpretation of exchange contracts were denominated insurance policies or the insolvency in currencies other than pounds sterling.
of insurers: iv the emergence of new Since our results are reported in pounds trends or legal theories that enlarge sterling, exchange rate movements the scope of potential claimants: affect our reported profits, assets, cash v the impact of bankruptcies of other and debt balances.
This effect may be companies whose share of liability may positive or negative depending on the be imposed on the Companys US nature of the actual exchange rate subsidiaries under certain state liability movement and the nature of any currency laws: vi the unpredictable aspects of hedging instruments that we have put the US litigation process: vii adverse in place.
Fluctuations in exchange rates changes in the mix of asbestos-related could have a material adverse effect on diseases with respect to which asbestos our financial condition and results of claims are made against the Companys operations to the extent that we have US subsidiaries: and viii potential not effectively hedged against those legislative changes.
In light of such exchange movements.
factors, the liability of the Companys US subsidiaries for resolving asbestos Adverse changes in tax legislation may claims may be materially different from affect Hansons ability to maintain its tax current estimates and the impact of rate below the UK statutory rate.
such claims might have a material The underlying effective group tax rate adverse effect on the Companys for 2005 was 14.9% compared to a consolidated financial condition, results UK statutory rate of 30%.
Hansons of operations and cash flow.
However, tax charge is subject to changes in assuming that current trends continue, legislation.
Such changes in legislation the Company does not expect that the may be implemented at short notice and liability and costs associated with these may affect Hansons ability to maintain asbestos claims will have such a material its underlying tax rate below the UK adverse effect and, even assuming a statutory rate of 30%.
material deterioration in current trends, based on the evidence available to it, We are unable to reliably estimate the Company does not expect that such all costs associated with asbestosclaims would impact the ability of the related claims.
Company to continue as a going concern.
With respect to asbestos related claims, the Companys approach to accounting Hansons insurance may be insufficient for the asbestos claims against its US to cover its obligations related to subsidiaries is to provide for those costs Koppers environmental liabilities.
of resolution which are both probable Koppers environmental clean-up and reliably estimable.
The costs of remediation obligations and related resolving possible claims are disclosed costs refer primarily to certain former as contingent liabilities.
At present, US discontinued chemical and related based on detailed analysis and the operations carried on by the Koppers assumptions contained in note 21 of company.
Members of the group remain the Notes to the accounts, the provision contractually and statutorily liable for those costs which are both probable for certain environmental clean-up and estimable equates to approximately remediation costs relating to these eight years of gross cost, assuming a discontinued operations.
The Company cost level of $60m per annum.
Whilst considers current insurance cover to further claims are likely to be resolved be sufficient to meet the related future beyond this eight year period, the costs of this liability, on the basis of its associated costs of resolution cannot estimates and assumptions regarding be reliably estimated and hence no future developments.
Factors which provision has been made to cover these could cause actual costs to differ from possible liabilities.
Factors which could these estimates and assumptions Principal risks and uncertainties Continuing operations 47 Principal risks and uncertainties continued include: i unknown adverse conditions Demergers arising at sites: ii third party claims Four companies into which former in excess of estimates: iii changes to Hanson businesses were demerged regulatory requirements: iv changes agreed in connection with their in remediation techniques and: v any respective demergers to indemnify other significant variations to us against liabilities of the businesses assumptions made in support of these transferred to those companies.
Should the current insurance have not incurred any liability in respect cover be insufficient to meet the related of any claim that related to the above future costs this could have a material mentioned businesses: any such liability impact on our financial condition, results being borne by the relevant demerged of operations and cash flow.
The Energy Group plc, one of the demerged companies, was acquired As a consequence of its significant by TXU Corp. in 1998.
In November present and former activities in the USA, 2002, TXU Corp. announced that the group is subject to litigation claims several of TXU Corp. s UK subsidiaries arising out of both former businesses had been placed under the and activities, in addition to those administrative process in the UK similar relating to asbestos and Koppers to bankruptcy proceedings in the USA, environmental liabilities referred to including The Energy Group.
The Energy above as well as its existing operations.
Group is, therefore, unlikely to be able Former and existing subsidiaries have to fulfil its indemnification obligations engaged in businesses and activities, to Hanson if it were required to do so.
unrelated to the business and activities We are, however, not aware of any claim presently carried on by our group, against us or our subsidiaries that would which give rise to bodily injury and give rise to an indemnity obligation on property damage claims concerning the part of The Energy Group.
In particular, claims and lawsuits have been filed against our US subsidiaries, either directly or as a result of indemnity obligations, relating to products incorporating coal by-products and other chemicals, in particular for the wood treating industry.
With respect to those claims involving coal by-products and other chemicals, the US subsidiary involved has not entered into a material settlement or been subject to a material adverse judgment since the demergers as described below.
In addition, existing operations suffer, from litigation claims which may be uninsured or fall within deductible levels.
In many cases the relevant subsidiary believes it has good defences against these claims.
Nevertheless, in light of the uncertainties involved in litigation and in particular in the USA, where there is the added potential for punitive damages, our subsidiary may be required to participate in settlements or be subject to judgments in future, which may not be covered by insurance and consequently have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.
