Operating and financial review Risk management CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING for the re-opening of electricity distribution price limits, although FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS specic re-opening provisions have been made, with effect from This report contains certain forward-looking statements with 1 April 2005, in relation to uncertain costs associated with specified respect to the financial condition, results of operations and provisions of the Electricity Safety, Quality and Continuity Regulations business of the company.
2002 or amending replacement regulations, the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991 and the Trafc Management Act 2004.
Statements that are not historical facts, including statements Failure to deliver the capital investment programmes could adversely about the companys beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking affect profitability statements.
Words such as expects, anticipates, intends, United Utilities regulated businesses require significant capital plans, believes, seeks, estimates, potential, reasonably expenditure for additions to, or replacement of, plant and possible, targets and variations of these words and similar equipment for their wastewater, water and electricity distribution expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements facilities and networks.
The price limits set by the respective within the meaning of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform regulators take into account the level of capital expenditure Act 1995.
These statements are based on current plans, estimates expected to be incurred during the relevant five-year price review and projections, and therefore investors should not rely on them.
period and the associated funding costs.
Historically, the group Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are has nanced the expenditures from cash ows from operations made, and the company undertakes no obligation to update and from debt nancing.
During the year ended 31 March 2004, publicly any of them in light of new information or future events.
the group announced a two-stage rights issue which raised The company may also make written and or oral forward-looking 501.2 million net of costs from the first stage.
The second statements in its periodic reports to the Securities and Exchange stage, due in June 2005, is expected to raise a further 510 million Commission on Form 6-K, in the annual report to shareholders, in gross.
However, there can be no assurance that cash ows from proxy statements, in offering circulars and prospectuses, in press operations will not decline, or that the second stage of the rights releases and other written materials and in oral statements made issue will give rise to the expected cash inow, or that additional by ofcers, directors or employees to third parties, including debt nancing or other sources of capital will be available to meet financial analysts.
Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties.
If the group is unable to deliver the capital programme at expected The company cautions investors that a number of important factors expenditure levels or is unable to secure the expected capital could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated efficiencies associated with the capital programme or the or implied in any forward-looking statements.
These factors include: programme falls behind schedule for other reasons, the groups i the effect of, and changes in, regulation and government policy: profitability may suffer.
The regulators may factor such failure ii the effects of competition and price pressures: iii the ability of into future price reviews.
In addition, the groups ability to meet the company to achieve cost savings and operational synergies: regulatory and environmental performance standards could be iv the ability of the company to service its future operations and adversely affected by such failure, which may result in fines or capital requirements: v the timely development and acceptance other sanctions.
of new products and services by the company: vi the effect of technological changes: and vii the companys success in The group is currently in dialogue with Ofwat and the Environment managing the risks of the foregoing.
The company cautions that Agency in relation to the scope of works required in order to the foregoing list of important factors does not address all the complete that part of its capital programme for the last charging factors that could cause results to differ materially.
period i. e. 2000-05 which related to limiting pollution from storm water overows referred to by the Environment Agency as RISK FACTORS Unsatisfactory Intermittent Discharges UIDs.
This means that In addition to the risks identied in other information included in this some of these works are being delayed until the required scope report, investors should consider the risks detailed in this section.
Once the cost of the scope of works is nally There may be additional risks that the group does not currently determined, it may be more than the amounts that have been know of, or that are currently deemed immaterial based on allowed for by Ofwat in the 1999 and 2004 price reviews.
In such information currently available.
The groups business, financial cases the company will seek to process the resulting changes condition or results of operations could be materially affected by through Ofwats protocol for dealing with changes to the regulatory any of these risks, resulting in a decline in the trading price of the contract the change protocol.
In respect of those UIDs which groups ordinary and A shares or ADSs.
The group operates an were the subject of the companys 2003 interim determination, internal control system to evaluate and manage risks as described Ofwat has stated that additional costs of completing these works in the section Internal control on page 51. will be recoverable through future price reviews provided that they Turnover of the groups regulated businesses is substantially inuenced meet Ofwats conditions for recovery under the change protocol.
In by regulators, which could adversely affect profitability respect of the UIDs which were not dealt with in the 2003 interim The turnover and profitability of the groups water, wastewater determination, Ofwat has given a similar conrmation in relation to and electricity distribution businesses the regulated businesses are those which the company considers present the greatest risk of substantially inuenced by price limits established every five years by signicantly exceeding the costs assumed in the 1999 price review.
Price reviews for the regulated businesses The group cannot be certain, however, that all these additional covering the five-year period commencing on 1 April 2005 were costs will be recoverable on this basis and will not adversely affect determined by the electricity regulator in November 2004 and by the its profitability or financial position.
The group has accepted both of these determinations and not exercised its right to appeal adverse Failure to deliver operational performance or cost savings implicit in the regulatory reviews could adversely affect profitability price determinations to the Competition Commission.
Operating cost savings to be achieved during the current five-year An adverse price determination may occur as a result of a number of regulatory period are implicit in the regulatory reviews.
To assist the factors, including an inadequate allowed cost of capital or regulatory achievement of these operating cost savings a business change assumptions concerning operating expenses, required capital programme is underway.
If the operating cost savings are not expenditure and revenue forecasts proving not to be realistic.
achieved, or the business change programme is not delivered, then the groups profitability would suffer.
Similarly, if operational Scope to re-open these price controls within the charging period is limited.
In the case of the water and wastewater business, there are performance were to deteriorate, this may be reected by less provisions for Interim Determinations of K IDoK and the application favourable outcomes from future price reviews and the groups of the shipwreck clause.
There is no equivalent provision that allows profitability would suffer.
United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2005 29 Operating and financial review Risk management continued Environmental regulations could increase the groups costs and disconnection of a water supply for non-payment and the limiting of adversely affect profitability a supply with the intention of enforcing payment for certain premises Various government environmental protection and health and including domestic dwellings.
Non-recovery of debt is therefore a safety laws and regulations govern United Utilities wastewater, risk to the group and may cause the groups profitability to suffer, water and electricity distribution businesses.
These laws and although allowance is made by the water regulator in the price limits regulations establish, amongst other things, standards for drinking at each price review for a proportion of debt deemed to be water, discharges into the environment and quality of electricity irrecoverable.
In addition, the group can also request a re-setting supply, which affect the groups operations.
In addition, the group of its price limits through an IDoK during a review period when costs is required to obtain various environmental permissions from or savings arising from changes in certain regulatory assumptions regulatory agencies for its operations.
The group endeavours to including as to the level of non-recoverable debt are material, comply with all regulatory standards.
However, historically the although there can be no guarantee that an IDoK application will group has not been in total compliance and cannot guarantee in be successful.
Although new and existing strategies continue to the future that it will be in total compliance at all times with these be implemented to reduce cash collection risks, including targeted laws and regulations.
On some of the occasions that the group summonsing, there can be no assurance that the group will not has failed to comply, it has been ned or otherwise sanctioned suffer losses from the groups inability to recover its debts fully.
Rapid growth in the business process outsourcing and infrastructure Environmental laws and regulations are complex and change management sectors exposes the group to execution risk, which could adversely affect profitability frequently.
These laws, and their enforcement, have tended to Through Vertex, the groups activities in business process become more stringent over time.
While management believes outsourcing are expanding into new markets and territories and it has taken into account the future capital and operating achieving increased segmental operating profits 2005: 26.4 million: expenditures necessary to achieve and maintain compliance 2004: 25.1 million: 2003: 18.8 million and increased sales with current and known future changes in laws and regulations, external to the group 2005: 308 million: 2004: 281 million: 2003: it is possible that new or stricter standards could be imposed, 220 million.
The infrastructure management business, United or current interpretation of existing legislation amended, which will increase the groups operating costs by requiring changes Utilities Contract Solutions, is also expanding into new markets.
or modications to the assets in order to comply with any new The delivery of contracts, both existing and future, will be achieved environmental laws and regulations.
Although these costs may by exploiting the groups core infrastructure management and be recoverable in part through the regulatory process of setting business process outsourcing skills.
In addition, Vertex has appropriate future price limits, there can be no assurance of this.
significantly expanded its operations into financial services with Therefore, the group cannot guarantee that the costs of complying the recent acquisition of Marlborough Stirling plc.
This rapid growth with, or discharging its liabilities under, current and future exposes these businesses to new business and transaction risks environmental and health and safety laws will not adversely and, potentially, the risk of overtrading, whereby the businesses are affect its profitability or financial position.
unable to operate all their contracts to the standard required by their clients due to a lack of resources and suitably qualied personnel.
Service interruptions or contamination to water supplies could Overtrading could lead to a loss of customers which, in turn, may adversely affect profitability cause profitability to suffer.
In addition to the capital investment programmes, United Utilities regulated businesses control and operate water, wastewater and deficits in pension schemes may require the group to make additional electricity networks and undertake maintenance of the associated contributions to the scheme which would reduce profitability assets with the objective of providing a continuous service.
The group participates in a number of pension schemes, principally Historically, there have been interruptions to the supply of services in the UK.
The principal schemes are funded dened benefit such as the incident in January 2005 affecting Cumbria and schemes and the assets of the schemes are held in trust funds Lancashire in north west England, when a storm severely damaged independent of group nances.
As a consequence of improved life the electricity network supply to 250,000 customers, but the expectancy, together with the downturn in the equity markets and majority of interruptions relate to minor issues that are rectied lower interest rates, the schemes were estimated to have a promptly.
However, the failure of a key asset could cause a more combined post-tax deficit of 55.7 million as at 31 March 2005, significant interruption to the supply of services in terms of duration compared to a post-tax deficit of 264.4 million at 31 March 2004 or number of customers affected, which may have an adverse and of 298.1 million at 31 March 2003.
The group increased effect on the groups operating results or financial position.
pension contribution rates to the United Utilities Pension Scheme and the United Utilities Group of the Electricity Supply Pension Scheme in Water supplies may be subject to contamination, including 2003 04 and the results of the full actuarial valuation resulted in contamination from the development of naturally occurring further increases being required to the United Utilities Pension compounds and pollution from man-made sources.
In the event Scheme and the United Utilities Group of the Electricity Supply that United Utilities water supply is contaminated and it is unable Pension Scheme from 1 April 2005.
A one-off lump sum contribution to substitute water supply from an uncontaminated water source, of 320 million was made on 31 March 2005.
This contribution or to treat adequately the contaminated water source in a costwas calculated to equal the capitalised value of the groups funding effective manner, there may be an adverse effect on its operating obligations to the schemes for the next five years based on the results or financial position.
The group could also be held liable for actuarial valuation as at 31 March 2004 and represents advance human exposure to hazardous substances in its water supplies or payment of certain employer contributions which would have been other environmental damage.
made to the schemes during that period.
The group, however, It is possible that some of the costs associated with service continues to monitor the funding of the schemes and cannot interruptions or contaminations may be partly recoverable through guarantee that during the next five years further contributions will not the shipwreck clause or future price reviews.
The group maintains be required to eliminate continuing shortfalls in the schemes.
This insurance policies in relation to legal liabilities likely to be associated may adversely affect the financial position of the group.
Should longwith these risks, although there can be no assurance that all costs term investment returns remain lower than the rate assumed by the of any such claims would be covered or that coverage will continue actuaries in their pension scheme valuations, or interest rates reduce to be available in the future.
further leading to an increased deficit, the profitability of the group may be further adversely affected and the group required to increase Non-recovery of customer debt could adversely affect profitability its contributions to eliminate this under-funding.
Currently, anticipated United Utilities North West manages the billing, cash collection and debt management activities for 3.1 million domestic and business future pensions contributions and a proportion of existing pension wastewater and water customers.
The Water Industry Act 1991 scheme deficits are recoverable through the price limits established as amended by the Water Industry Act 1999 prohibits the by the regulators.
30 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Weak conditions in the telecommunications industry could continue and cause further losses in the groups telecommunications business Your Communications continues to incur losses on an annual basis.
There is a risk that the over-capacity in the telecommunications market may continue to impose price pressures for some time, leading to operating losses being incurred in the medium term.
LITIGATION NOSS Consortium NOSS, of which North West Water International Limited NWWIL, a wholly owned subsidiary of the company, is a member and the sole remaining active participant, is party to arbitration proceedings in Thailand in relation to a design and construction contract dated 1 November 1993 between NOSS and the Bangkok Metropolitan Administration BMA to build a wastewater treatment plant and network in central Bangkok.
Following disagreements with the engineer and a dispute with BMA, NOSS rescinded the contract and in November 1997 served a notice under Section 387 of the Thai Civil and Commercial Code on the BMA.
In March 1998, NOSS terminated the contract and served notice of arbitration.
NOSS has total claims against the BMA of approximately 6 billion Baht approximately 83 million.
The BMA has counter-claimed for approximately 3.2 billion Baht approximately 44 million.
Arbitrators have been appointed by each party, but the arbitration process has stalled following the arbitrators failure to agree on the appointment of a third arbitrator.
NOSS will continue to monitor the situation but, presently no hearings are scheduled.
Save as stated above, neither the company nor any member of its group is, or has been, involved in any legal or arbitration proceedings nor, as far as the Directors are aware, are any such proceedings pending or threatened by or against any member of the group which may have, or have had within the previous 12 months, a significant effect on the groups financial position.
The company is engaged in litigation in the ordinary course of its operations, such as contract disputes, disputes over easements wayleaves and other similar property matters, bill collections, personal injury claims and workers compensation claims.
The company does not believe that such litigation, either individually or in aggregate, is material.
The company maintains insurance and, to the extent that the amounts in dispute may not be covered by such insurance, maintains provisions in those situations where management deems it appropriate in accordance with UK GAAP.
United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2005 31
