3.3 Risk Management Risk Management Major risk factors Doing business inherently involves taking The Group undertakes comprehensive risk risks and by taking measured risks, we seek assessments and identifies the principal risks to achieve long-term sustainable returns for that affect it and its activities.
Those risks that our shareholders.
are considered by senior management to have the most significant potential impact on the Our risk management process is an important Group are set out below, including for each risk part of our system of internal control and an indication of the areas of potential impact and has linkages with each of the other elements our approach to managing and mitigating them.
of the system, particularly the strategic and We have also provided cross-references to business planning, investment appraisal and related and more detailed information elsewhere financial monitoring processes.
The diagram below shows the six steps in our risk management process, which covers a broad spectrum of business risks.
The Groups 2004 Corporate Responsibility Report sets out in more detail how we address the key social, environmental and ethical risks inherent in our business.
Risk management process 1 Goals & objectives 2 Identify 5 6 3 Reassess Report Assess 4 Action 1 Business goals and objectives set the context for our risk management process 2 Identify the risks 3 Assess and quantify the risks identified 4 Develop action plans to manage the risks 5 Reassess the risks after mitigating actions have been taken 6 Report on risks, extent of mitigation and status of action plans 70 Land Securities Annual Report 2005 3.3 Risk Management continued Market, regulatory and other external factors Risk Description and areas of impact Mitigation activities Other relevant information Market We invest in commercial property to generate returns for shareholders, with We maintain an internal research capability, supplemented by Competitive environment rents contributing to profits and increases in capital values, building the Groups external advice, to monitor current and future market trends and business planning, net asset value.
The commercial property markets are typically cyclical.
Rental and update our forecast house view accordingly.
This house page 16 levels are determined by the supply of suitable space in a market and occupiers view is a key element of our business planning, forecasting demand.
Markets tend to be location specific.
The value of a commercial and capital allocation decision-making processes.
property depends upon the characteristics of the lease, the credit worthiness of the tenant, the prospects for rental growth and investors target returns.
The latter are informed by their perception of the attractiveness of real estate compared with other types of investment and interest rates.
Asset management We have concentrated our investment portfolio in areas of the market and types We formally review the performance of each property at least Retail, page 34 of property that we believe will offer the prospect of superior growth over the annually.
Key performance measures such as voids, lease London Portfolio, medium term as we consider this offers the best prospects for value creation.
We expiry profiles, progress on rent reviews and tenant defaults page 40 are exposed to the risk of underperformance if we misjudge the dynamics of the are reported on monthly and actively managed to mitigate markets, or if individual assets do not achieve their anticipated returns for risks.
These measures inform our decisions to buy, hold or example due to tenant insolvency.
Regulation The Group is exposed to risks from increases in tax rates and changes to VAT, Appropriate procedures are put in place to ensure that we Real Estate Investment stamp duty land tax, and the bases of taxation of profits and capital gains.
The comply with current regulations and legislation.
Trusts and Lease Reform, Group is also exposed to changes in planning regulation.
page 14 We are active participants in many industry organisations, As set out in the Chairmans statement, progress has been made towards the including the British Property Federation, through whom introduction of Real Estate Investment Trusts, however some uncertainty we seek a constructive dialogue with Government on issues remains as to the impact for the Group.
In relation to lease code reforms, the affecting us.
threat of legislation has been removed for the time being.
Financing Managing the level, cost and availability of funding is key to the financial We have a centralised Treasury function with responsibility for Financial strategy and debt performance of the Group and its ability to deliver returns to shareholders.
Decisions about current and future restructuring, page 19 Effective management of interest rate risk is an important factor.
gearing level are a key part of our business planning process.
Hedging policy, page 23 Our hedging policy is detailed in the OFR.
Business, operational and other external factors Investment There is a potential risk that management decisions about the allocation and Our investment appraisal procedures and controls are designed Competitive environment to monitor and mitigate this risk.
We monitor actual performance and business planning, performance investment of capital and other resources may not deliver the appraised returns, and returns or may fail to maximise potential value for the Group.
against our targets, taking corrective actions as appropriate.
page 16 Development Development offers the prospect of higher returns than standing investments.
It We monitor development progress against budget and Development programme, programme and report regularly on letting progress.
We also page 29 also offers the ability to create new assets if purchasing is difficult because prices are high.
However, the development process can be long and complex set internal financial limits as to the amount of development, in particular speculative development, that we will undertake.
because it requires us to obtain planning permission, build to budget and schedule and let the buildings.
Failure to manage any of these elements, and in particular to let the building, exposes us to the risk of loss or underperformance.
We have developed rigorous financial models and systems to Property outsourcing, Property outsourcing An outsourcing contract will typically require the Group to provide accommodation and certain associated services to an occupier in return for an measure our performance against contract requirements, all page 46 of which, together with Land Securities Trilliums financial indexed unitary charge.
Outsourcing clients may transfer significant elements of the risk in their property portfolios to the Group and it is our ability to manage performance, are reviewed monthly by senior management.
Information and experience gained from this monitoring these risks that creates profit for us.
Land Securities is exposed to loss if the unitary charge set at the outset of the contract either does not reflect the process is in turn used to develop the pricing of new contracts.
property and operational risks involved, or if the Group does not deliver the contracted services to the required standard.
Human resources The Groups objective in relation to employees is to be the employer of choice We are pro-active in our approach to Human Resource Our people, page 62 management as described in the Corporate Responsibility 2004 Corporate in the quoted property sector.
Our ability to achieve this objective will be negatively impacted if we fail to attract, develop and retain the best people.
Responsibility Progress Report While we believe that our exposure in this area is lower than Disaster planning Without sufficient recovery planning, there is a risk that the business may fail to recover from a disaster and potentially suffer long-term damage.
that faced by many other major companies, we have in place disaster recovery plans which include the use of off-site facilities.
The plans are regularly updated and rehearsed from time to time.
IT integrity A major failure in our IT systems could result in financial and reputational loss.
IT back-up plans are a key element of our disaster recovery plans.
We make use of third parties to provide back-up and performance services for the Company.
Health, safety and Failure to manage these risks across the Group may result in financial penalties, Our HSE responsibilities and management systems are Health and safety, page 63 detailed on pages 63 and 64.
Environment, page 64 environment HSE criminal proceedings and reputational impact.
Further, the cost of complying with major changes in related laws and regulations could have a negative impact 2004 Corporate Responsibility Progress Report on profitability.
We conduct relationship management programmes to ensure Corporate responsibility, Stakeholder Our reputation with stakeholders underpins our success in a number of ways, relationships including attracting and retaining employees: providing efficient services to we engage appropriately with our key stakeholder groups.
Our page 60 2004 Corporate Responsibility Report, the subsequent Progress Customer Service, page 32 our occupiers, clients and their customers: delivering successful development projects: and communication with shareholders, debt investors and bank lenders.
Report and the Customer Service and Corporate Responsibility 2004 Corporate section of this Annual Report detail how we conduct our Responsibility Progress business to minimise the risks that could arise from poor Report management of these relationships.
