32 Alliance UniChem Plc Operating and financial review Operational risk management Alliance UniChem applies effective risk management in identifying opportunities and preparing strategies for the efficient operation and continued development of the Group against a background of complex, regulated and competitive markets.
Our risk management strategy aims to provide sound assurance for management on the effectiveness of our control framework.
The Groups approach to this comes from the active management, rather than elimination, of risk.
Our aim is to ensure that we understand risks before taking decisions to enable balanced choices and to allow opportunities to be pursued and objectives met with confidence.
Business risk factors The Group operates in regulated regulation is a constant feature of the markets In the day to day operation of our businesses environments and therefore may be within which we operate.
When regulatory and the development of the Group, both in adversely impacted by regulatory reviews changes take place we react swiftly.
This can existing and new markets, we face risks and aimed at reducing governments costs mean varying our market propositions such as uncertainties, a number of which are unique As a pharmaceutical wholesaler and operator adjusting prices and discounts where necessary to the business sectors in which we operate.
of retail pharmacies, we are subject to in order to mitigate the adverse effects of any The risk factors addressed below are those legislation in our markets covering: certain such changes.
We also seek to take advantage which we believe could adversely affect us, minimum service levels and product ranges: of any opportunities that regulatory changes potentially impacting the operations, revenue, the conditions under which these products may afford.
profits, cash flow or assets of the Group.
must be stored, distributed and dispensed: the The markets within which the Group Additional risks and uncertainties currently safeguards we must operate to ensure integrity operates are highly competitive and are unknown to us, or which we currently deem of the supply chain and to protect patients subject to change to be immaterial, may also have an adverse receiving prescriptions: and the reimbursement The Group operates in highly competitive effect on the Group.
We use our risk permissible or provided for our wholesale and markets which, not withstanding their management process to identify, monitor, retail businesses.
Changes to existing legislation regulated nature, are subject to competition evaluate and escalate such issues as or other regulations and the introduction of from direct competition and alternative they emerge, enabling the Board to take new legislation or other regulations may affect supply sources, including importers parallel appropriate action wherever possible in order our operations.
Regulatory changes driven by trade, domestic opportunistic traders and to control them.
political or economic pressures, particularly manufacturers who supply product direct to those relating to the sourcing of medicines The factors listed below should be considered pharmacies or patients.
These can result in or pricing, have the potential to impact our in connection with any forward looking adverse pressure on pricing or discounts to performance through pressures on revenue, statements in this report.
customers and, within a regulated commercial gross margins or costs.
Any changes in current environment, can sometimes produce approaches to licensing either through unexpected consequences and subject us enhanced restrictions on wholesalers or a to changes in market structure, such as the reduction in service levels required within potential risk of disintermediation.
It is possible the industry which may lead to enhanced that suppliers, customers and payors could competition, may affect our operations.
change their operational models in a way that In addition, changes to the licensing could adversely affect the Groups operations.
regimes for pharmacies, or restrictions on The Group monitors service offerings and reimbursement controls for state funded counters these risks by ensuring that its offering pharmacies, may affect the operations and to its customers is competitive and backed by profitability of our pharmacies and, through excellent customer service.
The broad portfolio their impact on the wider community of of businesses with their geographic and pharmacies, have a consequent impact commercial diversity, coupled with high service on our wholesale businesses.
and efficiency levels across the Group, provide As a leading industry player in many of the both a defence from new market entrants and countries in which we operate, we are able a sound platform from which to benefit from to contribute constructively and effectively to any opportunities that developments in our consultation on the development of regulation markets may offer.
We are fully cognizant that 33 Alliance UniChem Plc Operating and financial review Operational risk management Acquisitions in existing and new The Group is also exposed to risks arising A major health, safety or environmental geographical markets and related through professional or process error in its incident could harm our employees or business areas have inherent risk pharmacies and in the professional services people in the communities we serve and The Groups strategy for continued growth it provides.
Robust operational and expose the Group to reputational damage, includes acquiring businesses and associate pharmaceutical controls are managed by a litigation and adversely impact our interests to complement our existing team of senior pharmacists and supported operational and financial performance business portfolio.
Failure to identify, conduct by ongoing training for every pharmacist or The Group takes its corporate responsibilities appropriate due diligence and appropriately dispensor.
These processes are subject to in the field of health, safety and the integrate acquisitions, particularly in new proactive review and assurance activity and environment very seriously and fully recognises geographical markets, could have an adverse are designed to mitigate the likelihood of the potential human, reputational and financial impact on the Groups competitive position, material damage to the Group from product consequences of these risks.
In managing growth prospects and business operational and service risks.
risks relating to the health and safety of its financial performance.
Exploitation of our employees, protection of the public and the The occurrence of major operational particular in-house corporate development environment and the storage and handling of problems could have an adverse effect expertise in this area enables the Group to hazardous substances and waste products, on the performance of the Group make acquisitions which consistently create the Group relies for control on group-wide In common with other businesses, Alliance shareholder value while avoiding unsuitable environmental, health and safety standards, UniChem depends on its process and control markets and businesses.
which meet or exceed the regulatory framework to mitigate the possibility of a major requirements in all the countries in which we The Group has a potential exposure to the failure in operations, information technology, operate.
Compliance with these standards and consequences of the supply of defective finance, human resources or other key business with changes to the regulatory environment are products or negligence and breach of processes capable of having an impact on its monitored and reviewed to give assurance that contract claims arising from failure to performance.
These failures may be caused by our controls continue to protect our people and provide services properly internal factors, such as a major information the communities that we serve and to ensure Whilst the Group does not undertake any technology systems failure, a stock handling that the Group can demonstrate to appropriate product manufacturing all its own brand procedure breakdown or failure to retain authorities responsible management and products being manufactured by third key personnel.
They could also be driven by compliance with regulation in these areas.
party manufacturers, potential financial or external events, such as the failure of third reputational consequences could result from party suppliers, terrorism or natural disasters Other risk factors risks regarding the infiltration of counterfeit such as epidemics, pandemics and other The Board considers that Alliance UniChem is products into the supply chain, the re-labelling major events which impact us as well as the also subject to other conventional commercial of certain products or by contamination or communities we serve.
The Group continues and financial risks which are common to most mishandling issues.
The Group maintains to develop and strengthen its coordinated risk international groups.
These include the a robust framework of operational and management and assurance mechanisms to management of customer credit and trade professional pharmacy controls to prevent manage these risks in a manner which it receivables and those risks specified in the such product-related incidents.
In addition, believes ensures an appropriate and effective Financial Review section of the Operational pharmacy product risk exposure is limited as control framework for its businesses at a local, and Financial Review, including interest rate the Group only maintains relationships with national and corporate level.
These risks licensed manufacturers of medicines who are reviewed and managed through the would legally carry primary responsibility for Groups business performance and risk any product defect.
