AR6868 ICI Report 143 152 13 3 06 9:08 pm Page 149 Risk factors The following section comprises a summary of what ICI believes are the The occurrence of major operational problems could have an main risk factors that could potentially impact the Groups operating adverse effect on the Groups results of operations and cash flow.
The Groups revenues are dependent on the continued operation of its various manufacturing facilities.
Operational risks include: ICI operates in competitive markets.
If the Group does not continue equipment and systems failures: to compete in its markets effectively by developing innovative products and responding effectively to the activities of its failure to comply with applicable regulations and standards and competitors, it could lose customers and its results of operations to maintain necessary permits and approvals: could be adversely affected.
raw material supply disruptions: ICI has a wide portfolio of business units competing across a diverse labour force shortages or work stoppages: range of geographic and product markets.
The Groups business may be adversely affected if it does not: events impeding or increasing the cost of transporting products: continue to develop innovative products that satisfy customer needs natural disasters: and and preferences: terrorist attacks.
develop new technology or enhance existing technology that While the Group maintains insurance at levels that it believes are supports product development or provides cost or other advantages appropriate for its industry, some of these operational risks could over its competitors: and result in losses and liabilities in excess of its insurance coverage or attract and retain skilled employees who are key to achieving in uninsured losses or liabilities.
The occurrence of major operational these objectives.
problems resulting from the above or other events may have an adverse effect on the results of operations of a particular Because the Group is subject to price competition, it must also manufacturing facility, or with respect to certain of these risks, continue to satisfy these objectives while maintaining a competitive the results of operations and cash flow of the Group as a whole.
In addition, some of ICIs competitors in certain markets are larger and The Group undertakes a number of significant projects each year have greater financial resources than the Group.
This may enable them and poor execution or failure to complete such projects could have to deliver products on more attractive terms or to invest larger amounts an adverse effect on results of operations.
of capital into their businesses, including expenditure for research The Group, or any of the Groups business units, may undertake and development.
If any of the Groups current or future competitors significant projects including restructuring, capital expenditure, develop proprietary technology that enables them to produce new disposals, acquisitions and outsourcing, all of which require significant products or services or to deliver existing products or services at a project management from initiation through to implementation.
Failure significantly lower cost, the Groups products and services could be to manage such projects appropriately or to implement such projects rendered uneconomical or obsolete.
may have an adverse effect on the results of operations of a particular While some of the Groups product range comprises products and business unit and or the Group as a whole.
services that are protected by proprietary knowledge or patents, some of its businesses use technology that is widely available.
Accordingly, Loss of a significant number of key personnel could adversely certain product segments of the Groups business may be vulnerable affect the Groups results of operations.
to new competitors and may be adversely affected by increased price competition.
Any of these developments could lead to a loss of The Group relies on key personnel such as business leaders and customers and could adversely affect the Groups results of operations.
technical experts whose knowledge is important to the success of the Group.
Although ICI has procedures in place to identify and The price volatility of some of the raw materials ICI uses could retain key personnel, events beyond its control may lead to loss of adversely affect its results of operations.
Where this happens, there are processes designed to enable the transfer of know-how from key personnel, however, ICI uses significant amounts of various chemicals and other materials failure to transfer such know-how prior to the loss of key personnel as raw materials in manufacturing its products.
Prices for some of and an inability to replace such key personnel in a timely fashion these raw materials are volatile and are affected by cyclical movements could have an adverse effect on the Groups results of operations.
in commodity prices, availability of such raw materials, demand for a variety of products which are produced using these raw materials, ICI derives a significant percentage of its revenue in some of levels of price competition among local and global suppliers and its businesses from sales to major customers, and if it is unable general economic conditions.
The Groups diverse portfolio of value to retain these customers, its results of operations could be added products provides some ability to pass on higher input prices adversely affected.
to its customers, but this ability is, to a large extent, dependent on market conditions.
There may be times when the Group is not able to While no single customer accounted for more than 10% of Group recover increases in the cost of raw materials for some products due to sales in 2005, sales to major customers in some of its businesses, weakness in demand for such products or the actions of its competitors.
particularly in Paints and Quest, are significant.
ICI believes that the This could adversely affect the Groups results of operations.
wide selling range and nature of the specialty products it supplies reduce the potential adverse consequences of the loss of business from any one customer for any one of its products or in any one of its businesses.
Nevertheless, the loss of major customers, without replacement, could have an adverse effect on the Groups results of operations.
Risk factors ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2005 149 AR6868 ICI Report 143 152 13 3 06 9:08 pm Page 150 Risk factors continued The Groups reliance on key suppliers in some of its businesses Recently disposed businesses may expose ICI to costs that could could result in an adverse effect on results of operations.
have an adverse effect on its results of operations, cash flow and financial condition.
Some of the Groups business units rely on a small number of suppliers for their key raw materials.
If any of these suppliers is unable to meet In recent years, ICI has carried out a programme of strategic disposals, its obligations or increases its prices, the Group may not be able to in the course of which it has given to other parties in those transactions find a replacement supplier that is able to provide such raw materials certain indemnities, warranties and guarantees, including indemnities, on similar terms.
Consequently, the Group may be forced to pay higher warranties and guarantees relating to known and potential latent prices to obtain raw materials, which it may not be able to pass on to environmental, health and safety liabilities.
There are also a number its customers in the form of increased prices for its finished products.
of contracts relating to businesses that ICI exited as part of its disposal In addition, some of the raw materials used may become unavailable programme which have not been novated to the purchasers and there can be no assurance that the Group will be able to obtain of these businesses.
suitable and cost effective substitutes.
Furthermore, any consolidation The extent to which ICI will be required in the future to incur costs in the industries that supply the Groups raw materials could further under any of the indemnifications, warranties, guarantees or contracts reduce the number of available suppliers.
referred to above or any similar contractual provision which the Any interruption of supply or price increases caused by these or Group entered into in connection with its disposal programme, is not other factors, which the Group is not able to mitigate by securing predictable and, if the Group should incur such costs, the costs could satisfactory replacement suppliers, could have an adverse effect have an adverse effect on results of operations, cash flow and financial on its results of operations.
For a more detailed description of these exposures see note 32 relating to the Group accounts.
ICIs indebtedness and resulting leverage could reduce its operational and competitive flexibility, increase its vulnerability to Risks associated with the Groups international operations could adverse economic and industry conditions, increase its interest adversely affect its results of operations.
costs and adversely affect results of operations and cash flow.
ICI is an international business with operations in over 50 countries ICIs outstanding net indebtedness amounted to 745m as of and conducts business in many currencies.
These operations are subject 31 December 2005.
ICIs indebtedness could affect the Group in to the risks associated with international operations which include: adverse ways, in particular by requiring the Group to dedicate a slowdown or recession in global, regional or national significant portion of its operational cash flow to service payments on economic growth: such indebtedness, and by limiting its ability to borrow additional funds or refinance existing indebtedness on attractive terms.
Furthermore, its tariffs and trade barriers: indebtedness could increase its vulnerability to adverse economic and exchange controls: industry conditions, limit its ability to fund future capital expenditures, research and development and other general corporate requirements fluctuations in national currencies: and limit its flexibility to react to changes in its business and the social and political risks: industries in which the Group operates.
national and regional labour disputes: In addition, like many other companies, ICI is dependent on its ability to obtain short-term financing to fund a portion of its financing required compliance with a variety of foreign laws, requirements.
While ICI has access to 769m in committed and regulations and standards: and undrawn bank facilities as of 31 December 2005, limitations on ICIs the difficulty of enforcing legal claims and agreements ability to access short-term financing could increase its interest costs through some foreign legal systems.
and could adversely affect its results of operations and cash flow.
Furthermore, some of ICIs businesses are subject to cyclical A decision by the rating agencies to downgrade ICIs credit rating fluctuations in the industries and economies in which they operate.
would reduce its funding options, increase its cost of borrowings Finally, like all international businesses, ICI faces the risk of exposure when costs arise in a different currency than sales and the risk arising and have an adverse impact on results of operations and cash flow.
from the need to translate foreign currency denominated profits into A number of factors, some of which are not within the Groups control, pounds Sterling, the Groups reporting currency.
Any of the risks may, individually or in combination, affect the rating agencies view of discussed above could adversely affect its results of operations.
the Groups credit profile and lead them to place the Group on credit watch or downgrade its credit rating, including: Economic, social and political conditions in developing economies a significant deterioration in the Groups operating performance: could adversely affect the Groups results of operations and future growth.
the occurrence of material, unexpected additional cash charges leading to a weakening in cash flow debt metrics: ICI has operations in many developing economies in Asia and Latin America, and its strategy includes continuing to expand its business a significant deterioration in the economic environment in which in these regions.
However, many developing economies have recent the Group operates: histories of economic, social and political instability brought about the occurrence of any of the events described in the other risk by a number of factors, including unexpected changes in local laws, factors contained in this Annual Report and Accounts: and regulations and standards, substantial depreciation and volatility in national currencies, the imposition of trade barriers, and wage and further significant increases in the deficit of the Groups pension price controls.
Any of these factors could adversely affect ICIs results funds or significant increases in the top-up contributions of of operations and future growth.
150 ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Risk factors AR6868 ICI Report 143 152 13 3 06 9:08 pm Page 151 ICIs exposure to consumer markets exposes it to legal risks, Failure to comply with corporate governance requirements could regulation and potential liabilities from product liability claims have an adverse effect on the Groups results of operations.
asserted by consumers, which could have an adverse effect on The Group has in place a corporate governance framework which results of operations, cash flow and financial condition.
meets the requirements set out in the Combined Code.
Processes are in place to ensure that this framework is complied with and maintained.
A significant proportion of the Groups products is sold directly or The Groups corporate governance structure is more fully described in indirectly to end-user consumers, even if the Group does not itself the Corporate Governance report on pages 35 to 40. provide these products directly to consumers.
This exposure to consumer markets exposes the Group to legal risks, regulation by Failure by the Group to implement, update, manage and maintain its relevant authorities and potential liabilities to consumers of these corporate governance compliance and control framework or failure products, which may not be covered by the Groups existing insurance to comply with such a framework could have an adverse effect on coverage or may exceed its insurance coverage.
Any of these factors the Groups results of operations.
could have an adverse effect on the Groups results of operations, cash flow and financial condition.
ICI has given undertakings and guarantees relating to pension funds, including the solvency of the ICI UK Pension Fund, which could Certain companies in the Group are the subject of various claims have an adverse effect on its results of operations and cash flow.
and proceedings which, if successfully asserted against them, could have an adverse effect on its results of operations, cash flow and ICI provides retirement benefits for the majority of its former and current employees through a variety of defined benefit and, more recently, financial condition.
These include the ICI UK Pension Fund Certain companies in the Group are the subject of various claims Fund, which is ICIs largest defined benefit scheme.
These concern issues such as alleged product 2005 it had liabilities of 7,770m, offset by scheme assets with a market liability and contract disputes.
For a description of certain of these value of 6,953m, giving a net deficit of 817m which is recorded on matters see note 32 relating to the Group accounts.
the Groups balance sheet under international accounting standard IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
The Fund represents 79% of the Groups total The successful assertion of current or future claims and proceedings post-retirement scheme liabilities and 85% of the Groups total postcould have an adverse effect on the Groups results of operations, cash retirement scheme assets at 31 December 2005. flow and financial condition.
The most recent valuation of the Fund revealed an increase in the Violations of environmental, health and safety and other laws, funding shortfall to 657m at 31 March 2005.
Given that the Fund is regulations and standards could restrict the Groups operations, extremely mature, the funding deficit shortfall has to be rectified expose it to liability, increase its costs and have an adverse effect through funding from the Company.
on its results of operations, cash flow and financial condition.
Factors such as the risk of poor future investment returns on scheme ICI is subject to a broad range of laws, regulations and standards in assets, changes in actuarial assumptions including mortality of scheme each of the jurisdictions where it operates, including those relating to members, higher rates of inflation and or falling bond-return rates used pollution, the health and safety of employees, protection of the public, to discount the scheme liabilities, could all serve to increase the Fund protection of the environment and the generation, storage, handling, deficit, thereby requiring increased future funding contributions from transportation, treatment, disposal and remediation of hazardous the Company with a resulting adverse effect on the Groups results of substances and waste materials.
These regulations and standards operations, cash flow and financial condition.
In the ordinary course of business, ICI is subject to inspections and monitoring by the appropriate enforcement authorities.
ICI also requires relevant permits and approvals for its operations which require compliance with their terms and which may be subject to renewal, modification and, in some circumstances, revocation.
It is the Groups policy to require that its subsidiaries comply with relevant laws, regulations and standards.
However, violations of applicable laws, regulations and standards, in particular provisions of environmental, health and safety laws including spills or other releases of hazardous substances to the environment or of permit or approval requirements, could result in restrictions on the operation of the Groups facilities, damages, fines or other sanctions, increased costs of compliance as well as reputational damage.
ICI is also subject to environmental laws and regulations, principally in respect of soil and groundwater remediation, that in the future may require it to take action to correct effects on the environment of prior disposal or release of chemical substances by the Group or other parties.
ICI has established provisions in respect of future environmental, health and safety liabilities that are not covered by enforceable indemnities from third parties, for which expenditure is probable and the cost of which can be estimated within a reasonable range of outcomes.
These actual and potential liabilities, however, are inherently difficult to predict and to quantify.
Existing provisions could therefore be inadequate to cover these liabilities, and additional costs to meet such actual and potential obligations could have an adverse effect on the Groups results of operations, cash flow and financial condition.
Risk factors ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2005 151
