Whilst the group has benefited considerably from the Risks and Uncertainties development of such legislation its growth could be adversely affected if the pace of legislative change slowed significantly.
There are a number of potential risks and uncertainties which Johnson Matthey monitors the development of legislation could have a material impact on the groups long term globally and coordinates its development work to ensure it can performance.
achieve greatest advantage from each new requirement.
Regular reviews are undertaken at the business and group level Technological Change and Patents to monitor growth and to investigate other areas of potential if legislation slows.
Much of the groups business is focused on selling products which are technologically advanced or employ technologically advanced processes in their manufacture.
In most cases these Global, Political and Economic Conditions products are subject to continuous improvement as new Johnson Matthey operates in over 30 countries around the technology is developed.
The group is exposed to the risk that world including several within Africa, Asia and Latin America.
if it does not keep up with changes in the market place its While benefiting from the opportunities and growth in these products will no longer be competitive.
This is both a threat regions the group is exposed to the economic, political and and an opportunity since Johnson Matthey can gain business as business risks associated with such international operations.
The groups strategy to meet this risk is to invest group encounters different legal and regulatory requirements significantly in research and development to maintain or achieve including those for taxation, environmental, operational and leadership positions in those markets which offer sufficient competitive matters.
It is exposed to the effect of political risk added value to justify the long term investment required.
which can include sudden changes in regulations, expropriation The groups results are also impacted by the status of of assets, imposition of trade barriers and wage controls, limits patents.
These include patents which the group itself registers on the export of currency and volatility of prices, taxes and and maintains, as well as the benefits that arise from the expiry currencies.
The group is exposed to possible natural catastrophe of third party patents.
All the groups divisions have registered risk, for example through major earthquake or flood, and intellectual property which confers significant competitive possible terrorist action.
Management monitor such risks, advantage and acts as a barrier to new entrants into its maintaining adequate insurance cover and amending business markets.
Pharmaceutical Materials Division supplies active procedures as appropriate to mitigate any exposure while pharmaceutical ingredients to generic manufacturers and can remaining in compliance with local and group requirements.
If actual patent lives differ from the groups expectations, such as by being extended or Environmental Liabilities successfully challenged, this can affect the groups results.
The group has established policies both to monitor its existing The environmental laws of various jurisdictions impose actual patent portfolio and those of third parties, taking action if and potential obligations on the group to remediate necessary to enforce any infringement.
contaminated sites, both those currently owned and, also in some cases, those which have been sold.
Johnson Mattheys environmental policies are set out on page 28.
The group Legislation incurs costs annually in meeting these obligations and also Much of the stimulus for the development and growth of maintains provisions for potential liabilities.
If existing provisions Johnson Mattheys products arises from new legislation are inadequate to cover any liabilities or the associated costs governing the environmental or health impact of its customers arising from environmental obligations this could materially products in different jurisdictions worldwide.
This is most impact the groups results.
significant for Environmental Catalysts and Technologies where historic and future growth depends on global tightening of Commercial Relationships emissions limits for on road and off road vehicles.
Legislation is also relevant for some of the groups other businesses.
Process Johnson Matthey benefits from close commercial relationships Catalysts and Technologies manufactures products to remove with a number of key customers and suppliers.
The loss of any contaminants or to produce particularly pure chemicals.
Colour of these key customers or suppliers, or a significant worsening Technologies is supported by legislation phasing out lead, in commercial terms could have a material impact on the cadmium and other heavy metals from glass and ceramic glazes.
The development of the fuel cells industry is also impacted by Johnson Matthey devotes significant resources to clean air regulations and the drive towards zero emissions supporting these relationships to ensure they continue to within both local and national legislation.
From time to time the group undertakes Annual Report and Accounts 2005 21 Operating and Financial Review surveys of customer satisfaction which are reviewed by the groups performance is therefore impacted by the dynamics of board.
Some of the relationships are supported by long term its customers end markets and their performance within these contracts, notably the groups relationship with Anglo Platinum.
A significant loss of market share at or by a major automotive customer could negatively impact the groups results.
The group also has exposure to the wider automotive Foreign Exchange sector as a whole which is served by a number of the groups Johnson Matthey operates globally with the majority of the divisions.
While global car production levels have some effect groups operating profit earned outside the UK.
It has significant on the sales of Johnson Mattheys products, other factors such investments outside the UK with the single largest investment as tightening emissions legislation and the increasing technical being in the USA.
As such the group is exposed to movements demands from catalysts play a more significant role.
in exchange rates between sterling and other world currencies, Another key end market is for pharmaceutical products, particularly the US dollar, which could adversely or positively with Pharmaceutical Materials providing materials used in the impact results.
The groups policies for managing its foreign manufacture of controlled drugs and anticancer pharmaceuticals.
currency exposures are set out in more detail on page 20.
Johnson Mattheys performance is influenced both by growth in these markets and by the market share of its key customers.
Precious Metal Prices and Controls Risks are mitigated by monitoring both industry developments and market share at customers to prevent the A large proportion of the groups activities involve managing group from becoming unduly dependent on any single customer.
precious metals which have inherent risks associated with them in addition to bringing valuable business opportunities.
While the group could be vulnerable to a global Competitor Risk disruption in the supply of platinum group metals, it has access The group operates in highly competitive markets.
Significant to world markets for these metals and is not dependent on product innovations, technical advances or the intensification of any one source for obtaining supplies for operations.
price competition could all adversely affect the groups results.
Precious metals have high prices which can fluctuate Johnson Matthey invests significant resources in research and significantly and this can have a material impact on Johnson development in order to ensure the introduction of both new Mattheys results.
The groups policies for managing this risk are products and improved production processes to allow the set out in more detail on page 20.
The high value of precious group to be at the forefront of its chosen markets.
The group metals means that any process losses could be material and also continually works to streamline its cost base to ensure it there remains the possibility of theft or fraud.
has extensive experience in operating with precious metals and employs strict security, assay and other process controls and Litigation and Investigations reviews to minimise any exposure.
Policies are reviewed regularly by the Chief Executives Committee and reported to The group is subject to a broad range of laws, regulations and the Audit Committee.
standards in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
Failure to comply properly with these laws, regulations and standards could significantly damage the reputation and Pensions performance of Johnson Matthey.
The groups defined benefit pension funds are well funded with Regular internal reviews are undertaken to assess the main UK and US funds showing a net surplus at 31st March compliance with local and group policies, and provisions are 2005 of 24.9 million after tax see page 62.
However, this made to rectify or compensate for any breaches.
In the position is exposed to the risk of changes in interest rates and ordinary course of business, Johnson Matthey is subject to the market values of investments as well as inflation and inspections and monitoring by certain regulatory or increasing longevity of the members.
These risks are mitigated enforcement bodies and by the quality departments of some by paying appropriate contributions into the funds and through of its major customers.
If existing provisions are inadequate to an investment asset allocation policy which has a high level of cover any liabilities arising from such investigations this could probability of avoiding a material deficit based on the results of materially impact the groups results.
an asset liability matching study.
Energy and Raw Materials Customer Market Dynamics The groups products contain a broad array of raw materials and The group sells products to manufacturers who in turn use its operations require significant levels of energy, notably electricity these products to serve a diverse range of end markets.
Any increases or volatility in prices and any Johnson Matthey 22
