888. com Chief Executive Officers Strategic Report LEADER In my first report as CEO I am delighted to update 888s stakeholders on the significant strategic progress made by the Group during 2018 and since the start of 2019.
Itai Pazner Chief Executive Officer I am delighted to present my first 888s established Strategic Report to 888s stakeholders business model since taking over as Chief Executive The operations of 888 Holdings plc Officer in January 2019.
I am honoured are structured into two lines of business: to be the new CEO of 888, which is the core B2C business, where the a business with an outstanding team Group operates the 888 brands, and and culture.
I am hugely excited at the a leading B2B offering, conducted prospect of building on the Groups through Dragonfish.
position of strength as a diversified operator with outstanding proprietary Through its B2C business, which technology and a number of significant accounted for 90% of the Groups potential future growth opportunities.
revenue in 2018 2017: 90%, 888 operates popular online gaming brands The Board believes that 888 is one of across four product verticals: Casino, the most diversified operators across Sport, Poker and Bingo.
Through product verticals and regulated markets Dragonfish, the Group offers gaming in the global online gaming industry.
partners a comprehensive end-to-end I am pleased to report that, in 2018, 888 solution encompassing technology, delivered further strategic progress and compliance, operations and advanced maintained its focus on compliance and 70% marketing tools.
customer safety, technology and product innovation, and achieved growth in Revenue from regulated 888s core B2C business is based upon various regulated markets.
attracting customers to its brands in a and taxed markets cost-effective manner and then retaining Maintaining a safe those customers by offering a variety of games and markets across different and enjoyable online product verticals in an enjoyable and environment safe environment.
To achieve this, 888 26% 888s mission remains, above all else, to continually invests in technology and provide its customers with a safe, secure product development, marketing and Revenue growth in regulated and entertaining environment to enjoy its people.
Sophisticated data analytics markets excluding the UK online gaming and betting.
Our primary underpin and guide the Groups approach goal remains consistent: to ensure that to all key areas of business development.
all those who visit our sites can do so with confidence and that those for whom our games are not intended, notably underage and vulnerable individuals, will not be drawn into the gaming environment.
Critically, protecting our customers is not only the right way to do business, but it is the only way in which 888 will continue to succeed and create value for all its stakeholders.
8 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 S Str tra at tegic R egic Report eport 888 Holdings plc Annual R 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & A eport & Ac cc counts 20 ounts 2018 18 9 9
