CEO STATEMENT Strong operational performance and commitment to Tanzania I am pleased to report that during 2018 we successfully stabilised the business with our focus on operational performance across all three mines.
We achieved gold production of 521,980 ounces for the year, substantially ahead of our initial 2018 production guidance of 435,000to 475,000 ounces, and we maintained a strong cost discipline, achieving an all-in sustaining cost of US$905 per ounce sold, well below the full year guidance range of US$935 to US$985 per ounce.
At the same time, we continued to demonstrate our long-term commitment to Tanzania, its mining industry and our communities, contributing over US$127 million in taxes and royalties, spending over US$273 million with local suppliers in Tanzania, maintaining a rate of 96.2% local employees and investing US$8.8 million in our Sustainable Communities strategy Peter Geleta Interim Chief Executive Officer to improve the lives of those living near our mine sites.
During 2018, we successfully stabilised ounces, 4% higher than 2017, and benefited Gold production 2018 the business, delivering a strong operational from the higher-grade ore received from the performance across all three mines and eastern part of the Nyabirama open pit.
All-in 521,980 returning the Company to free cash flow sustaining cost AISC ofUS$866 per ounce ounces produced generation in the second quarter which was sold was 8% higher than 2017, primarily due to then sustained throughout the second half higher cash costs and sustaining capital All-in sustaining cost 2018 of the year.
We achieved full-year gold production at our Buzwagi mine of145,440 Despite an increasingly challenging operating ounces which, although 46% lower than in US$905 environment the Company was able to achieve 2017, was ahead of expectations due tothe per ounce sold gold production of 521,980 ounces in 2018, extended mining of the final cut of the substantially ahead of the initial production higher-grade ore at the bottom of the pit and Our commitment to guidance of 435,000 to 475,000 ounces for switchbacks, combined with the better than Tanzania 2018 the year.
We maintained a strong cost discipline expected performance of the processing plant across the group achieving an all-in sustaining with improved throughput and recoveries.
AISC US$127 m cost of US$905 per ounce sold, well below the per ounce sold of US$977 was 46% higher full-year guidance range of US$935 to US$985 paid in taxes and royalties than 2017, mainly driven by the transition to per ounce.
At the same time our cash balance processing lower grade stockpiles which drove increased by US$50million to US$130million US$273m higher cash costs.
Our Bulyanhulu mine due to the strong operational performance spent with suppliers remained on reduced operations throughout the and the sale of a non-core royalty for based in Tanzania year but was able to achieve gold production of US$45million to end the year with a net cash 40,485 ounces from the retreatment of tailings.
This compares 96.2% AISC per ounce sold of US$786 was 43% lower favourably to 2017 when the cash balance fell national employees than 2017 driven by reduced operating and from US$318million to US$81million and net capital spend, partly offset by the lower cash balance to US$8 million at year-end, due production base.
US$8.8m to lost revenue resulting from the concentrate invested in our Sustainable ban and a gross build-up of VAT receivables of The operating environment became increasingly Communities strategy US$91million.
These achievements are a challenging for Acacia last year, culminating testament to the sheer resilience, hard work in October 2018 when criminal charges were and determination of all of our people within brought by the Government of Tanzania GoT the Acacia Group.
against the Groups operating subsidiaries in Tanzania and three current Acacia employees Our North Mara mine continued to perform well, and a former employee.
Each of the companies achieving full-year gold production of 336,055 and the three current employees and the 10 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT The Groups Mineral Reserves decreased from 7.5Moz to 5.2Moz of contained gold during the year with Measured and Indicated Exclusive Mineral Resources decreasing from 7.7Moz to 5.6Moz and Inferred Mineral Resources decreasing from 12.2Moz to 10.1Moz.
This was primarily driven by the provisional outcomes of the optimisation study conducted at Bulyanhulu in conjunction with a comprehensive review of the geological and resource models including applying tighter drill spacings and enhanced stope-optimisation techniques.
A focused drilling programme has been designed in conjunction with the optimisation study, targeting the higher value zones and planned to commence after a decision to resume underground mining operations.
Given the demonstrated continuity of economic mineralisation in the main Reef 1 shoot, that the Deep West is an extension of, there is a high level of confidence that the planned drilling programme will convert Mineral Resources to Mineral Reserves and mineralised inventory to Mineral Resources.
Safety Safety performance during 2018 demonstrated significant progress on the previous year.
TheCompany recorded a group-wide Total Nyabirama open pit North Mara Recordable Injury Frequency Rate TRIFR of0.19, compared to 0.45 in 2017, a 58% improvement.
There was a significant reduction in the number of recordable injuries from 45 in former employee deny the allegations and are increasing our annual spend with Tanzanian- 2017 to 13 in 2018.
The number of Lost Time defending all charges.
Three of those charged owned businesses to reach the goal of Injuries LTI also decreased from 18 in 2017 continue to be held in jail under non-bailable US$140million by mid-2019.
We have also tofour in 2018, a 78% improvement, while the offences.
continued to focus on reducing the number of severity of injuries decreased by 46%.
international employees and contractors within During 2018, Acacia paid a total of However, regrettably, on 11 June 2018, Sadock our business and ensuring that our Tanzanian US$127million in taxes and royalties in our host Crispin Tindahenile, an operator for one of our assets are increasingly led and operated by country of Tanzania.
We also continued to invest contractors at North Mara, passed away as a Tanzanian employees.
in our Sustainable Communities Strategy with result of an accident which involved a reversing the aim of contributing to the development of Looking ahead to 2019, we were highly vehicle at the Gokona deposit.
We completed sustainable communities around our mines in encouraged by the provisional outcomes of the an investigation into the incident and have order that they enjoy a thriving local economy, Bulyanhulu optimisation study.
Assuming a implemented the relevant recommendations at have access to social infrastructure and live in a resolution of our disputes with the GoT, the all our operations.
We continue to target zero safe and inclusive environment in line with the ability to economically produce and sell gold injuries and remain committed to every person Tanzania Development Vision 2025 as well as concentrate, and a successful resumption of going home safely every day.
the United Nations Sustainable Development underground mining operations, the provisional Update on Discussions between Barrick Gold Goals.
To this end, during the year Acacia outcomes of the study indicated that further Corporation Barrick and the GoT continued its US$1million investment in the capital investment of around US$120 to Barrick and the GoT continued their discussions Bugarama Health Centre near Bulyanhulu, while US$140million could deliver an expected life of through 2018 and into 2019 aimed at agreeing construction began on a 55-kilometre pipeline to mine of 18 years with an average steady-state and documenting the details of the proposed carry water from Lake Victoria to 60,000 production rate of 300,000 to 350,000 ounces framework they announced in 2017.
Acacia has residents in the Lake Zone which is due to be per year at an AISC of US$700 to US$750 per continued to provide support to Barrick in its completed in mid-2019.
This is subject to further detailed work discussions with the GoT, but has not been Nyamwaga Health Centre at North Mara was on cost estimates and a project schedule.
We directly involved in those discussions to date.
On completed in April 2018 while, at Buzwagi, we anticipate a pre-production start-up period of 20 February 2019 the Company noted further also began the development and implementation 12-18 months until first gold production announcements by the GoT and by Barrick of a three-year US$1.1million agricultural followed by approximately two years to ramp up regarding their direct discussions, but has not improvement project in partnership with Farm to full production from the underground mine.
yet received a detailed proposal agreed in Concern International.
A final decision to resume underground mining principle between Barrick and the GoT for a One of the key focus areas at Acacia over the operations and make necessary further capital comprehensive resolution of Acacias disputes last six years has been the implementation of investments would be dependent on achieving with the GoT.
Acacia continues to engage with our Tanzanian localisation strategy.
In 2018 we a comprehensive settlement with the GoT.
Barrick to understand Barricks plans for the next progressed a number of strategies within our steps in its direct discussions with the GoT.
Supply Chain function with a view to further ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 11 CEO STATEMENT CONTINUED Any proposal received by Acacia in the future for The GoT has sought to introduce the great On 8 March 2019 the GoT directed the North a comprehensive resolution of the Companys majority of the allegations made in the criminal Mara mine to resolve an incident that had disputes with the GoT that might be agreed in proceedings into the arbitration commenced by resulted in the spillage of water into the local principle between Barrick and the GoT as a BGML and PML in July 2017 regarding their environment.
The spillage resulted from a result of their direct discussions will be subject disputes with the GoT under their respective security incident in which sections of the pipe to review by the Independent Committee of the Mineral Development Agreements, which are used to transport water from the polishing pond Acacia Board of Directors and, if recommended progressing towards a hearing and in which to the TSF were either vandalised or stolen.
The by the Independent Committee of the Board, the GoT are fully participating.
incident led to the switching off of the pump would be put to a shareholder vote.
used to transport water to the TSF, and the In addition, on 17 December 2018 the water level in the polishing pond subsequently Operating Environment Company issued a news release noting media overflowed.
Following North Mara mines In 2018, and particularly during the final quarter speculation claiming a UK Serious Fraud Office remedial actions, the temporary overspill from of the year, the operating environment became SFO investigation into the Company.
North Mara mine increasingly challenging for Acacia with criminal Company confirmed that it was not aware that welcomed the support of the GoT on resolving charges brought by the GoT against three group the SFO was investigating the Company, but the issue, and is working closely with the companies as well as three current Acacia that the Company had been in contact with the authorities to implement improvements to employees and a former employee, three of SFO about the allegations of corrupt activities security measures around the polishing pond in whom continue to be held under non-bailable which are the subject of criminal proceedings in order to help prevent any reoccurrence.
All of the allegations made by the GoT Tanzania.
The North Mara mines technical team continues to are denied and the charges are being defended.
Company has provided information to the SFO work with the GoT within an agreed timeframe and will continue to do so, but has not been On 10 October 2018, one of the Groups to address their concerns regarding seepage notified that the SFO has commenced a criminal employees in Tanzania, a South African from the TSF and has undertaken to manage all investigation.
national, was charged by the Tanzanian seepage through the use of additional pumps Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau Post year-end on 10 January 2019, the and construction of other containment facilities PCCB with an offence under the Tanzanian North Mara mine received an Environmental to return any seepage to the TSF and ensure it Prevention and Combating of Corruption Act.
Protection Order EPO from the National is confined to the mine site.
All seepage is The employee pleaded not guilty and was Environment Management Council NEMC contained on the site, does not flow into the granted bail.
The charges related to the requiring payment of a fine of US$130,000 in surrounding environment or present a risk of historical activities of a Land Task Force relation to alleged breaches of environmental contamination to any public water source.
conceived and agreed between the GoT and regulations in Tanzania.
NEMCs reported Operations at the North Mara mine remain North Mara Gold Mine Limited NMGML in findings allege discharges of a hazardous unaffected.
2012 to create a transparent, safe, fair and substance at the North Mara mine.
The mine International Arbitration inclusive process for valuing land that might has still not received any supporting reports, A negotiated resolution remains the preferred be purchased by agreement around the North findings or testing data in relation to the outcome to the Companys ongoing disputes Mara mine, and which operated between matters set out in the EPO and continues to with the GoT.
In 2017, BGML, the owner and 2013 and 2015. assess the technical basis of the alleged operator of the Bulyanhulu mine, and PML, the non-compliances.
The mine is also awaiting Later in October 2018, two current and one owner and operator of the Buzwagi mine each NEMCs detailed reports, findings and testing former employee of the Companys Tanzanian referred their current disputes with the GoT to data in relation to the allegations but is not businesses, together with three individual arbitration in accordance with the dispute aware of any such discharge.
Acacia believes companies, were charged by the PCCB with resolution processes agreed by the GoT in its that the reports and allegations relate to a number of different offences, including Mine Development Agreements with BGML and seepage from the Tailings Storage Facility breaches of the Tanzanian Anti-Money PML.
The commencement of arbitration by TSF, an issue well known to the Company Laundering Act.
A total of 39 charges were BGML and PML was necessary to protect their and the GoT.
This seepage is being managed by brought, either against the current and former respective rights and interests and to promote pumps which return the water to the TSF and it employees and or against one or more of the a sustainable resolution of disputes.
is, therefore, contained on the mine site, does Companys operating subsidiaries in Tanzania, not flow into the surrounding environment or These contractual arbitration processes have Pangea Minerals Limited PML, Bulyanhulu present a risk of contamination to any public continued through 2018 and into 2019, with a Gold Mine Limited BGML and NMGML, as water source.
Pending further factual number of necessary procedural steps and with well as a Canadian company, Explorations clarification from the GOT and NEMC, however, the GoT fully participating, including service of Minires du Nord Ltd.
The Company notes with and to dispose of all regulatory or other legal its defence in October 2018.
Most of the concern that under Tanzanian law, offences action, NMGML decided to pay the fine.
criminal charges brought by the Government under the Anti-Money Laundering Act are not against Group companies and the Groups bailable, and, accordingly, two current and one At the same time, the GoT also issued a current and former employees to date relate to former employee remain detained without bail.
directive to the North Mara mine to construct a matters which the Government has sought to new TSF.
The mine had already recognised the The majority of the 39 charges and allegations introduce into these existing contractual need for additional tailings management and brought by the PCCB appear to relate to the arbitrations with the GoT.
The international storage capacity to meet its life of mine plans.
historical structuring and financing of PML, arbitration claims are progressing.
The hearings The mine is working with the GoT on detailed BGML and NMGML dating back as far as 2008, are scheduled for the beginning of the third plans and project schedules for the prior to the creation of the Acacia Group.
The quarter of 2019 and we expect the Tribunals construction of a new facility.
Acacia expects charges are wide-ranging and include: tax findings to follow in the later stages of the year.
that a new TSF is likely to be an economically evasion: conspiracy: a charge under organised viable alternative to further expansions of the crime legislation: forgery: money laundering existing TSF at North Mara.
12 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Contribution to Tanzania During 2018 Acacia continued its US$1million We remain committed to paying all applicable taxes and royalties to the Tanzanian Revenue investment in the Bugarama Health Centre near Authority as well as to supporting efforts towards the countrys socioeconomic Bulyanhulu and supported the construction of a advancement, including the realisation of the Governments Development Vision 2025.
Since surgical theatre, general and specialised maternity the inception of its businesses, over 15 years ago, the Group and its predecessors have wards, an outpatient department and mortuary invested over US$4 billion to build and sustain its mines and paid over US$1.3 billion in taxes facilities.
The health centre currently provides and royalties.
We have also spent over US$3 billion with Tanzanian suppliers to support the care for 60,000 people living in the 14 villages in operation of our businesses and, since 2010, invested over US$92million in our communities.
Kakola and its surrounding areas.
During 2018 alone, Acacia paid a total of US$127million in taxes and royalties to the GoT.
This comprised provisional and final corporate At Bulyanhulu, construction began on a that by mid-2019 we will achieve a further tax payments for the year of US$42million, 55-kilometre pipeline to carry water from Lake increase of 10% in our total annual spend with royalties of US$51million, payroll taxes of Victoria to 60,000 residents in the Lake Zone.
This will US$24million and other taxes of US$10million.
Under the Joint Water Project Partnership take the Groups annual spend with TanzanianAcacias Sustainable Communities Strategy JWPP with the GoT, the Company is investing owned businesses on goods and services aims to contribute to the development of around US$2million to help provide vital water including construction materials, fuel and sustainable communities around our mines in supply and sanitation services to local lubricants, as well as internet and security order that they enjoy a thriving local economy, communities.
The pipeline will pass through services to approximately US$140million.
have access to social infrastructure and live in 14 villages located in the vicinity of the mine Bulyanhulu Optimisation Study Update a safe and inclusive environment achieved and is scheduled to be completed in mid-2019.
In the third quarter of 2017, Acacia took the through strong and transparent relationships At Buzwagi, we began the development and decision to place Bulyanhulu on reduced with our businesses.
The strategy focuses on implementation of a three-year US$1.1million operations due to the unsustainable losses education, health, water, roads, energy, and agricultural improvement project in partnership experienced at the mine due to the inability to various economic development activities and is with Farm Concern International.
During 2018 Acacia took aligned with the Tanzania Development Vision an important economic mainstay for our local the opportunity to progress essential capital 2025 as well as the United Nations communities around Buzwagi and the project spend of approximately US$7million, primarily Sustainable Development Goals.
seeks to substantially increase farmers on the process plant, and progressed an During 2018 Acacia continued its US$1million incomes through greater productivity and optimisation study designed to ensure that investment in the Bugarama Health Centre near improved links to market.
when the mine resumes underground mining Bulyanhulu and supported the construction of operations it does so in an optimised manner An independent report released by Ernst and a surgical theatre, general and specialised and reaches its full long-term potential.
Young last year based on 2017 unaudited maternity wards, an outpatient department, and financial information demonstrated the significant The study work has progressed well during the mortuary facilities.
The health centre currently contribution that Acacias three mines continue to year and the current stage is on track to be fully provides care for 60,000 people living in the make to Tanzanias economy as well as the completed by the end of the first quarter of 14 villages in Kakola and its surrounding areas.
The studys provisional outcomes include Upon completion in 2019, the centre could, concluded that in 2017 Acacia contributed a future focus on mining the higher-grade ore in potentially, be designated as a district referral US$712million to the national economy.
The the deep west area to achieve higher margin facility and would then cater for over 60,000 2017 contribution comprised US$200million ounces in line with the Companys focus on free people in the wider district.
from our businesses, an indirect contribution via cash generation.
In addition, there is likely to be At North Mara the construction of the Nyamwaga suppliers of US$304million and induced a significant reduction in development costs Health Centre was completed in April 2018.
Furthermore, and requirements, as a result of focusing solely centre includes critical medical infrastructure Acacia continues to grow its local staff-base in on the deep west area at higher grades.
There including a surgical theatre, pharmacy and a Tanzania: 96.2% of our employees are Tanzanian is also expected to be a reduction in the maternity ward, as well as staff housing and nationals thanks to an 87.5% reduction in the amount of tonnes required to be mined over any rainwater harvesting tanks.
Since its renovation, number of international staff in the past six years.
the health centre can treat 60% more patients Approximately 70% of our management positions Indicative pre-production capital requirements 800 each month thanks to the wider availability are currently held by Tanzanians.
are in the range of US$90 to 110million with of services.
Besides the development of crucial Meanwhile in 2018 Acacia progressed a subsequent development and rehabilitation infrastructure, North Mara conducted its annual number of strategies within its Supply Chain costs of a further US$30million.
Additional eye screening initiative which has seen over function with a view to further increasing its ramp-up costs are expected to total approximately 3,000 patients tested annually and the annual spend with Tanzanian-owned US$20million comprising Sustainable distribution of free spectacles.
Acacia has always maintained a Communities initiatives and costs relating to the North Mara also partnered with the Medical policy of sourcing from local suppliers first, existing processing plant, recruitment and freight Women Association of Tanzania MEWATA for where viable, and the plans form part of our for supplies which would be incurred over a 12 to breast and cervical cancer awareness and continued efforts to grow our annual local 18 month period until first gold production from testing reaching over 1,200 women.
Based on our current plans, we expect resumed underground mining operations.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 13 CEO STATEMENT CONTINUED It is expected to take approximately two years to of contained gold to 1.7Moz at 3.10 g t, mostly and the fact that the Companys market ramp up to full production from the underground due to lower grade material that was removed capitalisation has been lower than its carrying mine, with an estimated average steady-state from the Nyabirama Underground project, and values during the current reporting period.
As a production rate of 300,000 to 350,000 ounces infill drilling that better defined the orebody in result, the Group has undertaken a carrying per year at an AISC of US$700 to US$750 per preparation for opening new mining fronts at value assessment of its affected cash ounce over an indicative life of mine of 18 years.
generating units CGUs and long-life intangible assets.
Using Managements best All the estimates of the study so far are subject At Bulyanhulu, underground Mineral Reserves information, including its current understanding to further detailed work on cost and capital decreased by 1.9Moz of contained gold, with of the principles of the framework reached estimates, final decisions on recommended the underground Mineral Reserve now between Barrick and the GoT in October 2017, options and designs and the schedule for amounting to 2.6Moz at 10.70 g t compared to the carrying values of all our assets are still resumption of underground mining, as well as the previously stated 4.5Moz at 9.70 g t. The below the Companys view of their recoverable Bulyanhulus ability to economically produce change was driven by a comprehensive review values at discount rates consistent with the and sell gold concentrate.
A final decision to through the year involving detailed review and prior years impairment testing processes.
resume underground mining operations would validation of data, review and refinement of the Further information on the carrying value review be dependent on achieving a comprehensive geological and mineral resource models, and as at year end 2018 can be found in Note 6 to resolution of Bulyanhulus disputes with the GoT, mine scheduling and planning work through the the consolidated financial information.
including the ability to resume concentrate sales.
optimisation study, resulting in the reclassification of 2.23Moz of material from Indirect Taxation Update Reserves and Resources Mineral Reserves to Mineral Resources, and The net indirect tax receivables balance Due to the consistent performance of the was partially offset by the refining of block increased for the year from US$170.7million gold price in the last three years and current modelling practices which added 249koz of at31 December 2017 to US$178.7million at outlook, we took the decision to increase material to Mineral Reserves.
The increase was driven by the 2018 gold price assumptions supporting the rigorous optimisation study that is seeking a further US$54.3million of VAT outflows, net our Mineral Reserve calculations.
Our Mineral to identify the optimal designs and methods to of adjustments, for which no cash VAT refunds Reserve pricing was increased to resume underground mining operations at were received and the part reversal of prior US$1,200perounce and our Mineral Resource Bulyanhulu as a robust and sustainable discounting provisions of US$0.6million, offset price assumption was maintained at business.
4Moz of marginal Mineral Resource by the full year provisional corporate tax US$1,400per ounce.
was reclassified as mineralised inventory due to payments relating to North Mara of The Groups Mineral Reserves decreased from the revised approach and refinement of the US$38.2million, as well as a final 2017 7.5Moz to 5.2Moz of contained gold during the Resource Model with exclusive Mineral corporate tax payment of US$4.2million and year with Measured and Indicated Exclusive Resources of 7.8Moz at 10.58 g t. This revised foreign exchange revaluation losses of Mineral Resources decreasing from 7.7Moz to approach at Bulyanhulu establishes a baseline US$4.5million.
The provisional corporate tax 5.6Moz and Inferred Mineral Resources that will drive a programme of disciplined and payments have been offset against indirect tax decreasing from 12.2Moz to 10.1Moz.
The focused drilling targeting the higher value zones receivables in line with an existing agreement changes were primarily driven by the provisional to continue to convert Mineral Resources to with the Tanzanian Revenue Authority, resulting outcomes of the optimisation study conducted Mineral Reserves in the future.
The Tailings in a net cash impact of US$11.9million.
at Bulyanhulu in conjunction with a Mineral Reserve decreased by 68koz to 107koz As previously disclosed, Tanzanias new mining comprehensive review of the geological and at 1.23 g t due to mining depletion.
legislation includes an Amendment to the VAT resource models through the year, including At Buzwagi, Mineral Reserves declined from Act 2015 to the effect that no input tax credit applying tighter drill spacings and enhanced 421koz of contained gold at 0.92 g t to 308koz can be claimed for the exportation of raw stope optimisation techniques.
A focused contained gold at 0.90 g t, as lower grade minerals, with effect from 20 July 2017. drilling programme for Bulyanhulu has been stockpile processing continued in 2018.
The Bulyanhulu, Buzwagi and North Mara have each designed in conjunction with the optimisation last mining activities of higher-grade areas in received notices from the Tanzania Revenue study, targeting the higher value zones and the open pit were completed in January 2019 Authority that they are not eligible for any VAT planned to commence after a decision to during 2018, these activities added 19koz relief from July 2017 onwards on the basis that resume underground mining operations.
Overall the all production both dor and concentrate the historical demonstrated continuity of exclusive Mineral Resources at Buzwagi constitutes raw minerals for this purpose.
economic mineralisation, we have a high level remained unchanged.
Thetotal VAT claims submitted since July 2017 of confidence that the planned drilling amount to approximately US$89million.
We programme will convert Mineral Resources to At our exploration properties the Mineral have disputed this interpretation of the Mineral Reserves and mineralised inventory to Resources remained flat.
However, the 50% legislation as a matter of Tanzanian law, while Mineral Resources.
interest in Tankoro, and 85% interest at this is also a matter that is in contravention of Nyanzaga are both part of sale processes: At North Mara, Mineral Reserves decreased by the relevant terms of our Mineral Development which were still pending as at 31 December 146koz of contained gold, from 2.3Moz at Agreements with the GoT and subject to our 2018.
On finalisation of the transactions, the 2.74g t in 2017 to 2.2Moz at 2.59 g t, ongoing disputes with the GoT.
quoted Mineral Resources for those two primarily driven by mining depletion.
As the properties will be removed.
Nyanzaga Project Update Nyabirama Open Pit progressed further into the On 6 September 2018, the Tanzanian Fair Cut 4 phase, there was significant improvement Carrying Value Review Competition Commission FCC granted its in reconciliation to the planned production.
The At the end of the reporting period, there approval for OreCorp Tanzania Limited OreCorp application of revised reconciliation factors remained a number of potential triggers for Tanzania to increase its interest in Nyanzaga added 238koz of contained gold to the Mineral impairment testing, including the ongoing Mining Company Limited NMCL to 51%.
This supports the strong production uncertainty surrounding a potential resolution move remains subject to: i the approval of the that Nyabirama Open Pit is scheduled to deliver of the Companys disputes with the GoT, the newly established Mining Commission, the in the coming years.
The exclusive Mineral optimisation study and updating of the application for which was lodged at the same Resource at North Mara decreased by 200koz geological and resource models at Bulyanhulu, 14 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT time as the application for FCC approval: and At North Mara we expect production to be focuses on the Gokona and Nyabirama in-fill ii the future payment of US$3million to the around 10% higher than 2018 at approximately and extensional drilling programmes combined Acacia Group.
The Nyabirama open pit is with the Nyabirama pre-feasibility study.
expected to deliver increased ore volumes at Bulyanhulus total capital expenditure Members of the OreCorp Group also entered high grades as we gain access to the main ore incorporates critical sustaining capital into a completion agreement with Acacia and zone in cut 4 while we also expect positive grade requirements for the TSF retreatment other members of the Acacia Group to allow reconciliations at Gokona underground.
AISC is operations and water management pond OreCorp Tanzania to move to 100% ownership expected to be approximately 10% lower than upgrades as well as expansion capital for the of NMCL, and thereby 100% ownership of the 2018 at around US$790 per ounce sold, driven optimisation study costs and asset integrity Nyanzaga Gold Project the Project.
This by the higher production base and lower cash work on the main process plant.
Buzwagi is move remains subject to: i the Tanzanian costs as a result of the higher grades in the expected to incur limited sustaining capital regulatory approvals referred to above: ii the open pit, offset by an increase in sustaining during 2019 as it nears the end of its mine life.
grant of the Special Mining Licence in respect capital expenditure following the deferral of of the Project: and iii the making of a future We are committed to continuing our focus on 2018 capital projects which are now expected to payment of US$7million to the Acacia Group.
To this end we be completed in 2019.
We are also undertaking Following completion Acacia will retain a net are targeting corporate administration costs in a pre-feasibility study for an underground mine smelter return production royalty over the the region of US$18 to US$20million for the beneath the Nyabirama open pit.
This is Project, capped at US$15million.
year ahead compared to US$24million in 2018. expected to be completed in mid-2019.
Weare also expecting to incur legal costs of South Hound Project Update We expect Bulyanhulu to remain on reduced approximately US$18 to US$22million relating During the fourth quarter of 2018 Acacia signed operations and to continue to reprocess tailings to the ongoing disputes with the GoT, Barrick a binding conditional agreement with its partner, at a monthly reduced operations cost of negotiations, historical tax disputes and Sarama Resources Ltd TSX-V: SWA, to terminate approximately US$2million.
These costs are arbitration proceedings compared to legal costs the earn-in agreement in respect of the South excluded from AISC on the principle that they of US$28million in 2018.
Hound Project in south-western Burkina Faso.
are not representative of sustaining operational The termination of the earn-in agreement is Following the exploration portfolio review costs.
Acacia is finalising an optimisation study conditional on definitive documentation being carried out in 2018, we expect a reduced which is designed to ensure that when agreed by the parties before 30 April 2019. exploration budget of approximately underground mining operations can resume, Acacias divestment of South Hound fits with the US$10million in 2019 compared to the mine will operate in an optimised manner.
Companys strategy of divesting certain non-core US$13million in 2018.
In line with the results The current stage of the study is expected to assets as part of an ongoing review of its of the portfolio review, we expect to focus this be completed by the end of the first quarter exploration portfolio.
Acacia remains committed spend on our targets in West Africa and with of 2019.
The mine will continue with the to exploration in Burkina Faso with various earn-in further work on the Liranda scoping study which reprocessing of tailings through 2019 at an agreements still active and which provide will mainly focus on a review of the mining annual production rate of approximately 35,000 exposure to approximately 2,000 km of the methods in Kenya.
ounces and an AISC of approximately US$790 prospective Hound Belt.
per ounce, which will partially offset the cost of Finally I would like to thank all of our people for Asset Level Discussions reduced operations.
their contributions to the Acacia Group this past As announced in February 2018, in response to year.
Our significant achievements in the face of Buzwagi will continue to process stockpiles a number of indicative expressions of interest a continuing challenging operating environment through 2019 and until mid-2021.
Following to Acacia from Chinese companies, the would not have been possible without their completion of the mining of the final cut at the Company engaged with a small number of sheer resilience, hard work and determination.
bottom of the pit in the first quarter of 2019, parties to explore the potential sale of a stake Iwould also like to thank the Board and the the mill feed will be exclusively from stockpiles.
in one or more of its Tanzanian assets.
The Independent Committee for their unfailing Production for 2019 is expected to total timetable and successful completion of any support.
We continue to prefer a negotiated approximately 115,000 ounces.
As a result of discussions in relation to any such transaction solution to our disputes with the GoT, continue the lower production and release of non-cash would likely be inextricably linked to the to engage with and support Barrick in its direct high cost inventory of approximately US$285 Companys ability to reach a comprehensive discussions with the Government and remain per ounce, reported AISC in 2019 is expected agreement with the GoT in order to settle hopeful for a resolution during 2019. to increase to approximately US$1,140 per historic disputes and provide a stable future ounce sold.
We expect to see Group capital expenditure in Outlook 2019 fall to approximately US$75 to 85million Our guidance for 2019 assumes a continuation compared to US$93million in 2018.
This will of the current operating environment with be comprised of approximately US$65million Bulyanhulu remaining on reduced operations, of capitalised development costs and Buzwagi continuing to process stockpiles until Peter Geleta sustaining capital, primarily at North Mara and early 2021 and North Mara fully operational.
On Interim Chief Executive Officer US$15million of expansion capital.
Capital this basis, we expect 2019 production of expenditure at North Mara is expected to be 500,000 to 550,000, with production ramping notably lower than 2018 due to the cessation up slightly in the second half of the year as of deferred stripping as a result of a lower strip North Mara comes closer to the main ore zone ratio from the increased ore volumes expected at the Nyabirama open pit, at an all-in to be mined in the Nyabirama open pit, partly sustaining cost of US$860 to US$920 per offset by higher sustaining capital expenditure ounce with cash costs of US$665 to US$710 following significant deferrals during 2018, per ounce.
These are all broadly in line with increased capitalised underground development 2018 levels.
All gold produced in 2019 is costs and additions to expansion capital which expected to be in dor form.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 15
