Strategic Report % % Chief Executives 17 31 UK Motor Growth in market share UK Household customers Statement I think a CEO statement should try and Rastreator responded by literally The Admiral Brand take the long view: try and help readers demoting approximate prices and During the course of 2018, Admiral Group understand things happening during a year promoting accurate prices on the price crossed the threshold of four million cars that are often trivial in terms of that years page, in a transparent and customeron cover in the UK, and more than five financials, but may be fundamental to the friendly way.
The change, introduced million cars, vans and houses on cover.
The companys long-term health and prosperity.
late in 2018, saw customer satisfaction vast majority of these policies are, and will scores rise immediately and substantially.
continue to be, under the Admiral brand.
Theres been a lot going on in 2018 that The P&L impact in 2018 was marginally qualifies as short-term financially trivial, negative, but the bold move holds out the Our brand is, in many ways unobtrusive.
but long-term potentially fundamental, so long-term possibility of a step change in Our ads are visible, but not omnipresent.
I can only give you a flavour and will do so customer trust and ultimately in the speed Theyre unlikely to win industry creativity by telling the tale of two cities, two Admiral of adoption of insurance price comparison awards.
And yet, over 90% of customers cities: Madrid and Cardiff, and some of what in Spain.
have heard of Admiral and preference happened in each during 2018. which single insurer do you prefer?
is up CARDIFF 30% for car insurance and over 100% for MADRID Its hard to choose what to highlight in home insurance, over the last 3 years.
Brexit Preparation Cardiff, the location of our headquarters Our continued investment in maintaining A substantial and effective collective effort and 4,000 of our almost 8,000 UK staff.
The and building our brand in 2018 was around by the Group and the Spanish regulatory launch of travel insurance, the growth of 10 million.
Had we cut that spend, most authorities, saw us set up a structure that is Veygo, our short-term insurance brand, of that 10 million would have fallen to the robust in the face of any Brexit eventuality the expansion of MultiCover, our car and bottom line, given the lag between cutting or at least, any eventuality reasonably home combined policy, were all options, spend and a brand withering away.
But envisaged at the time of writing !
both for but instead I choose Ford and The Admiral, one of the UKs most recognised our EU price comparison operations in Admiral Brand.
financial services brands, is an asset worth France and Spain and for our EU insurers Ford investing in for the long-term.
in France, Spain and Italy.
This was achieved with near zero disruption to, or loss of, any Late in 2018 we signed our first material So thats an Admiral 2018 take on a Tale of our now over a million policyholders affinity partnership to provide Admiralof Two Cities: a tale of investment for the across France, Italy and Spain.
The 2018 serviced and underwritten car insurance future in Cardiff and Madrid, and across P&L cost of circa 3.5 million, is a relatively under someone elses brand name: Fords.
Whether, in investment terms, trivial investment to protect the long-term 2018 proves to be the best of times, an Why?
Partly because 13.6% of UK value being created in our now profitable age of wisdom, a spring of hope, to motorists drive a Ford and, while big EU ventures.
quote, very selectively, from the justifiably believers in the cost-efficiency of more widely read original Tale of Two Customer First Price Comparison distribution via price comparison sites, Cities, will only become fully apparent we also value a degree of distribution Rastreator, our 75% owned, Madrid-based with the progress of time, but Im fairly diversity.
Partly because we believe we market leader in price comparison in confident that many of this years can work with Ford Credit more broadly Spain, took the bold decision to shake up a investments will bear long-term fruit and creatively - to ensure better insurance market it largely dominates for the good for our customers and shareholders.
and claim management outcomes for both of their customers, and ultimately all of Its certainly a far, far better thing to Admiral and Ford customers.
Panel participants had have made the investments than not increasingly sought to game the system by The 2018 costs of securing the affinity to have made them.
quoting approximate, and normally overly partnership were in the hundreds optimistic, prices, to Rastreators customers of thousands and there will be an IT and then upping the premium during the investment of around 1 million in acceptance process.
Long-term return - a possibly the prices look attractive, it was eroding fundamentally important and valuable customer trust and not delivering on the strategic affinity partnership.
David Stevens, CBE fundamental price comparison promise of Chief Executive Officer making shopping easy and efficient.
6 March 2019 20 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information In the past Ive outlined my priorities, which I indicated would be my priorities for a number of years to come.
ENSURE ADMIRAL REMAINS ONE OF, IF NOT THE, BEST CAR INSURERS IN THE UK Progress in 2018 2019 focus Number one car insurer in the UK Maintain our lead in cost efficiency, rigorous risk selection and effective Market leading combined ratio claims management by continuing Voted Best Motor Insurance and to identify improvements in our Best Insurance Provider in the approach and operations Personal Finance Awards 2018 19 Improve online self-service options by UK consumers for customers Leading telematics provider Maintain our culture of providing New products include short term excellent customer service insurance and partnership with Ford DEMONSTRATE ADMIRAL CAN BE A GREAT CAR INSURER BEYOND THE UK Progress in 2018 2019 focus European insurance first ever Continue the overall long term profit and growth to over strategy of building sustainable, 1 million customers profitable businesses Improvements in digital and Build on synergies across the self-service offering for customers European insurance companies Elephant grew to over 200,000 Elephant continues to focus on vehicles in force higher retaining customers and improved combined ratio DEVELOP SOURCES OF GROWTH AND PROFITS BEYOND CAR INSURANCE Progress in 2018 2019 focus Household insurance grew Grow the UK Household and Loans to over 800,000 customers businesses with a focus on the long-term objective of developing Growing Loans business in UK sources of competitive advantage Launched Household insurance in France ENSURE ADMIRAL STAYS A GREAT PLACE TO WORK Progress in 2018 2019 focus Only company to be named in Continue to respond to staff Sunday Times Best Companies to feedback and continuously improve Work For since inception in 2001 Continue our focus on profitable 1st in 2019 growth in which all our staff also Voted 10th Best Workplace in benefit through the share scheme Europe Build on our strong track record of 3rd best large employer for women encouraging diversity across the in the UK Company Over 10,000 staff received shares Continue to develop our people in the business by offering exciting new career opportunities Over 250,000 online courses and almost 700 classroom training Ensure our people enjoy coming sessions completed by UK staff to work Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 21
