Chief Executives Review Opportunity focused Over the past 12 months we have delivered consistent broad-based sales growth across our portfolio, well ahead of the soft drinks market performance throughout the year, supported by successful innovation, strong core brands and further development of our partnerships.
Our revenue growth in the 12 months to Soft drinks market performance 27 January 2018 was 8.0%, significantly The UK soft drinks market has performed outperforming the UK soft drinks market reasonably well across the past 12 months in both volume and value terms.
with value growth of 2.9% and volume increasing 0.5%, reflecting the underlying The markets in which we operate have inflationary environment and individual continued to experience significant levels brand pricing dynamics.
of change we have consistently highlighted both the challenges and opportunities we The key driver of value growth in the market face and I am pleased to report we have has been branded carbonates, where some risen to the challenges placed before us significant reductions in promotional and seized many of the opportunities that investment have led to higher average have come our way.
realised prices, however this has meant We grew our market share within UK lower overall volumes.
The water category soft drinks with a total Group revenue continues to drive volume growth, generally of 277.7m, an increase of 8.0% on the at the expense of value.
Profit before tax increased by 4.2% Against this backdrop we have made to 44.9m while profit before tax and significant market share gains, with yearexceptional items rose to 44.1m, on-year value up 8.7% and volume up 7.7% an increase of 4.0% on the prior year.
driven by our trading strategy of sustaining Operating margin before exceptional promotional activity, building product items fell by 60bps to 16.2%, reflecting distribution and driving innovation.
Our both external cost pressures and our market share growth has been balanced continued investment across our business.
across sales channels and across Scotland Our balance sheet remains strong with and the rest of the UK.
a net cash position of 15.0m during the course of the year we purchased 8.2m of shares under our share repurchase programme.
We are pleased to recommend a final dividend of 11.84p per share to give a total dividend for the full year of 15.55p per share, a full year increase of 8.0% on the prior year.
Source: IRI Marketplace 52 weeks to 28 January 2018.
8 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Accounts W e have risen to the challenges placed before us and seized many of the opportunities that have come our way.
Roger White, Chief Executive A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 9 Chief Executives Review continued Innovation has remained central to our Strategy strategy and last years new product launches As a UK-based branded consumer goods have enjoyed continued success.
IRN-BRU business focused on growth we have XTRA sold the equivalent of 60 million cans made good progress in the execution across the UK last year and is now a third of and development of our strategy to the size of IRN-BRU Sugar Free, while Rubicon create long-term shareholder value.
Spring has also gained distribution with 17 million bottles sold across 2017 on a national The acceleration of our growth has been basis.
driven by a combination of strong trading execution across our core brands, the Our innovation pipeline continues to be an continued success of our innovation and important focus and we have some exciting the progress and development of our new products being launched in the first few brand partnerships.
Supported by strong commercial plans, We were delighted to announce a new all of our core brands grew in both value long-term partnership agreement with Italys and volume terms across the year with leading soft drinks producer, San Benedetto.
highlights being: Effective from January 2018 we became the IRN-BRU sales up 8.0% the biggest ever exclusive UK and Ireland distributor of San year of sales for the IRN-BRU brand: Benedettos Prima Spremitura sparkling citrus Rubicon sales up 5.3%: fruit drinks, enhancing our portfolio with an Funkin sales up 25%.
Across our franchise brands Rockstar had The food-to-go and eating out sector an exceptional year, with sales up 14.3% continues to play an important role in as a result of exciting innovation, continued the food and drink space and authentic product distribution growth in the UK and craft brands offer incremental growth growth in new territories outside the UK.
opportunities that align well with our strategy.
Snapple, however, lost ground in the As such, we are pleased to welcome a new reporting period as a result of retailer range brand partner to our portfolio Bundaberg rationalisation in a small number of European Brewed Drinks.
Commencing April 2018 we markets and some supply issues across the have entered into an exclusive long-term second and third quarters.
agreement in relation to the Bundaberg brand in the UK.
Best known for its Ginger International sales increased by a modest Beer, the fourth largest carbonated soft 3.8%, reflecting the complexity our drink in Australia, and increasingly for its reformulation programme created in our complementary range of brewed beverages, export-led international model and some the family-owned business based in local distributor changes which impacted Queensland, Australia, enjoys an increasingly our in market execution.
We are proud to join forces with such a successful business that shares our values and growth aspirations.
The brand is already established in the UK and we are excited about the opportunities this new relationship offers.
10 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Accounts We have maintained tight cost control across Transforming our portfolio to align more the business, taking the necessary steps closely with changing consumer preferences to mitigate as far as possible the impact of has been a significant strategic priority increased input costs arising from weakened over recent years, drawing on the skills and sterling.
Despite these external cost pressures experience of many individuals across our we have been intentional in our strategy of workforce whose efforts are highly valued maintaining investment in support of our and appreciated.
As the implementation of brands, innovation launches and infrastructure.
the soft drinks sugar levy now approaches Over the past 12 months we have added we will ensure that we remain focused on the further production capacity with the successful consumer and responsive to the changes we installation of a new PET production line at anticipate in the soft drinks market dynamics.
Milton Keynes, a project that has reached practical completion both on time and on Summary budget, with a capital investment of 10m.
The UK economic landscape is expected to remain uncertain for business as a whole, Portfolio with regulation, changing customer dynamics Since our announcement in March 2017 that and consumer preferences adding further over 90% of our portfolio would be moving volatility for the soft drinks industry.
We have to lower or no sugar, we have extended our a strong and flexible business model and a innovation and reformulation programme growing portfolio of brands, both established such that we now expect that up to 99% of and nascent, which reflect the requirements our portfolio will contain less than 5g of total of todays changing consumers.
We remain sugars per 100ml before the implementation confident in our ability to capitalise on the of the soft drinks industry levy in April this opportunities to grow our business and year.
An unprecedented number of new deliver long-term value to shareholders.
recipes have been developed and delivered to achieve our commitment, with some products reducing their sugar content by up to 70%.
As anticipated, the sugar reduction in regular IRN-BRU in early January 2018 was met with widespread media interest.
Our extensive research and testing gave us confidence that Roger White we had an excellent taste match and, whilst it Chief Executive is still early days, the consumer response to the new product has so far been encouraging.
Note: Where stated, brand sales growth is based on invoiced revenue for the 52 weeks to 27 January 2018.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 11
