Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information INTERVIEW WITH OUR CEO & CFO Our markets are changing, and so are we We are con dent that we have a stronger base upon which our plans can take hold.
At the same time, we are excited about the opportunities for Aggreko both in our existing markets as well as in new opportunities created by the transition in the energy market.
Chris Weston Chief Executive Of cer Here is a selection of Q. Q. investors questions which With Power Solutions Utility You are heavily weighted to go to the heart of the issues now only 21% of Group diesel does this mean there we are addressing.
revenue, are you comfortable is a risk of ending up with a lot with your scale in this market?
of stranded diesel assets with Q. regulatory change?
When you changed your ROCE Chris Weston As the Chairman notes, A. target, you gave yourselves this market has changed considerably Chris Weston Our current eet is about just two and a half years to as competition has increased and we 78% diesel, re ecting the fact that the get to the mid-teens target.
have had to absorb the substantial vast majority of our customers do not decline in the pro tability of various Is it the right target and what have access to gas or simply want the legacy contracts as they have re-priced immediacy and reliability that diesel makes you so con dent that or off-hired.
We believe our actions, brings.
Emissions regulations have been you can achieve it?
in particular sales discipline focused tightening for a number of years and we on margin improvement and cost work with our suppliers on an ongoing A. management, will drive improvement basis to ensure we continue to comply Chris Weston Given the detailed plans in this business.
We do not see we have in place to improve the Groups stranded diesel assets as a signi cant We are encouraged by the growth we ROCE, we are con dent that we can risk to the business.
have seen elsewhere, within both Rental meet the mid-teens target in 2020 and Solutions and Power Solutions Industrial, felt it was important to give shareholders Q. and are comfortable with the changing a shorter-term target than previously.
Do you really believe you have balance of the overall Group.
As we set out at the time of our Interim reached the low point and are Results in August 2018, delivery of the Q. target will require both growth in now at a point of in ection?
Are you over-exposed to operating pro t and a reduction in A. the Groups capital employed.
We have oil & gas and is a potential Heath Drewett The bottom-up spent considerable time explaining to downturn in the US market projections we have for the Group all our people the importance of ROCE a threat?
indicate that 2018 was indeed a point of and how their actions can in uence it.
in ection in our financial performance.
That said, we know we have hard work A. Chris Weston We have very deliberately ahead to drive operating pro t growth Heath Drewett Improving our diversi ed our business in North and a more ef cient capital base.
operating pro t will be achieved America, where oil and gas now However, I believe that the platform through a combination of top-line accounts for only around 20% of we have built and the detail with which growth and cost ef ciency.
That said, it remains we are addressing our challenges at various self-help measures to manage an important sector for us.
With the every level in the business should enable down our capital employed, including a introduction of the sector-speci c us to begin to improve returns this year continued focus on the utilisation of our dedication of our sales force and and beyond.
eet, a disciplined approach to capital processes, we are doing more to ensure expenditure, tighter management of our we bene t from the growth available inventory levels and working closely with in all the sectors in which we specialise.
our customers to ensure that, over time, we reduce the level of outstanding debt on our balance sheet.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 05
