STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT UNLOCKING OUR FULL POTENTIAL DISCIPLINED GROWTH FOR A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE Across safety as a whole, we recorded an all-time low total recordable safety rate, representing a 51% improvement since 2013.
However, we should not be experiencing major safety incidents and we have demonstrated time and again that even our most potentially hazardous businesses can be incident-free for long periods.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE In 2018, operating profit increased by 10% to $6.1 billion, while profit attributable to equity shareholders increased by $0.4 billion to $3.5 billion.
Underlying EBITDA increased by4% to $9.2 billion.
While our underlying EBITDA margin dipped from 31% to 30%, our mining EBITDA margin increased from 40% to 42%.
We generated attributable free cash flow of $3.2billion, a 36% decrease, due largely to lower working capital movements, increased capital expenditure and higher cash tax payments.
We continued to strengthen the balance sheet in 2018, through a combination of continued focus on productivity and costs and capital discipline, along with receiving betterthan expected prices for many of our products.
We We have materially transformed the scope ended the year showing a 37% reduction in net debt to and quality of our asset portfolio and our $2.8billion.
operating and financial performance as a Our return on capital employed ROCE of 19% was well above our targeted 15% through-the-cycle return.
Anglo American today is amongst individual year is too short a period to assess returns, our longstanding focus on ROCE is one of the key measures theperformance leaders in the industry.
around which our decisions are made.
Mark Cutifani, Chief Executive Combined with the proposed final dividend payment of 51cents per share, payable in May 2019, total dividends paid to shareholders in respect of 2018 will amount to Our consistent delivery of our promises doing what $1.00 per share, in line with ourpolicy of paying out 40% we said we would do has translated into a significant of underlying earnings.
enhancement of our competitive position in the mining industry and our sector-leading Total Shareholder In the last three years, we have paid down more than Return in 2018.
$10billion of net debt and will have paid $2.6 billion in dividends to our shareholders in respect of the 2017 and Our focus is on unlocking the very significant additional 2018 financial years.
potential that we see within the business from further productivity improvements, volume growth from existing Anglo American today is a far more resilient business, with andnew operations, and the deployment of FutureSmart aworld class asset portfolio benefiting from considerable Mining technologies and to do so safely and responsibly, organic growth optionality particularly focused on those maintaining strict capital discipline and creating a sustainable products that contribute towards a cleaner and more business in every sense.
electrified world and that satisfy the consumer-led demands of a fast growing global middle class.
SAFETY OPERATING PERFORMANCE The safety of our people is always front of mind for me, as itis for our leaders across the business and our Our focus on efficiency and productivity improvements, stakeholders.
The fact that we continue to experience including with our Operating Model implementation, is serious safety incidents, in which fiveof our employees continuing to deliver significant benefits in terms of safety, died in 2018, is tragic.
Our determination to deliver our the environment and financial returns.
In 2018, we produced commitment to zero harm is our most pressing challenge.
10% more product on a copper equivalent basis from half the number of assets we had in 2012.
As a result, our We simply must be unconditional about safety, both at an productivity per employee has doubled, supporting a organisational and a personal level.
As a matter of urgency, 12percentage point increase in mining margin and placing we launched an Elimination of Fatalities Taskforce during us with the leaders in the industry.
2018 to further interrogate drivers of fatal incidents at a more granular, cultural level, to understand how we can better manage fatal and catastrophic risks.
06 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 Strategic report In dollar terms, we delivered net cost and volume Our FutureSmart Mining programme brings together improvements of $0.4 billion, or $0.8 billion excluding the step-change innovation in technology and sustainability effectof above inflation increases in oil and other energy working hand in hand towards sustainable mining.
This is a costs and rail constraints at Kumba.
Over six years, we different way of thinking that is beginning to transform the have delivered $4.6billion of annual underlying EBITDA nature and experience of mining and how we can make a improvement in terms of costs and volumes.
Such positive difference to improve peoples lives.
improvements have generally been achieved without In terms of the physical activities of mining and processing additional capital, so we have continued toimprove our ore, our aim is to more precisely target the metal or mineral, ability to generate free cash flow and increase returns with radically less waste rock, lower water and energy from existing capital employed.
intensity and, ultimately, a much reduced physical footprint.
Looking forward, we still believe there is significant These are step-change technologies that we believe hold furtherimprovement ahead.
By 2022, we are targeting the key to the future of mining.
anadditional$3-4 billion annual underlying EBITDA Our far-reaching Sustainable Mining Plan, launched in 2018 run-rate improvement, relative to 2017.
This will come from as part of FutureSmart Mining, commits us to a series of meeting or surpassing industry best-practice operational ambitious medium and longer term goals.
These relate to performance across ourbusiness: volume growth from three major areas of sustainability aligned to the UNs existing and new operations, such as Quellaveco: and the Sustainable Development Goals: trusted corporate leader deployment of our FutureSmart Mining technologies and i. e. advocating for the highest standards of governance to digitalisation.
It is these technologies that will transform how drive transparency and trust in mining and mined products : we mine, process and market our products, providing the healthy environment: and thriving communities.
While our next step change in our performance.
environmental goals will rely on many of the technologies we are beginning to deploy, we are also thinking innovatively PORTFOLIO to create regional ecosystems of sustainable economic activity, in partnership with appropriate development experts.
The quality, long life and growth potential of our mineral assets are the foundation of our global business.
We have transformed the scope and quality of Anglo Americans PEOPLE portfolio, including by halving the number of assets, Our entire business revolves around people, including, contributing to our materially improved financial and of course, our diverse range of stakeholders and operational performance.
We have divested less attractive shareholders.
An obvious statement perhaps, but this assets and replaced them with assets of a higher quality basic acknowledgement is at the heart of how we consider and cash generation profile, thereby lifting the overall our decisions at every level of Anglo American.
quality of the portfolio, and we will continue that discipline.
We take care to give our employees clarity about their roles Led first by asset quality in all its dimensions, we will also and an understanding about the part they play towards our continue to pursue a prudent balance in the portfolio where business objectives.
We are also committed to creating an concentration in a specific geography or end market is inclusive working environment that enables every person scrutinised to ensure we do not overweight capital based to come to work each day and give their very best.
By doing on these factors.
so, we are building a high performance and innovative New portfolio contributors in recent years include culture that is guided by our Purpose.
It is people that Grosvenor in Metallurgical Coal, Gahcho Ku at fide Beers deliverour results, who engage with our stakeholders and and the Minas-Rio iron ore mine, and we are well under way shareholders, and who are unlocking our full potential.
with the development of our new Quellaveco copper mine in Ithank all of you.
Peru, which the Board approved in 2018.
Beyond the near term, we have a well sequenced range MINING WITH PURPOSE of high returning, quick payback growth options, from life Mining is on the cusp of a new era.
Incremental change is extensions in diamonds and metallurgical coal, to growth nolonger sufficient, and we recognise our role in creating across our copper, diamonds and metallurgical coal asustainable future for our industry.
Such an attractive organic growth pipeline is a key component of the long term sustainability I expect the technologies and digital applications that we of our business.
aredeploying will fundamentally change the very nature ofhow we discover, extract, process and market our precious products to our customers.
Only by ensuring INNOVATION security of supply for those products in a way that is aligned As a Board, a management team and our 92,000 with societys rightfully changing expectations can we employees and contractors, we are united behind our sustain our business and live up to our commitments to Purpose of re-imagining mining to improve peoples lives.
ouremployees, our many business stakeholders and the AngloAmericans spirit of innovation and challenging millions of ordinary people who ultimately own our business.
thestatus quo is part of our culture and reflected in We are purposeful in what we are doing re-imagining ourPurpose.
mining to improve peoples lives.
Whether for our employees, communities who live around ouroperations, our customers for whom we tailor our products and services, or the billions of people who benefit from mined metals and minerals in their everyday lives, weare setting out a different future for mining a future thatis designed to further improve how our stakeholders experience us and to ensure the safe supply of metals andminerals that the world needs and wants.
Mark Cutifani Chief Executive Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 07
