LETTER FROM THE CEO A YEAR OF TWO HALVES By focusing on what we do well producing profitable tonnes throughout the cycle the Group was able to successfully navigate significant volatility in the global commodity markets.
Ivn Arriagada Chief Executive Officer As a result, I am pleased to say that 2018 saw record production, with DEAR SHAREHOLDERS, Antofagasta producing 725,300 tonnes of copper.
I am pleased to share with you the significant progress we have made On costs, we worked very hard to maintain tight control, with full year net during the year in many important areas.
This progress demonstrates the cash costs coming in at $1.29 lb, below our guidance.
Indeed, our cost transformational changes under way in the Group that underpin a set of performance improved during the year with the Group recording net solid results in 2018. cash costs of $0.99 lb in the fourth quarter, the lowest since 2012.
This As part of our annual strategy review with the Board, during the result for the year is due not only to the increased production and higher yearwe devoted time to discussing how best to describe the ultimate by-product prices but also to our successful Cost and Competitiveness purpose of what we do as an organisation.
This is what motivates Programme which yielded 10c lb of cost savings.
That is equivalent to allof us who work at Antofagasta, beyond the immediate tasks that $184 million over the whole of 2018 and we are now targeting a further everyone is expected to accomplish in her or his specific role.
This $100 million in 2019. isvery important as ultimately, as a business organisation, we work By focusing on what we do well producing profitable tonnes throughout tobe a cause for good in wider society, placing the common good at the cycle the Group was able to successfully navigate significant the centre of what we do.
We concluded that the description which volatility in the global commodity markets.
This translated into EBITDA best reflects our purpose can be summarised as: Developing Mining forthe full year of $2,228 million representing a margin of 47%.
We will be sharing our strategy during 2019 confident that the Group is now well positioned for further production witha clear reference to our organisational purpose.
growth in 2019 and a further strong performance on costs, which will RESULTS SAFETY, PRODUCTION AND COSTS support strong cash flow generation and returns.
Although we achieved our planned results and a record production in The Groups operations have achieved an improved level of operating 2018, very regrettably I must report that in October, after more than stability and we go into 2019 with real momentum for what we expect twoyears without a fatality, a contractor suffered a fatal accident at to be another record-setting year, with production increasing by up to LosPelambres.
I am convinced that a fatality free environment is possible, 9% to 750-790,000 tonnes at net cash costs of $1.30 lb.
as demonstrated by the prior 26 months without a fatal accident, and is INNOVATION FOR THE FUTURE an absolute imperative in how we conduct our operations.
The safety of our workforce remains our number one priority and we will continue to Much of the progress we have made in recent years reflects not only work without compromise to this end.
ourfocus on costs but also the culture of continuous innovation that Antofagasta is building.
At the heart of this culture is the development On production, 2018 was a record year for Antofagasta, albeit one with ofthree initiatives to drive innovation: seeking new ideas from our two distinct halves.
We started the year with lower ore grades at all of employees and contractors, investing in large scale strategic change our operations, with a consequential reduction in copper production.
andaccelerating the adoption of digital solutions across our organisation.
However, in line with our mine plans ore grades recovered steadily during the year.
8 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Our workforce has been a continual source of ideas for running our REDUCING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT operation more efficiently, maximising uptime and improving reliability.
Copper mining is a key component in the move to a more sustainable Since 2017 weve received more than 200 ideas from employees and world, with multiple applications in zero emission transportation and external parties of which 49 progressed to become innovation proposals renewable power generation technologies.
However, mining undoubtedly and 16 are either being implemented or assessed in detail.
has a big impact on the environment, and we are improving the way weoperate to reduce the impact we make on the environment and also We have also introduced a number of larger scale innovations during the on neighbouring communities, while at the same time explaining what year.
We are improving copper recoveries at Zaldvar, developing a new weare doing and why we are doing it and listening to community approach to leaching primary sulphides and investigating new largemembersconcerns.
During 2018 we took some big steps towards realising our ambition The increased use of data and technology the digitalisation of toreduce the environmental impact we make.
In June Zaldvar signed operations is where we see the future of mining.
As a company arenewable energy contract which, from 2020, will see the mine being weareinvesting significantly into this area and have an implementation powered 100% by renewable energy a first in the Chilean mining budget of $40 million to strengthen our technological platform, industry.
Not only will this remove the equivalent of 350,000 tonnes of includingcritical operating systems and connectivity, as a key enabler greenhouse gases per year, it will also significantly reduce Zaldvars toprogressing with our digital transformation.
We have applied advanced power costs.
data analytics to our processing plants to better understand and improve their performance and we are now working on the design of a Remote We are also improving the energy efficiency of our plants and working Centre that will allow integrated operations management at Centinela.
to safeguard wildlands and forests in the Los Pelambres region.
Its not just at the operating level that were seeing the benefits of ST BUILDING A WORKFORCE FOR THE 21 CENTURY improved data.
At Los Pelambres we constantly monitor the tailings Our operating achievements in 2018 are a real testament to the deposits and as part of the Programa Tranque project we expect to dedication, hard work and expertise of our workforce and I would like start releasing the monitoring results online early next year.
This will tothank them for everything that they have achieved.
It also reflects provide the community with real time information, helping to build Antofagastas continued strong labour relations and I am proud that we trust between ourselves and our neighbours.
have maintained our unbroken record with another year without a strike.
EFFICIENT CAPITAL ALLOCATION One of my current focuses is on improving diversity across our We are also taking a more innovative approach to the way we allocate workforce and as part of this commitment we joined the 30% Club, capital as an organisation.
Over the past couple of years we have worked aninternational organisation that promotes gender balance.
I want to sell down non-core assets, reallocating capital either to shareholders tomake sure that everybody no matter what their gender, race or or back into our core copper business where we believe we are best background can thrive at Antofagasta.
In driving this effort I have placed to maximise returns.
As part of this process in July 2018 we been struck by the huge contribution that individuals can make soldour electricity transmission lines at Centinela for $117 million.
For instance, three of Antofagastas was followed in August with the sale of our holding in the El Arrayan employees Cecilia Arrue, Angie Caro and Laura Cristoffanini wind farm, which provides Los Pelambres with renewable energy, for wererecognised by Women In Mining as among the 100 Global $28million.
Both sales follow a number of exits in 2017, most significant Inspirational Women InMining in 2018.
This is a huge accolade and ofwhich was the disposal of our interest in the Alto Maipo hydro their work, alongside many other women at Antofagasta, has been powerproject.
At the same time we are investing in our core business and in November COPPER MARKET announced the Boards approval of the expansion of Los Pelambres.
Although the copper price performed well in the first half of 2018 Withwork starting at the beginning of 2019 the project is expected to uncertainty was the dominant theme in the second half of the year addan average of 60,000 tonnes per annum of copper production over andthe price weakened.
Markets suffered from persistent volatility as 15 years, beginning in the second half of 2021.
At a cost of $1.3 billion, international trade negotiations failed to reach a conclusive agreement.
theproject includes a $500 million desalination plant and will increase However, the fundamentals remain positive with a supply deficit in 2018 plant throughput from 175,000 tonnes of ore per day to 190,000 tonnes.
that is expected to grow in 2019.
With the year starting with progress We have taken a different approach to this expansion project in two inthe trade negotiations the copper price has strengthened and if key areas.
First of all, we have taken advantage during the period of thenegotiations are concluded successfully we expect the price market downturn to advance further the projects detailed engineering willstrengthen further.
In line with the market, we believe the mid to and develop a detailed project execution plan securing the best longer-term outlook is favourable with continued new uses of copper possible terms from our suppliers and contractors.
In so doing we andlimited opportunities for supply growth.
have significantly mitigated key risk areas around timing and cost As I said at the beginning of this letter, 2018 really was a year of two control.
Second, instead of financing the project from our cash flow halves not just in respect of our production performance but also for we will debt finance 100% of the project, benefiting from the strength the market.
However, I am delighted that the Company and our people of our balance sheet to secure very attractive rates and maximise rose to the occasion and delivered a record level of production project returns.
establishing real momentum as we go into 2019.
Ivn Arriagada Chief Executive Officer antofagasta.
co. uk 9 DEVELOPING MINING FOR A BETTERFUTURE Future demand for copper will be driven by continued urbanisation and rapidly rising adoption of renewable energy and electric vehicles.
Since early this century, demand for the industrial metal has INCREASING MARKET DEMAND beendriven by urbanisation, propelled by China where 58% of FOR COPPER thepopulation now lives in a city compared to only 39% in 2002.
Urbanisation and industrialisation in India and Southeast Asian Copper is essential to modern society and a greener future.
It can countries are expected to dominate copper consumption growth playa vital role in addressing some of the worlds major challenges beyond 2020 as the rate of Chinese demand growth slows.
such as the availability of affordable and clean energy, air and noise pollution and sustainable urban development.
A growing middle class in emerging economies is also boosting sales of copper-rich consumer goods such as electronic devices and cars.
The metal is corrosion resistant, extremely malleable and an exceptional conductor of heat and electricity, making it a key input Going forward, copper demand growth will also be fuelled by forefficient energy use and green technologies.
For centuries, it has renewable energy and electric vehicles pushed by the falling costs held a central role in humankinds development due to its unique ofthese  technologies and the worlds need combination of properties.
tofind cleaner solutions for modern life.
Today copper is a key component of everyday life from mobile The fact that copper is 100% recyclable only enhances its credentials telephones to the roofs, heating and electric wiring in peoples homes.
as a metal able to contribute to the United Nations Sustainable It is needed for power generation and transmission, motor vehicles, Development Goals.
domestic appliances such as air conditioning and televisions and industrial machinery.
REFINED CONSUMPTION BY MARKET TRENDS REGION 2000-2040 BUILDING 12 The most important market is China, which accounted for THE CITIES approximately 48% of global copper consumption in 2018, OF TOMORROW significantlymore than Europe and North America combined, Copper is a vital whichconsumed 16% and 10% respectively.
An estimated 15-25% buildingblock for ofChinese consumption is re-exported as manufactured products.
urbanisation and However, longer-term growth over the next 20 years is expected greener, healthier tocome predominantly from the rest of Asia.
CONTRIBUTING 14 50,000 TOCLEAN AND AFFORDABLE ENERGY 45,000 Electricity generated 40,000 from solar and wind REFINED CONSUMPTION BY REGION willpower copper 35,000 demand growth in 30,000 energy markets in coming years.
25,000 20,000 ELECTRIC 16 15,000 TRANSPORT GETS GREEN LIGHT 10,000 Electrification of 5,000 transport is expected 0 to take off in the next 2015 2020 2025 2030 decade providing a significant boost to China North America Rest of World copper demand.
Other Asia Europe Source: Wood Mackenzie, Copper Outlook December 2018 10 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 GLOBAL COPPER CONSUMPTION BY MARKET SECTOR Growth in total consumption from 2017 to 2040 is estimated to be 1.8% per year and will reach 43.8mt, underpinned by electrification in transportation, buildings and manufacturing.
In addition, governments continue to establish targets for renewable energy, which results in higher copper demand.
2017 25% 30% 29.1mt Total consumption 11% 10% 24% 2040 22% CONSTRUCTION CONSUMER AND GENERAL 28% Power cables Home air conditioners Building wire Refrigerators Transformers Washing machines 2 Non-electrical Televisions 43.8mt Mobiles Total consumption Computers 18% 23% 9% TRANSPORT ELECTRICAL NETWORK Power grid Auto Trains Ships Power generation Infrastructure Electric vehicles EV charging facilities INDUSTRIAL 1.
Including direct use of scrap.
Non-electrical includes heating ventilation and MACHINERY airconditioning HVAC, hardware water gas.
Source: Wood Mackenzie, Copper Outlook December 2018 Industrial motors antofagasta.
co. uk 11 BUILDING THE CITIES OF TOMORROW COPPER IS A VITAL BUILDING BLOCK FOR URBANISATION AND GREENER, HEALTHIER BUILDINGS.
Today 55% of the worlds population live in cities, Copper demand will also be pushed by an increasingly upfrom just under 47% in 2000.
This global trend is digital economy.
Societys need for high-speed internet expected to rise to 64.5% by 2040 driven by India, services is expected to sharply increase demand for China and Nigeria, according to the United Nations.
higher quality copper telecommunications cables in residential and business properties.
Rising urbanisation and industrialisation is a major stimulus for sustained and strong copper demand.
Meanwhile, tougher housing regulations are gradually The metal is a key component of the wiring, plumbing, imposing higher energy efficiency standards and lower heating and cooling, lighting and roofing of homes, emission rates on new buildings to reduce negative aswell as the commercial services, transport, power impacts on the climate and the environment.
Coppers and telecommunications systems needed for vibrant, superior thermal and electrical conductivity will make modern cities.
itindispensable for the greener buildings of the future.
Growing wealth will also boost copper intensity in Copper stands to benefit from urbanisation but also homes and offices.
Greater spending on electrical contribute to smarter and cleaner cities.
goods will lead to higher electricity consumption andalarger number of power sockets, all of which consumecopper.
WORLD URBANISATION PROSPECTS AS A PERCENTAGE POPULATION % 2015 85% 2030 82% 71% 60% 56% 56% 54% 47% 40% 33% WORLD INDIA SOUTHEAST ASIA CHINA NORTH AMERICA Source: United Nations Population Division.
2018 Revision of World Urbanisation Prospects.
12 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT 30% of copper is consumed by the construction sector 7.3m tonnes per annum consumed by the construction sector URBANISATION IN CHINA AS A PERCENTAGE % 58% 2017 1 60% 2020 REQUIRES ABOUT 12 MILLION PEOPLE A YEAR TO MOVE TO CITIES 1.
The 13th Five-Year Plan For Economic AndSocial Development Of The Peoples Republic Of China.
co. uk 13 CONTRIBUTING TO CLEAN AND AFFORDABLE ENERGY ELECTRICITY GENERATED FROM SOLAR AND WIND WILL POWER COPPER DEMAND GROWTH IN ENERGY MARKETS IN COMING YEARS.
The next few decades will witness a shake-up of the Manycountries have established decarbonisation energy sector.
Electrification will charge ahead, led goalsunder the ParisAgreement.
byIndia, dominated by new wind and solar projects This will not only benefit the environment but also andthe globalisation of natural gas markets.
Growing electrification and especially new Under current and planned government policies, solarand wind projects will be key drivers behind globalenergy demand is set to grow by more than copper demand growth.
25%to 2040, with renewable energy representing Copper is used for high-voltage power distribution 1 40% of installed capacity, up from 25% today.
conductors, transformers and earthing in energy Solar photovoltaic and wind energy are now infrastructure as well as in coil windings in the stator economically competitive with traditional power and rotor of wind generators and the cell ribbons and sources due to falling costs.
This is driving the cabling of solar photovoltaic systems.
Solar and wind uptakeofthese green technologies over fossil fuels technologies need four to six times as much copper inadvanced and developing economies alike.
asconventional energy mainly owing to the need to connect larger numbers of smaller units to the grid.
The expansion of renewable energy sources also formspart of governments efforts to tackle global Coppers outstanding ability to conduct electricity warming by reducing carbon dioxide emissions, means it will be a crucial element in the supply of together with energy-related air pollution which affordable and clean energy for generations to come.
causesmillions of premature deaths each year.
Source: International Energy Agency www.
org weo see Electricity Generation by Technology in World with New Policies Scenario.
14 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT 24% Power infrastructure andgeneration accounts for about 24% of annual copper consumption, ortheequivalent of 6.9milliontonnes.
4.5 tonnes per MW Solar photovoltaic and wind farms use an average of 4.5 tonnes ofcopper per MW.
Offshore wind farms are more copper intensive.
