Ascential plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT Continued record of organic growth Our strategy and focus on the digital Revenue from continuing operations was 348.5m 2017: 292.9m, a reported growth economy has delivered another year of of 19.0% and an Organic growth of 6.3% or strong growth in 2018, further amplified 9.6% on a Proforma basis.
We have grown by recent high growth acquisitions.
EBITDA by 3.8% on an Organic basis and by 12.5% on a Proforma basis and delivered an Adjusted EBITDA margin of 29.2% 2017: 32.3%, allowing for the acquisition of higher growth, lower margin, businesses whilst continuing our planned investment to support our market leadership in our core markets.
Operating model based on customer needs Our performance reflects Following the completion of the disposal of the value that customers the Exhibitions business in July 2018, we place on our critical adopted a new operating model to align with our strategy of serving the needs of customers information.
in Product Design, Marketing and Sales: Product Design: global trend forecasting and Duncan Painter Chief Executive Officer insight WGSN Marketing: global creative benchmark, effectiveness measurement and strategic advisory Cannes Lions, WARC, MediaLink Sales: global ecommerce data, analytics and managed services, FinTech consumer payments and retail intelligence Edge, Flywheel Digital, Money20 20, RWRC Ascential also powers political, construction and environmental intelligence brands DeHavilland, Glenigan and Groundsure, which form a fourth operating segment, Built Environment & Policy.
The shape of our business going into 2019 has directly benefited from our transformation, with a higher mix of subscription based revenue streams with faster growth levels.
A year of developing our critical capabilities Our strategic goal is to be the specialised information provider that ensures our customers, who are primarily organisations who create and distribute consumer products, are able to win and thrive in the digital commerce economy.
We are confident that we now have the critical capabilities we need in our business to achieve our strategic goals.
We have built a unique information set across the life cycle of Product Design, Marketing and Sales to enable our customers to win in the digital commerce economy.
We will continue to review how we build out our capabilities to better serve our customers in China, and although we believe we can develop our existing capabilities through 10 Governance Financial statements Strategic report Customer capability Market New segments leading products product lines Product Design WGSN trend forecasting WGSN Insight consumer trends 16 categories WGSN Barometer consumer WGSN Lifestyle & Interiors insights WGSN Mindset Coloro colour system and tools WGSN Beauty beauty trends Cannes Lions creativity Cannes Lions new segments Marketing benchmark Sports and Creative Strategy The Work digital platform on launched award winning creative work Cannes Lions Digital Pass watch WARC digital platform for the Festival online marketing effectiveness WARC for advertisers and media MediaLink digital transformation owners and advisory for media CLX next generation media marketing platform Sales Money20 20 payments and Edge total ecommerce FinTech Edge price & promotion Edge retail insights Edge market share Edge digital shelf Flywheel Digital managed retail services Flywheel Digital Amazon Marketing Services optimisation organic investment, we continue to review consumer trends, a colour system, emerging REVENUE FROM CONTINUING potential acquisition opportunities to accelerate market coverage and consumer insights.
OPERATIONS and provide further unique information as part These, together with our new WGSN Beauty of this expansion.
trends product for 2019 put us in a strong position for further growth in this segment.
348.5m In 2017, we set out the critical functionality 2017: 292.9m we needed to develop to position us as Marketing the most advanced and best positioned As previously announced, 2018 was a company in this space and we have made challenging year for our Marketing segment, good progress in executing against this, with an Organic revenue decline of 8%.
Our OPERATING PROFIT FROM CONTINUING particularly in the high growth Sales segment.
focus in the second half of the year has been OPERATIONS to position our Cannes Lions and MediaLink Product Design brands to be able to return to growth in the full 2018 was a successful year for our Product year of 2019.
Since the acquisition of WARC Design segment with Organic revenue growth and the launch of Cannes Lions The Work 40.2m accelerating to 7%.
Over the last few years, and the Digital Pass, digital products today 2017: 31.3m we have launched a number of new products make up over 10% of this segments revenues.
in our Product Design sector and are now the We expect to see continued strong growth clear market leader in trend forecasting in all in these new digital product lines in 2019. major product categories.
This has provided ADJUSTED EBITDA1 us with a strong foundation for our business The event reset activity we undertook for the and we have continued to maintain high 2018 Cannes Lions festival saw a record Net retention rates with our customers.
Our newer Promoter Score and the major agency holding products address lifestyle and interiors, broader companies have all reconfirmed their support 101.8m 2017: 94.7m 1 Alternative performance measures are explained on page 30.
11 Ascential plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT CONTINUED for the 2019 festival.
MediaLink has continued Built Environment & Policy its planned transition away from retainer Our Built Environment & Policy segment contracts with small digital publishing and adtech continues to trade well with revenue growth of organisations towards brand orientated work.
12% and an expanded Adjusted EBITDA margin A cost restructure was implemented in the of 41%.
There are no plans to proactively review second half of 2018 to align with this focus.
any strategic decisions for this segment in the medium term.
CLX is a new two-day summit for industry VIPs launched for Cannes Lions 2019.
It is designed Strong balance sheet and focused around immersive and interactive experiences capital allocation with some of the worlds most exciting media We continued to apply a rigorous capital and entertainment creators.
We see this joint allocation framework to our business.
This was development between Cannes Lions and evidenced through the recycling of capital from MediaLink as an enabler of 2019 growth.
the disposal of the Exhibitions business which was completed in July 2018 for a total cash We end 2018 with a robust Sales consideration adjusted for cash disposed and balance sheet that provides 2018 has been a seminal year for building out working capital of 296.4m into higher growth flexibility and underpins our our capabilities in the Sales segment and we now business investments and M&A.
have market leadership in most of the key areas confidence for our prospects we identified as important for this segment.
The disposal allowed us to further focus on our in 2019 and beyond.
strategic priority of enabling customers to win in Our FinTech consumer payments capability has the digital economy and has increased our been expanded through the launch of two new capacity to invest in our target disciplines of geographies for our market-leading platform Product Design, Marketing and Sales.
We have Money20 20 in Asia and China.
The overall allocated part of the capital released from the platform has continued to perform strongly disposal of the Exhibitions business to the with Organic growth of 37% in 2018. acquisitions of WARC, BrandView and Flywheel Digital.
We now have a comprehensive set of capabilities to help our customers win in todays Apart from the potential to accelerate growth in ecommerce-driven environments.
During 2018 China and an ongoing interest in strengthening we launched Edge by Ascential, which delivers the depth and quality of the unique data we industry-leading ecommerce driven data, own, we are now focusing our efforts on the insights and advisory services for brands and integration and engineering of our own new retailers.
Formerly BrandView, Clavis Insight, products and therefore expect M&A activity to One Click Retail and Planet Retail RNG, Edge by be a less pronounced feature of the next stage Ascential delivers the industrys most accurate of our development.
and actionable sales-driving data to support our customers through the cycle of market share We ended 2018 with a robust balance sheet assessment, digital shelf management, price & that provides flexibility and underpins our promotion optimisation and retail insights.
With confidence for our prospects in 2019 the recent acquisition of Flywheel Digital, we and beyond.
can now also provide our customers with a platform-driven total product management A culture aligned to our future service for both retail management and We have a unique set of Company beliefs and marketing services promotion on the behaviours that are ingrained in our people and Amazon platform.
We aim to think big and see the bigger picture to help our customers translate insight into advantage.
We are thought-provoking and persuasive, always searching for a better way to help our customers win.
We encourage our teams to be visionary and confident, so that we continue to define the way forward in these exciting new markets.
12 Governance Financial statements Strategic report As part of the work to consistently embed these Outlook values and leadership beliefs across the Group, We are now at an advanced stage of our we have continued to develop a One Ascential multi-year strategy to support global brands as culture across all brands and geographies.
For they navigate fast-paced change in the digital the first time, this year we ran a single unified commerce economy.
Our evolution in 2018 was employee engagement survey globally which supported by three high growth acquisitions, both evidenced our progress in developing our partially reallocating the proceeds of the people strategy, and enabled us to develop a Exhibitions business.
clear plan to further improve across all engagement areas in 2019.
Ralph Tribe, our Our focus has now shifted to integrating our Chief People Officer, discusses this in further unique information services to continue to give detail in the Our People section on pages 42 our global customer base access to the to 44. information they need.
We have taken action to return our Marketing segment to growth in We continue to evolve our operating model to We have executed our 2019, following the successful reset of Cannes align more effectively with our strategy and we Lions in 2018, and the realignment of MediaLink priority divestments as have adapted our reward model to reflect the to focus on large brand reviews and projects.
well as ensuring that we structure of our income and incentivising our We remain well placed to enhance our market teams on long term sustainable value creation.
leadership in 2019 and to pursue our mediumhave built up the critical We expect to continue evolving the operating term target of double-digit growth.
capabilities we need model during 2019 to further streamline how we work.
to be successful Duncan Painter Chief Executive Officer going forward.
Summary 22 February 2019 2018 has been a critical year for our business.
We have executed our priority divestments as well as ensuring that we have built up the critical capabilities we need to be successful going forward.
We have developed a unique information set across the life cycle of Product Design, Marketing and Sales and as we continue to join up our information, teams and capabilities, we identify more opportunities to help our customers.
We can see a clear path to achieving double-digit growth for Ascential as we continue to help our customers grow their businesses in the accelerating digital economy.
Our focus over the next 12 months will be on returning the Marketing segment to growth, consolidating and integrating the high growth acquisitions we have made, and leveraging the wider potential of the unique information we own across Product Design, Marketing and Sales.
