Chief Executives review Delivering growth through the cycle The progress made in 2018 is illustrated by Strategic developments Ashmores strategy capitalises the following developments: Ashmores three-phase strategy delivers on the substantial growth growth and value for clients and shareholders Ashmores investment processes actively opportunities available across through market cycles.
In the financial year, buy risk in periods of market dislocation Emerging Markets, and its progress was made on a number of important and this consistent approach is delivering strategic initiatives.
business model adapts to significant outperformance, with 73% of market cycles within the AuM outperforming over one year, 94% Phase 1: Establish Emerging Markets over three years and 89% over five years.
Investor allocations to Emerging Markets Record gross and net inflows resulted Ashmore therefore consistently deploys are underweight but increasing steadily.
in AuM growth of 26% as the Groups active investment processes, controls its Thetypical investor has an allocation below global distribution team capitalised on the operating costs in response to the revenue 10% compared to a global benchmark strong performance and investors began environment, maintains a strong and liquid neutralweight of 15% to 20%.
to address their underweight positions in balance sheet and invests in future growth Emerging Markets.
This underweight positioning combined opportunities through the full market cycle.
A continuous focus on cost control drove with compelling valuations available across This approach generates value for clients a 4% reduction in adjusted operating Emerging Markets, strong outperformance through strong investment outperformance, costs excluding variable compensation, across Ashmores product range, and and for shareholders through the delivery and an inherently flexible remuneration the global distribution teams extensive of a high adjusted EBITDA margin, policy means operating revenue growth direct client relationships delivered record consistent conversion of profits to cash, of11%resulted in adjusted EBITDA net inflows of US$16.9 billion in the year.
Demand was broad-based across the Groups also underpins and sustains Ashmores client base and investment themes, with Earnings are consistently converted to cash.
culture, with a demonstrable alignment of the most significant flows into blended debt, In this period, operating cash flows excluding employees interests with those of clients localcurrency, short duration and specialist consolidated funds were 210.1million and and shareholders.
As Emerging Markets continue to grow, New seed capital investments of 65 Phase 2: Diversify investment themes and Ashmores strategy and business model will million were made.
This takes total developed world capital sources remain consistent to generate value for the investments over the past nine years to Ashmore is diversifying its revenue mix to Groups clients, shareholders and employees.
640 million, of which 71% has been provide greater revenue stability through successfully redeemed and at a profit.
From a client mix perspective, Strong operating and financial the focus on building a larger retail business The Group successfully managed the performance generated 47% growth in AuM sourced introduction of the Markets in Financial Ashmore has delivered a strong operating through intermediary channels.
Retail clients Instruments Directive II MiFID II in January and financial performance and made further now represent 14% of Group AuM.
2018 and has achieved the cost control progress on strategic initiatives in this financial described above, notwithstanding the Group year.
Significant investment outperformance Ashmore has also maintained the strength absorbing payments for broker research.
combined with the Groups diverse client of its institutional client base with a balanced base and global distribution capabilities have Ashmores balance sheet strength mix of client types and an average tenure of resulted in record net flows in the period and represents a source of strategic and institutional client relationship of more than strong growth in AuM.
A continued focus on competitive advantage through the cycle.
cost control means adjusted EBITDA grew Total net capital resources of 599.2million Product diversification continues to be faster than revenues and the adjusted EBITDA are in excess of the Groups regulatory important as Ashmores objective is to margin increased to 66%.
Importantly, the capital requirement of 119.5million.
provide clients with a full range of scalable investments made in local platforms and Market performance Emerging Markets investment opportunities.
intermediary distribution channels are delivering As described in the Market review, Emerging During the year, the Groups global and strong AuM growth, and the Groups equity Markets delivered strong returns for most of specialist equities capabilities were enhanced investment capabilities were enhanced over the financial year, reflecting the favourable through the recruitment of a number of senior the period.
economic trends underpinning the vast investment professionals in London.
Over the majority of countries.
Global risk aversion medium term, Ashmores goal is to increase increased in the final quarter, leading to a the proportion of AuM managed in equity decline in Emerging Markets asset prices strategies from 6% today.
and so presenting attractive investment opportunities for active managers to exploit.
16 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report In the alternatives theme, Ashmore recently These factors result in a successful alignment Active seed capital programme acquired a majority stake in a Colombian real of interests between clients, shareholders Ashmore has used its balance sheet to seed estate business with AuM of approximately and employees through market cycles, and its own funds since 2009, with the primary US$300 million.
This provides a platform to also mean that unplanned staff turnover purpose to deliver growth in third-party AuM expand into other Latin American markets remains at relatively low levels, such as the and thus to secure long-term revenues.
and, over time, to develop additional real 8.6% experienced this year.
This activity supports all three phases of estate businesses in other Emerging Markets.
the Groups strategy and continues through Outlook market cycles, with new investments Phase 3: Mobilise Emerging Markets capital The recent weakness in Emerging Markets and successful redemptions of previous Local platforms AuM grew by 26% in asset prices has not, with one or two commitments made on a regular basis the year to US$4.9 billion AuM, or 7% of exceptions, been caused by a deterioration subject to funds achieving scale and the the Groups total AuM, and all contribute in economic fundamentals, but rather by a investment generating a positive return.
Importantly, number of developed world events that have they offer diversification benefits, through led to broader risk aversion in global markets.
Over the past nine years, Ashmore has access to a local client base and by focusing Asset prices have extrapolated the challenges invested 640 million in its funds and on different underlying asset classes.
faced by a small number of Emerging Markets successfully redeemed 455 million or 71% Forexample, Colombia principally manages countries across the broader universe.
This of these investments to date.
The primary infrastructure funds and is growing a therefore presents another highly attractive measure of the success of this programme domestic listed equity business: Indonesia entry point with valuations back to levels seen is that 14%, or more than US$10 billion, of offers a broad range of equity and fixed 18 months ago immediately following the US the Groups AuM is in funds that have been income mutual funds: Saudi Arabia invests election, and which underpinned a subsequent seeded.
Additionally, the seeding programme period of strong returns.
For example, local in listed and private equity opportunities: has contributed 103 million to the Groups and the UAE business is focused on private currency bonds, which are predominantly pre tax profits over the past nine years.
equity financing of healthcare projects.
The investment grade, have an average real yield The market value of the seed capital success of these businesses is increasingly of 3%, far in excess of anything available from and commitments at 30 June 2018 recognised by Ashmores global client base, developed country bonds of similar quality and is 261million, broadly spread across and so in certain locations the locally sourced duration.
External debt trades at more than investment themes, but with a focus on capital is managed alongside single-country 300 basis points over US Treasury bonds, strategic growth initiatives in the equities or regional allocations from developed compared with historical lows of 170 basis and alternatives themes, which together worldinvestors.
Corporate credit offers higher yields and represent two-thirds of the total market value.
lower default rates than the equivalent US high Ashmore will continue to focus on yield market, and equities trade at valuations Brexit building scale in the existing network of that heavily discount the improving business The two-year period to determine the local asset management businesses, and and profit cycles across Emerging Markets.
terms of the UKs exit from the European will also consider additional markets as Through its consistent active investment Union ends in March 2019, however there opportunitiesarise.
processes, Ashmore is able to capitalise on remains substantial uncertainty regarding these investment opportunities.
these termsand the implications for the financial services industry.
In order to ensure Ashmores strategic focus While the very strong net flows delivered continued access to EU-based institutional in 2018 may not be repeated in the near on the significant Emerging clients, subject to regulatory approval term, attractive valuations, Ashmores Markets growth opportunity, Ashmore is in the process of establishing an strong investment performance track record office in Ireland.
Therefore, notwithstanding combined with a distinctive and and investors underweight allocations to the uncertainty, the operational impact of highly effective business model Emerging Markets mean that the outlook Brexit is expected to be manageable and remains positive.
that performs through market thefinancial impact immaterial.
cycles, creates long-term value Ashmores experience of investing in Emerging People and culture Markets over more than 25 years, placing for clients and shareholders Ashmores culture is supported and sustained itself at the forefront of market developments, by its specialist focus on the Emerging and establishing deep and long-standing client Markets asset classes, its distinctive relationships, means it is well positioned to remuneration philosophy and its committeecontinue to deliver significant growth and value based approach to investment management.
Mark Coombs Chief Executive Officer 6 September 2018 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 17
