Strategic Report Chief Executive As we enter the next phase in our journey, the Officers Review fundamentals of our strategy and plans remain unchanged, with Product Sales growth driving improved profitability and the generation of increasing levels of cash.
in 2018, after the previous six years in which revenues had fallen by more than one third, weturned the corner and returned to Product Sales growth.
In March 2013, shortly after I joined Achieve Scientific Leadership New medicines AstraZeneca, we set out our strategy to Our first priority for achieving scientific launched since 2013 Achieve Scientific Leadership, Return to leadership was to focus on innovative Growth and ensure we are a Great Place to science in three main therapy areas: Oncology Work.
Five years on, thanks to the great work Oncology: Cardiovascular, Renal and Imfinzi for lung and bladder of every single one of my colleagues, we have Metabolism CVRM : and Respiratory.
cancer made remarkable progress: our science-led This has been our driving force all along, Lynparza for ovarian and strategy and our open and entrepreneurial a focus reinforced by our recent breast cancer culture are underpinning a resurgence in organisational changes.
In other disease Tagrisso for lung cancer innovation that is fuelling sustainable Product areas, we have sought to maximise the Calquence for mantle cell Sales growth and delivering medicines that value of our portfolio through licensing, lymphoma patients and society value and can access.
Lumoxiti for hairy cell leukaemia Product Sales growth We also said we would rebuild our pipeline The first phase in our journey provided focus and, by 2015, had 15 new molecular entities CVRM and galvanised the organisation behind NMEs in Phase III Pivotal Phase II or under Lokelma for hyperkalaemia rebuilding our pipeline.
Having regained our regulatory review compared with a target, Qtern for diabetes scientific edge, the second stage was crucial set in 2013, of 10 by the end of 2016.
In 2018, as we drove our Growth Platforms forward, we had eight NMEs in Phase III Pivotal Phase Respiratory launched new medicines and made them II or under regulatory review.
The same year, Fasenra for severe asthma available to patients.
I am pleased to report we also made 28 regulatory submissions in Bevespi Aerosphere for chronic that, in 2018, after the previous six years in major markets and received 23 approvals obstructive pulmonary disease which revenues had fallen by more than one for our medicines.
Both are record numbers third, we turned the corner and returned to for AstraZeneca.
Of course, we know that in Product Sales growth, driven by a new pushing the boundaries of science we will generation of medicines from our therapy areas.
In 2018, for example, there were disappointing As we look ahead through 2019 and beyond, Phase III trial results for six projects, including continued investment in our product launches the MYSTIC trial of Imfinzi and tremelimumab and pipeline should keep us on track to deliver in stage 4 non-small cell lung cancer NSCLC.
sustainable and profitable growth in line with However, we remain confident in Imfinzi as our targets.
Consistent with this, we are the cornerstone of our immuno-oncology IO reshaping the way we undertake research and programme and continue to evaluate its development to bring new focus and impetus, potential in ongoing NSCLC trials, including accelerate the launches of new medicines and Imfinzi and Imfinzi plus tremelimumab in consolidate what is already one of the most combination with chemotherapy.
Overall, exciting and productive pipelines in the we are on target for sustainably delivering industry.
We are also reorganising our two NMEs annually by2020.
commercial operations to reflect our therapy area focus, maximise collaboration with our R&D organisation, and strengthen strategic planning and field force integration to support delivery of our medicines to patients.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Chief Executive Officers Review 5 Chief Executive Officers Review continued Finally, we are well on our way to exceeding Additionally, we wanted to shift to a balance our target of launching 10 major new ofspecialty and primary care medicines.
The panel on the previous Specialty care medicines now comprise all page shows how, since 2013, nine medicines our Oncology medicines and Fasenra.
They 23 have been launched from our three main represented 30% of Product Sales in 2018 23 NME and major LCM therapy areas which are making a real and sales increased by 57% in the year regional approvals a record difference to the lives of patients around 56%at CER to $6,325 million.
In 2018 alone, we delivered three new medicines Lumoxiti, Lokelma and Be a Great Place to Work roxadustat.
Roxadustat, for the treatment Underpinning everything is our dedication to ofchronic kidney disease CKD anaemia, being a great place to work, with a talented 84% isparticularly noteworthy as it is the first and diverse team committed to living our Five Growth Platforms represent timethat a first-in-class medicine has Values and supported by an inclusive, learning 84% of Total Revenue beenapproved first in China.
It is that team of people who drive our ittobe launched later in 2019. progress, and our employee Pulse surveys show that 94% of employees understand our Above all, we believe in what science can strategy, 89% believe in it and 83% would do.
And it is a testament to the strength of our recommend AstraZeneca as a great place to 84% science that, in 2018, AstraZeneca scientists work all statistics that place us among the 84% of employees understand published 102 manuscripts another record leading companies in the world.
how they can contribute to our number in high-impact peer-reviewed sustainability priorities journals a 14-fold increase since 2012.
While there is always more we can do, 2018 also saw continued employee development Return to Growth and an increase in the representation of In support of our Return to Growth priority, women in senior roles.
More generally, we wesaid we would focus on five Growth have implemented numerous initiatives, such Platforms: Oncology, New CVRM, Respiratory, as unconscious bias training, across the globe... we are well on our way Japan and Emerging Markets.
In 2013, they as part of our commitment to inclusion and represented less than half of sales and this diversity.
We are therefore particularly proud to exceeding our target of had grown to 84% of Total Revenue by 2018. to have been recognised as the only launching 10 major new Overall, as shown in the table opposite, pharmaceutical company selected for the Product Sales in 2018 increased by 4% to 2019 Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index medicines by 2020.
$21,049 million 4% at CER, driven by strong which distinguishes companies committed growth in the last two quarters of the year to transparency in gender reporting and 8% and 5% respectively 9% and 8% at CER.
This reflected the performance of our New 1 Medicines, up by 81% at CER and adding More widely, 84% of employees understand $2.8 billion in incremental sales, as well as the how they can contribute to our sustainability sustained strength of Emerging Markets, up priorities where our achievements include by 12% 13% at CER.
Product Sales in China reaching 12 million people through increased by 28% 25% at CER in the year.
our access to healthcare programmes and Externalisation Revenue declined by 55% in winning Ethical Corporations Community the year to $1,041 million, partly driven by the Investment Program of the year award for impact of $1,247 million of income received Young Health our global disease prevention during 2017 as part of our collaboration with programme.
We know we cant achieve our MSD for Lynparza.
Total Revenue declined goals alone.
As a sustainable organisation by2% 2% at CER to $22,090 million.
we have an unwavering commitment to being a trusted partner for stakeholders, We also said that we would leverage our an excellent investment for shareholders, global commercial presence and our strength and an indispensable ally in the quest to in Emerging Markets.
After four years of meet the global healthcare challenge.
decline, the US returned to sales growth in2018 while Product Sales in Emerging Markets, which represented 21% of sales in2013, amounted to 33% of Product Sales.
Emerging Markets now represent our largest Region by Product Sales.
1 Tagrisso, Imfinzi, Lynparza, Calquence, Lumoxiti, Brilinta, Farxiga, Lokelma, Bevespi and Fasenra.
These New Medicines are pillars in the three main therapy areas andimportant platforms for future growth.
6 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report Global Product Sales by therapy area 2018 2017 2016 Actual CER Actual CER Actual CER Sales growth growth Sales growth growth Sales growth growth $m % % $m % % $m % % Oncology 6,028 50 49 4,024 19 19 3,383 20 20 Cardiovascular, Renal & Metabolism 6,710 8 8 7,266 10 10 8,116 14 13 Respiratory 4,911 4 3 4,706 1 1 4,753 5 3 Other Disease Areas 3,400 18 19 4,156 18 17 5,067 20 19 Total 21,049 4 4 20,152 5 5 21,319 10 8 Seizing the opportunities ahead Before this, we said goodbye to Bahija Jallal, As we enter the next phase in our journey, EVP MedImmune, and Mark Mallon, EVP the fundamentals of our strategy and plans Global Product and Portfolio Strategy, Global remain unchanged, with Product Sales Medical Affairs and Global Corporate Affairs, growth driving improved profitability and whose moves to become CEOs at two thegeneration of increasing levels of cash.
exciting biotech companies illustrated the Our focus will continue to be on innovative talent that we have in AstraZeneca and how science and leadership in our three main highly other companies regard our people.
And we will carry on leveraging Sean Bohen, EVP for Global Medicines our global presence and strength in emerging Development and Chief Medical Officer markets, while pursuing the development of willalso be leaving following the leadership strong, balanced portfolios of both specialty structure changes.
I would like to thank Bahija, and primary care medicines.
Mark and Sean for the important roles they played in AstraZenecas return to growth.
As the Chairman indicated, the world around us is changing, so we too are shifting the way Finally, my thanks go to all my colleagues in in which we deliver our strategy.
We have been on an incredible is on growth through innovation being journey.
None of this would have been morepatient-centric, doing more with digital possible without the talented people we technology and data, and advancing more havein the organisation.
I thank them all innovative science.
foreverything they have done as, together, weembark on the next phase in this great The new organisational structure we Companys journey.
announced in January 2019 supports the nextphase in our journey and is intended to enhance scientific innovation and commercial success.
The changes further increase focus on our main therapy areas, integrate R&D functions for agile decision making and moreflexible resource allocation, as well asincreasing collaboration between our Pascal Soriot R&Dand commercial units.
Chief Executive Officer My colleagues At the same time as making these changes, we announced the appointment of Dr Jos Baselga to lead our R&D unit for Oncology.
Jos is an outstanding oncology leader withvast experience in the development ofinnovative cancer therapies.
His research andclinical achievements have led to the development of several innovative medicines, and he is an international thought leader in cancer care and clinical research.
Joss expertise adds further scientific and leadership excellence to our already strong team and will help us to continue building aworld-class R&D unit for Oncology.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Chief Executive Officers Review 7
