6 Assura plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 CEO review Bringing care closer to home by creating modern, fit-for-purpose buildings.
Jonathan Murphy CEO Overview Delivering long-term Investment property value Assura has continued to deliver outperformance in significantgrowth in 2018, adding propertyreturns 120medical centres to create a portfolio Assura is a constituent of the IPD All 1,732.7m of 518 properties at the year end.
Healthcare Index and over the last five years we have delivered an annualised ungeared up by 28.8% The UK primary care market remains return of 9.9% which compares favourably highly fragmented with approximately to the Index at 9.4% over the same period.
Rent roll 9,000 medical centres andso this represents a market share of around6%.
Moreover, these strong returns have beenachieved against a background Assura maintains a distinct model that ofhistorically low levels of development 91.0m offers investment, development and activity.
Development activity enhances up by 21.5% management of premises to our GP our returns in two ways: firstly, we are customers.
This multi-faceted approach typically able to develop new premises at enables us to understand better the an effective yield on cost that is 100 basis requirements of the GPs and to anticipate points higher than achieved through their future needs, thus giving us an buying existing premises: and secondly, advantage in securing investment developments provide evidence of ordevelopment opportunities.
This has construction cost inflation that in turn been a key factor behind our success in drives rental growth.
adding 314 million of property additions.
We continue to source many schemes Our 518 medical centres, which are offmarket, taking advantage of our geographically diverse and collectively relationships and market knowledge serve more than 7.5% of the UKs toidentify opportunities that are not population, currently have a rent roll of widely advertised.
Our investment approach istoidentify and acquire those assets I would specifically highlight four webelieve are best in class in their local successful portfolio transactions in the catchment areas and facilitate provision year which between them included 57 ofa broad range of services to their local properties for a gross consideration of communities.
We believe such properties 134 million.
They neatly reflect ourlongprovide better prospects for lease renewal term approach to business as we had on expiry and so drive higher property been patiently tracking several of these returns over the long term.
deals for a number of years to ensure that we were in pole position when the A good example of this approach is opportunities materialised.
seenin our acquisition of Argyle Surgery Medical Centre, which was acquired offmarket after a direct approach through Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information www.
This centre today was able to agree a new 25-year lease other GPs.
This is reflected in the fact with the GP tenant.
Overall, during serves over 24,000 patients and as such thatour GPs remain our greatest source is the largest practice in Wales.
It provides theyear we agreed three extensions, ofreferrals for new business.
We continue 13new leases and 15 lease extensions, almost 20 additional services on site tofocus on understanding their evolving including counselling, phlebotomy, significantly improving surgery provision needs and demands, so we can be at for some 235,000 patients, whilst adding asthma treatment, coronary disease theforefront of the significant investment clinics and a minor surgery suite.
a further 0.5 million to our rent roll.
required in improving premises goingforward.
At the same time, we are prepared to The combined impact of our investment and asset management activity has been acquire shorter leases, and then use our Our team of portfolio and investment property skills to redevelop or enhance to achieve a 6% growth in EPRA NAV to managers are responsible for identifying 52.4 pence per share.
the premises, whilst seeking to re-gear value enhancing asset management the lease to a longer period.
opportunities, such as lease extensions and Maximising operational redevelopments within our existing estate, Rental income efficiency as well as new acquisition opportunities.
The key driver of our property return is the GPs are our principal customer, so we income from our long-term leases.
In the naturally measure ourselves against their This approach enables us to optimise year, rental growth was 1.7% from settled satisfaction with what we do for them and theefficiency with which we can translate rent reviews.
Most of our rent reviews are the best test of this is whether our GPs increased rental income into underlying on an open market basis, set by reference would recommend us to other GPs.
In profit and hence dividends.
In the year to rental awards agreed with the District ourannual tenant satisfaction survey, wehave delivered a24% growth in EPRA Valuer on new schemes.
This means over96% of our tenants said they would earnings to 50.0million, which has been thatrents are influenced by land and recommend us as potential landlords to achieved from a combination of 18% growth in our net rental income and construction cost inflation over the medium term.
While there has been significant inflation in these costs in recent years, this is not yet fully reflected in our passing rents as the slowdown in new schemes has reduced the available evidence of that inflation.
Our portfolio iswell placed to capture this rental growth once new development activity picks up and this gives us confidence in rental growth prospects over the medium term.
Capital growth The balance of our ungeared annualised return is generated from capital growth, which has seen a like-for-like valuation growth of 6.9% in the past year.
This Castle Medical Group, Ashby-fide-la-Zouch increase has primarily come from amovement in yields, with our net equivalent yield moving down by Net initial yield movement 31basispoints over the past year.
Theportfolio net initial yield as at The attractiveness of the sector has resulted in a stable yield profile with modest 31March 2018 was 4.80%.
yield compression in recent years.
We completed six developments during the year at a total development cost of % 31.3million.
This has added 1.6 million 8 toour annual rent roll.
7 We also add value through active asset 6 management of our properties, working 5 with our GP tenants on proposals for physical extensions or agreeing new 4 orextended lease terms.
We have done 3 this at Wide Way Medical Centre, where working with the practice and the NHS, 2 with part funding from the NHS London 1 Improvement Grant Fund, we were able deliver a 195 sq.
This 0 Jun Jun Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar provides five new patient consultation 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 rooms, a minor operations suite and a conference room, as well as improved IPD monthly UK index initial yield reception, waiting and administration Assura Net Initial Yield areas allowing the premises to provide 15-year Gilt seven day extended access to primary care.
As part of this new extension Assura 8 Assura plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 CEO review continued areduction from 14% to 13% in our Meanwhile our in-house development including a number of primary care EPRACost Ratio.
Profit before tax team is currently busier than it has been schemes, and we remain optimistic was71.8 million.
We completed thatthese central initiatives will result sixschemes in the year for a gross inincreased future investment across The overall impact of all of these factors development cost of 31.3 million and theNHS estate.
Assura has the skills, has enabled us to increase our quarterly thenumber of potential opportunities has resources and capital to support these dividend from January 2018 by 9% to increased markedly.
We are currently on plans when they convert into action.
0.655 pence per share, which is the sixth site at a further five schemes with a gross successive dividend increase over a development cost of 23.6 million.
The Funding further growth period of six years.
pipeline where we expect to be on site The success in delivering growth inour within the next 12 months remains strong, portfolio has only been possible thanks to Continued focus on our comprising a further 10 schemes with a the continued support of our shareholders specialist sector gross development cost of 47 million.
and we successfully raised 409 million in Assura maintains a proprietary database two separate equity issues in June 2017 of every primary care property in the UK This increased level of activity is and December 2017. from which we can identify and analyse encouraging and has resulted in us potential acquisition opportunities.
This increasing the size of our development In October 2017 we secured 150 million unique market perspective has been a team from two to five colleagues as from a UK private placement with Legal & key contributor to our continued success welook to both secure more schemes General Investment Management with a in expanding our portfolio.
We closed the andincrease the proportion that we maturity split between eight and 10 years year with a portfolio of 518 properties and manage in-house.
and a blended interest rate of 3.04%.
a valuation in excess of 1.7 billion.
Inaddition, the available facilities under There continue to be delays in the RCF were increased to 300 million, The ongoing growth in the portfolio implementing approved schemes which is a variable rate facility at an initial haslargely been achieved through underthe Estates and Technology margin of 150 basis points.
In the year we completed Transformation Fund, although we are Assuras funding strategy, the new notes 314 million of property additions, which encouraged by the announcement in and the RCF are unsecured.
was the largest contributor to the 388 theAutumn Budget of 2.6 billion being million increase in investment property made available to support capital projects Our LTV was 26% at the year end.
This has enabled our rent bySustainability and Transformation comfortable with our LTV increasing to a rollto grow by 22% to 91.0 million.
More than 700 level between 40% and 50% and so we million of this total has already been retain significant headroom to fund future allocated to the most advanced projects, growth.
We are continuing to source attractive investment opportunities and we currently have a pipeline of further property acquisitions and developments of 152 million in solicitors hands.
Eleven-year Total Return vs standard deviation 2007-2017 Market developments Estates have been a continuing theme of focus for STPs this year, with government Total Return expecting detailed estates strategies to per annum be submitted by all areas this summer.
10% Through work with the Nuffield Trust, wehave played our part in supporting a number of STPs with their thinking and Primary Healthcare planning on primary care infrastructure Residential index 8% matters.
Providing a wider range of health services closer to home, from a broader Industrial All healthcare range of primary care professionals, creates a better care experience for patients and the conditions for better Equities Ofce Bonds 6% outcomes for the NHS.
The outdated andunfit converted residential stock of All property surgery premises must evolve into purpose built medical centres, with 4% thecapacity and the capability to meet the challenges the NHS will face in the Retail future.
The NHS desperately needs more investment in its primary care estate, which is largely owned now by GPs 20 16 12 8 4 0 themselves, and we stand ready to increased risk Risk standard deviation reduced risk provide capital to deliver this investment.
Source: MSCI Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information www.
com 9 Meddygfa Padarn Surgery, Aberystwyth In the past year the importance of has led our development efforts forthe are working together on potential improving the quality of physical lastdecade: and Patrick Lowther Head of solutions.
Assura firmly believes in infrastructure for primary care has been Investment who joined us last year having theNHS.
Regardless of the politics, explicitly recognised as being part of the previously been a property fund manager thefundamentals for primary care estate solution to broader NHS challenges, with at Savills and so benefits from extensive will remain steadfast: to reduce pressure the Governments formal response to investment management experience.
on hospitals, improve access to general theNaylor Review largely accepting its practice and help the people who rely on recommendations as well as highlighting The new Executive Board has been in health services the most to reach them the need for private capital to play a place only a few months, but I am pleased closer to home.
GP surgery buildings roleinfunding the investment that with the progress the newly established and primary care premises must be fit willberequired.
team has made already and Ilook forward forthe future.
to working with them as weenter the next Executive Board chapter in Assuras development as a Jonathan Murphy I am delighted to report that Jayne leading real estate business and partner CEO Cottam was appointed Chief Financial to the NHS.
22 May 2018 Officer in September, joining us from theleading private house builder, Morris Outlook Homes.
She serves on both the Group The political agenda continues to be and Executive Boards.
dominated by Brexit, but in its 70th anniversary year, the NHS is one of the Andrew Darke stepped down from both few domestic issues managing to secure Boards at the end of the year.
The Prime Minister thischange, I have taken the opportunity has publicly accepted the need for a torejig the Executive Board to include long-term funding settlement for the thethree Heads of Department from our health service, and MPs from all parties property team who join Jayne Cottam, ourCFO, Orla Ball, our Head of Legal, andmyself.
The three new members are: Spencer Kenyon Head of Portfolio Management who has been with the business since its formation and has managed the portfolio throughout this time: Simon Gould Head of Development who Well Street Surgery, Hackney
