Strategic report Governance Financial statements Chief Executive Officers statement Our business model page 18 Key performance indicators page 22 We maintained our market leading Delivering against our strategy The market Our purpose is to lead the The overall size of the UKs position and our audience has future of the digital automotive car parc continues to grow, continued to grow as consumers marketplace and we continue which is beneficial for our to make progress against our stock-based business model.
spend more time on the site.
strategy of improving car buying However, in the year to March in the UK.
We seek to continually 2018 both new and used car evolve the automotive transactions declined, and ecosystem so consumers, industry forecasts suggest retailers and manufacturers that both markets will continue realise greater efficiencies.
to decline for the remainder of the calendar year 2018.
Summary of operating performance People and culture It has been another good year As we strive to become the for the business despite the UKs most admired digital toughest market conditions we business, I am delighted to have seen since we became a say that 90% of employees public company.
We achieved say they are proud to work 1 revenue growth of 7%, through our at AutoTrader and would core Retailer and Manufacturer recommend the Company 2 and Agency revenue streams, but to a friend.
this has been partially offset by We are committed to weakness in Consumer services addressing the gender and where broader economic wider diversity balance that is uncertainty has affected our common in most technology private listings business.
With Trevor Mather and digital companies and we Operating profit growth of 10%, have made good progress in Chief Executive Officer we saw continued improvement this area.
Along with all other in Operating profit margin to 67%.
large companies, we reported What weve delivered our Gender Pay Gap this Another year of growth We have a market leading year for the first time.
We are position as the UKs largest dedicated to reducing this gap 1.
I nnovation driving our operational digital automotive marketplace.
as well as increasing diversity and financial results Our audience has grown as at all levels of our business Operating and financial review, page 26 consumers spend more time and we have implemented on our platforms, viewing an a number of initiatives which 2.
Our strategy and strategic pillars average of 94 adverts every are already having an impact.
Our strategy, page 20 second of every day, and the vast Finally, this year we majority of our audience remains re-assessed our business 3.
A commitment to our people and culture unique to AutoTrader.
core values, and collectively Corporate social responsibility, page 39 During the year we improved our decided to add a sixth value 4.
The automotive market today offering to retailer customers, community-minded as a including the successful launch reflection of our commitments Market overview, page 14 of our new advertising packages to support the AutoTrader in April 2017, which enabled community, as well as the retailers to compete more wider communities in which effectively on our marketplace.
We have also continued to Trevor Mather leverage our data to evolve our Chief Executive Officer consumer and retailer products, 7 June 2018 integrated Motor Trade Delivery MTD and delivered our new 1 AutoTrader employee engagement survey, 2017 Dealer Finance product in 2 Glassdoor, April 2018 December 2017.
Auto Trader Group plc 11 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018
