AVEVA Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 16 Chief Executive Officers Q&A Craig Hayman joined AVEVA in February 2018, and is an experienced software professional with over 30 years experience in the industry.
We are delighted that he has joined the Company and weve asked for his initial thoughts on the business and his priorities for this year.
Prior to joining PTC, Craig was Q president of eBays enterprise What attracted you to AVEVA?
business, where he led the transformation of its retailA optimised omni-channel The industrial sector is being transformed commerce business prior to its by software designed to increase safety sale.
He also served more than and efficiency while reducing operational 15 years in senior leadership and capital expense.
Digital Twins of the positions at IBM, including as physical world, the internet-of-things worldwide general manager of and machine learning are accelerating the SaaS portfolio.
Craig shares what inspired him Its an exciting time where best practices to join AVEVA and his vision for have emerged to help customers move the enlarged Group.
Against this backdrop the combination of AVEVA and Schneider Electric Software brings together many years of innovation, customer proof points and two great teams.
The formation of one company committed to take all that weve learned out to the world is exciting.
Exciting for me, exciting for the team and exciting for our customers.
We help our customers connect disparate industrial assets from different companies at different stages of their life cycle.
Craig Hayman Chief Executive Officer Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 17 Q Q Q How do AVEVAs solutions help With the combination and the change in Can you tell us a bit about yourself and customers?
leadership, should one expect a change in what you enjoy doing outside work?
the culture of the business?
A A We connect disparate industrial assets A Im married with two daughters who are from different companies at different Culture is an important topic and one that now enjoying life at university while my stages of their life cycle.
We are capturing stories wife and I are enjoying life in London.
information and insights about those from our employees around the world on This is my first time back living in London assets to accelerate a companys digital how they experience aspects of the since I was a student at the University agenda - from digital asset management combined Company.
Within these stories, of London and it has been great to design engineering to process I believe are the raw elements of the core reconnecting with old friends.
Im an simulation, optimisation and values of the new Company.
Customer occasional but enthusiastic snowboarder manufacturing operations management.
focus and innovation are a recurring and look forward to a few European These solutions help increase safety, theme.
The culture of the Company will ski trips.
reduce downtime and improve returns be new but it will be based on the values on capital by reducing both capital and behaviours that are already core to expenditure and operating costs.
You can read more about this provides a comprehensive product on page 36 of this Annual Report.
portfolio offering an unrivalled set of solutions for the industrial world.
Q What can employees do to help drive Q long-term growth?
What are your top priorities for your first few months in office?
A What has struck me as I have travelled to A our offices around the world is how My focus has been ensuring we remain passionate and proud everyone is of our on track with the integration of the two history, while being so focused on our businesses while spending time with future and our customers future.
I remind customers and employees around the my colleagues that a company succeeds world to listen and learn.
Ive established by serving its employees, its customers new leadership teams to drive the and its shareholders and we will do this business including the Executive together.
Leadership Team ELT and the Strategy Leadership Team SLT which work hand-in-hand with the business units and the geographical sales teams.
The talent from both companies comes together through these teams.
Together with the wider team, I have also been working on the longer-term strategy of the Company and I look forward to updating you on our progress at AVEVAs capital markets day in September 2018.
