22 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements CEOs strategic review Thirty years of keeping peoples digital lives safe and private Vince Steckler Chief Executive Offi cer 2018 was a milestone year for Avast.
Founded in 1988, Avasts mission is to create a world that is safe and private for everyone, no matter who they are, where they are based or how they connect.
In May, Avast became a public company.
Following our maiden half-year earnings, we were admitted to the FTSE 250.
By end of year, we delivered on our stated objectives for growth in revenue and number of customers.
Avast annual report 2018 23 Key 2018 achievements Product releases We released innovative products like our privacy products including Avast AntiTrack: Avast Smart Life platform, which allows our and the latest update to our core antivirus carrier partners to off er their subscribers Avast and AVG products.
security for their connected devices: Performance Over 12 million people are now paying for our business.
Average revenue and average our PC products, reaching 12.19 million by number of products per customer grew 8.6% end of year, demonstrating that our platform and 6%, respectively.
model is a sustainable foundation for Carrier partnerships We signed partnerships with European in the homes of consumers today, we carriers Vodafone Czech Republic and support our carrier partners in off ering Wind Italy to deliver our family safety compelling security services to their and parental controls app to customers.
With mobile devices increasingly popular An evolving threat landscape 2018 was notable for the number of highFacebook, British Airways and Quora.
pro le data breaches that came to light.
Clearly, no one is immune, and digital Big brands aff ected by high-pro le data security has become a hot topic and major breaches this year included Marriott, Twitter, concern for businesses and consumers alike.
24 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements CEOs strategic review We are adding customers, launching new products and expanding into diff erent markets Our approach devices.
In todays digital world, internet Premium products Avast and AVG We built our reputation on having security is no longer optional and we are AntiTrack.
These help our users the best antivirus solution, free committed to providing it to our growing manage tracking cookies for improved or paid.
Today, we continue to user base.
We have 30 years of success in online privacy.
innovate in this space, even as delivering frictionless, intuitive protection We also ne-tuned our cross-selling we lead the market with our across multiple devices and technology approach by targeting certain users with platforms that simply works.
messaging around our performance utility Our business model drives revenue We have one of the largest user bases and VPN products.
growth through a cost-effi cient delivery globally of any security company with over In 2019, we will continue to broaden approach using viral distribution to build 435 million users.
Our strength in antivirus our product range.
We will also look our massive user base.
Our leading has enabled us to develop a platform to promote products that address the consumer platform off ers premium model that supports the diversi cation pressing safety and privacy concerns products to this user base through the and delivery of our products and services now at the forefront of many peoples Avast, AVG and CCleaner brands.
into new areas including e-commerce, minds, following recent well-publicised We have re ned our contextual messaging browsing, advertising and distribution, security incidents.
to deliver highly relevant off ers at the and analytics.
As a result, Were also continuing to grow and evolve we have measured adoption rates that our performance and privacy off erings.
are up to 46% more eff ective than For 2019, our plan is to expand our product traditional campaigns.
portfolio further, cementing our customers loyalty, while increasing engagement.
This has been a busy and innovative year for Avast.
We launched: Avast AntiTrack The Avast and AVG Secure Browsers.
Extend platform model 1 Premium stops invasive These meaningfully expand the reach of our platform, off ering users online tracking a free product that bolsters our brand Off ering our customers valuable Stop online tracking messaging on security and privacy.
Instantly block online tracking new services and premium attempts and expose whos trying to snoop on you.
Several innovative subscription products in a smart way protection products: anti-phishing Disguise your online pro le Today, the average person spends around Mask your digital ngerprint to protection, a sensitive data shield, prevent advertisers from knowing six hours a day online across a range of and a Do Not Disturb mode.
Hide your tracks Wipe your cookies and browsing data with a single click, or schedule regular cleanings.
Avast annual report 2018 25 Smart home spending is forecast to grow by 1 21% through 2021 2021 Games console Smart TV $116bn Security cameras 2018 Digital $65bn set-top boxes Refrigerator IoT devices are hard to secure and ABI Research has projected 34.9 billion Expand layered security New market adaptation 2 3 of them will be installed in homes and 2 businesses by 2021.
Consumers are typically upgrading to smart versions of Extending security beyond multiple Avast developed its Go Local current entertainment, home automation platforms and devices to the and security devices they already own, programme to expand our products like TVs, doorbells and thermostats, network is becoming critical and services internationally by digital set-top boxes, games consoles, The explosion in the number of Internet thinking locally.
and other common household goods.
ABI of Things IoT devices opens up new Avast developed its Go Local programme also forecasts that consumer spending opportunities for bad actors.
To close to deepen its presence in existing on Smart Home will rise from $65 billion these down, we aim to extend security markets and expand to new territories in 2018 to $116 billion by 2021, a CAGR across platforms, across multiple 3 by customising the experience to local of 21.9%.
Avast is already solving the devices, including home routers, and habits and preferences.
We are targeting challenges of securing IoT devices through onto the network.
This is what we call increased penetration in underserved our Smart Life platform and services layered security.
territories around the globe and see available to carriers.
signi cant opportunity for penetration uplift We already have a robust portfolio of We also plan to do more of the heavy-duty in both the developed non-English speaking products that can provide such security, work of security processing in the cloud, world, as well as emerging markets.
and we are also working hard on our providing a lightweight security product IoT security portfolio as consumers Our adaptive model considers the market that provides greater protection without become more aware of the implications forces of any single country including impairing performance.
This will further of constant connectivity.
brand preference, key user behaviours, re ne our core products and enhance our payment options and cultural dynamics.
detection engine capabilities, building out This approach to localise rather than apply our machine learning and AI technology a one size ts all model has helped us to capabilities to underpin our layered eff ectively position our brand and capture security delivery.
sizeable opportunity in large growth economies like Brazil and Russia, and developed markets such as Japan.
1 Source: ABI, Smart Home Systems, Q3 2018.
2 ABI Research, Internet of Everything Market Tracker, 2019 Q1.
3 ABI Research, Smart Home Systems, Q3 2018.
26 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements CEOs strategic review Make new partnerships Grow by acquisition 4 5 We partner with mobile carriers to Making the most of the improve their customers security.
We hold a leading position in the mobile M&A activity can enable scale, market, being established with the leading access to new users, new products US carriers over many years.
enhanced our position by announcing In 2018, we completed the integration partnerships with Vodafone Czech of the AVG Technologies and Piriform Republic and Wind Italy to deliver our acquisitions from 2016 and 2017 family safety and parental controls app.
These provided more 1 Our studies indicate the carrier market to products on the Avast e-commerce be worth $866 million across 220 markets platform and enabled us to grow average and more than 300 carriers.
revenue and average product per customer through better pricing and cross-selling.
We also acquired a mobile development team, InLoopX, to support our ambitious growth plans in mobile.
1 Source: Company Market Study as of November 2016.
Market is fide ned as unique combination of country and carrier.
Avast annual report 2018 27 Challenges Our future This year, we have been hard at work Having delivered on the promise we made integrating the SMB business that was at the time of IPO and demonstrated formerly part of AVG.
As anticipated, the continued high single-digit revenue integration process resulted in a minor growth in 2018, I am con dent that negative impact on the divisions financial 2019 will also be another strong year performance, but substantial progress has for Avast.
The explosion of IoT devices, been made and we enter 2019 with a clear growing bandwidth and the increasing vision of the future.
sophistication of attacks, means Avast has never been more relevant and needed.
For 2019, we will launch two major new small to mid-size business products: I take this opportunity to wish Ondrej Secure Web Gateway and Secure Internet Vlcek, my successor, all the best when Gateway.
These have been developed he takes over on 1 July 2019.
In addition, to deliver uni ed threat management I personally want to thank all of the Avast for next generation cloud security.
employees who made this year a success, These will be the some of the first in the and our loyal customers and partners industry speci cally developed for SMBs.
without whom we would not be where we are today.
In mobile, the loss of the Sprint contract in 2017 negatively impacted our revenues.
Vince Steckler Wins in 2018 for four integrated family CEO, Avast safety products with our mobile carrier partners, Verizon, AT&T, Vodafone and Wind, partially off set this impact.
We anticipate a similar dynamic in 2019 as the Sprint contract winds down and the new products ramp up.
Thanks to all Avast employees who made this year a success.
