AVEVA Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 12 Chief Executive Officers Review A COMBINATION BRINGING TRANSFORMATIONAL CHANGE I joined AVEVA in February 2018 at an exciting time as the industrial sector seeks new approaches to increase safety and efficiency, while reducing operational and capital expense.
AVEVA is at the forefront of industrial digitalisation and continues to deliver innovative and proven solutions to customers.
Summary Combination with the Schneider My initial focus has been ensuring we Electric Industrial Software remain on track with the integration of Business the two businesses while spending time On 5 September 2017, AVEVA and with customers, investors and employees Schneider Electric announced an around the world.
Ive established new agreement to combine AVEVA and SES leadership teams to drive the business to create a global leader in industrial including an Executive Leadership Team software for process and hybrid and Strategy Leadership Team, which industries.
This proposed combination work hand-in-hand with the regional received shareholder approval on sales teams and the business units.
29 September 2017 and following regulatory approvals, completed on AVEVA had a successful year as it was 1 March 2018.
The combination saw transformed through the combination with Schneider Electric contribute certain SES, improved its operational execution software assets to AVEVA and make a and delivered financial growth.
On a 550 million cash payment to AVEVA statutory basis revenue was up 15.3% to shareholders in exchange for a 60% 499.1 million 2017 432.8 million and shareholding in the combined Group.
adjusted profit before tax was up 20.3% to 117.2 million 2017 97.4 million.
This reflects organic growth in SES and the inclusion of the strong trading results of AVEVA for the month of March 2018.
On a 12 month pro forma basis the enlarged Group achieved revenue growth of 8.6% to 704.6 million 2017 648.7 million and growth in adjusted profit before tax of 6.8% to 162.8 million 2017 152.4 million.
AVEVA had a successful year as it was transformed through the combination with SES, improving its operational execution and delivering financial growth.
Craig Hayman Chief Executive Officer Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 13 After completion of the combination, The AVEVA software portfolio now offers the Industrial Internet of Things, Artificial the 550 million of cash contributed customers an entire end-to-end solution, Intelligence and the availability of ever by Schneider Electric and 100 million covering the whole asset life cycle from more powerful and mobile computing.
of excess cash on AVEVAs existing the engineering, procurement and balance sheet was distributed to existing construction phase through to managing The combination also gives AVEVA a AVEVA shareholders.
Together this and controlling operations and optimising more balanced geographic profile, with represented 10.15 per AVEVA share.
This is in particular a much stronger market a continuous process as existing plants position in North America and a more The combination advances our vision for are constantly optimised, upgraded and balanced end market profile.
The Groups the widespread adoption of constantlymodified to drive improved performance.
exposure to the cyclical upstream Oil evolving Digital Twins and positions & Gas market has been reduced and AVEVA as a global leader in engineering A Digital Twin is a virtual replica of a diversification into downstream Oil & and industrial software, ready to drive the physical asset, an evolving, digital model Gas and markets in batch and hybrid digitalisation of the industrial world.
By that updates and changes as its physical industries, such as Food, Beverages adding a software portfolio focused on counterpart changes.
Digital Twins that and Pharmaceuticals, has increased.
the operational lifecycle, including market incorporate all aspects of digital asset leading products such as Wonderware, management from process simulation, to AVEVAs engineering design and to design engineering, through to the 3D visualisation technologies, such as optimisation of production operations and AVEVA Everything3D, the combination ensuring the reliable operation of assets, enables the Group to offer customers help our customers increase their returns Digital Twins of their physical assets on capital by reducing both the build throughout their whole life cycle.
and operating costs of their industrial assets.
We expect both the power of the Digital Twin and the pace of digitalisation of the industrial world to increase, enabled by technology trends such as ASSET Complete digital denition across all elements of design, engineering, construction and production operations Value chain Asset performance Engineer Monitor Procure and control Construct Operate and Plan and optimise schedule 650m Returned to shareholders Representing Complete digital denition and orchestration OPERATIONS 10.15 of all elements across production operations Value chain per share AVEVA Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 14 Chief Executive Officers Review continued More customer-facing leaders were Trading and market trends Pro forma revenue added to the Executive team, including The heritage AVEVA and SES businesses a new Head of Sales, with overall were run separately during the financial responsibility for leading Global Sales, year, with the combination taking place 704.6m Partnership Management and Marketing.
on 1 March, shortly before the year end.
8.6% SES revenue increased 5.4% to The performance of the heritage 456.4 million 2017 432.8 million AVEVA business improved significantly and on a constant currency basis Heritage AVEVA revenue during the 12 months to 31 March revenue increased 5.6%.
Revenue increased 15.0% to experienced continued growth in its 248.2 million 2017 215.8 million, Licencing and Maintenance revenue on a constant currency basis revenue 248.2m streams, partly offset by a decline increased 13.5%, and adjusting for the 15.0% in Projects revenue.
This mainly effect of a large individual contract in related to the mid-stream Oil & Gas the year, underlying revenue growth business area, where as previously for heritage AVEVA was circa 10%.
Heritage SES revenue communicated, there has been a reduction in project volume, related This improved performance was driven to the large asset upgrade programs by a sharp focus on execution and of major customers that the business getting closer to our customers.
This 456.4m delivered in the previous two years.
followed simplification of AVEVAs 5.4% management structure with greater Revenue growth also benefited from decision-making capabilities and changes in commercial agreements direct accountability for performance between the businesses and Schneider being allocated to our regions.
Electric, which moved the relationship between these businesses to commercial trading terms in preparation for the separation of the business from Schneider Electric.
These changes accounted for approximately 3% of the revenue growth.
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 15 In terms of our largest end markets, The exceptional cash costs associated in upstream Oil & Gas we saw capital with achieving these synergies are expenditure levels begin to recover expected to be approximately the with growth of some 4% in calendar same as the annualised saving.
2017, supported by an improved oil price Source: Barclays.
Similarly in Revenue synergies are expected to be downstream Oil & Gas we saw some achieved through cross selling between capex growth driven by upgrading the combined businesses: the leveraging existing assets and improving operational of Schneider Electrics multiple go-toefficiency.
In the Marine market we saw market channels: the implementation an increase in new ship orders, albeit from of sales effectiveness and best practice a low base.
Our key markets, such as initiatives: greater pricing discipline with Power and Food, Beverage & Packaged an increase in subscription licensing: and goods are less cyclical and continue to product and platform development.
From a sales perspective, we held our Update on integration annual sales conference for the combined Given the size and complexity of the Group in mid-April, bringing the two business that we have brought together, teams together to share knowledge there is significant management focus on their respective businesses and on the integration of the two businesses help drive short-term performance.
in order to establish a firm platform for growth in the coming years.
Outlook In the current year, we are focused Good progress has already been made: on integrating the businesses whilst a new Executive Leadership Team, driving performance through improved comprising key people from each of execution.
In the medium-term we the two combined businesses was expect to drive stronger growth put in place in March.
An integration assisted by the positive trend of the management office has been ongoing digitalisation of industry, an established with focus on synergy optimisation of our products and goprogrammes and back office integration to-market strategies and capitalising supported by an external consultant.
on the synergies outlined above.
We are targeting annualised cost Craig Hayman synergies of approximately 5% Chief Executive Officer of total FY18 costs, representing 14 June 2018 some 25 million, which will be fully implemented by the end of the 2020 financial year.
Approximately half of these are expected to be implemented by the end of the current financial year.
Cost synergies are expected to be achieved through a rationalisation of duplicated functions: the implementation of shared services for back office functions: real estate consolidation: and enhanced R&D effectiveness.
