Chief Executives review Sustaining profitable growth Babcock has enviable market positions with a broad base of loyal customers, enabling us to deliver improved financial results, year on year, for well over a decade.
Overview Babcock enjoyed another successful year in 2017 18, with underlying revenue, operating profit and profit before tax at record levels.
The Group delivered growth of 2.8% in underlying revenue, 1.7% in Archie Bethel CBE, Chief Executive underlying operating profit and 3.6% in underlying profit before tax.
This has resulted in a 3.6% growth in underlying This strategy is supported by the at Cognac, France is well advanced in basic earnings per share.
realignment of the Group into four sectors preparation for the service starting later Our focus remains on delivering returns Marine, Land, Aviation and Cavendish this year.
and cash and on strengthening the Nuclear at the beginning of the We have also established a new balance sheet.
We have further reduced financial year.
The realignment was Technology Group, focused on driving net debt and have achieved targeted cash implemented quickly and smoothly technology transfer across the four conversion of 106% before capex 2017: and has brought added clarity and sectors.
Technology is playing an ever 115% and 82% after capex 2017: 86%.
transparency to our operations and more important role in delivering Excluding the one-year effect on working financial results.
It has brought together innovative support and sustainment capital outflow of the French Air Force our capabilities and our specific sector solutions across the Group and pilot training contract FOMEDEC, this expertise and experience, equipping us technology and data are at the heart of represents cash conversion of 116% to compete for contracts which we would our operating solutions.
We have designed before capex and a five-year high not otherwise have been able to pursue.
the weapons handling and discharge conversion rate of 92% after capex.
Importantly, the realignment has helped systems for every UK submarine ever us to transition from our old ways of This improved financial and operational built, and are the technical authority for a working into an organisation which is performance, delivered in a year when number of classes of ships and submarines structured to take our business model the political and economic environment in the UK and Canada and are often outside the UK and create a compelling has created concern and uncertainty, the partner of choice to introduce new proposition for new customers.
demonstrates the stability and quality of helicopters to the market.
Babcock has unique market This focus on international markets has developed and operate sophisticated positions in many areas with a broad base training simulations to help train French seen our non-UK business growing to of loyal customers whom we support 28% of Group underlying revenue 2017: and UK military pilots.
We use Augmented through thick and thin.
and Virtual Reality to enhance our training 25% without any change to overall Group margin, positioning us to beat our target and smart through-life sustainment Over the last fifteen years or so, Babcock solutions and are a technology application of securing 30% by 2022.
Australia and has steadily established strong long term South Africa have been established as partner.
We recently won a contract to positions in three major markets: defence, provide specialist equipment for Sellafield our first international home countries, emergency services and civil nuclear recognising that they are delivering which will utilise our unique engineering initially in the UK but increasingly expertise at Rosyth and in Cavendish Babcock solutions across multiple sectors.
These three long term markets We have secured a number of important Nuclear this is the kind of complex currently account for over 70% of our new contracts in Spain, Australia, Sweden, engineering work which really plays to underlying revenue and will be the main Oman and Norway, and mobilisation for our strengths.
focus of growth over the next few years.
the French Air Force pilot training contract Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 18 Strategic report Governance statement Financials We continue to successfully deliver engineers in our sector.
And thats market has been challenging this year, as well as employing almost 2,500 major projects, and after twelve years we believe that through sustained strong are now in the final stages of the UKs qualified pilots.
cash generation and future improvement Queen Elizabeth Class Aircraft Carrier build in Return On Invested Capital, we will Fundamentally, we support our customers, programme.
This year saw two significant see the share price return to levels that doing critical work in challenging and milestones in this landmark project better reflect the true underlying value highly regulated environments.
We are HMS Queen Elizabeth was officially of the business.
the UK Ministry of Defences largest handed over to the Royal Navy, and her provider of complex engineering support, Outlook sister ship, HMS Prince of Wales, was we are the UKs largest provider of nuclear formally named and floated out of the The revenue visibility provided by around engineering services, and we are Europes build dock.
31 billion of secured orders and near largest integrated supplier of Aerial term opportunities offers continued We also completed a review of our Emergency Services operating a fleet of prospects for growth in line with previous contracts against the new IFRS 15 around 400 helicopters and fixed wing expectations for this year and over the accounting standard, and were able aircraft across Italy, Spain, Portugal, medium term.
The Board is confident to confirm at the half year that adoption France, Australia and Scandinavia, as well that the Group will achieve low mid-single of the standard will not result in changes as the UK.
digit organic revenue growth with broadly to our contract control and revenue This unique profile, with its high barriers stable margins in 2018 19, despite the recognition processes.
to entry and our focus on our areas of scheduled step downs in the Aircraft expertise, sets us apart in many ways.
It Finally, we continue to focus on Carrier and Magnox decommissioning continuous improvement of our Health drives our ability to maintain relationships programmes.
The Group expects with our customers over decades and and Safety performance, and once again continuing good cash generation and had an excellent year achieving even even generations, and to deliver returns is targeting a net debt to EBITDA ratio and cash to our shareholders.
higher standards across the Group.
of 1.4 times at the end of the current financial year.
And this is all made possible by our Being Babcock values and guiding principles you Babcock is a well-founded business 2018 19 sector outlook: can see those principles on page 13. with a solid track record of delivering Marine: low to mid single digit Our reputation is built on not just engineering and operational solutions underlying revenue growth with stable technical expertise and a track record of for our customers.
The vast majority margins delivery, but on a strong health and safety of the work we do which very few culture and respect for people and the Land: underlying revenue flat with people can do isnt optional: we communities in which we operate.
We stable margins enable the delivery of the vital services continually invest in the development and Aviation: strong underlying revenue which help safeguard both countries improvement of the skills and capabilities growth but mix of business will result and communities.
of our teams around the world.
We value in a softening margin We make sure that navies are ready diversity, and are committed to recruiting Cavendish Nuclear: underlying revenue and training young people through to sail, that air forces are fit to fly, that flat with stable margins.
army and blue light vehicles are ready to our large apprenticeship and graduate intake programmes.
We provide the technical training that helps the Armed Creating shareholder value Forces to serve, the fire brigade to fight Archie Bethel CBE fires and apprentices to learn the skills As we continue to grow the business, Im they need.
We support the nuclear power very clear that our focus continues to be Chief Executive stations that generate energy for the UK, on protecting margins, improving returns and we decommission them when they and delivering strong cash flow which come to the end of their life.
We are is of course how our management team is trusted to deliver.
Thats how we look to create value for our shareholders and for our We can do all of this because we own people by continuing to deliver on the and operate extensive equipment, bottom line.
facilities and infrastructure, and within our circa 35,000-strong workforce, Maintaining a strong balance sheet is we protect and develop our intellectual also crucially important, and we plan property and hard-earned know-how by to continue to reduce net debt, having one of the highest concentrations particularly during this period of political of qualified technician and professional and economic uncertainty.
Whilst the Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 19
