Strategic report Governance Financial statements Chief Executives review Charles Woodburn Chief Executive Introduction Within the core strategy, execution on the key The Group made good strategic objectives of operational excellence, 2018 was both a year of geopolitical progress in strengthening competitiveness and technological innovation turbulence and a transition year in terms is vital for the successful delivery of the order ofearnings for the Group.
Production theoutlook and geographic backlog to deliver future growth and in onanumber of programmes began base of the business, with evolving our business to become a stronger, ramping-up especially in our Electronic smarter and sharper organisation.
Systems, US Combat Vehicles and anumber of significant Submarinesbusinesses whilst Typhoon Operational excellence contract wins, leading andHawk production stepped down, and Raising the bar operationally toimprove theAircraft Carrier build programme moved toarecord high defence delivery of the record defence order book towards completion.
The order backlog remains the priority for the Group, in order orderbacklog.
Key business todrive growth, strengthen customer wins were secured globally: for example relationships and win new and repeat work ontheAmphibious Combat Vehicle for inthe future.
Whilst areas of the business theUSMarine Corps: in Australia for the areperforming strongly and the restructuring design and build of nine ships for the Future actions taken to return the Applied Intelligence Frigate programme: in Qatar for the provision business to profitability are gaining traction, of 24 Typhoon and nine Hawk aircraft: there were some disappointments on certain andinCanada where the Type 26 design long-standing programmes in our Maritime wasselected for the Canadian Surface and Platforms & Services US businesses.
These wins further Steps have been taken to address these strengthened the outlook and the geographic operational issues.
In Maritime, Andrew base of the Group.
Wolstenholme was appointed to lead that business with a clear focus on programme Governments in our key markets continue schedule and cost performance.
In Platforms toprioritise defence and security, and there &Services US, thenew leadership team isa growing demand for our capabilities, ismaintaining akeenfocus on programme products and services.
BAE Systems is a execution asinvestments are made in diverseand resilient company, pursuing the operational processesand automation right strategy for long-term performance.
tomeetthe ramp-to-rate challenges in Wehave a strong order backlog giving USCombat Vehicles and position the business multi-year visibility, a broad portfolio with for successful programme deliveryduring long-term positions on key programmes itsupcoming growth phase.
withstrong customer relationships, and atrack record of successful partnerships ininternational markets to develop local industry, employment and skills.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2018 13 Chief Executives review continued US Marine Corps image by LCpl Morris.
Competitiveness 2018 performance Growth in the US-based Combat Vehicles The Group continues to take the necessary business is underpinned by the ramp-up of US steps to be competitive.
Our customers production on the Armored Multi-Purpose On 28 September, the fiscal year 2019 demand value for money and it is important Vehicle, M109A7 self-propelled howitzer Defense Appropriations bill was enacted.
that we can demonstrate exactly that.
The andBradley upgrade programmes, and the Thisis the first time since 2008 that the new organisational structure announced growth outlook was advanced in 2018 with Department of Defense had funding in place in2017 became effective in 2018.
Within our competitive win on the Amphibious by the 1 October start of the fiscal year, and procurement, global and national category Combat Vehicle 1.1 programme and our provided near-term clarity for the industry managers are now in place and efficiencies selection as one of two companies to proceed anddemonstrated strong bi-partisan support arebeing delivered through supply chain to the engineering and manufacturing for defence funding under the two-year rationalisation and enhanced data analytics.
development phase for the Mobile agreement passed in early 2018.
Increasing collaboration across the Group, ProtectedFirepower programme.
The enacted Defense Appropriations bill industry partners and academia is becoming Across our US shipyards, Platforms and maintains support for our medium-term more important in delivering competitive Services US continues to be a leading planning assumptions and positive offerings.
The Group structure and functional supplier of ship repair and modernisation momentum for military readiness and councils are in place to ensure this remains services to the USNavy.
The ship repair modernisation programmes.
Our US-based akey focus area and we will be relentless in andour naval gun franchises are well portfolio remains well aligned with customer our pursuit of competitiveness and efficiency.
supported by the growth outlook in priorities and growth areas with support Technological innovation USNavybudget funding.
formany key BAE Systems programmes, We have a long heritage of developing and including combat vehicles, F-35 Lightning II, In our US-based Intelligence & Security integrating cutting-edge technologies to create electronic warfare programmes, and current business, whilst market conditions remain complex systems that give our customers a and  systems.
highly competitive, thebusiness is maintaining capability advantage.
The accelerating pace a high level ofbidactivity, and secured a Our US electronics business delivered oftechnological change is a disruptive force number of successful wins on recompeted astand-out operational performance in and a key driver of competitive advantage contracts andnew business awards in 2018especially in our core franchise positions and, increasingly, a determinant for our mission-critical areas.
The business is delivering in thehigh-technology areas of electronic customers in awarding new business.
on contracts with good programme and warfare, precision-guided munitions, Coordinated through the Chief Technology financial performance in the period.
intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance, Officer, the Group is aiming to increase and electro-optics.
The business closed with self-funded research and development We are saddened to report that an accident arecord order backlog with the portfolio spendover time, aswell as working with on 11 June in a nitrocellulose drying facility wellaligned with the US National Defense ourcustomers in developing technologies inRadford resulted in one fatality and injuries Strategy.
We continue to leverage these foruse today and into the future.
The health and safety of defence electronics capabilities for technology plans were established that our employees has always been and continues international programmes.
The to be our highest priority.
increasein spend will beachieved through Platforms and Services US worked to ablend of selfand jointly-funded customer addressa number ofoperational challenges programmes, and through a pipeline of inthe year, preparing for significant investment opportunities and targeted production rate increases in the US Combat bolt-onacquisitions.
To help position the business to deliver during its upcoming growth phase, management changes have been made and process and automation improvements are being implemented.
BAE Systems 14 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Our strategy in action BAE Systems teamwins Amphibious UK declared Typhoon meetsthe Centurion Combat Vehicle Defence and security remain a priority for standard, enabling the transition ofcapabilities competition theUK government.
This was reaffirmed in from Tornado to Typhoon as the UK Tornado the Modernising Defence Programme and fleet comes outof service in2019.
budget updates in the year.
In July, the UK In Maritime, there remains pressure on the government launched its Combat Air Strategy, Royal Navys near-term budgets.
The Offshore In June, the US Marine Corps a significant milestone for our Air sector Patrol Vessels programme was impacted in the selected our vehicle for its which sends a strong signal of intent about year by quality issues which led to a provision Amphibious Combat Vehicle the UKs commitment to retaining a leading being taken.
Lessons learned are being applied position inCombat Air.
The strategy will ACV 1.1 programme.
The $198m to the other ships in build.
The programme enable long-term planning in a key strategic 155m contract for 30 ACVs has isdue to complete in 2020.
The Type 26 part of the business as UK government and options which, if exercised, could programme is on track for the first of class industry jointly invest in cutting-edge, result in a total of 204 vehicles contractual date in the mid-2020s.
Initial flight next-generation combat air systems.
trials on HMS Queen Elizabeth off the coast worth $1.2bn 0.9bn.
During 2018 we remained focused on the ofthe US were completed successfully and Along with teammate Iveco Defence execution ofour long-term contracted HMSPrince of Wales is due to commence Vehicles we will provide the Marine Corps positions in Airand Maritime.
seatrials in the next year.
with its next generation of vehicles In Air, the production ramp-up of rear The strengthened management team in designed to go from ship-to-shore fuselage assemblies for the F-35 Lightning II Barrow is delivering improved performance on toengage in land combatoperations.
aircraft is progressing, and we are on track both the Astute and Dreadnought submarine The new ACV 1.1 is an advanced 8x8 toachieve full rate production in 2020. programmes.
The major site development open ocean-capable vehicle.
It provides Thefirst nine UK F-35 Lightning II aircraft work at Barrow continues, and in November exceptional mobility in all terrains, arrived at RAF Marham during the year the new Submarines Academy for Skills and andblast mitigation protection for all andinitial operational services were stood Knowledge was opened.
three crew and 13 embarked Marines, up.
As the UK and global fleets grow, In January 2019, we entered into an agreement along with other improvements over securingalong-term support position with Rheinmetall to create a joint UK-based currently-fielded systems.
onF-35Lightning II remains akey focus military land vehicle design, manufacturing fortheAir business.
The selection of our vehicle further and support business subject to regulatory solidifies our 70-year legacy of supplying Following delivery of the final four Typhoon approvals.
Joining forces with Rheinmetall amphibious capabilities.
As a leading aircraft tothe Royal Air Force of Oman, willbring the strength of both businesses provider of combat vehicles, we have Typhoon production is now focused on together to be more competitive in the UK produced more than 100,000 systems theremaining partner nations deliveries, and international markets whilst maintaining for customers worldwide.
sub-assembly build on the Kuwait programme many jobs in the UK.
Rheinmetall will purchase and the commencement of the Qatar a 55% stake in the existing BAE Systems Group strategic More online programme, which sustains production UK-based combat vehicles business for 18 framework baesystems.
Whilst a degree of 28.6m, with BAE Systems retaining 45%.
geopolitical turbulence exists, the potential The final agreement of the terms of the pipeline for Typhoon remains positive, UKsexit from the EU after March 2019 withopportunities both with partner willbe important to enable companies nationsand through exports.
Securing toprepare for potential changes in the anyadditional orders would further extend regulatory environment.
Typhoon support continues limited UK-EU trading and movement of tobea high-performing line of business EUnationals into and out of BAE Systems forthe Group and the Royal AirForce has BAE Systems Annual Report 2018 15 Chief Executives review continued Our strategy in action The UKs Combat Air Strategy and UKbusinesses, and the resulting Brexit The contract providing the framework for the Team Tempest near-term impacts across the business are design and build of the ships was signed in likely to be limited.
BAE Systems will support December.
The build scope is to be negotiated the UK government in achieving its aim of in due course and production of the first ship ensuring that the UK maintains its key role is expected to commence in South Australia inEuropean security and defence post-Brexit, inthe early 2020s.
This Hunter Class The UK government launched and to strengthen bilateral relationships with programme is expected, over time, to double itsCombat Air Strategy at the key partners in Europe.
the size of the Australian business which is 2018Farnborough International currently underpinned by long-term support International and upgrade programmes.
It outlined an ambitious In an uncertain global environment with vision for the future and initiated complex threats, our defence and security Building on this success, in February 2019, theprogramme which will deliver capabilities remain highly relevant.
2018 was theCanadian government together with the next generation of combat air astrong year in widening our international Irving Shipbuildingselected Lockheed Martin reach and there are good prospects in Canada, using BAE Systems Type 26 design, capability by 2035. existingand new international markets for as subcontractor for the Canadian Surface The strategy describes a new and ourproducts and services in air, maritime, Combatant programme.
evolutionary approach to developing landand cyber.
In Saudi Arabia, BAE Systems continues future combat air systems.
The worldThe contract between BAE Systems andthe toaddress current and potential new leading capabilities and technologies of Government oftheState of Qatar for the requirements as part of long-standing Typhoon will continue to be developed supply of 24 Typhoon andnine Hawkaircraft agreements between the UK government and deployed and will ultimately to the Qatar Emiri Air Force, along with a andthe Kingdom.
The Memorandum of transition to a future system, with the bespoke support and training package, Intent signed between the Kingdom of Saudi aim of providing aseamless integration became effective in September, and Arabia and the UK government in March of the very latest technologies.
2018 continues to progress towards reaching As part of Team Tempest, we are an Agreement for a further 48 Typhoon In Oman, following delivery of the final working with the UK government aircraft, support and transfer of technology Typhoons we are delivering on a five-year andour industry partners Rolls-Royce, and capability.
This will enable BAE Systems availability service for their Typhoon and Leonardo and MBDA, to develop and tocontinue with the Industrialisation of asupport package for Hawk aircraft.
invest in technologies which will deliver Defence capabilities in the Kingdom of world-leading capabilities for the future, In Australia, the Group submitted bids on SaudiArabia, in support of the Saudi Arabian ensuring that the UK can continue to twosignificant production contracts.
Whilst governments National Transformation Plan maintain its operational advantage and unsuccessful in the bid for the Land 400 and Vision 2030. freedom of action, while supporting Phase2 combat vehicle programme, in June, The final assembly of the Typhoon would prosperity and international influence.
the Commonwealth of Australia selected us follow on from the Hawk programme where asthe preferred tenderer for the Hunter the first In-Kingdom final-assembled Hawk ClassFrigate programme to deliver nine aircraft is expected to be delivered tothe FutureFrigates for the Royal Australian Navy.
Agreement hasbeen reached with the SaudiArabian government for BAE Systems tocontinue toprovide Typhoon support services to the Royal Saudi Air Force.
Group strategic More online 18 framework baesystems.
com BAE Systems 16 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements It should be recognised that the Group is Balance sheet and capital allocation Responsible business reliant on the continued approval of export We continue to build a culture where our The Groups balance sheet is managed licences by a number of governments in people are empowered to make the right conservatively, in line with its policy, to retain orderto continue supplies to the Kingdom decisions and know where to go to seek its investment grade credit rating and to ofSaudi Arabia.
Significant changes in the helpor guidance.
policies ofsuch governments may affect our Recruiting and retaining talented people Consistent with this approach, the Group own provision of capability to the country and isakey priority.
We want every employee expects to continue to meet its pension weare liaising closely with the UK government toreach their full potential within a diverse obligations, invest in research and technology in working to reduce the impact of any and inclusive work environment.
We have and other organic investment opportunities, suchoccurrence.
programmes in place across the business to and plans to pay dividends in line with its The MBDA joint venture has continued to win policy of long-term sustainable cover of support strategic workforce planning, career orders in both domestic and export markets around two times underlying earnings and development and retention, as well as to with the order backlog once again increasing, tomake accelerated returns of capital to improve diversity and inclusion.
giving clear visibility of growth in the coming shareholders when the balance sheet allows.
The business also continues to invest Investment in value-enhancing acquisitions Our business benefits from a large order innew products and is well placed to willbe considered where market conditions backlog, with established positions on benefitfrom defence spend increases in are right and where they would deliver on long-term programmes in the US, UK, anumber of European countries and from theGroups strategy.
SaudiArabia and Australia along with a export opportunities.
Pension schemes growing presence in other international Cyber security The Groups share of the pre-tax accounting markets.
Our strategy is working, it is clear The UK-managed Applied Intelligence net pension deficit reduced to 3.9bn andwell defined.
With governments in our businessdelivered a much-improved 20174.0bn.
major markets continuing to prioritise defence performance following restructuring actions and security there is a strong demand for our taken in 2017 and achieved a break-even Executive Committee changes capabilities.
Through improved programme position for the year.
Focused recruitment Reflecting the new organisational structure execution and maintaining the strategy and inthe second half of theyear positions from the start of 2018 there were a number of capital allocation policy, BAE Systems is well thebusiness for a return togrowth and changes to the Executive Committee.
Members placed to maximise opportunities, manage profitability as the market develops.
appointed as a result of the new structure thechallenges and continue to generate Thecommercial market remains highly were Chris Boardman as head of Air, Andrew goodshareholder returns.
competitive: however, cyber security is an Wolstenholme as head of Maritime and Julian increasingly important part of government Cracknell as head of Applied Intelligence.
security and a core element of stewardship Other new appointments were Karin Hoeing forcommercial enterprises in a sophisticated as Group Human Resources Director and at and persistent threat environment.
the start of 2019 David Armstrong as Group Business Development Director following Charles Woodburn AlanGarwoods retirement.
Chief Executive BAE Systems Annual Report 2018 17
