STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW WE DELIVER THE BEST FOR OUR PEOPLE AND CUSTOMERS We should all feel proud of our ability A YEAR OF FURTHER STRATEGIC tomaintain our profitability in these PROGRESS challenging times.
To achieve so much is I am pleased to report that we made further testament to the skills and commitment of strategic progress in 2018.
We continued over 19,000 people across our Group which, to focus on the drivers of long-term together with our focus on operational sustainable growth: leveraging our number excellence, give me confidence in our one position in the UK fresh prepared food long-term future.
market, accelerating growth in highpotential international markets and further BUILDING FOR THE FUTURE improving our operational efficiency.
In the UK, we continued to leverage our Once again, our excellent customer number one position, further increasing relationships, together with our scale and our overall market share.
In particular, expertise, reinforced our market-leading we extended our leading position in the position across our fresh prepared desserts category supported by a major food categories.
investment at our site in Newark and the acquisition of Haydens Bakery Limited in Group reported revenue increased by 2.2% We delivered a robust September 2018 for a total consideration from 1,814.8 million to 1,855.2 million performance in 2018, of 11.4 million.
With Haydens, there is 1 in 2018, with like-for-like revenue up 3.2% clear alignment in values and customer successfully driving in the year to 1,842.0 million.
This was mix and the integration of the business is a robust performance given the continued growthacross our UK and well under way.
We extend a warm challenging market conditions in the UK, International businesses welcome to the team of around 480 people especially the high levels of inflation and based in Devizes, Wiltshire, who are now against a backdrop of weak consumer confidence.
part of the Bakkavor Group.
In the UK, significant market challenges.
1 Adjusted EBITDA increased by 0.6% from we also completed the sale in July 2018 of This reflects our market- 152.6 million to 153.5 million in 2018.
Anglia Crown Limited, a non-core business Operating profit decreased by 11% from focusing on the provision of frozen and leading expertise in 96.2 million to 85.6 million in 2018.
This chilled meals to hospitals and care homes.
producing great-tasting decrease was primarily due to an increase During the year we made good progress freshfood, the quality in pre-commissioning and start-up costs on delivering our international strategy of for the International business.
Trading ofourpeople and our long-term sustainable growth.
In particular, performance before these costs, in an I am pleased to report that, in the US, we strongpartnerships environment of limited volume growth, opened two new factories in San Antonio withcustomers.
improved slightly compared with the prior and Charlotte, continuing to build our year as efficiency benefits and a tight presence in this important market and control of overheads helped offset introducing the premium artisan bread inflationary pressures.
The business generated strong free In China, we continue to invest and support 1 cash flow of 55.1 million compared our customers ambitious growth plans, to 71.1 million in the prior year.
bringing Western-style foods and technical The decrease was largely due to higher standards to this market.
We recently capital expenditure and a small working completed the construction of our new capital outflow in theyear.
state-of-the-art facility in Shanghai, which will bring us much-needed additional capacity in this important region.
Alternative Performance Measures APMs, including like-for-like, adjusted and underlying are used asa guide to performance.
The definitions and calculations for APMs are set out in Note 40 of the Notes totheConsolidated Financial Statements.
com 17 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED INNOVATION DRIVES SUCCESS BOARD CHANGES A CAUTIOUS OUTLOOK Innovation is one of our core values and During the year, there were a number Our performance in 2018 was determined developing an innovative culture is key to ofchanges to both the Board and by challenging market fundamentals and our success.
It is not just about introducing Management Board.
In April, the Board was our Group remained extremely focused new products to market, but about further strengthened with the appointment on mitigating these impacts where possible.
challenging ourselves to think differently.
of Jane Lodge, a highly experienced I am encouraged by what was achieved Particular highlights in the year included finance professional, as an Independent in light of such significant challenges.
a new vegan range in the UK, the launch Non-executive Director and Chair of the Subdued consumer confidence and of the Fresh Kitchen brand across 1,000 Audit and Risk Committee.
InJuly, Patrick inflationary pressures have continued into convenience stores in China and an exciting Cook joined the Board as a Non-executive 2019 and, therefore, we remain cautious new range of breakfast products in the US.
Patrick is and expect little improvement in underlying a Principal at TheBaupost Group and has To celebrate this commitment to innovation market conditions.
Consequently, significant investment experience across and share success across the Group, we expect limited growth in the UK and the foodsector.
we held our seventh Bakkavor Innovation a corresponding decline in the Groups Awards in November.
We received a record At a Management Board level, we were EBITDA margin in the first half of the year.
number of more than 100 entries this year pleased to welcome Donna-Maria Lee However, in the second half, we anticipate from all parts of the business, reflecting the as Group HR Director, replacing Pippa an uplift in UK revenues as we benefit from extent to which innovation and these awards Greenslade who retired in September.
Given this are firmly embedded in everything we do.
I would like to thank Pippa for the invaluable additional volume, together with the contribution she made to the Group during actions we are taking to protect profitability, A COMMITTED WORKFORCE her time with us.
Since joining, Donnawe expect a significant improvement in our Maria has made a strong impression and Our success is driven by the passion, trading in the second half of the year and I am confident her wealth of experience will dedication and commitment of all our our full-year Group performance to be help us develop and grow our Group both people throughout the Group.
I would like broadly in line with 2018. in the UK and internationally.
After the year tothank everyone fortheir efforts and for end, we announced a change to the US Looking further ahead, we remain confident the valuable contribution they make at senior management team: Ben Waldron, that our strategy, combined with our scale Bakkavor.
WhileIam in no doubt that we previously Head of Strategic Development, and expertise, leaves us well-placed to will face fresh challenges in 2019, I am has relocated to Charlotte, North Carolina capitalise on further growth opportunities confident we can deliver further success as President of Bakkavor US and has within the attractive FPF market, both in the given the strength and depth of capabilities replaced Ivan Clingan, who will be returning UK and overseas.
we have right across the Group.
to the UK following his three-year To strengthen our workforce, we are assignment.
I extend my sincere thanks continuing to focus on a wide range of to Ivan for the valuable contribution he initiatives to improve employee retention, has made in helping to grow Bakkavors minimise recruitment costs and heighten presence in the US over the past three engagement across sites.
I am also delighted that Ben will we have focused much time on our regional be heading up the US business, and under recruitment processes and also on labour his leadership I am confident that it will planning to ensure delivery during peak continue to grow from strength to strength times.
We also continue to work closely with in the years ahead.
workforce providers to position ourselves as an employer of choice.
In addition, the safety of everyone who works on our sites remains an absolute priority.
Unfortunately, during the year, we have seen an increase in reported major accidents across our sites and, as a consequence, we have focused on reinforcing the importance of adhering to established health and safety practices.
18 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report 1 Adjusted EBITDA for the year was OPERATIONAL REVIEW 147.7 million, up on the 145.2 million UNITED KINGDOM reported in 2017.
The year saw further The UK is Bakkavors largest market, significant raw material inflation, driven particularly by dairy products in the first representing around 89% of overall Group sales.
Producing innovative food that offers half and protein and vegetables in the final quarter.
The scale and expertise of our quality, choice, convenience and freshness for consumers is the foundation of our central procurement team enabled us to leverage our buying power and limit the success and continued to drive our performance in the UK.
consequences of these industry-wide cost pressures.
In parallel, our commercial Against a backdrop of challenging market teams continued to work closely with our conditions, we reinforced our leading customers, reviewing product design, position across the attractive FPF promotional strategies and pricing to categories, continued to work in close minimise the inflationary impact.
partnership with our strategic customers The UK business also continued to be and gained overall market share during As we continue to focus on new ways to theyear.
impacted by rising labour costs.
In a optimise business performance, in the periodof high employment and wage latter part of 2018 we reviewed the We produce over 2,000 short shelf-life growth at a 10-year-high, we also saw organisational structure of our UK products, the majority of which are particular pressures from further increases business and introduced a simplified model manufactured and delivered to our in the National Living Wage, a step-up in early 2019.
The new structure will enable customers every day.
Our proven operating inauto-enrolment pension contributions us to leverage our asset base more model in dealing with complexity, scale and andthe full-year impact of the effectively under our four key categories agility continued to give us a unique Apprenticeship Levy.
and further strengthen our strategic competitive advantage and enabled us to customer partnerships.
The combination of limited volume growth respond and adapt quickly to deliver and an inflationary environment resulted in outstanding service levels in 2018.
In addition, our operational teams remain margins being under pressure throughout focused on reviewing capacity and Focused on optimising performance the year.
However, through a combination capabilities across our sites to optimise of productivity improvements and tight Our UK business generated 1,653.6 million efficiencies and maximise profitability.
of reported revenue in 2018, up 1.1% costcontrol across the business we were Asaconsequence of this ongoing process, 1 able tomaintain the adjusted EBITDA compared to the prior year.
Like-for-like we have started a consultation process 1 revenue was 1,635.0 million, 1.8% up marginat 8.9%.
regarding the proposed closure of one our on2018.
This business has experienced a number of challenges in As expected, the start of the year saw recent years such that it was loss-making aperiod of low volume growth as a in 2018, with a further decline expected consequence of further retail price inflation in2019.
Volumes picked up from April through the UK FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS summer period, helped by better weather million 2018 2017 Change and events such as the Royal Wedding and Revenue 1,653.6 1,636.3 1.1% World Cup.
However, from September 1 Like-for-like revenue 1,635.0 1,606.1 1.8% consumer confidence noticeably weakened 1 Adjusted EBITDA 147.7 145.2 1.7% across the grocery sector as shoppers 1 reverted to more cautious spending Adjusted EBITDA margin 8.9% 8.9% patterns.
With underlying market growth Operating profit 99.8 94.9 5.2% limited, volume uplifts in our UK business 1.
Alternative Performance Measures APMs, including like-for-like, adjusted and underlying are used inthe second half of 2018 were largely due asa guide to performance.
The definitions and calculations for APMs are set out in Note 40 of the Notes to a number of business wins in our tothe Consolidated Financial Statements.
com 19 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED Our extensive knowledge and experience of Supporting our customers Investing in capacity andcapability great-tasting food, combined with our ability During 2018, we made further investments growth plans to anticipate the latest food trends, is widely in the UK to both manage our capacity and We partner with all the major UK grocery recognised by our customers.
For example, support our customers growth plans.
For retailers and 85% of UK revenues were our expertise in new product development example, we have an ongoing programme generated from our four largest customers: enabled us to work with one of our strategic to enhance our leaf processing capabilities Tesco, M&S, Sainsburys and Waitrose.
customers in refreshing almost 250 of its which is due to be completed in early 2019.
These four long-term partnerships, each products across multiple categories as part Furthermore, our capital investment plans with a dedicated team, a bespoke plan of a major relaunch of its own label offering.
continued to target efficiency benefits and a long-term strategic vision for FPF, In addition, during the Christmas period, through numerous automation projects continue to form the core of our business.
which is always a busy time in our business, across the manufacturing and Our product portfolio remains well we once again showcased a number of packingprocess.
balanced across categories, price points innovative seasonal items across our core In 2017, we announced our intention to and seasonal changes in consumer eating categories, many of which were well invest 35 million to expand our desserts patterns.
This year-round offering, publicised in the media.
site in Newark, increasing capacity and combined with the strength of our operating Consumer trust in food quality is a key part capability to support a major business win model for producing FPF products at scale, of our business model.
During the year, and introducing state-of-the-art automation continued to give us a competitive we had numerous unannounced technical to support efficiency.
The investment, advantage in the UK market.
audits at our sites from our central team, which markedly strengthens our desserts For example, unusually cold weather in our customers and external bodies, all of business, is now in its final phase of February and March, followed by record which confirmed we are operating to the development and is expected to be fully summer temperatures, presented highest standards.
operational in Q3 2019. considerable challenges to our salads Looking forward, there remains a high level During the year, we also broadened our supply chain.
However, our central of uncertainty surrounding the outcome of desserts offering through the acquisition procurement expertise, combined with Brexit.
We continue to review the potential of Haydens from Real Good Food PLC for strong relationships with growers, enabled impacts on the business and update our a total consideration of 11.4 million.
us to maintain production and continuity of operational plans accordingly to limit any Haydens is a leading manufacturer of sweet supply.
The summer months also saw our possible risks.
These include the bakery products for the major UK grocery customers launch a number of promotional implementation of an enhanced employee retailers and also provides a distribution and marketing initiatives based around retention programme and taking measures operation for a leading retailer.
A recent major events including the Royal Wedding to minimise disruption to our raw materials capital investment of 15 million into the and World Cup.
These events generated supply chain.
site by its previous owners transformed a material uplift in volumes and it is thanks Haydens into a best-in-class bakery to our proven operating model that we were operator.
This acquisition further increases able to manage the short-term spikes the scale of our bakery desserts offering indemand.
and has already started to realise operational synergies following a smooth integration.
20 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report 14.2million.
This decrease was primarily INTERNATIONAL due to the start-up and pre-commissioning Bakkavors strategy to accelerate its of factories in the US and China, combined performance in the US and China is borne with disruption costs incurred as we of over 10 years of operating in these repurposed part of an existing US site to regions, where we have developed a strong capitalise on the growing prepared understanding of these markets and their mealsmarket.
The FPF markets in these two regions are United States significantly underserved when compared In the US, consumers continue to move with the UK.
Bakkavor has established away from frozen and long-life products in itselfas a pioneer in leveraging its UK favour of fresh and healthy chilled products.
expertise to drive the FFP proposition in the US retailers in turn continue to develop US, and in supplying foodservice chains in their chilled proposition to capitalise on this China with high standards of food safety increased demand by extending the range In October, we officially opened a new andquality.
they offer and giving it greater prominence factory in San Antonio dedicated to in-store our largest customer in Texas for supplying a key customer with an increased Delivering good underlying example has invested heavily to reconfigure range of fresh meals.
The range has been volume growth stores to showcase their offering.
These extended following completion of our new Our International segment now dynamics have supported significant facility, and we have a joint business plan inplace with the customer to drive future represents around 11% of Group revenue.
revenue growth in 2018 for our US business.
Both businesses continue to operate in growth.
The project, which benefited from As we expand and develop our product our UK expertise across key functions, highly attractive markets and delivered range across sites, this pace of change can good underlying volume growth in the year.
was delivered on time and to budget.
During the year, we reviewed the manufacturing We also opened another new factory in The International segment generated 201.6 million in revenue in the year processes behind some of our key products, Charlotte, North Carolina, to manufacture particularly hummus, to improve quality arange of high-quality artisan breads that compared with 178.5 million in the 1 prior year.
On a like-for-like basis, and reinforce leading technical standards.
can be distributed nationally across the US.
In the short term, this led to an increase in We are in the final stages of commissioning revenues increased by 16%in the year to 207.0million.
operating costs while we embed these the site and expect to launch these products changes to our processes, but we expect during Q2 2019 in response to good levels 1 Adjusted EBITDA for our International this project to be completed by the autumn ofinterest from a number of segment was 5.8 million for the year, of 2019 when we will start to realise potentialcustomers.
compared with 7.4 million in 2017. thebenefits.
Both businesses have been particularly impacted by rising labour costs and further In addition, we made substantial changes to our site in California, repurposing part investment in our technical infrastructure to support the pace of growth.
of the factory to give us the capabilities to manufacture ready meals in volume and, Whilst we have continued to invest in as expected, this project caused some level operations and infrastructure in both of disruption.
Construction work is largely regions, it has also been a year of transition completed, and we will now be focused on for our US business, and this has had an building up sales volumes and impact on overall profitability.
profit decreased by 15.5 million from a 1.3 million profit in 2017 to a loss of INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS million 2018 2017 Change Revenue 201.6 178.5 12.9% 1 Like-for-like revenue 207.0 178.5 16.0% 1 Adjusted EBITDA 5.8 7.4 21.6 % 1 Adjusted EBITDA margin 2.9% 4.1% 120 bps Operating profit 14.2 1.3 1.
com 21 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED Secondly, we completed an investment China in anew high-quality bread facility near In China, we continued to develop our Shanghai which gives our Chinese business presence in the foodservice markets as the opportunity to capitalise on the Groups our key customers rapidly expand their in-depth knowledge of this category.
Finally, store and restaurant portfolios.
Looking we invested in a new facility in Chengdu, ahead, this gives us a platform to continue Western China, to supply a number of our our investment programme to keep pace customers as they expand in this vibrant with our customers growth ambitions.
In addition, we continue to operate Our Chinese business reported a good from our facility in Hong Kong and maintain yearwith strong growth on the back our 45% share of La Rose Noire.
Our reputation and credibility continue We also continue to develop our supply chain and bring more of our raw material to improve in this dynamic market, and the transfer of our UK expertise has supply in-house.
For example, we are investing in an innovative greenhouse been an important factor in this success.
We continue to develop our on the ground complex using the latest hydroponics technology that both improves quality insights capabilities and, in addition, our investment in new product development and broadens seasonal availability.
capabilities has broadened our offering to major customers, including for example the development of a fresh soup offering.
This year has seen the introduction of threenew factories in China.
The first isanew state-of-the-art, multi-product AGUST GUDMUNDSSON andmulti-customer factory in Shanghai.
Chief Executive Officer Thesite is now in early production phase delivering a range of salad and 5 April 2019 Food to Go products and will provide much-needed additional capacity in this high-growth market.
22 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report FRESH COMMITMENT TO FRESH NEW TASTES Kendra Shan, Technical Director, THROUGH OUR FRESH KITCHEN Bakkavor China BRAND WE ARE BRINGING I work at the Haimen factory in Shanghai WESTERN-STYLE, FRESH, which has recently been expanded and CONVENIENT FOOD-TO-GO equipped with the latest technology and PRODUCTS SUCH AS CHICKEN processing capability.
The factory is unique CAESAR SALADS AND WRAPS in China and gives us a real point of difference in food technical standards TOTHE CHINESE CONSUMER.
