4 Group Chief Executives review These results demonstrate the value being created through the Build to Lastprogramme.
Leo Quinn Group Chief Executive Underlying earnings per share from The transformation of the Group continues These results demonstrate continuing operations increased 26% to tobe measured against its Build to Last thevalue being created through 26.3pence per share 2017: 20.9 pence goalsof Lean, Expert, Trusted and Safe, the Build to Last programme.
andthe Board has recommended a 33% usingcash flow and profit from operations, increase in the final dividend giving a total employee engagement, customer Balfour Beattys transformation recommended dividend for the year of satisfactionand Zero Harm, respectively.
has gone beyond resolving the 4.8pence per share 2017: 3.6 pence.
In Lean, the governance and processes legacy issues of forced growth: Cash remains Balfour Beattys compass introduced during Build to Last have driven andultimately the most reliable barometer improved performance in all business the Groups strong competitive offinancial performance.
During the segments and ensured that the earnings positions in large and growing year, theGroup had average net cash of based businesses achieved industry infrastructure markets, and the 194 million 2017: 42 million and at year standardmargins in the second half of 2018. end, the Group had net cash of 337 million At the start of 2018, the Group extended platform provided by its scalable 2017: 335 million.
During the year, itsinvestment in systems standardisation operating model, provide the BalfourBeatty paid down over 40% withthe migration of its US businesses ofitsgross debt including repayment ontoasingle JD Edwards ERP platform.
ability to deliver profitable oftheconvertible bonds.
This transition was achieved smoothly managed growth.
andfollowed the consolidation of the UK Balfour Beattys net cash position and the Since the start of Build to Last in 2015, Construction business onto Oracle R12.
value of its Investments portfolio underline Balfour Beatty has simplified and refocused These moves will enable the Group to drive the ongoing strength of the balance sheet, its operations, embedded new governance, significant ongoing value through increased which constitutes a strong competitive reduced operating expenses by almost 40% productivity underpinned by greater benefit with customers and supply chain transparency and assurance.
and invested steadily in innovation, capability partners.
The Investments portfolio is a and leadership.
As well as the delivery of all During the year the Group launched its 25 strategic source of value and opportunity Build to Last targets, culminating in industry by2025 vision.
With the goal to reduce onsite tothe Groups businesses.
The Directors standard margins, every metric for a culture activity by 25% by 2025 Balfour Beatty will valuation of the Investments portfolio has which is Lean, Expert, Trusted and Safe increasingly use modular, innovation and digital remained broadly stable at 1.15 billion shows significant continuous improvement.
solutions, in order to become more productive 2017: 1.24 billion, following 58 million To ensure these improvements are and efficient.
From modular on tall towers ofinvestments and 187 million of sustainable, they are embedded within such as the Madison project in London to the disposalsin the year.
consistent systems and processes which prefabrication of bridges at the 1 billion A14 address risk and provide management The order book increased by 11% project, the Group will look increasingly to withtransparency and control.
With enhanced This increaseoccurred whilst maintaining BIM modelling, virtual reality, drones and laser The Group reported an underlying profit disciplined selective bidding in line with scanning, new technologies are transforming fromoperations PFO of 205 million theGroups stated policy.
The businesses the construction industry.
Properly applied, 2017:196 million driven by improvements increased bid margin thresholds and they have the power to lower cost, improve inthe earnings based businesses.
In the focusedon projects where Balfour quality and enhance safety.
second half of the year, UKConstruction, Beattyscapabilities can deliver value, USConstruction and Support Services Customers contract with Balfour Beatty coupled with alower risk profile, to ensure allreported underlying PFOmargins duetothe engineering excellence and Expert that the Groupwins workatappropriate in, orabove, the range of industry capabilities of the Group and its employees.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 5 In a market where there will be increasing The Group now has a higher quality order The Group primarily operates across intense competition for the best talent, Balfour book with work won at appropriate levels threegeographies UK, US and Hong Kong Beatty places a major focus on recruitment, ofrisk and return.
Combined with the Gated and three sectors Construction Services, training and retention in order to maintain Lifecycle, the Digital Briefcase and Project SupportServices and Infrastructure thehighest calibre workforce.
The employee ona Page, the governance and controls Investments.
This provides resilience as survey in December 2018 measured introduced under Build to Last provide theGroup is less exposed to a downturn employee engagement at 65% 2017: 60%, management with a clear, consistent line inasingle geography or sector.
the highest level of engagement since the ofsight on all stages of work which is being Overall, the trading environment for Balfour introduction of the survey in 2015. bid and delivered, together with key tools Beattys chosen markets and capabilities formanaging commercial risk and project Leadership changes made at the start of remains favourable.
This common contracting 2018 are already delivering benefits.
In US framework enables Balfour Beatty to: In the UK, Government policy continues to Construction, the promotion of two internal selectively bid business to match capability: drive a strong pipeline of major infrastructure candidates to lead the Buildings and Civils assess and price risk appropriately: track, projects in transport and energy.
Over the businesses, has delivered an improved andthus intervene on, execution all the way next few years, the 4Hs HS2 high speed overallperformance with growing through the lifecycle of a project, including rail, new nuclear power at Hinkley Point C, momentum in the pipeline.
In Support thedefect period: and ultimately to achieve the Road Investment Strategy for Highways Services, where the Power T&D, Gas & higher margins for the Construction Services England and the continued expansion of Water and Rail businesses work with similar and Support Services businesses.
Heathrow airport will contribute to the types of customers, uniting this expertise Governments investment in infrastructure hasincreased flexibility and productivity.
By maintaining Build to Last disciplines, commitment, which is targeted to rise underpinned by actions which have reduced Balfour Beatty continues its sponsorship from0.8% in 2015 16 to over 1% of GDP geographic, commercial, operational and ofThe 5% Club, which encourages by2020 21. financial risk, the Group continues to embed employers to provide earn and learn aculture of active risk mitigation by investing In the US, with blue chip repeat customers  to help address the incapability and IT-based processes and such as Disney and Microsoft, the Groups UKs skills gap and drive economic prosperity controls.
Balfour Beatty is ensuring a more Buildings opportunities are robust.
In Civils more widely across society.
During 2018, collaborative working environment which is inDecember 2015, the FAST Act Fixing Balfour Beatty recruited 102 apprentices, being supported by the Groups investment in Americas Surface Transportation, a 94graduates and 20 trainees.
The percentage systems such as the roll-out of the Microsoft US$305 billion transportation bill, was signed, of the UK workforce in earn and learn Office 365 platform across the Group.
providing authorised spending for a five-year positions at year end stood at 5.6%.
Balfour Beatty is also continuing to take steps period.
There are further opportunities being Membership of The 5% Club now includes to better capture and utilise real-time data on created, for example with the number of key customers and supply chain partners state-backed infrastructure bonds over projects to provide unparalleled transparency, ofBalfour Beatty, all committed to ensuring US$200 billion multi-state transportation efficiency and forecasting through the the sector has theright capability required to bonds, over US$35 billion of education enhancements of visual management, support the growing infrastructure market.
bondsin California and increases in: US collaboration with project stakeholders through public-private partnership schemes: state Trusted is Balfour Beatty doing what we BIM enhancements, and accelerating business gasoline taxes: and local county sales taxes saywe will do and is measured by customer intelligence for better business agility.
During the year, over 4,000 Construction is an inherently dangerous customer satisfaction reviews were carried Gammon has a material share of the attractive industry.
It is therefore essential that the out 2017: 3,375, primarily in the UK.
Both the Buildings and safetyand health of everyone who comes The Group customer satisfaction average Civils markets are favourable with significant intocontact with Balfour Beatty is the top increased to 97% 2017: 94%.
opportunities upcoming with the third runway priority.
Each week the Executive Committee at the international airport, a ten-year hospital Following the successful completion of reviews the safety performance of each of development plan and continued investment Buildto Last Phase One targets at the end thebusiness units with particular attention intransportation infrastructure.
of2016 200 million Cash In: 100 million tolessons which should be learnt from any Cost Out the Group has now delivered high potential near miss incidents, as well Having achieved industry standard margins, itsPhase Two targets with all earnings asgauging the status of the Groups safety Balfour Beatty now has the platform in placeto basedbusinesses achieving industry culture.
Safety is also a leading indicator scale the business to drive profitable managed standardmargins in the second half offuture performance and productivity.
The Group will look to benefit fully of2018as follows: from its strong competitive positions in large In 2018, the indicators continued to trend and growing infrastructure markets to deliver positively, with the Groups Lost Time Injury Underlying Underlying PFO PFO margin margin market leading performance.
Rate LTIR excluding international joint target H2 2018 ventures reducing for the fourth consecutive % % year to 0.15 2017: 0.17.
This LTIR is now UK Construction 2-3% 2.4% approximately 50% of the rate when Build US Construction 1-2% 1.5% toLast commenced and all other key lagging Support Services 3-5% 5.2% indicators also continue to trend positively.
Leo Quinn Group Chief Executive balfourbeatty.
