Strategic report Performance review Governance overview Remuneration framework Financial performance Shareholder information While digital technology has radically changed Turning to the year itself, Group statutory These results demonstrate a good level peoples lives and has brought untold benefits, profit before tax was 3.5bn, down 1% on of progress and provide a solid foundation unfortunately, it has also brought cybercrime.
the prior year after absorbing litigation and for the future.
Not only are criminals after information, they conduct losses in the year of 2.2bn yielding On the same basis, our businesses generally are after money, and can and will steal it a return on tangible equity of 3.6%, up 7.2% showed progress and advanced performance where and whenever they choose, whether on the prior year.
Earnings per share showed in the year.
They are harnessing a better picture at 9.4p, up from a 10.3p loss this new digital reality, in which they can reach in 2017.
The improved result benefited from a Barclays International which includes out across the globe, anonymously, and significant reduction in impairment as a result our Corporate and Investment Bank and virtually risk-free.
They are smart, highly of prudent management of credit risk, as well Consumer Cards and Payments grew its innovative and persistent.
The rewards are as the benefit from improved macroeconomic profits before tax 10% to 3.9bn and achieved enormous and the risks to them low.
This forecasts during the year.
a return on tangible equity of 8.7%.
The issue is a real and present danger, not only Corporate and Investment Bank was the major The conduct losses were a major factor in to our current way of life, but also to society contributor to profit growth, up 15% on the reducing our tangible net asset value per as a whole.
prior year at 2.7bn, and with an improved share TNAV from 276p to 262p in the year.
return on tangible equity of 7.1%.
Consumer At Barclays, we have made defending against The significant reduction to todays level in Cards and Payments achieved profits before cybercrime one of our most important and part reflects the gruelling effect of the global tax of 1.2bn, with a strong return on most urgent priorities.
Accordingly, we are financial crisis.
I believe, and we have seen it tangible equity of 17.3%.
investing heavily to protect our customers, in the quarterly progression since Q1 2018, our systems, our bank and society.
This is that period of decline is now over, and we Barclays UK continues to be a major contributor to the Group with profits before a decision not only worth making, but one should over time see TNAV rising, which is where there really is no choice in assuring an important foundation for the share price tax of 2.4bn and with a strong return on tangible equity of 16.7%.
the long-term future of the company.
Moreover, and finally, our major businesses Excluding litigation and conduct items, However, as we all know, in banking are now positioned for success and on a path profit before tax was 5.7bn, up 20% on the the journey is never done.
The economic to deliver healthy and sustainable returns for previous year and yielded a return on tangible environment remains uncertain and issues shareholders.
The return to profit in the year equity of 8.5%, just shy of our target levels for will emerge, but we feel secure that we will has also enabled us to increase the return of 2019 and 2020.
Earnings per share was 21.9p, be able to deal with these as they arise.
capital to shareholders, including increasing up from a 3.5p loss in the prior year.
In particular, we are well prepared for Brexit our dividend to its previous level.
and the transfer of businesses into the EU, as and when this is required.
Shareholders may now be aware that funds managed by Sherborne, controlling approximately 5.5% of your companys share capital, have proposed that Edward Bramson, Introducing your Chairman-designate of Sherborne, be appointed to your Board.
Sherbornes views and intentions in doing so I have been lucky enough to enjoy are not fully clear to us.
We continue to meet 36 years at Rothschild, working with and correspond with Sherborne and Mr many wonderful colleagues and clients, Bramson, and give due consideration to the and particularly honoured to lead the issues they raise.
As such, we do not believe firm for a decade or so.
that a board seat is needed for Sherborne to I now look forward to joining another contribute its views.
Your Directors believe great institution and to working closely that good governance requires a cohesive with its executive management team, board that can properly represent the interests led by Jes Staley, and my fellow of all shareholders, and not just a small non-executive Directors.
I am totally committed to helping The Board remains confident in our Barclays and its people continue to strategy, the fruits of which are reflected in develop and progress.
We believe it is important to avoid a further period of significant disruption, from which we have Nigel Higgins Succeeding John McFarlane, only this year freed ourselves, so that the Chairman-designate Board and management can focus on who has done such a sterling executing the strategy and on our plans to job during a period of great improve performance beyond current levels.
As a result, your Board is recommending change at Barclays, is a that shareholders vote against the huge honour.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 03 Chairmans letter A solid foundation for the future I might also mention our position on energy The Corporate and Investment Bank is an finance and climate change, as it is now a important contributor to the economy, has major consideration for boards.
It is a priority increased its market position globally and for us to contribute to societys initiatives particularly in the US and Europe, positioning in limiting the impact of climate change.
itself as a leading player in the worlds deepest In doing so, we must recognise that for capital pools at a time when capital markets some time to come, renewable sources are playing an increasingly important role in alone cannot meet global demand for energy.
supporting the growth of our corporate and institutional clients.
Hence, our position has three areas of focus: Barclays UK is strongly positioned in both financing the growth of green and renewable Cards and in Retail banking, and our US cards energy sources and proactively supporting business is now larger than our UK equivalent the development of businesses aiming to with attractive prospects for growth.
solve the worlds environmental challenges taking a responsible and sustainable The Group has also invested appropriately in digitisation to position us to take advantage approach to the financing of essential sources of energy today that are more of the technical revolution, as well as defending ourselves from new Fintech competitors.
carbon intensive, or those with higher environmental impact, and This new financial and operational foundation reducing the carbon footprint of our and improved business productivity and own operations and supply chain.
performance should serve us well in the coming years and should enable share price The world is in transition, and Barclays recovery from recent discounted levels.
It requires a balance between advancing tomorrows energy And finally, since this is my last letter to you as technologies and reducing our current Chairman, it has been a great privilege for me exposure to carbon-intensive energy sources to have served this great company and you as such as thermal coal, recognising current shareholders, and I thank you for allowing me reliance on traditional energy sources is to do so.
I will of course continue to serve you necessary until such time as new methods until I finally step down.
I commend my proposed successor, Nigel We share the desire to accelerate the Higgins to you.
The Board has made an transition to a green future, and will excellent choice and I have every confidence therefore work constructively with all of that Nigel will be a superb steward of the our stakeholders to find the right balance.
Shareholders can read more about our approach on page 23 of the Strategic John McFarlane Report and in the Environmental, Social Chairman and Governance ESG Report.
If we pause to reflect on the period since the crisis, it has indeed been a tough few years for the Group.
What we have achieved could not have been done without the leadership of our Chief Executive Jes Staley and his senior team.
I would therefore like to thank the Board, our management and all our staff for the enormous efforts they have made to make Barclays a better place.
You will be aware I plan to retire from the Group at the upcoming AGM.
Im satisfied that I will leave a company that is capable and prepared for the future, in particular to be able to deliver sustainably stronger returns to shareholders than have been seen for many years.
04 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Chief Executives review We are delivering on our strategy 2018 represented a very significant period for Barclays.
In the course of the year, having resolved major legacy issues and reduced the drag from low returning businesses, we started to see the true earnings potential of this bank, as the strategy we have implemented began to deliver.
This was evident in the strongly improved performance across the Group compared to 2017.
Excluding litigation and conduct, profit before tax was up 20% an outcome driven in part by lower impairment as a result of prudent management of credit risk, as well as the benefit from improved macroeconomic forecasts during the year.
Our Group return on tangible equity, was 8.5% for the full year close to our 2019 financial target of greater than 9%.
Achieving our return on tangible equity targets of greater than 9% in 2019 and greater than 10% in 2020 will remain our overriding priority.
BX, our service company, has driven greater efficiency through the business and allowed us to bring costs down to within our guidance range of 13.6-13.9 billion, while creating capacity for investment.
We have the ability to flex that investment to support our return on tangible equity targets if the environment James E. Staley requires us to do so.
Group Chief Executive Excluding litigation and conduct, our earnings per share for the full year were 21.9p.
What these key performance measures demonstrate is that our strategy is working, and momentum is building in Barclays.
The fundamental strength of our Group rests As we began the year, we had all but reached on a diversified, though connected, portfolio of the end of the huge restructuring of the business which we commissioned with interests and Barclays today is very well our strategy in March of 2016: diversified by geography, by product segment, we had completed the run-down of our and by currency.
Non-Core Unit, eliminating over 90bn of Risk Weighted Assets predominantly in our Corporate & Investment Bank closing operations in a dozen countries, and selling some 20 businesses which were no longer strategically important to Barclays we had sold down our interest in Barclays Africa to a level allowing regulatory deconsolidation, which was formally granted in July of 2018 we had completed our work on structural reform, creating our Intermediate Holding Company in the USA, and standing up our ring-fenced bank in the UK the successful execution of which in April was the result of an extraordinary effort by colleagues across the bank, and one of the biggest technological shifts ever carried out in financial services: and home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 05
