com Q&A with the chief executive How has syndicate 5623 Q performed?
Has it succeeded in driving the cost of doing business down?
Syndicate 5623 focuses on A underwriting entire portfolios of business, or shares of portfolios of business.
Its aim is to be a low cost operation attracting third party capital delivering reasonable returns with limited volatility.
2018 was the first year of operation and we are pleased with the access we have had to a range of Andrew discusses business and, while it is early, we are keytopics around comfortable with its profitability at this stage.
We are aiming to grow 5623 by performance and two and a half times in 2019 and if the model works we will continue to grow outlook this business going forward.
The aim of the syndicate is to offer a low cost mechanism for placing follow business within the Lloyds market.
If we can all work to reduce the cost of transacting business in London then we will be able to attract more business into the Lloyds market.
After two years of exceptionally Q severe wildfires in California, do you see this peril as insurable?
Do you agree that, as some have Are you satisfied with the Q Q argued, Lloyds is unnecessarily performance of Beazleys I think the industry has been constraining the growth of the markets A propertydivision in 2018?
surprised at the size of the better performing businesses?
Californian wildfire losses in 2017 and 2018 is the second consecutive 2018.
If these are going to be regular Lloyds is the leading market for A year in which the property division events in the future then the pricing and A specialty insurance.
However its has made a significant loss so, no, we structure of insurance covering losses profitability as a market has come under are not satisfied with the performance.
such as these will need to change.
pressure with falling rates over the past Rates in property business had been There is always a balance between not few years and in 2017 its overall result going down for a number of years and over-reacting to two years of unusual was an underwriting loss even with finally in 2018 we saw rates increase.
losses versus ensuring technical pricing the impact of the catastrophe events The business has been impacted by the properly reflects risk, rather than excluded.
On the back of this Lloyds increased cost of attritional claims on assuming similar events will not happen has taken action to ensure businesses top of worse than average catastrophe in the future.
operating at Lloyds, including Beazley, claims.
We started re-underwriting the aim to write business profitably.
Not business in our large risk property book surprisingly these actions have had at the end of 2017 and our aim is to more of an impact on the less profitable see the benefit of this in the improved operations or lines of business.
These profitability in 2019 and beyond.
We challenges to the market have not had will be closely monitoring the division a major impact on our growth plans for throughout 2019 to ensure this business 2019 but have ensured we remain, as returns to acceptable profitability.
we have always have been, focused on underwriting profitably.
Our aim is for each product to secure a profit over the underwriting cycle, which is why we decided in 2018 to withdraw from construction business.
com Annual report 2018 Beazley 23 Do you see any adverse effects Do you believe that the specialty What keeps you up at night?
insurance business will be materially disrupted by outsiders I think we have done everything orwillincumbents find ways to hold Fortunately I have always been A ontothe business?
possible to mitigate the impact A a good sleeper.
Our business is of Brexit.
Over the past couple of years built on the high quality of the people we I think it is up to the incumbents to we have been focusing on growing employ, retain and develop and attract A ensure that they embrace the use our business in Europe, expanding and the only thing that I worry about of data and technology better than they our underwriting presence in France, from time to time is how we ensure this have done so far.
This means insureds Spain and Germany, and we feel that our continues.
The culture of the company working with their brokers and insurers specialist products will sell well in those is of paramount importance to the board to determine how best to make the countries.
Lloyds has set up Lloyds and management and we need to ensure placement chain of insurance as efficient Brussels and we are writing business in that we maintain the entrepreneurial, as possible.
I feel optimistic that there those countries via that platform and in empowered, transparent culture that is more progress on this topic now than addition we have our Irish incorporated we have had for the past 32 years.
If the incumbents insurance company with branches in do not act quickly and decisively then those three countries.
So far we have I am sure disruptors will come in and not seen a major negative impact of impact us.
Brexit on our business although we have seen one or two clients being unwilling to commit their business to Lloyds whilst Has Beazleys investment Q there is uncertainty around the Brexit performance in 2018 prompted any changes to your investment position.
The challenge at the moment strategy?
is uncertainty hopefully we will know soon where we are and it will be easier to Applying hindsight to set an ensure that our plans are fit for purpose.
A investment strategy for now which would have worked perfectly a year ago is a classic trap to be avoided.
We have a consistent approach and a good balance within our investment portfolio of treasuries, corporate fixed income, and capital growth assets.
We concentrate on optimising the return we can get over time given our limited risk appetite.
Our focus is being an underwriting company and our aim is to deliver best in class underwriting profits across the cycle together with creditable investment returns.
