com Chief executives statement Achieving profitable growth while supporting our insureds is key to Beazley maintaining its long term value Andrew Horton Chief executive officer In November, we estimated the combined Beazleys claims teams worked tirelessly Beazley delivered strong cost of two US hurricanes, Florence and in 2018 to provide the swift and supportive premium growth in 2018, with Michael, and two Japanese typhoons, claims service expected by all of our gross premiums written rising Jebi and Trami, at $105m net of clients.
12% to $2,615.3m 2017: reinsurance and reinstatement premiums.
As the year drew to a close, we sustained We have now seen two years of above $2,343.8m.
Profit before an additional $40m of claims net of average claims for short tail property income tax declined by 55% reinsurance for the wildfires that blazed insurance and reinsurance business, to $76.4m 2017: $168.0m with unprecedented ferocity in northern following on from five years of very due to a decline in investment California.
The previous years exceptionally subdued claims activity.
The erosion of heavy catastrophe losses had already premium rates we saw between 2012 returns.
Our combined ratio depleted our catastrophe reserves with and 2016 has, to some extent, been stood at 98% 2017: 99% and the outcome that prior year reserve reversed.
We hope to build on last years was affected by severe natural releases for the group as a whole in 2018 price increases during 2019.
In particular, catastrophe claims again fell to $115.0m 2017: $203.9m.
numerous competitors have curtailed their property underwriting following in 2018.
We are in business to pay claims and the heavy losses and this withdrawal of long term value of the company depends capacity should make recent price on the claims service we provide, which rises more sustainable.
supports strong, enduring relationships with our clients and brokers.
When insurers talk of catastrophe claims, they usually mean claims triggered by events such as storms, earthquakes or wildfires.
However for our clients any loss may potentially rank as a catastrophe.
com Annual report 2018 Beazley 19 Outside the US, we have also been laying Two of our strategic initiatives are Growth opportunities the foundations for long term growth.
tackling this challenge in different ways.
Growth in insurance can be opportunistic In 2017, our specialty lines division Our Beazley Digital initiative focuses on driven by firming premium rates Beazleys largest began a concerted small, relatively simple business, where but it can also be strategic, based on effort to capitalise on the growing we see significant scope for automation.
an insurers position in growth markets.
demand for specialty liability products Our Faster, Smarter Underwriting initiative Over time, the latter is more important.
that we saw developing outside the US, is tackling the larger, more complex risks Beazley is well positioned in a wide array particularly in continental Europe.
We saw that are the historic mainstay of Beazleys of growth markets.
The cyber insurance opportunities in many of the industries business.
We see some opportunities market, showing double digit annual that have also fuelled our US growth, for automation here too, but there is growth, is perhaps the most widely such as healthcare and technology, but also scope for enlisting new data sources discussed.
Nevertheless demand is we also saw significant growth potential to help us underwrite risks that were also very strong for the specialty liability in financial institutions business, which previously very hard to price or even products we offer to healthcare providers, we have not historically underwritten deemed uninsurable.
technology companies, and property in the US.
developers confronting environmental The value we offer to clients depends liability risks.
As described on page 12 and 13 of this of course on our underwriting appetite report, we have invested heavily in both and the claims service that we provide.
Our position in markets such as these people and technology to support the However it also depends on how easy it has underpinned the strong growth of growth of our non-US business, hiring is to do business with us.
To improve our our US operations in recent years, 34 underwriters outside the US in 2018. overall service we need to stand in our which continued in 2018.
We saw locally Although we are a UK-based business, clients shoes and this is the focus of underwritten US premiums grow 20% Brexit should not present any a third strategic initiative we are calling during the year to $1,051.2m 2017: insurmountable challenges for Beazley.
In parallel with this, $878.2m, nearly 90% of which is written In July 2017 we secured approval from we have been working hard to simplify on behalf of the group the balance is our policies a drive epitomised in the Central Bank of Ireland for our Dublin attributable to the external investors based European insurance company, April 2018 by the launch of a digital supporting Beazley syndicate 623. version of our WeatherGuard policy that Beazley Insurance dac, to write insurance Our US business has grown at an average business.
We are accordingly able to dramatically simplifies weather-related rate of 18% for the past five years and cover for event organisers.
underwrite European business for the we foresee further double digit growth account of Beazley Insurance dac which during 2019.
Finally, as a London-based insurer has branches in Germany, France, Spain and the UK and for the account of our our success is in many respects bound Developing a strong foothold in new up with the broader success and Lloyds syndicates through the Lloyds markets often takes time.
particularly the efficiency of the accident and health business is a case London insurance market.
In recent years, the soaring I was delighted to be invited to chair the New strategic initiatives cost of health benefits to US companies London Market Group LMG, a body that has generated strong demand for Change is gathering pace in our industry, represents all of the markets businesses.
fuelled by new technologies and new data supplemental health offerings to At Beazley our London Market strategic employees that are either partly funded sources.
In 2018 we launched a series initiative was launched during 2018 of strategic initiatives to help Beazley by employers or wholly funded by to ensure that we benefit to the fullest employees.
This has not historically been adjust to these changes and benefit from possible extent from the work that the them.
Our overarching goal is to make the a target market for Beazley and it has LMG is doing to modernise and promote taken time to develop the relationships company an even better business partner the London market.
to our clients and brokers.
needed to win a share of this business.
Under the leadership of Brian Thompson, A key objective of these initiatives will our US team began to gain real traction in this market in 2017 and this continued be to lower, over time, the expense ratios that have proved stubbornly high in into 2018, when we wrote $20.6m.
Our value to our clients will dramatically increase if we can pay out less in expenses and more in claims.
This in turn will depend on enlisting technology to enhance the productivity of our underwriters and other staff, automating manual processes wherever possible.
com Chief executives statement continued In November 2018, Tim Turner Executive changes Investment performance succeeded Clive Washbourn as head of Succession planning is something we Beazleys investment returns fell to Beazleys marine division.
Tim joined take very seriously at Beazley at all levels $41.1m or 0.8% in 2018 2017: $138.3m, Beazley in 1998 when the marine division in the organisation.
Some of our plans or 2.9%, mainly due to a series of was established and has for several years are currently being executed: we interest rate hikes in the US that only headed the marine, hull and war risk welcomed four new members to the generated a modest return for our fixed account within the division.
He has executive committee in 2018 and income portfolio, which accounted for represented the marine division on a further four will join during 2019.
81% 2017: 76% of our total investments Beazleys underwriting committee since I am delighted that more than half at year end.
Clive took the decision to step of our recent senior appointments are rate does, however, mean that the longer down for personal reasons.
We are internal promotions, including all of term outlook for these investments however delighted that he has expressed those to senior underwriting roles.
is more positive than it has been for his willingness to continue to offer the a number of years.
team the benefit of his expertise in At the beginning of 2019, Adrian Cox underwriting and business development.
succeeded Neil Maidment as Beazleys Our capital growth investments, chief underwriting officer.
Adrian is accounting for 12% of our portfolio Mark Bernacki, who joined Beazley in exceptionally well qualified to assume at year end 2017: 15%, suffered from 2005 and has led our property division the role, having run our largest division, the very adverse market conditions that since 2012, will also be leaving during specialty lines, since 2008.
From the affected many asset classes, generating 2019 and there will be an announcement beginning of 2019, we have split this a loss of 1% 2017: return of 11%.
This about his successor as head of property division which accounted for 56% of performance could have been materially in due course.
our total premiums in 2018 into two.
worse had our investment team, led by The new divisions are headed by Stuart Simpson, not prudently reduced Jerry Sullivan, who leads our professions seasoned Beazley underwriters: one, our exposure to equities part way through group within specialty lines, is one of under the leadership of James Eaton, the year.
the four individuals joining the executive will continue to be called specialty lines, committee during 2019 replacing while the other, under the leadership of Beazley maintains a conservative Mark as the chairman of our US Mike Donovan, has been named cyber investment strategy which has served management committee.
Nevertheless with financial assets of more than $5.1bn, it is Two other key appointments have It is difficult to do justice to the clear that sharp gyrations in asset values ensued from the planned retirements contribution that Neil has made to Beazley.
can significantly affect the companys of Martin Bride, our finance director, He has overseen the development of overall performance.
In 2018, the 70% and Dan Jones, who heads our marketing one of the best performing underwriting decline in our investment return was and broker relations functions, in 2019. portfolios in the market.
He also helped equivalent in effect to a large catastrophe Martin will be succeeded by Sally Lake us to shape our business model and loss on our underwriting portfolio.
Sally has been with Beazley brand, and to maintain an open and since 2006 in various roles and is the inclusive culture as the company has current group actuary.
We wish him well in all his future Lou Ann Layton joined us from Marsh as endeavours.
Prior to joining Beazley Lou Ann held a series of senior positions at Marsh in the US, most recently as head of the south east region.
com Annual report 2018 Beazley 21 Risk management Outlook Risk management continued to be an Our business confronted some stiff invaluable part of our business model headwinds in 2018, which impacted both and the team, led by Andrew Pryde, our underwriting and investment returns.
undertook a number of special By contrast, we enter 2019 with some assignments in 2018.
In light of the moderate tailwinds: firmer pricing for impending Brexit deadline, Beazley some lines of business and higher implemented a cross business working interest rates to underpin our investment group to discuss and work through the returns.
However the world remains various possible outcomes ahead of a very uncertain place, with political risk March 2019.
At the time of writing, many the kind that none of us can insure outcomes still remain on the table but against threatening global growth we believe we are well placed to navigate through trade wars and protectionism.
In this environment our focus will With changes to corporate taxation continue to be on the determinants of arising within the US, Beazley also growth that we can control, investing revisited and amended its intragroup in our people, our systems, and in our reinsurance contracts to ensure that they offices around the world.
Emblematic continued to be as efficient as possible of these investments is our new in providing the desired effect on capital Birmingham office which opened allocation and risk management.
in February 2018: the first of many new and remodelled offices around the world The latest chief risk officer report to designed to accommodate the varied the board confirmed that the control workplace needs of our people in the environment has not identified any years to come.
In 2020, Beazleys London significant failings or weaknesses in staff will move into similar, futuristic office key processes and that Beazley is space at Twentytwo Bishopsgate in the operating within risk appetite as at City of London and our New York and 31 December 2018.
Toronto colleagues are already ahead of us in the queue.
It is perhaps fitting that our new Birmingham office houses our robotics team, whose work will free up many of our peoples time from repetitive tasks.
Our watchword, reflected in the design of our new offices, is flexibility.
Beazley has thrived as a specialist insurer by being quicker than competitors to spot opportunities and more decisive in grasping them.
The investments we have been making and the strategic initiatives we launched last year are designed to ensure that we can maintain this competitive edge in the years to come.
