Chief Executives review We achieved double-digit growth in Specialist Technologies revenues, an excellent performance in our Emerging Markets and robust growth in civil aviation revenues.
Our performance is testament to the Groups resilient operating model, with our focus on cashflow generation, operational efficiency and improving returns.
S. C. Harris Group Chief Executive Overview Our T echnologies Bodycote reported revenue growth of 5.6% to 728.6m 2017: The Classical Heat Treatment CHT business contributed 76% 690.2m.
Headline of total Group revenues, with growth of 5%, reflecting growth operating profit increased 12% to 138.3m 123.9m and across all our key market sectors.
return on sales further improved to 19.0% 2017: 18.0%.
We achieved 12% growth across our Specialist Technologies, Statutory operating profit also increased 12% to 134.1m.
which constitute 24% of the Groups revenues.
Low Pressure The following reflects constant currency growth rates unless Carburising LPC and Corr-i-Dur CiD both grew revenues stated otherwise.
over 20% and HIP Product Fabrication HIP PF, grew over 30%.
This reflects increased adoption of these differentiated Our Specialist Technologies delivered double digit growth of technologies and is supported by investment in additional 12%, reflecting continued adoption of these technologies capacity across our network.
supported by ongoing investment in new capacity and capability.
We achieved strong growth of 21% in our Emerging Markets rapid growth Emerging Markets.
This was helped by solid A key pillar of our strategy is targeted investments in rapidly contributions from recent greenfield start ups, in particular growing Emerging Markets.
Our revenues in these markets in Mexico and China.
We continued to invest in the structural grew 21%.
This growth was underpinned by buoyant growth opportunity represented by the civil aviation market performances in Mexico, as automotive exports to the USA where our revenues grew 8%.
increased, and from China where we are achieving increased penetration of the automotive market.
Emerging Markets now Our return on sales continues to expand, reflecting our represent 9% of Group revenues, up from 7% in 2016 and multiyear programme of pricing and efficiency improvements up from 2% in 2009.
Continued investment in these markets in the AGI Classical Heat Treatment business aimed at should sustain good growth into the future.
improving the quality of this business to a similar level to the ADE business.
The movement in revenue mix in favour of our higher margin Specialist Technologies also added to the improvement in return on sales and is part of our long term goal of improving Group margins to world class levels.
The cash generative nature of Bodycotes business was underlined by the 93% headline operating cash conversion, and ROCE further improved to 20.5% from 19.3% in 2017.
We delivered 97m of free cash after investing 44m in capacity and capability expansion, which will enable us to continue our earnings growth in future years.
com 26332 14 March 2019 3:53 pm Proof 7 Bodycote AR2018 proof 6. indd 21 14 03 2019 15:55:24 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Chief Executives review continued Market Sectors Profit and Earnings Civil aviation revenues grew 8% in the year, with 12% growth As expected, we experienced higher input cost inflation in the second half as industry supply chain problems eased.
in a number of our markets, with pressure coming from The UK operations performed strongly again, supported by tighter labour markets, and cost increases in utilities and additional capacity in the final quarter of the year with our new industrial gases that we use in our processes.
We continue to aerospace facility in Rotherham UK coming on line.
North proactively manage this to ensure that the value of our price American revenues also continued to build as production of increases at least offsets the cost increases incurred.
LEAP engines ramped up and the supply chain bottle necks for The Groups profit improvement, coupled with a headline titanium castings have started to ease.
tax rate of 21.7% 2017: 22.9%, increased basic headline General industrial markets represent 38% of Group revenues, earnings per share to 55.9p 2017: 49.2p.
Basic earnings per serving a very broad range of industrial sectors.
grew 6% in the year, representing further solid growth across Strategic Progress our key geographies.
The Groups strategy encompasses the drive for operational Revenues from the energy sector grew 13% in the year, efficiency and delivering strong return on sales and good notwithstanding the well publicised substantial fall in revenues return on capital employed.
The Group is committed to from the large-frame industrial gas turbines IGT original invest to support profitable growth.
The priorities for growth equipment manufacturers.
Growth came predominantly from are capacity and capability enhancement in Specialist buoyant oil & gas revenues, much of it driven by demand in Technologies, expansion of the Groups footprint in rapid the Permian basin, although there was some evidence of growth Emerging Markets and investment in markets with customers fide-stocking towards the end of the year.
In the long term structural growth such as civil aviation and growth latter part of the year, revenues benefited from shipments through targeted acquisitions.
The Group has a minimum 20% on HIP PF subsea contracts that had been won earlier in the hurdle rate return when appraising investments.
The order book in subsea work continues to grow at an During 2018, we made continued progress against our increasing rate.
strategy, delivering both higher return on sales of 19.0% The automotive business grew 7%.
This was another strong 2018: 18.0% and an increase in ROCE to 20.5% 2018: performance against the backdrop of flat markets in both 19.3%.
Western Europe and North America, reflecting the excellent Civil aviation revenue grew 8%, Emerging Markets revenues growth of Specialist Technologies in the sector.
grew 21%, and Specialist Technologies grew 12%, which all Investment in growth reflect the success of the investment focus of the Group in During the year, we invested 44m more than 50% of overall these businesses over a number of years.
gross capex across our entire business to support future We continue to look at acquisition and investment growth, adding new capacity into existing facilities, as well as opportunities.
These are traditionally bolt-on facilities that developing new facilities.
It takes some time to build a new can provide us with infills to our existing network.
Where facility and subsequently typically takes a further three to five the opportunities to buy such facilities with good prospects years for revenues to fully mature.
Since the beginning of do not exist we will build new facilities.
Newly constructed 2016, we have opened nine new facilities, focused on market facilities have a ramp up period, but have the advantage of sectors with long term structural growth, expanded our being designed exactly in line with the Groups technology footprint in rapid growth Emerging Markets, and grown our and operational efficiency focus.
Since 2014, we have invested Specialist Technologies businesses.
These facilities, which are over 210m in both acquisitions and investment for growth strongly underpinned by contracts from anchor customers, are in new and existing facilities.
The growth noted above in civil contributing meaningfully to the Groups revenue growth as aviation revenues, Emerging Markets revenues and Specialist they ramp up.
Technologies revenues, have all been boosted by these We acquired a Classical Heat Treatment facility in the United investments.
In many cases, the revenues from these past States of America towards the end of the year, which will fit investments are still ramping up and so will contribute to well with our existing business in the South East, enhancing growth in revenue and profit in the coming years.
We also have an exciting pipeline of new investments, including new facilities being built in Illinois and New York USA, in Italy and new facilities in the Emerging Markets of Hungary and Czech Republic.
Furthermore, we are adding additional HIP capacity into the USA and European markets to meet civil aviation demand.
22 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2018 26332 14 March 2019 3:53 pm Proof 7 Bodycote AR2018 proof 6. indd 22 14 03 2019 15:55:24 Organisation and people Bodycote is a service business and our first-class service is delivered by committed individuals, who understand their customers needs and meet their demanding and changing requirements on a continual basis.
Our people are the cornerstone of the business and it is through their endeavours, day in and day out, that we create value and deliver our objectives.
Developing our employees to ensure that our talented workforce remains one of our competitive advantages is a priority for the Group.
Summary and Outlook 2018 has once again demonstrated the strength of Bodycotes strategy and business.
We achieved double-digit growth in Specialist Technologies revenues, an excellent performance in our Emerging Markets and robust growth in civil aviation revenues.
Combined with pricing discipline in the face of significant cost pressures, the Group was able to improve return on sales.
Together with the revenue growth this delivered a healthy increase in headline earnings per share.
While we are conscious of the global macro-economic backdrop, we have entered 2019 well positioned and at this early point in the year, our expectations for 2019 remain unchanged.
S. C. Harris Group Chief Executive 8 March 2019 23 Stock code: BOY www.
com 26332 14 March 2019 3:53 pm Proof 7 Bodycote AR2018 proof 6. indd 23 14 03 2019 15:55:24 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
