| Chief Executives report Greg Fitzgerald We have a high quality land bank which We became a member of the Institute of is well positioned to meet todays demand Customer Service in the year, which has for new homes.
We have excellent forward supported our company wide customer visibility on our land, with all land for 2019 service training programmes and provided having detailed planning consent, and 97% the opportunity to gain a professional of our land for 2020 already secured.
On balance sheet optimisation, our specific The Bovis Home Buyers Panel continues to actions over the past two years have focused meet and provides us with very valuable on ensuring we have an efficient land bank feedback and opinion on all aspects of our to match our strategy, the reduction in customer experience.
our working capital, the disposal of non performing assets and the joint venture of Strong sales position our two largest sites.
Overall, we are aiming The Group starts the year with a to achieve in excess of 250m additional net strong sales position with forward sales cash benefit, including a c. 68m net cash representing 48% of consensus 2018 in review benefit on the completion of our joint venture FY19 revenues.
Our focus remains on at Wellingborough in H1 2019, well ahead of optimising prices whilst delivering The changes implemented our 180m target.
across all areas of the business I am delighted that as a result of the very over the past two years have Our new sales specification, launched in positive improvements across all areas of resulted in a significant step up 2018, gives our customers the ability to the business, we have seen a step up in our choose extras within their new home and in the operational and financial return on capital to 19.3% in the year from has been well received.
We see further performance of the Group in 2018 13.7% in 2017. opportunity from this in 2019 with our and I am pleased to report a Select range of customer options now well Overall, we have made good progress record year of profits with our profit established and available across a greater towards all of our medium term targets with before tax up 47.4% to 168.1m.
a number achieved in 2018, and we expect to build upon this further in 2019.
Customer satisfaction has been at the core The Government sponsored Help to Buy of all we have done during 2018 and we scheme remains important, particularly I would like to thank all the Groups expect to achieve our target of a 4 star HBF for first time buyers, and was used for employees for their hard work and customer satisfaction rating for 2018, a 38% 2017: 37% of our private commitment over the past 12 months and to significant improvement from our 2 star HBF completions in 2018. recognise that each one of them has played customer satisfaction rating in 2017.
This shift their part in the very positive turnaround in all Part exchange is a positive sales proposition in quality is reflected across all of our housing aspects of the Groups performance in 2018. for our customers and during 2018 we delivery and in the feedback we receive We have plenty more opportunities in 2019, reviewed our polices and procedures for from our private customers and housing and I am looking forward to another year of the scheme to ensure we operate it association partners.
progress and returning Bovis Homes to being efficiently and minimise our levels of part one of the UKs leading housebuilders.
We have improved our production processes exchange stock.
In the year, 8.7% of our to ensure we consistently deliver high quality private completions used part exchange.
Operational update new homes for our customers whilst also We see an increase in its use as a sales driving operational efficiency.
In the year, we opportunity for 2019 and are comfortable Customer service delivered a total of 3,759 2017: 3,645 units for part exchange to be at a similar level Customer satisfaction has been central to in a controlled and disciplined manner.
as the prior year which was 22.2% of all that we have done this year and we are private completions.
We launched our new housing range, the pleased that this is reflected in our expected Our focus remains on building high Phoenix collection in 2018 and have made 4 star HBF customer satisfaction rating for quality desirable family homes in prime excellent progress with site replans.
Our first 2018, a step change from the 2 star rating locations on lower risk greenfield sites.
show homes from the new range have been received in the prior year.
This improvement We have structured the business to ensure successfully launched and we are looking has been seen across all our regions, with all our developments are well serviced forward to delivering our first completions in each expected to achieve at least a 4 star by our regional offices and have seven Spring 2019. rating.
The new year has started well with well balanced regions operating across our rating tracking ahead of 2018.
We are focused on controlled volume growth the southern half of England.
We have We continue to invest in our customer whilst optimising prices and costs, and this is no developments within the M25 and service function and will see the reflected in a 390 basis points improvement apartments account for just 4% of our implementation of a new customer in our operating margin to 16.4% for 2018. owned land bank plots.
Our strategy, in the relationship management system rolled The benefits from our key margin initiatives medium term, is to reduce the proportion out across the business in 2019.
This will are coming through and we expect to of larger homes we build and increase our provide a complete end to end Bovis Homes achieve further benefits in 2019. offering of two and three bedroom homes experience for our customers, making it and this was reflected in our development easier for them to engage with us, whilst replans and land buying during 2018. driving improved efficiency.
| | 12 Strategic report Our business and strategy Strategic report | Our business and strategy 96% of our land bank plots have an In 2018 we launched our trainee assistant We anticipate the new range will facilitate average selling price of less than 600k site manager programme which lasts an improvement to the embedded gross with 42% at less than 300k, with the 18 months and covers all aspects of site margin in our land bank of 1% as the average selling price in our land bank at management.
We are very committed to positive impact of replanning comes 305k.
Only 1% of the 4,164 plots we our apprenticeship scheme and recruited through improving our layouts, optimising acquired in 2018 are expected to have a a further 37 apprentices in the year taking pricing and reducing build costs.
The range sales price in excess of 600k.
our total to 68. provides significant opportunities and will ensure we remain competitive for the prime As part of our commitment to the HBFs High build quality sites we are seeking to secure for Home Building Skills Partnership we the future.
Improving our build quality has been a continue to offer training opportunities key priority and we have made further to our subcontractors including the Site progress during the year.
We have high Supervisor Safety Training scheme to over Margin initiatives calibre construction directors, site managers 150 people in 2018, as well as mental Driving Group profitability is key and and site teams across all our regions, and health training to raise the awareness and our Margin initiatives have delivered a far greater hands on approach is now importance of personal well-being across results in 2018 with further progress entrenched across the business, with best the industry.
expected in 2019: practice promoted and shared.
We are pleased to report an ongoing steady We are delighted that in 2018, six of our improvement in our employee engagement site managers and site teams were awarded 1.
Price optimisation level as measured by our monthly employee NHBC Pride in the Job Quality awards, an engagement survey.
We remain focused on driving our increase from two awards in 2017 and prices across all our products and in-line with our highest number since 2004.
Phoenix housing range developments, reflecting our priority of We launched our new housing range of Our NHBC Construction Quality Review for controlled volume growth, high levels 28 new house types for both private and 2018 highlighted an 18% improvement of customer satisfaction and increased affordable housing in April 2018.
It is in our Group score over the past two profitability.
Our new sales commission designed to meet our customers needs years bringing it broadly in line with structure is aligned to and supports this.
today including more open plan living, industry average, with the NHBC noting larger bedrooms and better storage.
during a review that Bovis Homes has The range also reflects a complete made a significant step-up in build quality 2.
Specification review construction specification review to ensure and customer satisfaction results in a time, material and labour efficient designs.
We have also Our new sales specification has With our first completions due in Spring seen a significant reduction in our NHBC been well received and we see 2019, the new range will deliver exciting, reportable items which are in line with the further opportunity in 2019 for our high quality new homes as well as drive industry average.
Select range of extras as more of further price optimisation and a reduction our developments offer it.
Our build We have invested in our health and safety in production costs.
specification is under continual review function and have seen very positive results for both materials and suppliers, and we in terms of more frequent and transparent We have made good progress see further opportunities for 2019. reporting, a more pro-active culture across implementing the new range with 34 the business, and an improved overall sites replanned with the new house types health and safety record year on year.
and a further 19 developments in the 3.
Our first new show People homes launched in January at our Hampton We have made good progress with our Meadows development in Stadhampton People satisfaction is a key strategic priority priority of getting it right first time and and at our Priory Fields development in and we are committed to investing in the improving build processes and better Wells with excellent customer feedback, development and training of our workforce quality management.
As a result, we are and our first completions will be in including our subcontractors.
We have running with a c. 1% non-utilisation of H1 19.
Overall, we expect up to 15% of a dedicated Learning and Development our cost contingency.
our private completions in 2019 to be team which supports the business through Phoenix house types and this will increase a full range of training and development quickly in future periods.
New housing range programmes, leveraging our in-house Bovis Homes Training Centre.
In 2018 we We expect to replan c. 3,500 plots Launched in April 2018 we are looking delivered 4,505 delegate training days, up from our land bank and all new sites are forward to our first completions from 14% on the prior year.
being acquired and designed with the our new Phoenix housing range in Phoenix product.
A key priority has been the development Spring 2019.
The range will not only of our leadership teams with the roll out deliver added value to our customers, of our bespoke leadership framework it will optimise prices and drive a programmes to over 140 leaders across reduction in production costs across the business.
We are also very focused on the Group.
This will also allow us to be strengthening our talent pipeline through more competitive in the land market.
our annual succession planning review.
|| Bovis Homes Group PLC Bovis Homes Group PLC 13 13 | Chief Executives report Greg Fitzgerald strategic land bank with a number of sites of Our strategic landbank remains a very Building a better Bovis Homes significant scale.
The Group has significantly valuable source of high quality land for the The investment in efficient systems and improved its relationships with Housing Group.
We saw a step up in the strategic processes and the development of our Associations over the last couple of years, land pull-through in the year as we made operational teams is a key priority for the and often under resourced the Housing progress on a number of major projects Group and we are now 18 months into a Associations are seeking partnerships with which will form a key part of delivering 3.5 year plan of implementing a series of Bovis Homes a partner of choice.
The new new homes for years to come.
These are major business change projects, system division will be led by Keith Carnegie as exciting high quality developments including improvements and upgrading equipment CEO of Partnership Housing who has much North Whitely in the highly desirable across the Group.
borough of Winchester, Alphington, an We successfully implemented COINS as excellent location on the edge of Exeter, The Group already has successful our primary business system in Spring Staplehurst in Kent, and a development at partnerships with Housing Associations on 2018 and it is already providing significant Tavistock, Devon where we have entered its sites at Wokingham and Boorley Green, improvements in process, reporting and into a partnership with Live West, a leading and with Live West for the development cost control.
The second phase will be developer of affordable housing in the of our site at Tavistock.
Most recently we implemented during 2019 delivering further South West.
have entered into a 50:50 joint venture with improvement across our commercial, Our strategic pipeline is strong with our Clarion Housing Group for the development construction and land activities.
developments in Taunton 832 plots, of our site at Sherford and we expect to A key focus is also to support mobile Camborne 863 plots and Collingtree 349 complete the joint venture of our site at working, allowing our commercial and plots all having received outline planning Wellingborough with a housing association technical teams in particular to be active on and ideal for development within our newly this year.
our development sites and support the site formed Partnership Housing division.
There is a strong pipeline of pull-through teams as much as possible.
We continue to pursue new strategic land from our strategic land bank with six sites opportunities that are within our core Further process changes are being including North Whitely, Alphington, near operating area and in the year optioned coordinated across the business including Exeter, and Taunton all identified as being 1,415 strategic land plots 2017: 2,338. a consistent automated document suitable for partnership development.
management system to support our As at 31 December 2018, we had a total of This partnership approach is expected teams as well as our supply chain, and 19,278 plots 2017: 20,756 in our strategic to drive the best returns from our land in time, provide information directly to land bank across 53 sites 2017: 52. opportunities, enable good working our customers.
A new financial planning capital management on key schemes and Balance sheet optimisation and modelling tool is being rolled out deliver incremental volume from our sites during 2019, and we are implementing a As part of our strategic review in 2017 we in future periods.
new integrated HR, payroll and learning set out a clear plan to optimise our balance management solution.
In addition, we sheet with a target of realising an additional Land continue to invest in our sales website to net cash benefit of 180m from this.
The Group has a high quality owned ensure we build a better Bovis Homes.
Since mid 2017 our focus has been on land bank with strong fundamentals and working capital management, the disposal These changes alongside the new customer excellent forward visibility.
All our land for of non performing assets and optimising the relationships management system, revised 2019 has detailed planning consent and structure of our balance sheet.
I am pleased customer journey and the new Phoenix 97% of our land for 2020 is secured.
to report that we have delivered 180m of housing range represent a significant We continue to see good opportunities in additional net cash benefit to date and are investment as well as considerable ongoing the land market and increased our land now aiming to realise a total of c. 250m business development to enable the group activity in 2018 to ensure we maintain this with the completion of our joint venture to drive further operational improvements strong supply, in line with our target of a at Wellingborough.
There remain some and our financial performance forward in 3.5 to 4.0 years land bank.
In the year we further opportunities including the disposal the medium term.
secured a total of 4,164 plots 2017: 2,550 of PRS joint ventures, and we will maintain across 19 2017: 11 sites.
a strong focus on active balance sheet Partnership housing optimisation going forward.
The housing shortage and in particular As at 31 December 2018, we had a total of the need for greater delivery of affordable 15,832 2017: 17,096 owned plots in our On land optimisation we have realised a homes in the UK remains very significant.
land bank representing a 4.0 year owned total of 81m of net cash benefit to date Housing Associations are seeking new land supply assuming our target 4,000 including 15m from the joint venture of ways to support their traditional affordable completions.
We also had 1,496 plots at our our development at Sherford with Clarion housing delivery and following the Letwin development at Sherford which was put into Housing Group.
We have disposed of review, the Government is focused a 50:50 joint venture during H2 2018. parcels of land on some of our larger sites on facilitating the quicker delivery of and also disposed of several sites outside of As at 31 December 2017 2018 larger schemes.
We expect to deliver c. 68m net cash benefit from the Total consented land 17,096 17,328 Bovis Homes is exceptionally well placed completion of our joint venture of to play its part and we are delighted to be Joint venture plots - 1,496 Wellingborough in H1 19 and c. 4m from developing our new Partnership Housing Owned land bank plots 17,096 15,832 the disposal of an out of operating area site.
It is a land led strategy 1 Land bank years 4.3 yrs 4.0 yrs reflecting our valuable and deliverable 1 Land bank years calculated assuming 4,000 completions p. a.
| | 14 Strategic report Our business and strategy Strategic report | Our business and strategy Our initiatives on work in progress have We expect to make further progress in Delivering our medium totalled 43m net cash benefit of which 2019 with the first completions from term targets the reduction of our part exchange our new Phoenix housing range and our The Group set out its medium term targets properties contributed 26m.
The balance on-going specification review.
We also to be achieved by 2020 and return Bovis reflects optimisation of our site-by-site WIP expect to further the opportunity from Homes to being a leading UK housebuilder and other initiatives such as the sale and our customer extras Select range, and whilst significantly improving returns to leaseback of our show homes.
will continue to drive revenue and cost our shareholders.
We have made very good management, all supported by more We have disposed of other non-returning progress against these targets in 2018 with effective systems and ways of working.
assets to release total net cash of 56m, several already achieved.
the largest of which was the sale of our shared equity portfolio in 2017, realising total cash receipts of 30m.
Target Progress to date Timing outlook 4 star HBF customer satisfaction score 4 star HBF customer satisfaction rating Achieved for 2018 Maintain 4 star rating 3% increase in completions in FY18, 4,000 completions p. a.
2020 in-line with expectations Further controlled volume growth expected in FY19 Divestment of sites outside of our core 3.5 to 4.0 year owned land bank Achieved operating areas Completion of Wellingborough joint Sherford joint venture completed venture in H1 2019 Maintain 3.5 to 4.0 year owned land bank ex joint ventures 380 basis point improvement in Group Min 23.5% gross margin 2020 gross margin in FY18 to 21.8% Margin initiatives underpin and Margin initiatives delivering progress provide upside to 2020 gross in FY18 with further opportunities margin target New land acquired in FY18 at an Embedded land gross margin average gross margin in excess at 24.8% will drive further of 26% improvements over time Effective operating structure in place 5% admin expense as % of revenues 2019 with continued investment in process and systems to deliver efficiency Improvement in admin expense to revenue ratio to 5.3% in FY18 In aggregate, balance sheet initiatives Achieved Min 180m net cash from balance aiming for 250m net cash benefit, sheet optimisation with 180m achieved to date Further c. 68m net cash benefit from completion of Wellingborough joint venture On-going active balance sheet optimisation and review of capital returns Increase in Group ROCE to 19.3% in 25% return on capital employed 2020 FY18 from 13.7% in FY17 | Bovis Homes Group PLC 15 | Chief Executives report Greg Fitzgerald The Group set out its medium term targets Ordinary dividend and capital Outlook to be achieved by 2020 and return return plan We have seen strong sales in the first eight Bovis Homes to being a leading UK weeks of the year with a rate of 0.58 sales The Board intends to pursue a strategy housebuilder whilst significantly improving per site per week, an increase of 15.7% on of maximising sustainable dividends returns to our shareholders.
We have made the prior year.
Given the current increased to shareholders.
In setting the level of very good progress against these targets level of uncertainty surrounding the broader dividend the Board will consider a range of in 2018 with several already achieved, and UK economy, we are encouraged by the factors including the extent to which the we expect to make additional progress positive start to the year and are pleased dividend is covered by underlying earnings on the Groups operational and financial to report our forward sales represent and free cash flow, the prevailing strength performance in 2019.
48% of consensus total 2019 revenues of the balance sheet and general economic for the Group.
The Board is pleased to recommend a circumstances, with particular regard to the final ordinary dividend of 38.0p per share cyclicality of the industry.
We remain focused on delivering controlled FY17: 32.5p bringing the total ordinary volume growth whilst maintaining our The Board is recommending a final ordinary dividend for FY18 to 57.0p per share absolute focus on high quality build and dividend of 38.0p per share FY17: 32.5p 47.5p, representing a 20% increase on customer service.
bringing the total ordinary dividend the prior year.
Including the special dividend for FY18 to 57.0p per share 47.5p, of 45.0p per share paid in November 2018, During 2019 we are implementing a representing a 20% increase on the dividends for FY18 more than doubled to number of initiatives across all areas of the prior year.
business to build a better Bovis Homes.
In particular, we are looking forward to the In 2017, the Board stated that it intended first completions from our new Phoenix that surplus capital totalling 180m or housing range this Spring, with our new c. 134p per share will be returned to house types designed to best meet our shareholders in the three years to 2020. customers needs whilst driving forward We are pleased to report that the Group profitability.
first payment of 60m was made via Greg Fitzgerald a special dividend of 45p per share in Chief Executive We have excellent visibility on our land November 2018.
The Group will continue with all of our developments for 2019 to be strongly cash generative and given delivery launched and 97% of our land the balance sheet position the Board is for 2020 secured.
committed to reviewing capacity for further returns to shareholders over time.
We are launching our new Partnership Housing division, a land led strategy which will see Bovis Homes helping to address the severe housing shortage in the UK whilst maximising our output and returns.
FY18 FY19 FY20 Ordinary dividend 57p per share Trend to 2 x cover Special cash return 45p per share Total c. 90p per share | | 16 Strategic report Our business and strategy Strategic report | Business overview Emmbrook Place, Wokingham | Bovis Homes Group PLC 17
