Group chief executives letter Our strategy is delivering value for you, our shareholders, while being flexible and agile for the energy transition underway.
Advancing the energy transition The deals we made and the strategy we have in place are evidence that BP is a forward-looking energy business.
One that is already playing an active role in advancing the energy transition.
Thats why we are making bold changes across our entire business to reduce emissions in our operations, improve products to help customers reduce their own emissions, and to create new low carbon businesses.
This is our reduce, improve, create RIC framework which we are backing up with clear targets.
I am pleased to report we are making good progress against these targets.
BP is also working with peers on a range of fronts, in particular to tackle methane emissions and create opportunities for carbon capture, utilization and storage.
Youll see this in our work with the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative, which I chair, and whose members now represent Dear fellow shareholder, 30% of global oil and gas production.
I am pleased to report that 2018 was another remarkable year for BP.
As well as action across the industry, at BP we understand that meeting Our safety performance continued to improve overall, helping to create our own low carbon ambitions is a shared responsibility across our record operational reliability, which led to strong production, and record entire business.
Thats why we are now incentivizing around 36,000 refining throughput.
employees who are eligible for an annual cash bonus to play a role by linking their reward to one of our emissions reduction targets.
Strength in numbers This ultimately contributed to us maintaining a healthy balance sheet Possibilities everywhere as we more than doubled our underlying profit, nearly doubled our We will continue to be open and transparent about our ambitions, plans return on average capital employed, and significantly increased and progress, recognizing that the trust of our shareholders and other operating cash flow.
stakeholders is essential to BP remaining a reliable and attractive It was a year in which we secured our biggest deal in 20 years, acquiring long-term investment.
And only by ensuring we remain a world-class BHPs world-class unconventional oil and gas onshore US assets.
We investment, can we most effectively play our part in advancing a low also made progressive moves in mobility, such as the acquisition carbon future.
of the UKs leading electric vehicle charging network to create As a global energy business with scale, expertise and strong BP Chargemaster.
relationships around the world, we dont just believe we have an BP is in good shape.
Our strategy is delivering value for you, important part to play in the dual challenge, we see value-generating our shareholders, while being flexible and agile for the energy opportunities for BP throughout the energy transition.
Were making good progress delivering our strategy while flexing and We continued to focus on advantaged oil and gas in the Upstream, adapting to an environment that is changing fast.
We have a great team delivering new supplies of gas from four of our six new major projects at BP and I would like to thank them all for their continued dedication and brought online in 2018.
We are also expanding our LNG portfolio and relentless commitment to advancing the energy transition.
developing new markets in transport and power.
In the Downstream, we expanded our retail offer, as seen by more than 25% growth in our convenience partnerships, to around 1,400 sites worldwide.
As we pursue venturing and low carbon across multiple fronts, Lightsource BP doubled its global solar presence to 10 countries.
Bob Dudley Group chief executive And we underpinned all this by continuing to modernize our plants, 29 March 2019 processes, and portfolio by harnessing the potential of digital and new technologies to provide greater efficiencies, reliability and safety.
GAAP equivalents Profit attributable to shareholders: $9.4bn 2017: $3.4bn Average capital employed: $165.5bn 2017: $159.4bn 8 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018
