CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW A year of implementation and growth Q&A with our Chief Executive, David Nicol During a year that was largely focused on implementation, how did your growth strategy contribute to Brewin Dolphins 2018performance?
Our strategy is to become the UKs leading provider of personalised wealth and investment management services, centred around an advice-led proposition thats based on close and mutually rewarding relationships with a growing number of private clients and intermediary partners which is central to achieving growth.
This was another strong period of organic fund inflows, clearly driven by the on-going delivery of our strategy.
2018 was another successful year for the business, during which Discretionary fund growth was particularly strong, due to the the ongoing strength of our business model continued to support ongoing demand for advice resulting from pension freedom our ability to deliver against our strategy.
As a result, we achieved a net discretionary new funds period of continued substantial growth during which we increased growth rate of 6.8% during the year, once again well ahead of our the number of clients whose investment and advice needs we care 5% annual target.
We, therefore, remain on target to meet the plan for, as well as the amount of wealth we manage on their behalf.
we announced in 2015 to increase discretionary funds by one third from net new funds alone by 2020 see graph below.
During 2018, our focus was on three broad areas, underpinned by our disciplined approach, that are fundamental to our strategy: bn Growth Target Growth: 9 8.2 Innovation: and Efficiency.
5.7 6 Growth continues to be at the top of our agenda.
We are hiring and developing the most talented people we can find, ensuring they are fully engaged with our culture and values.
We are 3 workinghard to grow the business, leveraging innovation to deepen existing client and intermediary relationships and to win new relationships for the Group.
0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 This was primarily a year of disciplined implementation, when we excludes acquired funds put into action many of the initiatives announced in 2017, including the launch of 1762 from Brewin Dolphin, our advice-led proposition Adjusted profit before tax exceeded last years, increasing by for clients with more sophisticated and complex needs, and 10.7% to 77.5 million.
Statutory profit before tax grew by WealthPilot, our new low-cost simplified wealth planning and 18.9%to 68.5 million.
Both profit before tax measures investment advice service.
benefittedfrom a full years contribution from the acquisition In particular, the significant investment in our innovative proposition in May 2017 see page 35. for clients with complex needs has enabled us to recruit highOur growth during 2018 was underpinned by our working quality client-facing advisers who recognise that companies that environment, culture and values that determine how we do do not offer advice cannot support clients as well as we can.
Once again, a strong We focused on improving efficiency largelythrough investing in client satisfaction score of 8.5 out of 10, 4.9% above our upgraded technology and streamlining services.
industrybenchmark, demonstrated that our people are meeting our clients expectations.
By focusing on growth, innovation and efficiency we were able to I look forward to working with our new Finance Director in early take advantage of market opportunities surrounding the growing 2019.
Siobhan Boylans experience of the financial services need for advice.
industry includes senior roles at Legal & General Investment Our results demonstrate the continuing success of our strategy, Management and Aviva.
She will bring us in-depth knowledge particularly in relation to our Key Performance Indicators around of the industry, as well as her management and technical skills, growth and efficiency.
It was a period of strong organic fund at an important stage in ourgrowth strategy.
inflows, with total funds growing during the year to a record 42.8 billion.
Brewin Dolphin 20 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Direct clients Growth and innovation We continue to grow our private client and charities businesses.
The ability to innovate is a fundamental driver of our growth Inthe 2017 Annual Report, I referred to a numberof new or future strategy.
In order to do so, we need the right talent in the right initiatives that we have either launched or developed further areas of the organisation to develop and deliver services in a way during2018.
that enables us to create and build close, long-lasting relationships with clients and intermediaries.
Perhaps the most exciting of these is 1762 from Brewin Dolphin, our innovative new advice-led proposition that is designed to Talent meet the requirements of clients with more sophisticated and Investing in talent is critical to the continued growth of our complex needs.
It enables us to respond to market opportunities.
We opened a new office in Londons West End in August with During the year, we grew our headcount by 85 individuals, aninitial staff of 17.
This is allowing the new proposition to be ameaningful number of whom deal with and support clients.
delivered in an entrepreneurial, standalone environment with direct Recruiting experienced professionals creates opportunities to input from our clients to inform the development of the service.
Incremental hires were appointed at all levels This innovative proposition has struck a chord in the market place, inthe Group to help us make and sustain the improvements in and we are hiring at a faster rate than originally expected.
We are infrastructure, systems and processes that are necessary to delighted with the quality of the hires we have made, whom we provide us with a solid platform for growth.
areexpecting to be a strong source of new client acquisition.
Thedevelopment of this service is already adding a new Our recruitment strategy is informed by our fundamental dimensionto our brand, together with the opportunity to understanding that clients are not always seeking investment generateincomegrowth.
management alone, but increasingly require expert financial advice tailored to their personal circumstances.
Financial planning services We continue to develop WealthPilot, the low-cost simplified advice are a primary source of competitive advantage.
Our investments in platform we launched in 2017.
It is delivered by qualified advisers this area helped to drive an increase of 17.8% in our advice-related over the phone, by Skype or face-to-face.
Investment to date has business financial planning during 2018. been modest, but we have started to introduce the service outside of London into the branch network, initially in Manchester and Similarly, our high retention of client-facing specialists supports more recently in Edinburgh.
WealthPilot is allowing clients to ourclient retention levels and protects us against the risk of access our advice-led service with lower investment levels.
affords us an opportunity to identify higher value clients who are As well as recruiting new people, we invested during the year in more suited to our core services.
We continue to evaluate a training and development to support our existing personnel in an technology platform to support thisservice.
The competence of these Many of our managed advisory clients moved to our individuals, who comprise the public face of Brewin Dolphin, discretionaryservice during the year.
This is discussed in is of major importance to us.
We are, therefore, committed to more detail under Efficiency.
continuing our investments in this area.
We launched a new programme to equip our people to have richer client conversations We also continued to explore how best to develop our professional in a MiFID II environment, ensuring that clients fully understand the services offerings.
We are currently working on a number of value of our services.
initiatives in this area, including the partnership with the Law Society of Scotland that we announced in July.
Thiswill enable Following the success of the first years intake of our Financial us to gain access both to the firms themselvesand to their Planning Academy, part-funded by the Apprenticeship Levy, underlying clients.
thesecond annual intake of trainees have joined the academy.
Thisprovides a structured programme of high-calibre learning for Our non-advised Brewin Portfolio Service BPS solution enables people wishing to become para-planners and will provide us with us to meet the needs of more clients.
The service continued to asufficient flow of qualified individuals to meet our objectives in grow during the year, there are now over 4,000 accounts investing thisarea.
We also ran the second year ofour bespoke Executive Leadership We are one of the larger charity fund management firms in the Programme, developedin-house to prepare talented people to UKand one of a few with real charity specialists located close to reach and perform strongly at the highest levels of the organisation.
their clients, whilst being part of a wider co-ordinated team.
Ourspecialist Charity Team of over 40 professionals is based Such initiatives run in parallel with our succession-planning across nine Brewin Dolphin offices.
The team delivers personalised programme, through which we seek to identify at every level of the investment management, advising on and managing investments organisation those people with the ability and ambition to become for charities within the wider financial plan of each organisation.
our leaders of the future.
Please see page40 for further details of all our training and .
We regularly hold both seminars and conferences which bring together charities with regulators, auditors and lawyers assisting charity staff, and trustees in fulfilling their duties.
co. uk CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED We are aware that significant changes to the dynamics of the IFA Branch network market in the UK are likely over the next few years.
Monitoring IFA We announced in September that we will move our Bournemouth opinions about the future of their businesses and the market as a office to Winchester.
From here, we will tap into new opportunities whole is an important element of our wider risk-management in the central and northern parts of Hampshire, while continuing programme.
This helps us to understand changes in their to serve our clients along the south coast.
With the opening of business models, so we can adapt our propositions to meet our office in Londons West End, our network now stands at these demands.
Communications We continue to consider our options with respect to our London headquarters and regularly evaluate our office footprint around Innovation extends beyond the services we provide to also improve the UK.
the ways in which we communicate with our clients, prospective clients and intermediary partners.
Indirect clients During 2018, we carried out a major refresh of our website.
Its During the year, we achieved strong growth in our intermediary simpler design makes it easier for potential clients to understand channel, across both our bespoke discretionary service and our how we can help them and begin a conversation with us.
Much of this growth was due to the focus of our business development teams taking a more Research into client preferences showed they are keen for us to analytical approach to establish precisely what intermediaries share with them more of our knowledge about trends and what andtheir clients need and want from us.
We have issued a series of topical guides on matters of interest and placed a series of advice-based As a result, they were able to engage successfully with new articles in the national press which were well received.
intermediaries and deepen existing relationships.
By the year end, we were dealing regularly with over 1,700intermediaries, We also launched a journal called Antenna, designed to cater for ranging from large national firms to soletraders.
those clients wishing to understand more about the fundamental forces at play that do most to drive economic trends.
The first Our branch network is an important source of competitive issue focused on artificial intelligence, andthe second will cover advantage in this regard, enabling us to develop close and the subject of water security.
mutually supportive intermediary relationships at a local level.
Theopening of our new office in the West End of London will serveto strengthen intermediary relationships in the capital.
We recognised that our MPS had reached a scale that allowed the transition of relevant assets into four new manager of manager funds during the year.
Our intermediary clients now benefit from the reduced third party fees associated with large mandates rather than pooled retail funds.
We have seen growth in MPS Passive Plus, the service extension we launched last year and we continue to explore additional ways of expanding MPS.
Culture and values Our people contributed strongly to the identification of our Group values in 2016, to reflect an organisation that they recognised.
Thevalues they identified were: Genuine: heartfelt advice, delivered by people who care Expert: skilfully facilitating important decisions Ambitious: making more of lifes opportunities Today, these values demonstrably resonate with our people and contribute to the low staff turnover that enables us to grow our business.
They also support the quality of service our clients receive and enable us to attract high-calibre professionals who genuinelywish to make a positive difference for their clients.
Critically, they accurately reflect the Brewin Dolphin culture, which shapes and directs how our people work and behave.
During 2018, we held the first Brewin Dolphin People Awards as part of our ongoing process to ensure that the cultural developmentof our people is embedded in the organisation.
These recognised the contribution of employees from across theorganisation to living each of our values, in three award categories.
There was a further award category for people who excelledin Corporate Responsibility.
Please see page 39 for a fuller report on the initiative.
Brewin Dolphin 22 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Efficiency Looking ahead: 2019 and beyond Improving our efficiency is one of the four strategic objectives Despite the many geopolitical uncertainties in the world around us, seepage 24 driving our growth strategy.
During the year, our ambition remains to continue pursuing our growth strategy.
wefocused on actions and investments in several areas that We will therefore continue throughout 2019 and the years ahead are designed to enhance efficiency and so increase the value to invest in a disciplined manner in our talent and enabling andreturns of our activities.
technologies that underpin our ability to deliver against our growthand efficiency objectives.
Streamlining services The most significant future financial investment, at this time, The Group has withdrawn its advisory dealing service with the will be the replacement of our core custody and settlement exception of our Jersey office clients.
Additionally, we are revising system.
This is likely to span two years.
the pricing of our advisory managed service to reflect the higher cost of provision following recent regulatory changes, this service Changing consumer habits, market dynamics, technological has not been available to new clients for several years.
This has innovation and competitor activity mean the need for change resulted in substantial advisory funds transferring into other andimprovement is continuous.
Regulation remains of high services within the Group, this included 0.9 billion of transfers importance, with MiFID II continuing to be a key focus and new from the advisory managed service to direct discretionary.
challenges such as the Senior Managers and Certification Regime SMCR coming into force.
The transfer of advisory funds is already proving to be a driver ofefficiency and value thanks to the enhanced cost-efficiencies With respect to Brexit, we are prepared to take all necessary and involved in the move.
We will continue to service all remaining appropriate measures to address any eventualities thatemerge, advisory managed clients where it is a suitable service for them for our employees, clients and the business as awhole.
We are and they do not wish to change services.
Currently, such clients well positioned to withstand market-wide stresses triggered represent only 2.3% of the total value of our funds.
Meanwhile, we believe that we are well placed to grasp the market Investments in technology opportunities presented by factors like pension freedoms and the We have a clear vision of our technological priorities and growing need for advice.
We are confident that our business development path.
During the year, we made a number model, scale and focus mean we are in an ideal position to capture ofinvestments in this area, and continue to explore further future growth opportunities.
investments in a broad range of technologies and processes tosupport our business.
A complete technology workspace and communications David Nicol refresh in Autumn 2017 has aided and increased collaborative Chief Executive Officer working across the Group, both enhancing the general working 27 November 2018 environment and promoting agile working.
The refresh was highly successful, contributing to a 16.4% increase in the proportion of people giving a positive confirmation to the statement in the staff engagement survey: I have the equipment and resources I need to do my work properly.
Thiswas the single biggest percentage rise for any statement in our most recent employee engagement survey see page 39 for further details.
We have undertaken a significant programme of work this yeartoprepare for the commissioning of a new Client Management System.
Technology is a key enabler of effective communication with ourclients.
During the year, we launched our new client portal, MyBrewin, which is now enabling our clients to view their portfolios and valuations online.
We will continue to upgrade and enhance the portal over future years.
Our core custody and settlement system is nearing the end of its useful life and will need to be replaced.
A process is currently underway to identify a suitable vendor, and we anticipate announcing our final selection during the first quarterof 2019.
This will be a major investment and we are fully confident that it will support the long-term growth and sustained success of our business.
