Strategic Management Chief Executives review Nicandro Durante Chief Executive The Groups vapour portfolio performed A winning strategy strongly with significant growth in both After 37 years at BAT, eight of them as CEO, I will volume and revenue across our 15 vapour retire in April 2019.
I have seen BAT evolve and markets.
Momentum increased, with growth grow throughout my career, and am confident weighted towards the second half of the year that this will continue during the dynamic period driven by new market and product launches.
of change the industry is going through today.
Total vapour volume was up by 35% on a When I became CEO in 2011, we articulated representative basis with good performances a strategy to put the consumer at the heart in the worlds three largest vapour markets of our business, and a vision to be the best at the US, the UK and France.
satisfying consumer moments in tobacco and In oral tobacco we continue to grow value beyond.
This strategy has enabled us to deliver with strong performances from modern oral consistent outstanding year-on-year growth products such as Epok in Sweden, Norway and shareholder returns, while at the same time and Switzerland, as well as traditional establishing a successful and diverse potentially products such as Grizzly in the US, where reduced-risk products PRRP business designed revenues were 931 million, an increase of to meet the evolving and varied preferences of 3.1% on an adjusted representative basis.
Reynolds American Inc. RAI Thanks to this strategy, the Group continues to perform well.
Our 2018 reported revenue RAI is delivering strong financial results for and profit from operations are up 25% and the Group.
In 2018, revenue was up 128% 45% respectively, and while this is of course as a result of the full year effect.
This was due primarily to our first full years inclusion an increase of 1.5% on a representative of results from the US, we have nonetheless constant currency basis, and was driven again exceeded our target of high single figure by robust price mix and a 25 basis points adjusted diluted constant currency EPS growth growth in value share, despite a decline in with an increase of 11.8%.
This was driven total volume.
With adjusted operating margin not only by the strong performance of our up 180 bps, adjusted profit from operations combustible business, but also by the nearwas up 5.8% on a representative, constant doubling of THP and vapour revenue.
Annualised cost savings resulting from the acquisition are now running at over Notwithstanding these results, it is clear US$300 million per year, and we are on track that the market has concerns in relation to to deliver at least US$400 million per year in the impact of the changes the industry is cost synergies by the end of 2020. going through and in respect of threatened regulatory developments.
I am, however, While FDA regulatory proposals have driven confident that the business is in extremely some uncertainty in the US operating good shape and that these changes, in reality, environment, our long track record of success present significant opportunities for future in the face of regulatory change and our growth.
With our core combustibles business strong portfolio of brands give us confidence outperforming the industry, and with a strong that we will be able to manage these issues.
and broad multi-category portfolio of PRRPs We are additionally reassured by the fact capable of meeting the evolving preferences that, in order to withstand judicial review, of consumers around the world, I believe we any regulation of menthol in cigarettes must are in a good position to deliver long-term be developed through a comprehensive sustainable growth.
rule-making process, be based on a thorough scientific review and consider all A strong portfolio of both unintended consequences.
combustibles and PRRPs Handing over Our results in 2018 reflect the successful I am extremely pleased that the Board has performance of all elements of our portfolio, chosen Jack Bowles as my successor.
I have no and highlight the importance of expanding doubt that his broad-ranging experience and consumer choice across all of our categories.
expertise, combined with his energy, passion In combustibles, Group market share was and drive for success, will help ensure the up 40 basis points, driven by another strong future growth of the Company.
performance from the Strategic Cigarette and I am tremendously proud of what we have THP brands, which grew volume by 5.8%.
achieved in the last eight years, and would like In THP, our revenue increased to 565 million to thank all of my colleagues across the Group or576 million, at constant rates.
Our glo brand for their part in this.
has achieved 4.7% market share 20% category share in Japan, and continues to grow market share in South Korea, Romania and Italy.
12 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Jack Bowles Chief Executive Designate An exciting time for BAT Accelerating the delivery It is an exciting time for me to take over as ofourstrategy CEO.
Our industry is evolving and with this With confidence in our multi-category comes great opportunity.
approach, we are now focused on our need to accelerate the delivery of our transforming With our depth of talent, our iconic brands tobacco ambition.
Notwithstanding our and our range and pipeline of PRRPs, I am great success to date in establishing our PRRP confident that we will take full advantage business, we acknowledge that we are at of these opportunities as we accelerate the start of a long journey.
As the number of the transformation of BAT into a stronger our consumers grows, our focus will be on multi-category tobacco and nicotine accelerating our strategy to ensure that our products company.
products are able to satisfy the preferences Strong foundations of those many millions of adult smokers who are still looking for a satisfying but less risky It gives me great comfort to know that the alternative totheir current products.
fundamentals of our business are in such good shape.
Our combustible business continues In order to further enhance the focus on to deliver strong year-on-year growth.
our consumers we have created two new Our acquisition of RAI has made us a truly Management Board roles.
Our new Director international tobacco and nicotine products of New Categories will have end-to-end business, and our PRRP business is firmly accountability for driving growth, innovation, established and growing.
world-class brand building and consumer insights for our PRRPs, while our new Director Our current strategy, with its aim of being of Digital and Information is tasked with the worlds best at satisfying consumer responsibility for enhancing our digital moments in tobacco and beyond, remains consumer capabilities.
as relevant today as it was when it was first rolled out in 2012.
The consumer is, and will Vision for success continue to be, at the heart of everything we I am excited about the challenges and do.
We know that our consumers tastes and opportunities that lie ahead for us.
We have preferences are evolving and fragmenting, the right strategy, the right foundations, the and it is to satisfy these varied preferences that right vision, and, most importantly, employees we have developed a broad range of different with the right skills and attitude to enable us products with the potential to provide lower to keep growing the Company for many years risks than combustible cigarettes.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 13
