Strategic Report CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Our good results demonstrate the consistent strategic progress we have made across the business This has been another good year across our business.
We let four times as much London office space as last year a clear demonstration of the attractiveness of our unique campuses.
In Retail, we let or renewed over 1 million sq ft of space, well ahead of ERV and at 98% occupancy our portfolio is effectively full.
All of this helped drive NAV up 5.7% with values up 2.2%.
Our financial performance was robust with profits down 2.6% following 1.5 billion net sales of income producing assets over the last two years, of which 0.8 billion completed this year.
We have maintained our capital discipline, completing a 300 million share buyback and increasing our dividend again by 3% while reducing LTV to 28%, further strengthening our financial position.
At the same time, we have completed our super-prime Clarges Mayfair residential development and the 60 million refurbishment of Meadowhall, while doubling our committed development pipeline.
All of this was done on a carefully risk managed basis, with 55% of committed developments already pre-let or under offer.
This is a great achievement at an early stage and gives us confidence in both our strategy and in the quality of the space we are delivering.
Future British Land: continuing to evolve our business The current strength of British Land is underpinned by the consistent strategic actions we have pursued over several years.
We identify and invest behind the attractive long term trends which are driving our core business.
In recent years this has included the development of our campus strategy, investments into locations which benefit from Crossrail, and most recently the launch of Storey, our flexible workspace offering.
Going forward, we are focused on building an increasingly mixed use business and continuing to evolve our model and respond to changing Outlook customer needs.
Indicatively, future British Land will comprise: Businesses remain cautious but continue to commit to London and the supply of high quality new office space is relatively constrained, A campus-focused London Office business: with a blend of core so we expect demand for our space to remain firm.
In Retail, the and flexible space, including the further build out of Storey, market is more challenging with many occupiers facing short term integrated alongside a strong retail and leisure offering at headwinds.
Polarisation is accelerating but we are confident that the our campuses: quality and range of our space meets retailers evolving needs in the A further refined Retail business: including high quality, well omni-channel retail world.
located Regional and Local assets but focused on a smaller number of larger, multi-let places with mixed use potential: We are mindful of the current market environment, but the strengths Residential, primarily Build to Rent: will play an increasingly of our business, including the scale, balance and quality of our important role in our mixed use business.
It is a structural portfolio, the opportunities we have created and our strong balance growth market which is complementary to our core model.
sheet mean we look to the future with confidence.
We will progress existing opportunities within our portfolio such as Canada Water and explore ways to build further London Offices meaningful exposure.
Our Offices business had a strong year with values up 4.5%.
Leasing activity covered more than 1.2 million sq ft, delivering 40 million of As we do this, we will remain disciplined regarding our use of capital, future rent a strong endorsement of our campus strategy.
investing in our business and progressing development, while remaining mindful of the importance of shareholder returns.
8 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 This year, we updated our values to reflect the way our Our priorities in building the future business is changing: of British Land Further refine the shape of our portfolio and relative mix of exposures including: expansion of Storey and our flex Bring your Listen and office offering: further refining our Retail assets and whole self understand explore options in attractive market segments which are complementary to our existing model, such as residential, principally build to rent Continue to invest in technology innovations and insights and build our operational expertise to understand and Be smarter Build for respond to changing customer needs and identify the key together the future trends in our industry Further enhance the resilience of our Retail business, ensuring the future shape of our portfolio is optimised and focused on assets which we believe will be successful in Read more at w w w. britishland.
com values an omni-channel retail world and meet the changing needs of our customers Continue to progress our development projects, focusing our strategy.
However, Retail remains a core part of our business.
on our London campuses, and further increase the mix This year we made acquisitions in Woolwich, south east London of uses and occupiers across our assets, reflecting the and in Ealing, adjacent to our existing Ealing Broadway shopping evolving demands of customers to drive enduring demand centre: both are well-connected mixed use assets with development for our space potential.
In addition, we completed the 60 million refurbishment Continue to enhance the diversity within our business, of Meadowhall to ensure it is well positioned to meet the changing promoting inclusion across our operations and our assets: demands of consumers into the future.
and embed our new corporate values Development activity Development is an important part of how we deliver value.
This year we We secured several major lettings at Broadgate, including SMBCE made strong progress on our pipeline of opportunities, with committed at 100 Liverpool Street, demonstrating the continued appeal of developments more than doubling to 1.6 million sq ft, and risks carefully London to global financial institutions.
55% of the future rent from these developments, estimated business, took space at 1 Finsbury Avenue 1FA, and Eataly, the at 63 million, is pre-let or under offer and our speculative exposure Italian marketplace, will open their first UK site at 135 Bishopsgate.
remains low at 4.5% of the portfolio value.
Committed construction This broad range of activity demonstrates our focus on enhancing costs of 427 million are substantially covered by 373 million of the mix of uses and occupiers on the campus to create a seven-dayClarges Mayfair residential receipts to come post year end.
Elsewhere, we signed the largest West End pre-let in 22 years at Regents Place and our development Looking further ahead, we have created a range of opportunities in at Paddington, 4 Kingdom Street was nearly 90% let ahead of launch our near and medium term pipelines, which we have the flexibility in June 2017, significantly ahead of ERV.
to progress when the time is right.
This includes Canada Water, where our masterplan will create a new urban centre for London.
We are also pleased with the progress of Storey, our flexible We signed the Master Development Agreement with Southwark workspace offer launched in June 2017.
It now covers 114,000 sq ft, Council and submitted our outline planning application for the with space at each of our three campuses and is now 77% let.
We masterplan in May 2018. have allocated additional space at 1FA, 4 Kingdom Street and Wells Street, so total space will reach more than 230,000 sq ft in the short Sustainability term with further long term plans for expansion.
This was our second year holding the Queens Award for Enterprise, the UKs highest business accolade recognising our economic, Retail social and environmental achievements.
Our activity this year has In Retail, values were up 0.3%, with positive ERV growth offsetting supported 228 people into work, through Bright Lights, our skills yield expansion.
Our leasing activity covered 1.2 million sq ft and employment programme.
35 of our retail and leisure occupiers generating 7 million in additional rent, with incentives unchanged.
participated in Starting out in Retail, helping 100 young people find At 98% occupancy, our portfolio is effectively full and is employment, and building on this, we will be introducing Starting Out outperforming benchmarks on both footfall and sales.
In support of the Living Wage Foundation, we pay all Group employees at least the voluntary living wage rate We delivered this strong operating performance in the context of and encourage our suppliers to do the same.
This year, our three ongoing, long term structural changes in the market.
As online London campuses became Living Wage Accredited Employers, retail grows, many operators are evolving their models to focus on with everyone we employ to manage and maintain the campuses, the optimal size, shape and nature of their physical store network.
including contractors, paid at least the London Living Wage.
This year, these challenges were compounded by short term trading headwinds, and several highly leveraged operators with challenged models applied for company voluntary arrangements CVAs.
We recognise these trends, and so for a number of years we have been actively repositioning our portfolio to focus on well located, Chris Grigg high quality space that reflects peoples changing lifestyles and Chief Executive drives enduring demand for our assets.
We have sold 2.3 billion of retail assets over the last four years, including 419 million this year, To read more visit w w w. britishland.
com CEOblog primarily single use assets but also multi-let space that does not fit British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 9
