STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS STRATEGIC REVIEW Simon Litherland Chief Executive Officer This year we have delivered another strong the year particularly strong, benefiting from unsweetened flavoured water, and we financial performance in a challenging the exceptional summer weather.
As we continued to invest in Purdeys, our natural environment and we have continued to anticipated, the introduction of the SDIL energy offering.
progress our long-term strategic goals.
and our transparent approach of differential We highlighted in our third quarter trading During the year we faced numerous pricing has accelerated the consumer statement that performance in the second headwinds, including the introduction of trend of switching away from higher sugar half of the year was disrupted by the the SDIL, disruption from the temporary drinks into low and no sugar alternatives.
shortage of CO2 across Western Europe, shortage of carbon dioxide CO in GB This has benefited our broad portfolio of 2 which limited the production of carbonated and Ireland during a period of prolonged low and no sugar brands, with Pepsi MAX, soft drinks.
We were unable to capitalise hot weather, and the impact of multiple Robinsons, 7UP Free, J2O and Tango all fully on the hot weather in July and August business failures in our customer base.
We remain confident as we navigated the CO2 shortage, but have Against this backdrop, our results are even in our approach to the levy and believe the now successfully recovered, as evidenced more impressive and demonstrate the continued evolution of consumer trends by Pepsi regaining significant market share resilience of the business, the strength of offers us further opportunities for growth.
our broad portfolio, the quality of our team This year, we leveraged the strength of and the strong relationships we have with France the Robinsons brand with the introduction our customers and partners.
It has been a challenging year in France.
of new premium ranges, Creations and The soft drinks market as measured by With balanced revenue growth and margin Cordials.
These have been a success, IRI declined, with poor weather having a improvement, we have grown adjusted growing both the brand and the squash significant impact on the syrups category.
We have also gained market share The majority of our revenue decline was in strategy in 2013 we have delivered adjusted and expanded penetration by increasing the private label sales, while the revenue from earnings per share CAGR of 9.8%, a number of households buying the brand.
our branded syrups range and Fruit Shoot dividend per share CAGR of 8.9% and J2O has benefited from an upweighted brand saw a more modest reduction and a total shareholder returns significantly marketing campaign, increased feature and corresponding loss of market share, in the ahead of both the FTSE100 and FTSE250.
display in store and growth in the sparkling face of intense competition.
Fruit Shoot declined this year, Below I will headline our performance juice brand, continued to grow, building on primarily due to continued competitive against our four strategic pillars: its organic credentials.
pressure and a decision to focus on value by reducing the number of price promotions.
We continued to focus on growing margins Generate profitable growth As part of our ongoing brand rejuvenation and bringing to market new ranges to meet in our core markets plan, we have launched a new 50% juice evolving consumer needs.
We recently GB variant, called Juiced, that is all natural and launched a premium Teisseire syrup range, In a turbulent market we have successfully has school compliance accreditation, and a Fracheur fide Fruits, that has 85% juice and executed our commercial plans, growing sparkling water variant.
We also maintained less added sugar, to broaden the appeal of our carbonates and stills portfolios and our focus on increasing our presence in our syrups to more consumers.
In the kids gaining market value share.
The GB soft categories that are small today but offer category, we have also launched Fruit Shoot drinks market as measured by Nielsen long-term growth potential, including Au-Jus, a 50% juice variant that follows has continued to grow this year, in both the launch of Aqua Libra, a sparkling the launch of Juiced in GB.
volume and value, with the second half of 12 WWW.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 6 REASONS TO INVEST IN BRITVIC 1 4 Britvic operates in a resilient A portfolio weighted and growing category, and towards low and no sugar: Ireland understands consumer needs: In GB and Ireland, we focus Our strong market position and broad A better for you portfolio on low and no sugar brands portfolio of low and no sugar brands which is moving ahead of the such as Robinsons, J2O, have delivered another strong financial market on reformulation.
Pepsi MAX, MiWadi and performance, despite a shortage of CO2 and Extending our core brands Ballygowan, with 89% of the introduction of the Sugar Sweetened into new occasions through our combined portfolio in GB Drinks Tax SSDT.
Successful revenue premiumisation and different and Ireland below or exempt management and positive pack mix has pack formats.
from the Soft Drinks Industry resulted in robust price realisation and has Targeting emerging, fastLevy and Sugar Sweetened also driven excellent market value share growing categories that offer Drinks Tax.
growth, led by our squash brands and long-term growth potential, In France and Brazil we have Ballygowan water.
The incremental benefit such as natural energy and introduced new products of the East Coast wholesale acquisition premium adult socialising.
including Teisseire Fracheur was fully realised in the first half of the fide Fruits in France and in year.
This acquisition has enabled us to Brazil we recently launched accelerate the distribution of Britvic brands Maguary Uno a concentrate in the growing Dublin on-trade sector.
that removes the need for Realise global opportunities in consumers to add sugar.
kids, family and adult categories In Brazil we have continued to invest for the long term, against a backdrop of macro uncertainty and a difficult consumer environment, including the national truckers strike in the third quarter.
The Bela Ischia acquisition is now integrated and delivering 2 5 synergies ahead of guidance, and it has A portfolio of market Growing international enabled us to expand both market and leading brands: presence: channel coverage.
Our focus on the In GB and Ireland, we have 41% of our revenue is now longer-term opportunity is being realised by a full portfolio of market generated outside of GB.
leveraging our group capability and range.
Since IPO we have made We continue to roll out Fruit Shoot into new We are also the bottler for acquisitions in Ireland 2007 regions, and we have recently launched a PepsiCo in GB and Ireland.
& 2017, France 2010 and new concentrate solution, Maguary Uno, In France and Brazil, we have Brazil 2015 & 2017. to broaden the brands consumer base by a smaller portfolio, but they Our brands are available in increasing ease of use and affordability.
include market leading brands 50 countries, including the In the USA we have focused on improving in their categories.
Netherlands, Belgium and the visibility and on-shelf position of Fruit the USA.
Shoot multipack to drive rate of sale and brand awareness, and we have also increased our distribution.
We expanded the range with the introduction of Hydro and Hydro sparkling water, which has also helped secure additional shelf space.
Fruit Shoot also remains the number two brand in the single serve kids market.
3 6 Progress this year has been encouraging and we will continue to pursue the multiLong-term track record of Strong market positions: pack opportunity, where scale is essential growing shareholder value: In GB and Ireland, we are to achieving sustainable profitability.
Our revenue CAGR has the number one supplier of been 3.9% 2013 to 2018. branded still soft drinks and In the Benelux markets we have continued Margins have increased our portfolio can be found in to focus on improving the underlying by over 300bps.
profitability of the business, offering a This has translated into an In France we are the number stronger platform to enable future growth.
EPS CAGR of 9.8% and a one syrups supplier.
Teisseire distribution and share has dividend CAGR of 8.9%.
In Brazil we are the number increased in Holland, and we continue to one supplier of concentrates.
expand the portfolio into adult soft drinks.
In the travel sector we absorbed the loss of Monarch Airlines, due to administration, exited unprofitable contracts and secured new, higher margin listings for brands including J2O and Purdeys.
BRITVIC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 13 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS STRATEGIC REVIEW CONTINUED Our portfolio of adult brands gives us a We continue to take steps to help our How sustainable is platform to drive premiumisation in the employees and our communities thrive.
Q category as well as enabling us to fully We are proud to have just launched a threethe revenue growth participate in the demand for new soft year strategic partnership with Diabetes in GB stills?
drinks in traditional alcohol-led occasions.
UK DUK, where we will contribute to We believe the growth we are It is still very early days in the development programmes to support children with delivering is sustainable.
GB stills of the broader premium adult socialising Type 1 Diabetes and their families through generated a robust revenue increase category, and it will require long-term focus a combination of corporate support and of 4.2% in the full year, with strong to build brands in this space, especially in employee donations and volunteering.
momentum in the second half of the the on-trade channel.
We are also working with DUK to help year.
This was due to a signicantly our employees take care of their health improved performance for Robinsons Continue to step change and wellbeing.
Robinsons growth has been our business capability driven by the recent innovation in We are delighted to have reduced our We are nearing the end of the capital the range including the introduction carbon emissions relating to production investment phase of the transformational of Cordials, Creations and Refreshd.
We also continue to business capability programme BCP, J2Os major marketing campaign take steps to reduce the impact of our which will give us a strong platform for featuring a cockney alpaca called packaging.
In 2018 we removed an growth in the years ahead.
Work at the Mojo, along with increased feature additional 600 tonnes of primary plastic sites in London and Leeds is now nished.
and display in store, resulted in J2O packaging through light-weighting: trialled In 2019 we will complete the investment delivering a strong second half.
the use of recycled PET: and invested in UK in Rugby and close the Norwich site recycling infrastructure through choosing towards the end of the year.
This has been to buy domestic Packaging Recovery a difficult time for the Norwich employees Notes.
We also signed up to the UK Plastic What were the main and I want to pay tribute to their continued Q Pacts 2025 targets including achieving drivers of growth dedication.
In Rugby, we have completed 30% recycled PET.
We helped engage the installation of three new can lines for carbs?
consumers through our continued support and made good progress with the onWe have delivered another year of of the Keep Scotland Beautiful antisite warehouse, aseptic and PET lines.
growth for brand Pepsi, driven by littering campaign and encouraged recycling The dedication of the team enabled us sugar-free MAX which generated and re-use of plastic at the Wimbledon to navigate a challenging year.
As well as more incremental value growth Championships through our historic the planned operational works, the team than any other cola variant in 2018. sponsorship with Robinsons.
overcame the temporary shortage of CO 2 Taste remains the #1 driver of cola in GB and Ireland, at the same time as choice and this years Taste Challenge In 2019 we will continue to play our part both markets were enjoying exceptionally again showed that MAX was the to increase recycling, reduce littering and warm weather.
Upon completion, the GB favourite cola with 61% preferring help create a circular economy in plastics.
production network will be comprised sugar-free MAX to Coca Cola classic.
We note the Chancellors proposal to of three sites located along the spine of At the same time, our owned brands, introduce a tax on the manufacture and the country in London, Rugby and Leeds.
R Whites and Tango, were both in import of plastic packaging which contains This will increase efficiency, reduce road revenue growth this year.
less than 30% recycled plastic in April 2022. miles, and help accelerate our ability to We welcome that the government will also respond to changing consumer trends with consult on potential reform of producer What impact has the agility and pace by expanding our range of responsibility and the Resources and Waste Q liquids, pack sizes and congurations.
Soft Drinks Industry Levy Strategy and we will engage constructively in their development of a holistic solution.
Build trust and respect The soft drinks category continues to Outlook in our communities grow in both volume and value terms While political and economic uncertainty will Building trust and respect in our following the implementation of the undoubtedly continue, we have consistently communities continues to be a key part levy.
Britvics strategy and long-term demonstrated that we are a strong, agile of our strategy and we have made further focus on health meant we entered the business, operating in a resilient category.
progress in 2018 through our A Healthier levy from a position of strength.
Today, With exciting plans for our portfolio of Everyday programme.
We have reduced 99% of our owned brands are below leading brands across our markets, we are our calories per 250ml serve by 16% this exempt from the levy in GB 90% in confident of continuing to make further year with absolutely no compromise on Ireland and our strategy to encourage progress in the coming year.
taste: a fantastic achievement of which healthier choices is working: the trend everyone at Britvic is rightly proud.
towards low no sugar has accelerated, benefiting Robinsons squash and Pepsi Simon Litherland MAX in particular.
Chief Executive officer 28 November 2018 14 WWW.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION OUR EXECUTIVE TEAM From left to right Simon Litherland Chief Executive Officer Clive Hooper Chief Supply Chain Officer Mathew Dunn Chief Financial Officer Matt Barwell Chief Marketing Officer Kevin Donnelly Ireland Managing Director Zareena Brown Chief Human Resources Officer Hessel fide Jong International Managing Director Zero sugar, lipPaul Graham GB Managing Director Joo Caetano fide Mello Neto Chief Executive Officer, Britvic Brazil smacking lemon taste Olivier Mercier Managing Director, France A quintessentially Steve Potts Chief Information, Transformation and Digital Officer Irish brand, Club has Jonathan Adelman Company Secretary excited consumers palates since it was Read more on first developed in pages 52-53 Dublin in the 1930s.
Renowned for its superior taste and texture the bits, Club can now be enjoyed sugar-free with Club Zero.
BRITVIC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 15 STRATEGIC REPORT MARKET DRIVERS Market drivers Whats happening?
The desire to live healthier lifestyles is perhaps the most significant and persistent global megatrend impacting beverages.
This includes increased anti-sugar sentiment, along with consumer demand for preventative nutrition, clean labelling i. e. all natural, store cupboard ingredients, daily hydration and 1 hyper-sensitivity to unfamiliar ingredients additives.
1 According to Euromonitors international survey, sugar reduction is at or near the top of consumer Healthier choices: concerns with regards to food and beverage intake in every global region, with considerable Sugar reduction and demand for growth in concern between 2015-2018.
This is a truly global concern with obesity now a bigger all natural products are key drivers global public health challenge than malnutrition.
Studies forecast that about a fifth of all adults 2 around the world will be obese by 2025. inuencing soft drink purchasing decisions Shoppers are looking for higher quality, better ingredients with authentic provenance, which is driving increasing demand for indulgent premium soft drinks.
3 In 2017, 65% of consumers said they would pay more for a premium product and premium 4 soft drinks grew 32% 74m.
The trend is being fuelled by the ageing population combined with rising global wealth and disposable income, prompting consumer demand for sophisticated propositions and new tailored experiences.
5 Consumers are also making conscious efforts to reduce alcohol consumption but do not want 2 to feel deprived.
This rising alcohol avoidance continues to drive demand for more complex adult soft drinks suited to occasions typically associated with alcohol.
Premiumisation: A drive towards premium options and tailored experiences The traditional retail landscape continues to change.
Consumers expect to nd the right product, in the right place, at the right time.
To capitalise on this expectation, retailers are seeking to capture as many shopper occasions as possible through consolidation e. g Tesco Metro Booker and diversication e. g. mini supermarkets in petrol stations and university campuses, coffee shops in clothes stores, convenience stores in hospitals.
3 More consumers are shopping online.
In the UK, online purchases delivered 8.3% of soft drinks value in 2017.
This is projected to grow to 13.5% by 2025 if online purchasing growth continues Convenience: 7 at the same rate.
The retail landscape is adapting to The biggest growth channel continues to be discounters as shoppers increasingly shift spend consumer demand for convenience towards better value options.
Whilst this may appear contradictory to the focus on premiumisation above, it is driven by the discounters offering more choice which includes premium ranges.
Through a combination of powerful campaigns, activism and scientific research, we are all increasingly aware of the impact that packaging waste, in particular plastics, is having on our environment.
Three areas underpin the focus on the environmental impact on plastic packaging: Plastic growth Production and use of plastics has been growing exponentially.
Increase in waste and slow progress on recovery and recycling Globally only 14% of plastic 9 packaging is collected for recycling and 40% of global plastic ends up in landll.
Plastic leakage to the environment There is significant leakage of plastic packaging into the environment and in particular the ocean.
The Ellen MacArthur Foundation predicts there will 10 be more plastic than sh in the oceans by 2050.
4 Consumers are increasingly concerned about the amount of plastic packaging they use, with 59% of consumers claiming they are doing more to reduce the amount of plastic waste that 11 they generate compared to last year.
However, shoppers still value convenience and price, Sustainability: 12 and sentiment is not currently translating into plastic-free behaviour.
Circular economy for plastics packaging 16 WWW.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Britvics insight team tracks the consumer and market trends impacting the soft drinks category to ensure our business strategy is optimised to capitalise on value-creating opportunities.
The impact How our strategy is optimised to respond 42% of consumers claim to proactively Public health is increasingly seen as Health is embedded in Britvics business a societal challenge, with obesity and strategy and as an industry leader on health, seek products that improve their health.
associated non-communicable diseases weve taken bold steps to help consumers putting pressure on health services, and make healthier choices.
so accountability for dealing with it is Our approach: i Reformulation to reduce calorie shifting from individuals to society with content with no compromise on taste or quality: government-led interventions, whether ii continual innovation weighted towards better 43% through direct measures such as taxes for you products: iii using the power of our on unhealthy products or ingredients brands responsibly to enable consumers to make of consumers are actively trying to sin taxes, or by imposing restrictions informed choices.
reduce their consumption of sugar.
To nd out more, please see our sustainability report on pages 36-43.
Adult soft drinks are a growing opportunity Britvic is well-placed to capitalise on the 48% for manufacturers, representing a premiumisation trend, having invested premium, attractive alternative for everyday signicantly in premium innovations and brand of consumers are actively choosing consumption and on special occasions.
extensions such as: Robinsons Cordials, Purdeys soft drinks with low or no sugar.
Craft and artisanal soft drinks products natural energy multi-vitamin drink and our continue to gain momentum.
Mathieu Teisseire bar tender range.
Plant-based formulations e. g. coconut and Britvics incubator company, WiseHead other plant waters with a premium, singleProductions, launched the super-premium and serve positioning are gaining popularity.
naturally light London Essence Company tonics Were seeing increased availability of lower and sodas which are now available in 26 cities 58% alcohol, alcohol-free, and premium soft around the world, in the most sophisticated bars drinks which address the social, political and and restaurants.
of consumers nd the claim economic concerns associated with alcohol zero sugar appealing in soft drinks.
consumption and drive demand for no low alcohol alternatives.
Low and no alcohol 6 sales grew 20.1% to 35m in 2017.
Online retailers, convenience stores Britvics diverse portfolio and exible supply and discounters are increasingly gaining chain capability combined with our strong relevance due to the convenience of customer relationships mean that we are shopping they provide paired with well-positioned to make the most of the extensive choices and easy productevolving retailer landscape.
Our portfolio of market-leading owned brands Discounter growth is expected to continue, and PepsiCo products, and wide range of SKUs with more store openings planned for the and pack sizes, means that we can deliver what next five years e. g. Aldi is building 70 new our broad range of customers require to deliver 8 stores in 2018. the right products to their consumers and so create shared value for ourselves and our customer partners.
Across Europe specically, we are facing We understand the environmental impact that 1.
Euromonitor Soft Drinks Global Industry Overview slide increasing regulatory action to manage the packaging can have at the end of its life, and we 26 https: www.
com content article euromonitorstrategy soft drinks global industry overview 121635 environmental impact of plastic packaging are committed to playing our part to reduce this.
at the end of life, including Deposit Return All of our PET plastic packaging is fully recyclable 2. source: Lancet Journal: Trends in Adult BMI, pg 1389 Schemes and scal measures.
This, in the UK recycling system and our packaging https: www.
com action showPdf?pii S0140- 6736%2816%2930054-X combined with mounting pressure from carries the on-pack recycling label to encourage consumers for more sustainable packaging, our consumers to recycle.
CGA Peach Brand Track April 2017 is increasing the focus and investment of We are committed to increasing the amount 4.
CGA OPMS On Trade MAT 30.12.2017 fast moving consumer goods businesses of recycled materials used in our PET bottles.
GlobalData 2016 Q4 global consumer survey on creating a more circular economy.
We have already eliminated over 600 tonnes of 6.
Nielsen & CGA, Total Market, MAT TY to Dec 2017 primary plastic packaging in GB through lightweighting our bottles in 2018.
Kantar Worldpanel global ecommerce report We continue to invest in research and 8.
Kantar Worldpanel Total Grocery, 12 w e data to development to investigate the use of alternative 08 Oct 2017 sustainable materials to package our products 9.
Ellen MacArthur Foundation: The New Plastics Economy and help minimise our environmental footprint https: www.
org publications while upholding the highest quality and  safety standards.
Ellen MacArthur Foundation: The New Plastics Economy To nd out more, please see our sustainability https: www.
org publications report on pages 36-43.  11.
Kantar Worldpanel LinkQ survey, Feb 2018 12.
IRI Hot Topic: Were Living in the Plastic Age Report May 2018 Read more see pages 18-19 BRITVIC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 17
