Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Chief Executives review We have once again demonstrated the strength of our value proposition and shown our ability to grow both organically and by acquisition across our international portfolio of businesses.
Operating performance With 87% of the Groups revenue generated Key highlights outside the UK, the strengthening of sterling Good increases in revenue, adjusted Group operating margin of 6.8%, against many currencies, particularly the US operating profit and adjusted profit down 10 basis points principally due dollar, has had a negative translation impact before income tax.
to decreases in North America and UK of approximately 3% on the Groups reported & Ireland, partly offset by increases in results.
As in previous years, the operations, Adjusted earnings per share Continental Europe and Rest of the World.
including the relevant growth rates and increased by 12% at constant changes in operating margins, are therefore exchange rates to 129.6p.
Committed acquisition spend of 183 reviewed at constant exchange rates to million, following a record year in 2017.
Strong organic revenue growth remove the distorting impact of these of 4.3% with all business areas Continued strong cash conversion of 94%.
Changes in the level contributing growth of 4% or more.
of revenue and profits at constant exchange rates have been calculated by retranslating the results for 2017 at the average rates used for 2018.
Unless otherwise stated, all references in this review and the operating review to operating profit are to adjusted operating profit while operating margin refers to adjusted operating profit as a percentage of revenue.
Details of the adjustments made to operating profit are set out in Note 3 to the financial statements.
Revenue increased 9% 6% at actual exchange rates to 9,079.4 million due to the benefit of acquisitions, partly offset by the impact of disposals, as well as strong organic growth of 4.3% with good contributions from all business areas.
Operating profit was 614.0 million, an increase of 7% 4% at actual exchange rates.
Operating margin of 6.8% was down 10 basis points at both constant and actual exchange rates, principally due to decreases in North America and UK & Ireland, partly offset by increases in Continental Europe and Rest of the World.
6 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements 87% of the Groups revenue was generated outside the UK In North America revenue rose 8% 4% at 3% at actual exchange rates and operating actual exchange rates due to the impact of profit was up 15% 5% at actual exchange organic growth together with the effect of rates as a result of both organic growth acquisitions, while operating profit increased and acquisitions, with the business area As the global leader and 3% unchanged at actual exchange rates operating margin increasing 20 basis as the operating margin declined 30 basis points 10 basis points at actual exchange expert in our industry, points at both constant and actual exchange rates to 7.6%.
we are proactively working rates to 6.0%, principally due to the impact of the significant additional lower margin Adjusted profit before income tax was with customers, suppliers grocery business which was fully absorbed 559.0 million, up 6% 3% at actual and other stakeholders during the second quarter of 2018 and higher exchange rates due to the growth in to promote and support operating costs.
Revenue in Continental operating profit, partly offset by an increase Europe rose 12% at both constant and actual in the net interest charge.
Profit before a sustainable approach exchange rates as a result of organic growth income tax was 424.8 million, an increase to the products we sell.
and the impact of acquisitions, partly of 7% 4% at actual exchange rates.
Basic offset by the disposal of OPM in France earnings per share were 8% higher 4% at in February 2018.
Operating profit was up actual exchange rates at 98.4p.
Adjusted 18% 17% at actual exchange rates as the earnings per share were 129.6p, an increase operating margin improved 50 basis points of 12% 9% at actual exchange rates, at constant exchange rates 40 basis points principally due to the increase in adjusted at actual exchange rates to 9.8% principally profit before income tax and a significantly due to the impact of higher margin reduced effective tax rate largely caused by acquisitions.
In UK & Ireland revenue was the reduction in the US federal tax rate from up 6% due to the impact of organic growth 1 January 2018. and acquisitions, partly offset by the disposal of the marketing services business Operating cash flow remained strong with in June 2018, but operating profit decreased cash conversion the ratio of operating cash 2% with the operating margin reducing by flow to adjusted operating profit at 94%.
50 basis points to 6.9% principally due to The ratio of net debt to EBITDA calculated challenging market conditions in the UK.
at average exchange rates decreased from In Rest of the World revenue increased 12% 2.3 times at the end of 2017 to 2.0 times.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 7 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Chief Executives review continued Over the course of the year, I am delighted Enor in Norway was purchased in July.
Prospects that we have been able to make significant The business is engaged in the supply of a Although we continue to face mixed progress on investment in IT and digital broad range of catering equipment to end macroeconomic and market conditions, projects and have rolled out further digital user customers in Norway.
Enor represents including uncertainties concerning global platforms which have enhanced our our first step into the Norwegian market trade, our strong competitive position, customers experience when interacting with and means that we now have businesses diversified and resilient businesses and our businesses.
We have also continued to operating in 31 countries globally.
Revenue ability to consolidate our fragmented focus on collaboration and sharing of best in 2017 was 27 million.
markets further are expected to lead to practice around the world which has brought continued growth.
additional benefits for our customers.
Finally, During October we entered into an I am pleased that we have stepped up our agreement to acquire Volk do Brasil In North America, the combination of efforts to work in partnership with both which is a leading distributor of personal organic revenue growth, which returned to customers and suppliers to develop the protection equipment, principally gloves, more normal levels during 2018, and the sustainability agenda by providing specialist to redistributors and end users in Brazil.
impact of acquisitions should lead to growth.
advice and assistance promoting alternatives As mentioned above, the acquisition was We continue to face inflationary pressures to plastic products and supporting the completed in January 2019.
Revenue in on operating costs but these will be development of innovative products to 2018 was 42 million.
mitigated by our recently implemented, increase the compostability and recyclability more focused and streamlined organisation of many of the items that we sell.
In early December we purchased CM Supply structure.
In Continental Europe, we expect in Denmark.
The business is engaged in to develop further due to the benefit of Acquisitions the supply of own brand and customised organic growth and acquisitions.
Growth During the year we agreed to purchase six foodservice products and packaging to in UK & Ireland will be impacted by the businesses for a total committed spend of customers operating in the hotel, restaurant disposal of the marketing services business 183 million.
These exclude Aggora and and catering sector.
Revenue in 2018 was in June 2018 and by future economic Talge, which we agreed to purchase in 2017 4 million.
conditions in the UK, which at this time and completed in early January 2018, but are unclear.
In Rest of the World, we expect include Volk do Brasil which we agreed to Today we are announcing the acquisition of to see continued growth for the year.
acquire in October 2018 and completed in Liberty Glove & Safety, a supplier of safety January 2019. products to distributors based in the US.
The Acquisitions are a key part of our strategy business supplies a full range of personal and, with an active pipeline of opportunities In January 2018 we acquired Revco which protection equipment with a focus on gloves.
and ongoing discussions taking place, we supplies workplace safety and personal Revenue in 2018 was 70 million.
expect to complete further transactions protection equipment to redistributors in during 2019. the US.
Disposals During the year we sold OPM in France and The Board believes that the prospects of QS, a provider of hygiene solution services our marketing services business in the UK.
the Group are positive due to its strong primarily for washrooms in the Netherlands These were non-core businesses that market position and well established and with a focus on customers operating in the were no longer considered to be a strategic successful strategy to grow the business government, healthcare and foodservice fit within the Group.
The aggregate revenue both organically and by acquisition.
sectors, was acquired in March.
Revenue of these businesses in 2017 was 94 million.
Monte Package The total cash consideration received was Frank van Zanten Company, which was also purchased in 59 million with a pre-tax profit on disposal Chief Executive March, is engaged in the distribution of of 14 million and an associated tax charge 25 February 2019 a variety of packaging products to fresh of 3 million which have not been included food growers and packers, principally in in calculating adjusted profit before income the Eastern US.
Revenue in 2017 was tax and adjusted earnings per share.
