Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Our unique service offering Bunzls unique service offering is at the very heart of our approach to business and the reason our customers choose to buy from us.
By offering bespoke service solutions we become an integrated part of our customers business models.
Not all customers require all elements of the service offering but it is rather like a menu that they can select from, with some taking more and some taking less.
One-stop-shop Value One-stop-shop: this is the very essence of added the Bunzl business model.
By providing our On-time, services customers with a broad range of essential in-full delivery Read more items, readily available from stock, they are pg 16 able to focus on their core businesses, achieve purchasing efficiencies and savings and minimise their working capital requirements.
Expert One order, knowledge one delivery, On-time, in-full delivery: reliability is key and advice one invoice to our customers.
We provide an on-time and Read more pg 15 in-full service by maintaining high product Customised availability, together with customised delivery slots and beyond the back door delivery options.
solutions Customised One order, one delivery, one invoice: digital Delivery by ensuring we stock what we sell and sell solutions options what we stock our customers receive all of Read more pg 17 their ordered items in one consolidated delivery with one invoice to pay, thereby reducing costs and simplifying their internal administration.
Customised Competitively Customised digital solutions: by using management priced products Local and our scale and investing in our IT information national capabilities we are able to offer electronic distribution order processing through webshops network including customised versions, apps and Electronic Data Interchange, together with further enhancements such as budgetary controls and business specific tools such as asset tagging.
Customised management information: Expert knowledge and advice: our industry by utilising our advanced IT systems we are leading specialist sales force, together Competitively priced products: our strong able to offer our customers a wide range of with our locally based customer service and long standing relationships with the management information tailored to their specialists, work with our customers to branded manufacturers combined with our needs ranging from consumption data ensure they receive the best possible advice own brand products which are principally versus budget, compliant ordering, market on their product and service needs including sourced via our Shanghai purchasing office intelligence and supply chain studies.
sustainable alternatives, range rationalisation allow us to offer our customers a complete options and health and safety requirements.
range of products at competitive prices.
Delivery options: we can adapt our delivery options to suit our customers Value added services: our deep industry Local and national distribution network: needs including direct to site, warehouse knowledge enables us to offer extensive due to our extensive branch network and a replenishment and cross-dock delivery where value added services to our customers.
combination of our own fleet and third party we deliver to a customers hub, directly on to These include, but are not limited to, delivery options, we are able to deliver to their truck for onward delivery to their sites.
bespoke and printed product management, national, regional and local customers product training, design and installation wherever their location.
14 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Our unique service offering: Expert knowledge and advice Supporting our customers to reduce plastic use We help our customers identify and trial innovative sustainable products.
We have workedclosely with customers to understand their packaging footprint and take beneficial action to reduce its impact on the environment.
We work with customers with an objective of having a positive impact on the way packaging is treated at the end of its life and Industry leading specialised sales force to encourage them to see it as a valuable resource capable of and local customer service specialists having multiple lives as a useful product.
One of the most important aspects of our offering is our comprehensive range of In the UK we have partnered with a leading contract caterer innovative product and service solutions to support one of their high profile customers in the media that we are able to provide to our customers.
sector on their sustainability journey.
This has included Our 3,000 expert sales people across the using our expert knowledge and advice to review their entire Group, who are supported by 2,600 locally product range, introduce compostable, recyclable and recycled based customer service specialists, use their items, help with the introduction of a waste management deep and detailed knowledge to work closely system and provide alternative plastic free packaging and with our customers to ensure that they reusable items, working with a supplier to design an entire receive the best possible advice on a variety new range of compostable products.
of product and service related matters including range rationalisation, sustainable With the changing landscape for the future of more sustainable product solutions and product innovation.
items, we are especially well placed to support our customers going forward.
In 2018 we have been holding Sustainable Future customer forums, a collaborative Read more platform that helps both us and our pg 41 customers better understand our environmental pressures and to find new ways of working together for a more sustainable future.
3,000 2,600 Sales specialists Customer service specialists Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 15 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Our unique service offering: Value added services Our business in the Netherlands recently developed a new value added service for the healthcare market.
Through our review of a particular hospitals needs, we soon understood that the time spent on dealing with their consumable products was demanding too much from their own resources.
Since our products are essential to the everyday running of the hospital, we offered them a total supply chain solution which covered all aspects of the ordering and delivery process.
Our focused and dedicated teams were able to analyse the hospitals Our services take many different data what products were being used, when and at what price.
forms across each of our businesses Through a consultative workshop with the customer we have and geographies.
been able to show where they can save money, but without By providing value added services to our compromising on quality, by outsourcing the process to Bunzl.
customers we are able to enhance our service offering beyond just the products We have rationalised their supplier base and now deliver the that we sell.
If required, we also put them away in cabinets on the wards.
We record product lot numbers Within all of our businesses we are able and expiry dates and store and transport the goods carefully so to offer product training including helping items remain sterile.
our customers select the most sustainable yet fit for purpose products.
As an example, To simplify the ordering process, we have a seamless interface within our cleaning & hygiene businesses, for the customer between their business and ours.
The Bunzl we are able to assist with contract webshop branded for the customer is connected to their ERP mobilisations to ensure that our customers system.
The hospital can ensure that only pre-approved have all the products they need in the products are ordered and track what orders have been right locations when they take on new placed and the scheduled delivery dates.
They can also contracts, thus allowing them to focus access their management reports to review consumption on their core businesses.
levels, authorisation limits and budgets by area in the hospital.
The overall outcome for the hospital is that they save administration time, free up working capital and release valuable storage space, leaving staff to work on clinical tasks.
After a successful trial, we have now rolled out the concept to a number of other hospitals in the Netherlands.
16 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Our unique service offering: Customised digital Digital tool helps customers manage their sourcing requirements solutions One of our safety businesses, Bunzl EPI in Brazil, has recently developed MOB short for mobile, which is a digital tool that manages the supply of personal protection equipment PPE to individuals working for a particular customer.
A customers employees can use MOB to order their PPE requirements via a mobile phone or tablet.
Bunzl EPI then packs and distributes the relevant products directly to the employee concerned.
State-of-the-art digital platforms Over recent years we have rolled out MOB includes details of the technical specifications by state-of-the-art digital platforms across product, including training information and expiration dates, many of our businesses which give our and can inform employees when the products need replacing.
customers the tools that they need to It also provides cost controls for the customer by notifying transact with us more easily.
By improving them when products are ordered by employees and providing the efficiency of their order processing, appropriate records of PPE compliance from a legal whether through specific, dedicated, perspective.
web platforms or the availability of data analytics and budgetary controls, we build The use of MOB has improved the operational efficiency of strong and long lasting relationships our operations while also being instrumental in helping to win with our customers who recognise that new business.
MOB has been implemented by a number of we are a specialist in our categories, customers including one of the largest telecom companies offering highlycustomised solutions.
in Brazil with 7,000 field employees using the tool to meet their ordering requirements.
Integrating e-commerce solutions into customers IT procurement systems for seamless ordering Using our IT capabilities we are able to integrate our e-commerce solutions into our customers own IT systems.
We dynamically integrate our own catalogue of products and related stock and pricing information directly into our clients procurement systems, using a protocol known as punchout.
By doing so, our customers only need to access one system to place orders, thereby making the whole procurement process simple, efficient and seamless.
