STRATEGIC REPORT ceo letter OUR STRATEGY As the Chairman noted in his letter, the luxury industryisevolving at a rapid pace.
Todays customers demand creativity, curation, excitement, innovation andpersonalisation at every turn and competition isintensifying.
With this in mind, in November we outlined a multi-year strategy to re-energise our products, our communication and the experiences customers have of our brand, while maintaining our focus on driving productivity, simplifying our business and strong financial discipline.
MARCO GOBBETTI Our vision is to establish Burberrys position firmly in luxury CEO fashion.
I strongly believe that by sharpening our positioning in the most rewarding and enduring segment of the market, we will drive sustainable growth and higher margins over WE HAVE MADE GOOD EARLY time, while continuing to deliver attractive returns.
PROGRESSAS WE MOVE TO THE A STRONG TEAM EXECUTION OF OUR STRATEGY Throughout the year, we have focused on building the teamto develop and deliver our strategy.
This has includedpromoting great internal talent and bringing in fresh expertise from outside Burberry.
This will continue across the business as we strengthen our operating model.
I am delighted to introduce Burberrys annual report forFY2017 18, my first as CEO.
In March, we welcomed Riccardo Tisci as Burberrys new Chief Creative Officer.
Riccardo is one of the most talented This was a good year and our results represent strong and influential designers of our time.
His designs have a execution through a period of transition.
Customers contemporary elegance and his skill in blending streetwear responded well to our innovation in product.
Our with high fashion is highly relevant to todays luxury conversion improved as we focused globally on retail consumer.
I am excited about how he will reshape our excellence.
Our top customers increased their spend offerand confident he will reinforce our ambitions in andour digital channels outperformed.
someencouraging early signs regarding our new strategy todeliver sustainable long-term value for shareholders.
At the same time, we bid farewell to Christopher Bailey.
Iwould like to echo Sir Johns comments about Christopher FY 2017 18 PERFORMANCE and acknowledge his immense contribution to Burberry Burberry reported FY 2017 18 revenues of 2.7bn, up 2% over the past 17 years.
He leaves an incredible legacy and atconstant exchange rates, excluding Beauty wholesale.
strong foundations on which we can build the future of Adjusted operating profit was 467m, up 5% atconstant thebrand.
exchange rates reported operating profit was410m, up4% at reported rates.
We also delivered 44m of I would also like to thank Sir John ahead of his departure incremental cost savings in FY 2017 18, ahead of plan, inJuly.
Sir John has presided over a period of extraordinary putting us on track todeliver the target of 100m change since becoming Chairman in 2002 as Burberry cumulative savings in FY 2018 19, and 120mof evolved into one of the worlds most valuable luxury brands.
I am particularly grateful for his guidance and partnership.
12 STRATEGIC REPORT EARLY PROGRESS OUR VALUES Over the last six months, we have focused on building the As a global company with more than 10,000 employees right platform for transforming Burberry.
While the task is across 35 countries, creating shared purpose and unifying still before us, the first steps we implemented to rearound aligned values and behaviours is vital to the energise our brand are showing promising early signs.
successful delivery of our vision.
This year, we have made good progress on our commitment to engage employees, We have introduced tighter, more productive collections empower our leaders, strengthen capabilities, expand our and stepped up the frequency of deliveries of fresh talent plans and simplify how we work.
product, attracting new customers and top-tier clients.
We have created a new architecture for handbags with a With a supply chain network of thousands more people pipeline of innovative launches planned from Spring 2018. worldwide, we also have an opportunity to drive positive Underpinning our ambitions in this key category, we have sustainable change across every part of our footprint.
In announced plans to create a centre of excellence for this regard, we have set ourselves ambitious goals through leather goods with the acquisition of a business from a to 2022 to address our social and environmental impacts, renowned Italian developer and supplier of luxury leather while supporting the Burberry Foundation in creating handbags andaccessories.
long-term partnerships that fuel innovation and transformcommunities.
We have started to evolve the way we communicate withour customers, introducing several exciting new We are also committed to narrowing our gender pay gap collaborations across product, brand and experiences.
and making further progress on issues of diversity, gender Wehave refreshed our digital platforms, with more and ethnic representation.
curatedand editorialised content, generating increased customer engagement.
OUTLOOK Given the scale of our ambition for the brand, and the In line with our strategy to reach a younger, digitally-savvy significant amount of change in the business over the last fashion consumer, we successfully launched an innovative 12months, we have made a positive start to theexecution collaboration with Farfetch.
This opened up our full of our strategy.
We are on track with our plans and our inventory to a third-party for the first time and expanded teams are energised by the opportunity ahead.
our reach to more than 150 countries around the world.
I would like to thank Burberry employees and partners for As part of efforts to embed the customer more closely their work in FY 2017 18 and especially for their support to ineverything we do, we restructured the central retail me in my first year as CEO.
The innovative spirit that has andcustomer teams, creating a Retail Centre of defined Burberry for more than a century burns brightly as Excellence.
Ourretail metrics are already benefiting, we embark on the next phase of Burberrys transformation.
withimprovements in conversion and significant .
MARCO GOBBETTI CEO We held productive conversations with our wholesale partners with regard to evolving our distribution, while making some strategic retail store closures.
In terms of operational excellence, we are delighted to have opened Burberry Business Services in the heart of Leeds.
The new office brings together shared services from Finance, HR and Procurement, Customer Service and IT.
Agile and efficient, it is already generating savings and helping improve service.
