10 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report CEOs Review Simon Thomson, Chief Executive Officer Building a balanced business for the long term Cairn today embodies the vision we set out for the company five years ago.
In 2013 we stated that we would re-gear the capital base to exploration success, access future cash flow to fund exploration programmes and hold appropriate equity interests in operated, frontier exploration.
Today, this is what we have achieved.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 11 Strategic Report We enter 2019 with a balanced portfolio of Looking to the future Cairn would like to thank both Jackie and exploration, development and production We recognise that the world is facing Alexander for their excellent contributions assets, both operated and non-operated, challenges associated with climate change to the Board during their years of service to at appropriate levels of equity exposure.
and we acknowledge that the associated Cairn.
The Company is currently engaged Our frontier exploration position in Senegal, two-degree climate target scenario will in a recruitment process to appoint two acquired in 2013, has yielded material require significant growth in renewable non-executive directors, at least one of exploration success and our production energy sources.
However, oil and gas will whom will be female.
assets in the North Sea, acquired in 2012, continue to be societys primary energy are now providing cashflow to support future source and meet a growing demand for Outlook exploration, appraisal and development.
We many years to come and we believe we Cairn looks forward to a number of continue to feed our pipeline of exploration have a role to play in helping to meet that potentially material near-term exploration assets, acquiring exploration acreage in a demand.
We will continue to work to better drilling opportunities, supported by number of new countries during 2018. understand and respond to the climate established cashflows from producing change associated challenges facing the assets and sustained by assets entering Creating value industry.
We will continue to work to global the development phase.
The Company is Our strategy continues to be to deliver value standards and reaffirm our commitment fully funded for all committed expenditure, for stakeholders by exploring, developing to the United Nations Global Compact, and continues its focus on delivering value and producing hydrocarbons, helping a voluntary initiative based on CEO for its stakeholders within the constant countries to develop their own resources commitments to implement universal of a responsible and safety focused for economic benefit and energy security.
sustainability principles in support of strategic offering.
In Senegal, we believe transformational potential can be achieved through the Board changes development of our significant hydrocarbon Jackie Sheppard retired as a non-executive discoveries.
With more than US$1 billion director of the Company at the year-end invested to date through the joint ventures having served on the Board since 2010. activities, we believe that the development Alexander Berger, non-executive director, and production of hydrocarbons will continue has served on the Board for nine years and to deliver significant social and economic has advised the Company that he will not be benefits for the country and people of seeking re-election at the Annual General Senegal.
The SNE project will deliver oil Meeting in May 2019.
He will therefore retire production and subsequently domestic gas from the Company on that day.
supply, ultimately creating significant local employment opportunities, both direct and indirect.
Senegal shore base team Dakar, Senegal
