08 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Chief Executive Officers review Our transformation is on track Its now been more than a year since I joined Capita and the company has achieved a considerable amount.
We have launched a multi-year transformation process and are rebuilding the organisation.
Our mission is to become One Capita, an integrated and refocused business, successful and sustainable, with stronger client relationships.
We want to make a positive, responsible contribution to society and be a force for good.
From the financial perspective, the business will be more predictable, more profitable and sustainably cash-generative.
This has meant going back to fix the fundamentals and devising a new strategy, underpinned by a company-wide purpose and clear new operating model.
We are continuing to execute our strategy to simplify, strengthen and succeed and have made real progress on remedying many of the basics.
Over the past year, our thousands of people, in the UK and abroad, have proved very resilient.
Important work has been done every day, aimed at delivering better outcomes for all stakeholders our people, shareholders, clients, suppliers and the communities we serve.
Fixing the basics As outlined in last years Annual Report, Capita had become overly complex Our operating model is our single biggest lever of change.
and inefficient, focused on short-term performance, characterised by a lack of Its the blueprint for how we run the company and makes long-term planning and investment, and the reforming Capita real for all stakeholders.
challenged by execution issues on several major contracts.
Jon Lewis, Chief Executive Officer We made a strong start in 2018 to turning the company around and are on track with the execution of our transformation plan.
We started to rebuild, redefining the divisions and creating robust, accountable and centralised functions which define how we do things company-wide.
Further top-level talent has been recruited to senior leadership positions, and a clear sense established of what Capita is and should be, and of how it can succeed.
We have introduced a purpose-driven and values-based culture, alongside our operating model.
It provides managerial discipline and a corporate blueprint, and is designed to deliver the highest standards of service, delight clients and deliver value for all our stakeholders.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 09 We raised, with shareholder support, 701m How Capita carries out its purpose and Net debt was 466.1m, down from 1,117.0m gross proceeds in a rights issue, and 408m delivers better outcomes is now defined in 2017, reflecting the completion of the from disposals: we have fide-leveraged our by our new operating model.
It constitutes rights issue, the receipt of the proceeds balance sheet.
We delivered on our costthe blueprint for how together we run from disposals and the free cash outflow.
We agreed a the company underpinned by a clear The adjusted net debt to adjusted EBITDA 1 pension deficit reduction plan.
We have strategy, an organised structure, stronger ratio at 31 December 2018 was 1.2 times.
updated our payment terms for suppliers governance and controls, and wellMore details about our financial performance in the UK and Ireland to build better defined accountabilities.
can be found in the Chief Financial Officers relationships with our partners.
I believe our operating model represents Our corporate risk profile has stayed largely the single biggest lever of change the new Cost competitiveness the same as in 2017.
However, we are leadership team has introduced at Capita.
continually improving the way we manage Its truly self-reinforcing, joins everything Capita has identified a significant, multi-year our risks: effective risk management will be together corporately, and makes the opportunity to reduce costs and improve key to the successful delivery of Capitas reforming Capita real for all stakeholders.
operational efficiency, including: strategic objectives.
Despite being a major step forward, the Reductions in general and administration, Its a mark of good management teams operating model will also take some time IT and property expenses.
that they deliver what they said they to become truly embedded.
I dont expect Centralising more of our procurement would deliver, and Im pleased with our everything to happen easily.
But what I do and driving value from our 1bn external achievements over the past year.
We are expect is for every leader and everyone in the spend with suppliers.
fundamentally in a much better place.
company to start making the changes that At the end of year one of our three-year will reform Capita as a truly purpose-led, Operational excellence, increasing turnaround, we are where we expected to values-driven business.
This is the journey we the use of offshoring and automation, be and have a clear plan laid out for 2019. are on together and Im committed to seeing and improving the consistency of us get there.
Purpose and operating model Adopting lean methodologies and being Financial performance smarter in terms of how we work.
We recently unveiled Capitas purpose we create better outcomes allied to a For the full year ending 31 December 2018, We made a strong start on executing these 1 refreshed set of values and behaviours.
Capita reported adjusted revenue of 3.9bn.
cost competitiveness initiatives in 2018, For the first time, the companys true Revenue declined year-on-year, due to the delivering in-year savings of 70m.
We plan purpose has been defined.
It is the single limited benefit from contract wins being to accelerate the realisation of savings reason we exist: it directs and motivates outweighed by contract losses and scope from our programmes, and now expect to all of us: and shapes all our decisions and and volume changes in Government Services, realise 175m of cumulative savings from actions.
Capita never had this before that is Customer Management and Specialist these initiatives by the end of 2019.
We will why we had to change, swing the pendulum, Services, including the re-shaping of our invest some of these savings in building and provide direction and clarity.
Defence Infrastructure Organisation DIO our capability to drive growth.
The cost of contract and Home Office escorting, on achieving these savings was 55m in 2018 Cultural and behavioural changes will which we chose not to re-bid.
There was also and is expected to be 95m in 2019, making inevitably take time to become fully a decline in transactional revenue in People a total of 150m which is included as part of integrated into the organisation.
But our new Solutions and IT & Networks.
purpose and re-emphasised values will be the 1 driving forces behind Capitas transformation Adjusted profit before tax of 282.1m into a collaborative business, founded on was slightly ahead of our expectations.
As a responsible business, As expected, we had a free cash weve refocused our approach to addressing outflow in 2018, before rights issue the most material challenges that we and and disposal proceeds.
1 Refer to alternative performance measures on pages 197198.
10 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Chief Executive Officers review continued People Solutions next generation of First, weve completely rebuilt Capitas Targeted investments the candidate portal: automation of our relationship and partnership with the Since April, we have formed an investment pre-employment screening system: and British Army, and re-set our Recruiting review committee, chaired by me, for capital the development of a digital on-boarding Partnering Project RPP contract.
It is part of the disciplined system product to complement our suite of hire committed to making a success of RPP and, put in place to ensure more predictable to retire services.
thanks to great work being done by our outcomes.
The committee supports our goal partnership, the contract is starting to show Customer Management a new digital, of investing a total of up to 500m over signs of improvement.
The number of regular omni-channel contact platform to support three years, addressing historical undersoldier recruitment applications are at a fivewebchat, automation and messaging.
investment and, increasingly over time, year high and were working hard to reduce facilitating organic growth.
Government Services developing the amount of time it takes to join the Army.
business processing as a service We have subsequently approved a number We have been open about mistakes made capabilities to provide scalable, replicable of investments including: in the past and we know there is still a lot services to a wider customer-base.
for us to do to deliver on our commitments.
IT systems and infrastructure Targeted investments in robotic process But RPP is a critical public service to the automation RPA and machine-learning An organisation-wide customer Armed Forces and were determined to get technologies to support the execution relationship management CRM system, it right.
giving a holistic view and understanding Second, we took firm action towards the end of our customers, providing robust and IT & Networks modernising and of 2018 over issues relating to our Primary granular data to better predict future sales strengthening our IT infrastructure: Care Support England PCSE contract with and monetise customer relationships.
developing new products for cloud services, NHS England.
This followed the discovery cybersecurity and workspace agility: A new human resources system, to of delays in the issuing of cervical screening automating and improving IT service desk improve engagement and development correspondence, which forms part of the customer experience.
opportunities for all our people.
PCSE contract, to thousands of women.
The above are in addition to our ongoing Services and products We apologised to all the women affected by investment in the upgrading of our financial this administrative error and, following an Software completing the development system to improve our reporting, processes investigation of the managerial handling of of the next version of SIMS School and controls.
the matter, appropriate internal disciplinary Information Management System for action was taken.
We have improved quality secondary schools: an education software processes, and other operational service Challenging contracts parental engagement app: the creation delivery levels on the contract continue to of a cloud-based public safety platform I have talked previously of three problem be stable.
for emergency services products to contracts which continued to present Capita facilitate new sales opportunities: an with some challenges in 2018.
But we Finally, the transformation of our seveninitial investment in a payment facilitation have made encouraging progress with year customer services contract with solution for Pay360 and the re-platforming fixing the performance of these contracts mobilcom-debitel one of Germanys largest of our Retain resource management and are delivering against more of the key mobile, internet services and telecoms software to a new SaaS-based software performance indicators.
It is part of how products providers is now progressing well.
we have introduced a more disciplined, All revised transformation milestones have company-wide contractual process.
been met, including the launch of IOS and Android mobile customer-service apps.
Executing and delivering on our commitments to simplify, strengthen and succeed 2018 fix, stabilise and set direction 2019 build momentum 2020 deliver our targets Rights issue completed Increase investment More consistent and predictable Strategy in place Build organic growth engine and start Double digit EBIT margins shift to consultative selling Leadership and 175m of cost savings governance strengthened Acceleration of cost competitiveness At least 200m sustainable free Disposals executed ahead of plan Accelerate offshoring and automation cash flow Pension deficit addressed Technology and procurement Delivered 70m cost-out Launch our purpose and embed operating model Operating model launched and purpose, values and behaviours defined Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 11 The aggregate financial loss from these This has already seen progress, including Capitas order book at 31 December 2018 challenging contracts reduced from over in our partnership with Transport for stood at 7.1bn, compared with 8.2bn at 50m in 2017 to around 30m in 2018.
Core to this is the London 31 December 2017, reflecting that order We plan to generate an aggregate profit on congestion charge zone, low emissions intake was lower than revenue recognised in the contracts in 2020, including reaching zone and enforcement contract which the year and low levels of bid activity in 2017. break even on the PCSE and mobilcominvolves service provision from five Capita The decline in our order book in 2018 was debitel contracts by the end of 2020. divisions Government Services to run the driven by two parts of the business: contract, IT & Networks the underlying Life Insurance, which is running off and was IT infrastructure and network provision, Sales and growth impacted by the loss of Prudential.
Customer Management customer accounts Our transformation programme will Local government, where the market and enquiries, Software payment continue through 2019 and, in fact, be has structurally changed and clients are platforms and Specialist Services document intensified.
All six Capita divisions now shifting from long-term multi-activity services.
This contract led in turn to the have clearly defined value propositions, a contracts to buying processes as a service.
opportunity to provide ultra-low emissions simpler set of offerings and, in some cases, zone charging.
More widely, we provide core The order book for the rest of the business a fresh methodology by which to create network, asset, workplace and enforcement largely digitally-enabled services and growth opportunities.
While there are early services to TfL, as well as infrastructure software was stable.
This part of Capita signs that we can make real progress in consultancy.
It shows how we can work operates in growth markets and includes 2019, there is still much more to do: and successfully across divisions and functions, higher value-added services that we are we must demonstrate that we can again and is a good example of getting account investing in and want to grow.
to see these trends continue this year, Transformation of our growth function as Life Insurance and local government In 2018, we formed a new pre-bid contract under a new Chief Growth Officer will be a continue to decline and our investment review committee, which is operating well.
crucial factor in how we will pivot to growth.
in core propositions begins to bear fruit.
The committee reviews all contracts above We need to become more agile in our Capita continues to plan for a return to yearcertain financial thresholds, evaluating the thinking, approach and skill-sets.
on-year organic growth in 2020, driven by risks and commitments to ensure complete digitally-enabled services and software.
alignment with our operational and financial I have personal experience of running goals.
We strike an appropriate balance consulting businesses in software tech between delighting the customer, growing and the oil and gas industry.
At Capita, we Digital capabilities operating profit and the risk profile.
already have consulting services providing Getting back onto a growth trajectory, and insight and expertise in our chosen markets Order intake in the year was 1.8bn, largely optimising our portfolio, are part of our but they have been run in silos and not comprising contract wins and renewals multi-year transformation process, which leveraged across the business.
I am convinced in Customer Management, which won a we have clearly set out for all stakeholders.
that a stronger consulting capability at 300m extension and expansion of our The focus of the leadership team at Capita is going to remove our revenue existing contract with Germanys largest Capita remains firmly on delivering that dependency on tenders and help create integrated telecommunications provider, transformation and prosecuting our strategy new growth opportunities with existing and in Software.
of simplify, strengthen and succeed.
A stronger consulting will also need to look ahead carefully to We also announced a number of new capacity will also provide opportunities the Capita of the future, based increasingly contracts, some of which were delayed from for consultative selling.
earlier in the year, which are discussed in A shift to consultative selling, based on more detail in the divisional performance The lions share of the contracts we have industry knowledge, will transform Capita section on pages 2133. today involve a deep understanding of the in the sales and marketing area and leave business processes of a client and the use of no-one in any doubt that what we now have technology to provide insight, reduce risk, instead is a modern-day growth function.
drive productivity and produce a superior experience for clients customers.
DigitallyThe performance assessment of our existing enabled transformation is a common thread sales resources and the establishment of running through all this.
a focused customer account management structure, with well-honed consultative selling skills, is helping change how we engage with clients.
We are aiming to understand our clients better and build stronger, long-term partnerships, providing the best of Capita to create better outcomes and realise growth opportunities.
12 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Chief Executive Officers review continued Its why we are investing more in digital Investment in our people At a leadership level, we have further technology and entering into strategic IT strengthened the executive committee to Capita is a people-focused business and the partnerships.
For example, we agreed a fivesupport the delivery of our new strategy.
leadership team is committed to putting our year strategic partnership with Microsoft As well as a new Chief Growth Officer, people at the very centre of how we operate, for the use of Azure, its cloud computing we now also have a Chief Digital Officer: and on respecting and valuing all of them.
service, to support the roll-out of our cloud these new growth and digital roles are We are determined to instil a much stronger services, particularly in our Software and enormously important in underpinning our commitment to how we attract, develop, Customer Management businesses.
Our Chief Financial Officer joined reward and retain our talented employees: help facilitate the roll-out of the next version us in January to form part of our world-class and for them to start to really experience of our education software SIMS8 and make it new leadership team, which also includes a the positive changes taking place within the easier to internationalise the business.
Chief General Counsel and leads for the new business.
We want our people to feel part of transformation, corporate development and We have significantly increased the the companys success, and to be excited and corporate affairs functions.
We now have a capacity of our Indian digital development motivated to work hard to help achieve it.
mature and disciplined team running Capita centre in Pune, near Mumbai, which now This is why we appointed a Chief People in a responsible, sustainable way with employs more than 1,100 people developing Officer for the first time to run the new stronger controls and risk-management, standardised software, alongside more than people function.
We are investing in and improved quality and assurance.
500 colleagues there in IT & Networks.
training and development, and succession We also agreed a digital partnership with and talent management, and have for McKinsey to accelerate our analytics and Global perspective the first time at Capita introduced a digital transformation capabilities.
Capita is clearly not a multinational company performance management and assessment in the conventional sense, but we do have There are big opportunities in a fast-changing system.
Such moves are reflective of being an international dimension that I think has world with digitally-based services being a responsible business and constitute a vital been underestimated in the past.
While we purchased in a much more flexible way part of how we will succeed.
are the UKs largest business processes which Capita is well equipped to take I am disappointed that our gender pay outsourcing provider, we also have a growing advantage of.
But we need to make sure that gap increased in 2018: this is simply not international operation and sales focus.
our tech solutions are designed and marketed good enough, but we are taking steps to to provide clients and their customers with Almost 20,000 of our people are based understand and eventually eliminate the superior experiences and better outcomes.
outside the UK and we have employees as far gap.
Were investing in activity to improving We have to identify the nature of clients afield as the United States, Ireland, Germany, gender and pay equality through our people work, and define the potential for them and Poland, Switzerland, India and South Africa.
At the us from new digital technology, data and We have myriad capabilities within our global same time, I am very proud that our ranking analytics-focused solutions, based on deep network, with more than 8,000 employees in the Hampton-Alexander Review of the industry knowledge.
in India and 3,000 people in Cape Town.
FTSE 250 has improved, up from 219 in 2017 to 110: it represents progress, though there is Indeed, our workforce in South Africa clearly still a lot of work to do.
where weve been winning new work is set to expand over the next two years.
As the Chairman has highlighted, we are also We currently deliver services including very serious in the leadership team about customer service, sales, debt collection widening diversity.
We want a workforce that and technical support from two centres in is inclusive and reflects the diversity of our Cape Town.
South Africa represents a new communities as shown by the imminent and exciting services destination, offering appointment of two employee directors to a unique combination of talented people the Board, the first such move by a FTSE 250 and commercial advantages.
It also has a company since the late 1980s.
But, as I have mature domestic market and an attractive stated previously, this is not a case of gesture investment climate with strong public politics: employees on the Board does not sector support and excellent telecoms feel radical to me: its just the right thing for infrastructure.
South Africa is a peopleour company to do.
centric culture: and our presence there is reflective of how we are helping facilitate social mobility.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 13 Overall, our aim is to evolve into a We are calling our approach responsible The way ahead digitally-enabled services, software and business, as it defines how true to our Overall, Im pleased with how far we have consulting business with an increasingly purpose we operate, serve society, respect come at Capita on our transformation international footprint, which delivers for our people and the environment, and deliver journey.
After the first of three years, we are all its stakeholders and values all its people, a fair return to our investors.
whatever their roles and wherever they work.
for example, recently launched two new charity partnerships with Teach First and Looking forward, Capita has a clear plan Young Enterprise where we aim to empower for 2019, including embedding our first Responsible business 100,000 young people to progress into the ever operating model which defines the The transformation of a purpose-driven world of work.
Our social credentials are way we work as One Capita, accelerating Capita must be placed in the context of our outlined in more detail in the responsible our cost-competitiveness programme and becoming a truly responsible business.
business section on pages 3943. investing more in the business to support Ive talked about our new strategy, the sustainable growth.
These are important But we must improve in these and many sense of a refreshed culture and values, and stepping stones as we work towards a return other areas, if Capita is to become a our initiative to put two employees on the in 2020 to organic growth and sustainable genuinely accountable leader within UK Board.
The phased 176m pension deficit cash generation.
plc and help set the agenda for responsible reduction plan, agreed with the trustees, business.
The country is grappling with low Capita still faces a number of challenges: was in line with a commitment we made in productivity, slowing economic growth, the political and economic environment and January 2018 and is an important milestone an ageing population and limited social trading and market conditions clearly remain in Capitas transformation.
Business will have to step up uncertain.
Yet my confidence in Capita of the importance we place on good and be part of the solution, be it through remains undimmed.
We want to become a corporate responsibility.
technology, including that designed to more profitable, sustainable and responsible enhance productivity, innovation, training We have been working with the Cabinet business, creating long-term value for apprentices and graduates, or by simply Office to develop reforms on how the shareholders and external challenges will providing good jobs.
Government partners with the private only serve to intensify our attention on the sector to provide public services.
However, a legacy of the financial crisis is welcomed the opportunity to work openly that big companies are still treated with As a more simplified and strengthened towards the development of a practical suspicion at best, outright hostility at worst.
company, Capita will be well prepared to framework and approach to procurement Business wont get a seat at the table to take advantage of the opportunities that and delivery that brings real value to shape these solutions unless it is trusted and lie before us in a fast-moving world.
takes its broader role in society seriously, confident we will maintain our reforming approaching challenges with honesty.
I want We need to make sure we continue to focus momentum over the coming year and am to show how and why Capita and big on minimising operational issues and must excited about the prospects for a successful, business in the UK can actually be a force ensure we are effective in engaging with our technology-driven, digitally-enabled Capita.
for good in society, and start to change new ways of working and operating systems.
However, there is a fresh sense of a reforming Capita with a leadership team that is properly accountable to all its stakeholders, focused on fulfilling contractual obligations, meeting expectations, cultivating better relationships with clients and delighting our customers.
Weve also refocused our approach to how we are responding to the most material challenges that our business and society face youth unemployment, digital exclusion, gender equality, climate change, business governance and ethics.
