Chief Executives review Ian Hawksworth, Chief Executive FOCUSED STRATEGY TO DRIVE LONG-TERM VALUE CREATION brands introduced.
Covent Garden stores continue to trade well Update on possible demerger with footfall across the estate up.
Rents and values recorded an During 2018 the Board has been considering the most appropriate increase and there has been continued income growth as we secure structure for the Group.
Preparations for a possible demerger are embedded reversion from the portfolio.
well-advanced and could be implemented promptly.
Capco will consider the merits of all options, having regard to market The West End and Covent Garden have demonstrated resilience, conditions, long-term value creation for shareholders and prudent however economic and political uncertainty have continued to capital management.
Capco is in a position of financial strength impact the London residential market, resulting in a further and in an uncertain economic and political environment the Board decline in the valuation of our investments at Earls Court.
As a intends to decide carefully on the most appropriate outcome.
result, EPRA net asset value fell by 2.4 per cent over the year to 326 pence per share.
Prime central London portfolio Although the uncertainty surrounding the implications of the At Earls Court, we continue to implement our strategy of realising UK leaving the EU is having an adverse impact on business and value over time as evidenced by the sale of the Empress State consumer confidence, London continues to attract investment as Building and completion of Phase 1 of Lillie Square.
The ECPL well as talent and visitors from around the world.
Retail conditions land is available for development and continues to attract interest have been challenging in the broader market, nevertheless the from potential investors and occupiers for various parts of the West End is very attractive to the international and domestic site.
While political sentiment around large-scale residential consumer and Covent Garden has continued to attract good development is challenging, ECPLs implemented planning demand, securing high quality brands.
consent, high quality location and connectivity provide a strong basis for future value realisation.
Representing 80 per cent of the property portfolio by gross value, Capco continues to focus on Covent Garden as we implement our Capco maintains a prudent approach to its balance sheet, with a strategy of creating a highly attractive destination.
This continues strong financial position, low leverage and access to significant to be achieved by managing the estate creatively and investing liquidity.
Capco is disciplined in its investment approach, with strategically.
Having carefully assembled an exceptional portfolio a weighting towards Covent Garden as we continue to expand of properties around the Piazza, Covent Garden provides a fantastic our ownership on the estate.
Capco continues to manage capital environment for retailers and visitors.
2018 represents a record year commitments prudently, drive income generation at Covent Garden for retail and restaurant openings across the estate with 21 new 10 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Piazza, Covent Garden and realise value at Earls Court.
The business is well-positioned to Market Value Market Value Valuation support its future activities, navigate market uncertainties, and take 2018 2017 Change 1 advantage of opportunities as they arise.
m m Like-for-Like Covent Garden 2,610 2,545 1.6% Valuations The total property value of the Group declined by 2.4 per cent Earls Court Properties like-for-like in the year to 31 December 2018 to 3.3 billion.
Earls Court Partnership Limited The valuation of Covent Garden has risen by 1.6 per cent like-for- 2 ECPL 461 561 20.0% like to 2.6 billion, driven by ERV growth of 3.0 per cent, like-for- 3 like, achieved over the year.
The equivalent yield remains broadly Lillie Square 159 156 2.3% unchanged, reflecting the valuers current view of the strength of Empress State 220 demand for prime central London real estate.
Capcos investment Other 38 42 8.9% in Earls Court Properties declined by 15.6 per cent like-for-like to 658 million at 31 December 2018.
A number of adjustments have Group share of Earls Court been made to the component parts of the valuation of ECPL.
The Properties 658 979 15.6% valuers more conservative view on gross development value and 4 Group share of total property 3,268 3,524 2.4% delivery costs, together with an increased developers margin have resulted in a net decline of 12.1 per cent like-for-like for ECPL in 1.
Valuation change takes account of amortisation of tenant lease incentives, capital the second half of the year.
Similarly the valuation of our other expenditure, fixed head leases and unrecognised trading surplus.
interests at Earls Court has declined, reflecting changes in 2.
Represents the Groups 63 per cent interest in ECPL.
Represents the Groups 50 per cent share of the Lillie Square joint venture.
A reconciliation of carrying value of investment, development and trading property Covent Garden a world-class retail and dining destination to the market value is shown in note 15 Property Portfolio within the consolidated Although Central London retail is not immune to the challenged financial statements.
environment experienced at a national level: Covent Garden has performed well delivering income and value growth.
Our ambition to create a highly attractive destination supported by our creative asset management strategy has driven positive leasing momentum with good demand for all uses across the estate.
Visitors to Covent Garden are offered a differentiated experience, which is fundamental to Capcos vision for the district.
com 11 Chief Executives review continued Covent Gardens global positioning continues to appeal to brands.
including SushiSamba, RedFarm, The Petersham and Cora Pearl.
Attracting the best brands and new concepts ensures that Covent The latest additions further enhance Covent Gardens attractiveness Garden is able to meet evolving consumer demand, secure rental as one of Londons most desirable dining destinations.
value growth and continue to capture its reversionary income The Floral Court development completed successfully during the potential.
The completion of significant capital initiatives, year.
Anchored by a high quality restaurant offering, the courtyard, including Floral Court, has resulted in a record number of which connects King Street to Floral Street opened in May 2018, and openings across the estate contributing to overall growth in net has facilitated a significantly enhanced pattern of pedestrian flow rental income of 17.5 per cent or 9.6 per cent like-for-like against across this part of the estate.
The residential component has been December 2017. well received with all 16 heritage apartments let successfully and The estate is valued at 2.6 billion as at 31 December 2018, a strong buyer demand for the new build collection with 19 million like-for-like increase of 1.6 per cent.
As a result of positive demand of sales proceeds having been received by year end with a further across all uses, 103 new lettings and renewals were agreed, securing 12 million secured since 31 December 2018.
12.9 million of rental income at 7.5 per cent above December 2017 We have continued to invest in the estate through acquisitions ERV.
The ERV of the estate is 108 million, up 3.0 per cent on a which offer value creation opportunities.
19 million was invested like-for-like basis.
Contracted income of the estate is 83 million in acquisitions during the year and a further 13 million subsequent now representing 77 per cent of current ERV.
Occupancy on the to year end as we continue to expand the footprint of the estate.
estate remains high at 97 per cent.
Earls Court Properties prime central London development We continue to strengthen our core categories which include opportunity jewellery, luxury gifting and accessories and health and well-being.
We continue to implement our strategy of realising value at Earls The repositioning of the Royal Opera House Arcade continues with Court over time, most notably in 2018 through the successful sale the addition of leading travel brand Tumi and contemporary of the Empress State Building to the long-term occupier of the jewellery brand APM Monaco.
There has been strong demand for building.
The disposal, which was at a premium to valuation, the Market Building this year, and introductions include Olivia reflects Capcos disciplined approach to investment and capital Burton, Africology and For Arts Sake.
Lettings to Peloton and The management.
Over the past 24 months in excess of 670 million Alkemistry continue the repositioning of Floral Street as a lifestyle of gross proceeds have been generated through the sale of and fashion destination.
Venues and the Empress State Building as well as handover The range of dining concepts on the estate continues to expand, of Lillie Square Phase 1. with the opening of 10 new high quality and differentiated concepts Floral Courtyard, Covent Garden 12 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements ECPL continues to focus on enabling development of the consented Masterplan through the introduction of third-party capital.
However, the current political and economic environment presents challenges.
We note the hardening political tone towards largescale residential development activity in London.
As we are a counterparty to a number of public sector stakeholders it is possible that our objectives diverge.
The London Borough of Hammersmith & Fulham LBHF has suggested publicly that it would like to terminate the Conditional Land Sale Agreement CLSA and also recently suggested it is considering the use of Compulsory Purchase Orders.
The Lillie Square joint venture continues to make positive progress.
90 per cent of the committed project Phase 1 & 2 has now been reserved, exchanged or completed.
Handover of Phase 1 sold units is substantially complete and hand over of sold units in Phase 2 is expected in 2020.
Outlook Economic uncertainty resulting from the UKs decision to leave the EU could impact the property market further.
Covent Garden is firmly established as a world-class retail and dining destination in the heart of central London and is well-positioned to continue to deliver rental growth, and capture embedded reversionary income.
We will continue to enhance the customer environment and invest strategically in assets which offer value creation opportunities.
Earls Court is one of the most important mixed-use development opportunities in London.
The ECPL land, which represents the majority of Capcos investment in Earls Court is available for development.
While the environment for large-scale residential development remains challenging, Earls Courts in place planning consent, high-quality location and connectivity underpin its desirability and prospects for future value realisation.
Site progress at Earls Court Preparations for a possible demerger are well-advanced and Capco will consider the merits of various options, having regard to market conditions, long-term value creation for shareholders and prudent capital management.
Our disciplined investment approach, with a weighting towards Covent Garden positions Capco to continue driving income generation at Covent Garden and realising value at Earls Court.
The business is well-positioned to support its future activities, navigate market uncertainties, and take advantage of opportunities as they arise.
Ian Hawksworth Chief Executive 26 February 2019 www.
