Chief Executive Officers Review Card Factory performed well in FY18 despite the difficult UK retail backdrop, with strong like-for-like sales growth and our highest ever sales day in Card Factorys history during the Christmas trading period Karen Hubbard Chief Executive Officer OVERVIEW I am pleased to report that Card Factory performed well in We have also strengthened and further innovated our FY18 despite the difficult UK retail backdrop, with strong offering, adding product line extensions in both card and like-for-like sales growth and our highest ever sales day in complementary non-card and new successful seasonal Card Factorys history during the Christmas trading period.
ranges, as well as including the introduction of gift cards which has been made possible by the roll out of EPOS across This was delivered in part through recent operational our estate.
Our product line extensions have also provided our enhancements, particularly the introduction of EPOS and customers with further choice for those extra special contactless payment, which are now installed throughout all occasions such as engagements and weddings.
stores in our estate, enabling us to serve a greater number of customers during peak trading periods.
It is notable that this The completion of the EPOS rollout in October 2017 has was the 20th consecutive year of like-for-like sales growth for enabled us to analyse category performance more accurately the business.
and to review the efficiency of our stock replenishment processes.
Whilst still in its infancy, we expect to deliver real Our business model, with its integrated supply chain, allows benefits from the improved information available to us to us to provide an unrivalled offer to our customers.
In ensure we can fulfil our customers needs more efficiently particular, we have the widest range of high quality cards, than ever before, tailoring the ranges and space in stores to with innovative designs and styles, all available at compelling maximise sales performance.
Together, it means that our customers can always find good value quality cards to say exactly what they wish to say Whilst margins were impacted by the prevailing foreign at a price that is affordable for them.
exchange and national living wage headwinds already identified and by the margin mix impact as a result of the Throughout the year we continued to provide a compelling strong performance of complementary non-card products, offer to our customers with extensive ranges and designs we continue to deliver best in class EBITDA margins and have across our cards, party products, dressings and gifts, both developed a robust programme of business efficiencies to in-store and online.
Our ranges continue to resonate well with ensure we maintain these.
our customers who recognise the quality and value that we offer, seeing Card Factory as their retailer of choice for I remain confident that our existing, proven four pillar strategy celebrating their life moments.
Once again our independent is the right one to ensure future business growth.
research shows that, despite increased competition for card sales, we are the UKs preferred card retailer with 64% of the MARKET UPDATE nations card buyers having shopped at Card Factory in the The latest independent research, produced by OC&C in March last 12 months: 50% of all visits to Card Factory were planned 2018, has confirmed that a number of important and and the main reason for the shopping trip.
established market trends that were highlighted at the time of our IPO in 2014 remain as valid today: Since the year-end, we have been recognised by our retail the market for single greeting cards is well established, industry peers for our specialist position in the market having robust and resilient: it continues to show modest growth in been awarded Retail Weeks Best Specialty Retailer at their value terms, despite a slight decline in volume as 2018 awards.
expected, with initial indications showing an increase in 16 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financials the number of cards purchased by 1834 year olds.
Whilst offering for customers who are looking for an extra special this will need to be monitored over a longer time period, it card, a broader selection of wedding gifts, innovation in gift is an encouraging trend for the ongoing sustainability of bags and boxes and new candle designs.
This design and the market: innovation has been recognised and well received by our customers and is reflected in Card Factorys transaction the sending of physical greeting cards is deeply ingrained volumes outperforming the footfall declines seen on the High in UK culture with high levels of emotional attachment and Street.
For the year as a whole, the proportion of sales from research shows that this remains stable: complementary non-card items increased to 44.0% FY17: there continues to be no meaningful shift to digital 42.3%.
Our complementary non-card ranges continue to greeting cards, with fewer customers than ever perform strongly as incremental purchases to our card ranges, suggestingthat they are replacing a physical card with a seeing a further increase in our average basket value.
digital greeting: Complementary non-card performance has been driven by: there has been significant growth in other seasonal events continuous development of our non-card offering with such as Valentines Day and Thank You Teacher: new ranges in dressings, wrap and gifting associated with the online personalised and non-personalised card card giving: segment remains an attractive niche for Card Factory improved sell through of aged stock to make way for new where we have made good progress and delivered growth, albeit this still represents a relatively small proportion of lines: and the market: and the introduction of new product lines including gift cards and stamps, which have enabled us to provide additional Card Factory has maintained significant clear blue water versus its competitors in terms of the consumers services to our customers in-store.
perception of value see chart on page 3 of the Strategic Report : and consumer ratings demonstrate that our value We continue to make good progress with our Card Factory for money, low price, quality, design andstyle of cards all website, cardfactory.
co. uk, having performed strongly during exceed that of Supermarkets andDiscounters.
the year with strong online key performance indicators.
We remain confident that further progress within the online Card Factory has, for the third year in a row, won the Value market is possible with selective further tactical investment.
for Money OC&C retail award, with a further improved rating.
New store roll out STRATEGIC PERFORMANCE Our internal property team has yet again enabled us to achieve our target net new store openings for this year and We continue to make good progress against our four established strategic pillars: operate new stores efficiently and in a cost-effective manner.
We continue to be successful in identifying new locations, whilst exploring opportunities for co-locations, relocations 1.
Like-for-like LFL sales growth Card Factory stores delivered strong like-for-like growth in and openings within new retail parks.
the year of 2.6% FY17: 0.4% notwithstanding lower levels of footfall experienced across the general retail market.
We opened 50 net new UK stores in FY18 across a variety of Including cardfactory.
co. uk, LFL sales growth from the Card retail locations including high streets, shopping centres and retail parks, providing the opportunity for more customers to Factory fascia was 2.9% FY17: 0.6%.
experience the proposition in new locations.
In total we had 915 UK stores at the end of the financial year 31 January 2017: 865, Looking forward, we intend to maximise LFL growth through: i ensuring we leverage our Design Studio to continue to with a further six trial stores opened in the Republic of Ireland.
innovate across both our card ranges and complementary The quality of our estate remains very strong: of our stores open for over one year, only c1% were loss making.
non-card ranges: and ii focusing on retail disciplines, with improved availability, better space and merchandising Looking forward, we have a strong pipeline of potential new planning and a greater focus on customer service, operational standards and the removal of tasks from store colleagues to stores, including a number of opportunities in retail parks, a enable them to focus on helping our customers.
segment of the market where we are seeking to increase our presence: however there will continue to be a blended mix of In card, we continued to focus on introducing new styles and different retail locations.
We expect to add a further 50 net new stores to our estate in the current financial year, with designs, whilst preserving our value offer.
Customers can still buy high quality cards at prices that are up to two-thirds good progress made to date.
lower than that charged for similar products by our principal We continue to monitor developments across our competitors competitors.
Our focus remains on maintaining the gaps in both price and quality compared to the competition.
and the broader retail space to ensure that we are well positioned to take advantage of property opportunities that As we enter and celebrate our 21st year as a leading specialist may materialise.
greeting card retailer, we maintain our long-standing 29p and As at the year-end we had opened six trial stores in the 59p entry price points for cards, which enable us to help our customers celebrate their life moments with a card that offers Republic of Ireland around the Dublin area.
Whilst this is still being trialled, we are looking to assess the store locations and both quality and value.
In addition, we have increased the range of cards for those occasions when customers choose to store types identified to provide an indication of the potential spend more, offering choice, quality and value at significantly size of the opportunity.
lower prices than other card specialists, with further ranges being launched in FY19.
Across both geographies, we continue to target a costeffective estate of 1,200 stores, capable of driving strong In complementary non-card, our design and buying teams returns whilst maintaining the quality inherent in the Card developed a number of new ranges with a more premium Factory brand.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 17 Chief Executive Officers Review continued 3. Business efficiencies previously 2pm and the website experience, catering for the The Group has consistently delivered one of the best various shipping methods and devices that our customers are operating profit margins in the retail sector.
The improvement in experience, both in terms of continue achieving this, whilst offering our customers value, website usability and shipping, has been recognised by our we have to maintain the most efficient and lowest cost base.
customers, with customer reviews again in excess of 4.5 5.
As identified in last years preliminary and at this years As outlined, we have strong growth aspirations for the Card interim results announcements, we anticipated some Factory online business and will continue to develop this to significant cost pressures in the year, in particular foreign offer a multi-channel offer for card and associated gifts exchange and national living wage costs.
To mitigate these we forcustomers.
have introduced a range of cost efficiency programmes and believe further opportunities to mitigate costs exist with We continue to target further growth for gettingpersonal.
co. uk, improved data intelligence from our recent implementation of which is focused on personalised gifts.
There is also further potential to enhance our relatively small part of the Group in terms of both sales and competitive advantage by virtue of our vertically integrated profit contribution, its financial performance in the year was model and the resulting superior operating margins.
We will disappointing with sales increasing by 0.5%.
Given lower remain conscious of our customers trust in our value conversion rates and a mixed third party marketing proposition, ensuring that we are delivering the right offer to performance, which is being addressed, the EBITDA retain and grow our market share.
performance of 2.9m FY17: 2.8m was below our expectations, having had a relatively poor year previously.
Our business efficiency programmes also focus on more The market has seen some deep discounting this year and efficient product sourcing, further vertical integration, more especially over the Christmas trading period, when we efficient supply chain management and improved store madethe decision to only follow profitable sales to maintain productivity through the removal of task.
Loss Prevention team, who are now well established in the business, have continued to reduce the level of loss, through Looking ahead, the key focus across both online channels will cash and stock theft, within the business.
be implementing a new and better digital marketing approach: improving the experience on our websites: and Looking ahead, I see further business efficiency further innovating our personalised and non-personalised : product ranges.
lowering the cost of sales through better buying: OTHER STRATEGIC PRIORITIES driving lean fulfilment in stores through supply chain Alongside a continued focus on the four strategic pillars, my efficiencies: strategic review identified opportunities to further strengthen our business for all stakeholders, and to enhance future improving operational productivity: shareholder returns, with a focus on three areas further the removal of tasks from stores by simplifying how we targeted investment, greater engagement with colleagues, operate: and and listening even more to our customers.
continuing to target net rent savings across the property ONGOING INVESTMENT TO DRIVE SHAREHOLDER VALUE portfolio at the next available break clause or lease renewal.
We have continued to invest in our infrastructure to support the long-term strategy of the business where we can see opportunity for the business to grow sales further, improve 4.
Online development product margins or be more cost-efficient.
We have We have two transactional websites cardfactory.
co. uk and successfully rolled out EPOS and contactless payment across gettingpersonal.
all of our stores, improving the speed of service and customer experience.
EPOS has also supported the sale, since October The cardfactory.
co. uk offer has continued to mature over 2017, of third party gift cards which have proved popular with the last year.
The new team delivered sales growth of 67% customers and are complementary to our other ranges.
FY17: c50%, through four key areas product design, range growth, improving the customer experience and growing our By the end of FY19, all stores will be on the same EPOS customer base.
platform, PCMS, and we are now looking at how best to use this data to make more informed commercial decisions.
Both new and existing customers have responded well to new Furthermore, in FY19 we are implementing a low cost data designs in personalised cards and an increased range of warehouse to support more detailed analysis of product products available during key seasonal events.
We now offer a performance and stock management.
larger and balanced range of cards, gifts, wrap and party products across all seasonal and everyday occasions.
We We continue to evaluate investment which can improve store were especially pleased with our launches of new propositions productivity and generate supply chain efficiencies, including and we see continued growth in product innovation.
Our an element of automation in stock replenishment.
Further recent customer review for product quality and value was development in our vertically integrated model remains an measured at 4.5 5. important part of our investment strategy and will support more in-house production, margin retention and greater We have been making it easier for our customers too, control over our supply chain.
improving our same day dispatch for all cards to 6pm 18 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financials As identified in our last Annual Report, we have invested in As well as range improvements, we have also improved our online businesses, marketing team and various support navigational signage, making our stores easier to shop.
The centre functions to ensure that we have the right speed of service in-store has also improved with the roll out of infrastructure, talent and capacity to drive strategic priorities EPOS and contactless payment in all of our stores: however and growth and the initial benefits of this are being seen in we recognise that at key trading times there is more we can the online sales performance and the improved in-store do to improve the service we deliver to our customers.
In navigation which we have been able to deliver with the new support of this, we are evaluating how we can make things digital marketing team.
simpler for our store colleagues by removing tasks from stores, giving them more time to provide great The Board will continue to assess further incremental customerservice.
investment across the Group on a case by case basis, taking into account the scale, likelihood and timing of anticipated SUMMARY & OUTLOOK returns.
This ongoing, controlled investment will ensure that The greetings card market remains resilient and robust and I we continue to deliver on the four pillar strategy and provide am confident in our ability to continue to grow our market strong returns to our shareholders over the medium term.
We continue to innovate and create new and unique product ranges designed within Card Factory that RETAIL COLLEAGUES AND PERFORMANCE CULTURE keep to our promise to provide quality and value for our In the year we invested in developing our organisational customers.
We will continue to increase the proportion of capability, with the introduction of leadership and both our complementary non-card products and online sales management development programmes and the nationwide as we further improve our offering in these areas, whilst expansion of our Retail ACardemy.
We have also reviewed maintaining focus on card redesigns within our Studio.
how best we can use the Apprenticeship Levy to support the development of our support centre and retail colleagues.
We This year, our specific focus will be on improving our store are also in the process of reviewing our current HR systems in productivity and supply chain efficiency, whilst further terms of how effectively they support our productivity and exploring vertical integration opportunities to continue efficiency initiatives.
This focus will ensure that we can mitigate a high proportion of the external Our aim is to create a performance culture with focussed pressures faced across the UK retail sector to maintain our objectives that not only support the delivery of our strategy margins, however, as previously stated, any underlying but develop our colleagues and provide a pipeline of future EBITDA growth for the current year is likely to be limited.
leaders from within the business.
Greater employee engagement will help us reduce our store colleague turnover We have a strong brand and recognition as a market leader.
and vacancy rates, whilst growing our brand recognition and Our talented teams across the business continue to deliver for making us an employer of choice with prospective colleagues.
our customers in-store and online and we have invested in our Achieving these development ambitions will ensure that all of teams to ensure we have the capacity and capability to deliver our teams remain trained and motivated to continue to deliver our strategy.
quality and value to our customers and the best possible service and experience in-store.
Whilst the new financial year is just two months old, we are satisfied with the start we have made and particularly pleased CUSTOMER ENGAGEMENT AND EXPERIENCE with the record seasonal performances from Valentines Day, All of our executive management team and many of our Mothers Day and Easter, and being recognised by our peer support centre colleagues worked within our stores serving group as Specialist Retailer of the Year at the recent Retail customers in the busiest week during the Christmas trading Week annual awards.
I look forward to providing a further period.
This not only supported our store colleagues but also trading update at our AGM in May.
helped us to develop our understanding of what our customers want and where we have an opportunity to The Board, having considered, inter alia, the current debt improve our offer in a way that will resonate with our position of the Company and trading and investment customers and improve our average basket value.
We remain expectations for the year ahead, currently expects to declare known for leading the way in providing great quality and a special dividend at the time of the Companys interim results value for our customers and staying close to them in this way in the range of 5 to 10p per ordinary share.
Any such dividend ensures we listen and respond to their changing needs.
will be paid together with the interim dividend for the year and will be dependent on trading and other developments in As part of this commitment, we have evolved our product the period from now until the time of the interim results.
offering to provide a broader choice for extra special occasions, such as engagements and weddings, by introducing our Exquisite card range.
This is helping us to Karen Hubbard capture new customers, whilst also appealing to existing ones Chief Executive Officer and all whilst maintaining our entry level prices.
We are already working hard on new ranges for the new financial year 9 April 2018 where we now see further opportunity in enhancing the perception of not just the value, but also the quality of our offering in both card and complementary non-card products.
We are also taking further steps to tailor the product offering for individual stores.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 19
