STRATEGIC REPORT Chief Executive Officers statement We are confident we have the right strategy in place to deliver on our objectives.
Andrew Pardey Chief Executive Officer As we reflect on 2018, I want to start There were no major environmental We have taken several corrective by thanking you, our shareholders, for incidents to report during the year actions throughout 2018 to address, your loyal support and contribution.
and there has been a reported in part, the issues faced and mitigate Engagement with shareholders and, reduction in low or minor incidents.
future impact, including personnel more broadly, stakeholders is critical The industry has been shaken by changes in order to strengthen our to the success of our business.
recent catastrophic tailings dam operational leadership team, collapses.
Centamin has one implementing improved controls, Sustainability purpose-built active downstream new underground technologies and Significant health, safety and tailings storage facility TSF at closer management of underground environmental risks that affect the Sukari.
The latest review confirmed operations, ensuring improved mining industry, affect us and how the structural integrity of the TSF: efficiency.
There is further work to be we operate.
We believe it is crucial however, a proposed required done to return the operations back to learn from our peers, particularly managing surface water levels off the to a stable and reliable run rate and in times of catastrophe, to TSF.
Given the arid environment where we are confident we have the right understand our exposure to certain the TSF is located, evaporation and strategy in place to deliver on our risks and ensure we have taken the re-use of the surface water through objectives.
necessary actions to mitigate against the plant provides adequate The open pit, following another this happening.
opportunity to manage this record quarter for material moved and recommendation.
We are also in the The health, safety and wellbeing of ore mined, delivered higher grades as process of completing an external our workforce is central to our mining progressed deeper into engineering study to build a second corporate culture.
This will continue into 2019 active downstream TSF, targeted for our Group lost time injury frequency as grades improve towards 1g t. completion in 2024. rate by 76% to 0.06 per 200,000 Open pit equipment availability, workplace hours.
It is with much Improvements for a better Sukari productivity and utilisation rates were sadness that earlier this month a excellent this year, as we mined This year Centamins performance drilling contractor, working at one of through the transitional zone as was marred by operational challenges our Ivorian projects, was attacked by a quickly and efficiently as possible.
experienced in the open pit and swarm of killer bees.
He sustained In 2019, stripping will commence on underground at Sukari.
As a team, serious injuries and although he was Stage 5 transitional zone whilst ore our focus has been on resolving the rushed to the nearest facility for mining will remain predominantly challenges and improving how we run treatment, he later died.
Our aim is to on Stage 4. the operations.
Total production for create an environment such that every 2018 was 472,418 ounces, a 13% person, employee and contractor reduction on 2017 YoY.
returns home safely at the end of their shift every incident, minor or serious, we learn from and look to apply ways of improving our work environment.
14 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information STRATEGIC REPORT 24 hour operation at Sukari.
Costs kept under tight control Delivering organic growth The success and scale of the 2018 ABC discovery results and the We remain firmly focused on Exploration remains the foundation reporting of the maiden Kona South managing the bottom line as we of our business.
Continuous resource in less than two years of continue to deliver on long term cost investment in exploration at Sukari active exploration, highlights the scale reduction initiatives and actively allows us to continually improve our and quality of the Lolosso Gold assess new cost reduction geological knowledge.
Our objective Corridor and the regional generative opportunities.
Despite reduced is reserve replacement and resource potential of the ABC land package.
production output and increasing cost expansion and again we have We have only scratched the surface input pressures, in 2018 we delivered delivered that this year replacing of the potential of these assets, and costs comfortably within the bottom underground reserves in excess of we will maintain the intensity of our half of the global gold producing cost underground mining and increased exploration programme in 2019 to curve.
Total unit cash costs of the underground measured & define further quality gold ounces.
production of US$624 oz gold indicated grade by 5%.
We continue produced, up 13% YoY, and all-in to unlock the full potential of the Generating significant cash flow sustaining costs of US$884 oz gold underground.
The orebody remains The Group generated cash flow sold, up 12% YoY.
Importantly, our open at depth, to the south, and from operations of US$223.4 million, absolute cost base remained broadly structurally within the porphyry.
invested US$89.2 million in sustaining flat: total cash costs of production of Throughout the year we increased our capital and distributed US$76.4 million US$289 million, a 4% reduction YoY, exploration activity in Cte dIvoire to our Egyptian state partners, and all-in sustaining costs of and we are delighted with the results.
EMRA, by way of profit share, US$420 million, a 1% reduction YoY.
Doropo continues to demonstrate the resulting in Group free cash flow Where the build-up in stockpiles potential to be our next organic generated of US$63.4 million.
In throughout the year helped to reduce development project.
Ongoing the short-to medium-term, there costs, key focus areas for cost savings exploration and concurrent viability continues to be a sustainable level of have been around improvements to studies will further unlock the potential free cash flow generation, excluding fleet scheduling and utilisation, future scale of this project as we any growth from additional sources resulting in less trucks per unit moved: assess the economics against our of ore and material benefits from cost continued improvements in working internal project value creation criteria.
capital, including significant reduction The pre-feasibility study is progressing in warehouse stores inventory: and well and we look forward to reporting renegotiation of improved commercial the results to the market at the end of terms on some key supply contracts.
Delivery of a maiden reserve and further feasibility work are critical milestones for 2019, ahead of a Board decision on capital allocated for development.
Centamin plc Annual report 2018 15 STRATEGIC REPORT Chief Executive Officers statement continued Generating significant cash flow 2019 outlook and beyond Several key personnel changes have continued been made at an operational level in We enter 2019 with the same focus on Q4 2018 and, continuing in Q1 2019, The Company is in a strong financial driving operational efficiencies, always this presents increased short term position, with cash and liquid assets looking for opportunities to further risks for significant medium and of US$322.3 million as at optimise the operations, whether it be long term benefits.
We are confident through continued investment in we have the financial flexibility and talented people, new technology or We are confident we have the right agility to drive organic growth through through adaptation of existing process strategy and personnel onsite to our highly prospective exploration and procedures.
Our production achieve on our main objective, pipeline and are well positioned to guidance for 2019 is 490,000-520,000 returning Sukari to consistent and take advantage of any market ounces, for total cash costs of steady state production.
Our strategy opportunities suitable for our business US$675-US$725 oz produced and has always been to maximise margins and growth strategy.
Shareholder all-in sustaining costs of through tight cost controls, deliver returns are a strategic priority.
operational efficiencies and therefore Company has a sustainable dividend enabling reliable returns to The Sukari mine plan production is policy in place, delivering a fifth shareholders.
By maintaining a weighted towards the second half of consecutive year dividend payout, strong balance sheet, we also have the year, with approximately 55% of and the Board regularly reviews the ability to capitalise on ounces produced across Q3 and Q4 alternative means of delivering opportunities for growth.
The main factor is the open pit, shareholder returns.
as Stage 4 grade improves with depth, balanced with increased stripping Andrew Pardey following the challenges with the Chief Executive Officer transitional zone last year and 1 March 2019 stripping of Stage 5.
Q1 is scheduled to be the weakest quarter, budgeting for 105-115koz.
The open pit is performing in line with expectations and the focus is on resolving the factors driving increased dilution from the underground, including a new stoping plan and backfill plant.
