Strategic Report Group Chief Executives Statement 2018 was another year in which we had to For our shareholders, we remain navigate key uncertainties in our operating committed to delivery of long-term environment, including volatile commodity shareholder value through returns and prices and an impending price cap in the growth.
We fully recognise that, following UK energy market.
Our focus has been our disappointing Trading Update in on what we can control, driving underlying November 2017, we began 2018 from a performance delivery and ensuring low base and once again the year had its financial discipline as we continue to fair share of challenges.
From that starting prioritise our resources towards satisfying point we did make some progress and in the changing needs of our customers in relative terms, Centricas total shareholder energy and services.
The Centrica team return during the year was competitive did all of this well and ensured we did not when compared to the FTSE 100. take our eyes off our top priorities of safety, Our financial performance in 2018 was compliance and of course improving the mixed.
At the headline level, we delivered customer experience.
resilient performance with adjusted Ensuring the safety of our people, partners operating profit up 12% at 1.39 billion and customers is of huge importance andadjusted operating cash flow and net to Centrica.
We delivered a significant debt within our target ranges.
Adjusted improvement in our process safety operating cash flow was above the performance in 2018, particularly in midpoint of our target range at our Morecambe and Centrica Storage 2.24billion.
However, volumes in Spirit operations, where we had 0.06 Tier 1 plus Energy and Nuclear were disappointing Tier 2 process safety events per 200,000 and recovery in North America Business hours worked relative to 0.14 in 2017.
This was slower than expected.
puts us in the top quartile of UK companies.
As we begin 2019, we face an unusual Driving safety improved and customer combination of headwinds including a injuries were reduced by over 10%.
larger than expected impact of the UK However, our personal and occupational default tariff cap, continuing lower volumes safety performance did not improve overall in Exploration & Production and Nuclear, with a total recordable injury frequency rate and higher forecast cash taxes.
These slightly higher than in 2017, due in large headwinds will be partly offset by part to musculoskeletal injuries in our significant continuing efforts to drive cost smart meter operations in the UK.
However, this means that, at 0.06 For our customers, across both Consumer prevailing forward commodity prices, our and Business divisions, we have been 201820 target range for average adjusted process safety focused on increased personalisation operating cash flow of 2.12.3billion incident frequency rate of offers, increased digitalisation of the isunder some pressure.
In these Tier 1 and 2 customer experience and customer circumstances, we are targeting adjusted journeys, and provided new propositions operating cash flow in the range and services which our customers clearly 1.82.0billion at current forward 248m value.
At the same time, enhanced commodity prices, which have fallen segmentation has allowed us to place a significantly over the past five months 2018 efficiencies stronger focus on customer lifetime value.
delivered In both divisions, we have continued to This means that on current projections, invest in customer service and our Net after the first two years of our 201820 Promoter Scores have been stable.
three-year performance period, we would still be at or slightly below the bottom end of our target range.
We did signal a year ago that there could be particular pressure in 2019, especially in the circumstances ofathen-unknown price cap in the UK.
I ncluded in PwCs limited assurance engagement.
com assurance for more details.
8 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Our aim is to be an international 21st-century energy and services company and to deliver for the changing needs of our customers.
There are clear signs that customers want more than energy supply alone, and combining energy supply with other services creates a valuable needs-based set of propositions for them.
In response, we are taking actions to Having reviewed our financial performance, In Consumer, our digital transformation strengthen the balance sheet and improve let me turn to our strategy.
Centricas programme, which has resulted in more the outlook for 2020, including driving strategy is built around the underlying interactions taking place online, has cost efficiency hard, being disciplined trends of decentralisation and helped to improve the overall customer in our capital spending, and targeting decarbonisation of the energy system, experience, and our retention rates further divestments, and as a result, customers becoming more powerful and have shown an encouraging uplift.
net debt levels remain underpinned.
desiring new propositions, and digitalisation We have more than two million customers which continues to accelerate change in participating in our Rewards programmes, In February we announced that we will be both energy and related services.
We are and in the UK this has led to a halving of making additional non-core divestments responding by reshaping the Company customer churn.
In UK Home energy totalling 500 million in 2019, starting with to face that future and building the supply, we saw a reduction of 742,000 the agreed sale of our Clockwork Home capabilities we need to respond to the customer accounts, slightly more than we Services portfolio in North America for changing energy landscape and to satisfy had expected due to two price increases 230 million.
We expect capital those changing needs of our customers.
Combined with the growth reinvestment in 2019 to be around During 2018, we have continued to develop in Home Services and Connected Home, 1.0billion as we drive quality and choice material new customer-facing capabilities total customer accounts in Centrica into our investments.
We are also targeting in both Consumer and Business, exposing Consumer fell by 248,000 over the year and 250 million of efficiencies in 2019 which Centrica to an expanding opportunity-set in in the second half of the year, the reduction would mean delivery of our 2020 target one terms of customers, channels, propositions was 23,000.
This compares to a reduction year early.
As a result of these actions, we and geography.
We have significantly of 1.4 million accounts in 2017.
We saw net expect to maintain Net Debt within our deepened Centricas capabilities in growth in consumer account relationships targeted 201820 range of 2.73.7 billion technology, engineering and innovations in our in-home services businesses in which has been restated for the effects of which in turn are enabling new solutions for North America and also in the UK for the IFRS 16.
Finally, we are targeting further our customers.
I recognise we have further first time since 2010.
Our total consumer efficiencies of 500 million per annum work to do if we are to overcome some of relationships have therefore fallen by less beyond the end of 2019 as we pursue the competitive pressures on the traditional than 1% out of over 25 million in total and being the most efficient price setter energy supply businesses and net grow we are gaining valuable new customers in all of our markets.
These actions will our customer-facing margins overall.
in products and services with attractive underpin our performance, resilience However, we now have access to new margins, many on a subscription basis.
and competitiveness for the medium term.
growth opportunities outside our In Connected Home, the number of This is a challenging start to 2019, and the traditional, more mature markets and in subscription customers more than environment and trading conditions for many of our businesses we are seeing doubled, revenue was up by 60% and the rest of the year remain uncertain.
We some encouraging indications of we added 444,000 customers, close will know much more at the time of the stabilisation and growth potential.
to our external target of 500,000 and Interim Results in July, including having in line with the sort of progress we would a much clearer view of the likely outturn expect from a fast-growing business.
of commodity prices for 2019, market dynamics under the UK price cap and the performance of both the Nuclear fleet and Spirit Energy assets, including early indications from Spirit Energys drilling West of Shetland.
We will also know more at that time about the prospects for a trade sale of our Nuclear investment.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 9 Strategic Report I Group Chief Executives Statement In the Business division, customer account numbers were down slightly, and within that, we have seen a good recovery in UK Business with new propositions driving growth in the small and medium enterprise customer segment.
Across the division there was a focus on higher value segments in both the UK and North America.
In Distributed Energy & Power, our leading indicators showed evidence of significant forward momentum during the year.
The order book was up by 51% and order intake by 158% compared to 2017 and we grew revenue by 14%.
The acquisitions that we made over the last few years in areas including wireless energy insight and management Panoramic Power, combined heat and power generation ENER-G Cogen, demand-side response REStore and distributed energy management Neas Energy continue to perform better than we had expected, and the capability that they have brought has enabled the creation of our Integrated Solutions Platform with a single user interface.
North America Business profitability improved, recovering somewhat from the lows of 2017, but not as swiftly as we had expected.
Competitive pressures in electricity retailing in the US remained strong and margins continued Although production was disappointing, Moving from 2018 operations and turning to to be squeezed.
Although total customer we are encouraged by Spirit Energys business development, we are continuing account holdings were down 65,000 during agreement to farm into Hurricane Energys to ensure that we are well positioned to 2018, this partly reflects a focus on value interest in the Greater Warwick Area and participate in the global natural gas market, over volume, as we optimise customer to fund a $180 million 139 million drilling and have a diversified portfolio of supplies, segments and sales channels.
Spirit Energy as well as the ability to optimise them.
Along with the undoubted progress, overall is now a sustainable, standalone We have signed a sale and purchase there have been disappointments, European E&P operation.
The immediate agreement in strategic partnership with particularly in our asset businesses focus is on improving performance, Tokyo Gas to jointly purchase 2.6 million of Exploration & Production and strengthening the portfolio, and creating tonnes per annum of liquified natural gas UK Nuclear power generation.
the option for new shareholding LNG from the Mozambique LNG project In December 2017, Spirit Energy, in which arrangements, either through further from the start-up of production until the we own 69%, was established as a separate industry consolidation or potentially an IPO.
This is the first long-term LNG company in partnership with Stadtwerke procurement contract in Africa for both Centrica continues to have a non-operated Mnchen.
Oil and gas production from Tokyo Gas and Centrica.
This innovative 20% interest in the existing Nuclear Spirit Energy in 2018 was lower than joint procurement approach takes full generation fleet in the UK.
Performance expected, reflecting unplanned outages advantage of Mozambiques central in Nuclear was affected by extended and operational issues in both operated location between Europe and Asia, inspections and outages at the Hunterston and non-operated fields.
Our strong focus assisting both Centrica and Tokyo Gas to B and Dungeness B power stations which on process safety has resulted in marked proactively manage demand fluctuations resulted in lower output for the year.
improvement but resulted in longer outages across regions with different market These issues, and associated regulatory before restarting our Morecambe field.
We have expanded North oversight before the stations can re-start In January 2019 it ran very well.
We also America Business through small are extending into 2019.
As part of our are having to re-drill a key well in the acquisitions, including a portion of BPs strategic repositioning, we announced Greater Markham area, and we US marketing operation and the retail our intention to divest our 20% stake in the experienced production availability energy provider Source Power & Gas.
UKs existing nuclear power fleet by the end and decline issues in key non-operated In Distributed Energy & Power we made of 2020, and a sales process is underway.
fields in both the UK and Norway.
two small acquisitions to expand our solar Centrica Storage became a producing solutions capacity in the US.
In Connected asset in 2018 and performed very well, Home, we continued to expand our retail both in safety and production terms.
channels beyond the UK, with Hive 10 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 We have refreshed our point of view on climate change and set out a new ambition to enable all our customers to use energy more sustainably.
products now available for sale on Amazon Given the competitive pressures we are I would now like to turn briefly to the in the United States, Canada, and in Italy dealing with every day, we continue to have broader context in which we operate.
We are also expanding the a very strong focus on being as efficient as The trends I outlined earlier, which we product portfolio, launching propositions we can be, so we can serve our customers identified when we launched our new and services such as Hive Link focused on well and be as competitive as possible.
strategy in 2015, are even clearer today providing peace-of-mind to our customers.
In our core cost efficiency programme we and are playing out in line with our views delivered a further 248 million of savings at the time.
We are in step with where the Just as we are building new business, in 2018 plus additional savings in other energy world is going and the services we must also have a strong focus on areas of 38 million.
That means we have which our customers desire, and we believe optimising our portfolio of businesses now taken nearly 1 billion a year out of our our 2015 strategy is still valid today and and ensuring we are delivering attractive like-for-like cost base since 2015.
2018 plays to the core strengths of the Company.
returns from positions in which Centrica total controllable costs are 7% lower than has a competitive advantage.
We Our aim is to be an international 21stin 2015, with the Group having more than announced the intention to divest of a century energy and services company absorbed the effects of inflation, foreign further 500 million of non-core positions, and to deliver for the changing needs of exchange movements and additional and as a first step have agreed the sale of our customers.
There are clear signs that operating cost investment in growth.
our Clockwork franchise services business customers want more than energy supply in North America for 230 million.
Following We have much more to do in our efficiency alone, and combining energy supply a strategic review, we concluded that it programme and in 2019 we intend to with other services creates a valuable has been hard for us to grow this business, deliver a further 250 million of savings.
needs-based set of propositions for them.
to cross-sell other propositions through it, That means that we will have exceeded our The evidence is clear that the unit gross and that this branded portfolio would 2020 target of an additional 500 million margins of energy and services naturally fit with another owner intent on savings a year early.
At our Preliminary relationships are higher than in energy building a franchise business in the US.
Results in February, we announced a supply alone.
That is what our strategy The sale of Clockwork will also help with further 500 million per annum of is all about shifting the centre of gravity our priority to simplify our portfolio of additional efficiencies beyond the end of of our relationships with customers brands and channels, to make Centrica 2019 as we target becoming the most towards more value-added services.
more coherent for our customers.
We also efficient price setter in all of our markets.
While there is much yet to be done, plan to dispose of further non-core assets Delivering on this would take our total we are beginning to demonstrate our during the year, including possible capital like-for-like efficiency delivery relative to ability to become the customer-facing, recycling in both Exploration & Production a2015 baseline to 1.75 billion per annum international energy and services company and in Distributed Energy & Power.
by the end of 2021. that we set out to be when we launched our new strategy in 2015.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 11 Strategic Report I Group Chief Executives Statement We have introduced a new set of 2030 in each of these areas, underpinned In continuity terms, we have taken Responsible Business targets as we by shorter-term targets.
For example, precautions such as increasing UK respond to the changes in societal having reduced our own emissions by 80% stocks of EU-sourced equipment to expectations.
Our Responsible Business over the last decade, we are targeting a maintain customer service in the event Ambitions set out long-term targets to further reduction in our internal carbon of delays at UK ports.
Our Energy enhance our impact in areas where we footprint of 35% from 2015 to 2025.
We Marketing & Trading business, which have the greatest responsibility and where have other targets to help our customers operates widely across Europe, also took we are well placed to make the biggest reduce their emissions through both our measures to maintain those operations difference.
Our strategy is to satisfy the direct and indirect actions, and to deliver in a no deal scenario.
changing needs of our customers, deliver flexible distributed and low carbon We have many EU nationals who work for long-term shareholder value through technologies and provide system access Centrica in the UK.
So, we were pleased returns and growth, be a trusted corporate and optimisation services to them.
In line with the Governments proposals for citizen, an employer of choice, and a with the Task Force on Climate-related Settled and Pre-Settled Status for EU 21st-century energy and services company.
Financial Disclosures TCFD, we are nationals, which will apply even in a no To live up to this, our key responsibilities committed to continuously improving our deal scenario, and the subsequent decision include responding to the challenge of climate change disclosure to show how to waive any application fees.
We warmly climate change, innovating to improve our our strategy reduces risk and delivers a welcomed the EU Withdrawal Agreement customers lives, developing our workforce smooth transition to a lower carbon future.
provisions aimed at maintaining the Single to deliver for our customers in the long term We have devoted considerable effort to Electricity Market on the island of Ireland, and create stronger communities.
prepare for the UK exit from the EU, with in which Bord Gis Energy participates.
As part of this, we have refreshed our point a focus on the risks of a no deal outcome We were also very pleased to see energy of view on climate change and set out a for the Group and our customers.
While included within the scope of the proposed new ambition to enable all our customers the energy sector is likely to be less Political Declaration on the future UK to use energy more sustainably.
Our affected than some other parts of the UK relationship with the EU.
This paves the way actions will focus on three areas: helping economy, there are still some material for further detailed negotiations after Brexit our customers reduce emissions in line issues for us, both financially and in to maintain a close energy and climate ensuring business continuity.
In financial with the goals of the Paris Agreement: relationship supporting cost-efficient, clean enabling a decarbonised energy system: terms, we are exposed like many others to and secure supplies of energy.
a weakening of sterling, which would also and reducing our own emissions in line with Paris.
We have clear ambitions out to impact the cost of energy for our customers.
Key events in 2018 January March June Centrica Innovations Centrica announces Tokyo Gas and Centrica Centrica invests in Barrow invests in EtaGen expansion of Local sign Heads of Agreement Green Gas, the UKs Heroes to include largest green gas shipper Read more about EtaGen on painters, decorators, Page 60 Read more in the locksmiths and tilers Business Review on Page 26 February April July British Gas announces Centrica Business Solutions Roll-out of Centrica Business default tariffs to increase launches in Ireland Solutions in North America due to rising wholesale Read more at energy and policy costs centrica.
com ireland 12 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The price cap on default energy tariffs in would be seeking judicial review of business as they faced a very difficult set the UK came into effect on 1 January 2019.
Ofgems decision relating only to the of circumstances, including uncertainty We regret that we were unable to persuade treatment of wholesale cost transitional from continuing high levels of organisational the Government and regulator not to arrangements for the first period of the change and cost reduction.
Centricas implement the cap which we do not believe cap.
Based on the normal timelines Values Care, Collaboration, Courage, is a sustainable solution for the market, and for judicial reviews we would expect Agility and Delivery are becoming broadly is likely to have unintended consequences the process to be concluded in six to embedded in the organisation, helping to for customers and competition.
guide all of us as we work to create the presented a clear alternative with our excellent customer-facing company we all During 2018, we saw several significant 14-point plan to reform the retail energy wish to be part of.
As regards employee changes in the leadership of Centrica, market, which included a proposal to end engagement, although I recognise that we both at Board level and on our Executive all Standard Variable Tariffs and openstill have a long way to go in making sure Committee.
I would like to welcome ended contracts, a step which we believe that everyone at Centrica feels truly valued, Charles Berry as Chairman and to thank would benefit all consumers and which we we focused strongly on our peoples Rick Haythornthwaite for his leadership have taken unilaterally for new customers.
feedback from 2017 and I am pleased that of the Board over the last six years, and his we have improved our engagement scores.
Despite the significant near-term negative guidance and support for me over the last Improving employee engagement will four.
I would also like to thank the outgoing impact of the price cap on our earnings remain an area of focus.
and cash flow, particularly in 2019, we are Executive Directors Mark Hodges, Mark Hanafin and Jeff Bell for what we have focused on delivering a sustainable and attractive business in UK energy supply achieved together.
Iain Conn and have already implemented a number Our new team is already in place, filled Group Chief Executive of mitigating actions, including cost through both internal and external 20 February 2019 efficiencies of 20 per dual fuel energy appointments.
I am confident that we have supply customer by 2020.
However, the leadership needed to guide Centrica Ofgems revision to the methodology for through the next phase of our development calculating supplier wholesale costs is during 2019 and beyond.
expected to result in a one-off negative Finally, I want to thank the whole Centrica adjusted operating profit impact of around team for the extraordinary amount of 70 million in the initial period of the cap in hard work which they have put into the Q1 2019.
In December, we announced we August November Centrica closes contract Centrica Storage secures Carers UK and Centrica Centrica wins contract for for onshore wind farm new 120m contract for announce new partnership solar power in Denmark in Sweden Easington gas terminal Read more about Centrica supports new Centrica invests Delivering our Read more about electric vehicle charging Responsible Business in Driivz Centrica Storage on study in London Ambitions on Page 35 Page 58 Read more Read more at about Driivz on centrica.
com charginglondon Page 29 2019 September October December Spirit Energy invests in Centrica completes two British Gas receives Centrica launches support discovery West of Shetland 50MW fast-response plants Carbon Trust certification for renewable energy in Italy in Brigg and Peterborough Read more about Drilling Centrica completes one of Read more about for the future on Delivering our the largest battery storage Direct Energy Business Page 34 Responsible Business facilities in Europe, which acquires Source Power Ambitions on has capability to hold power & Gas LLC Pages 60 to 61 for 50,000 homes Read more in the Business Review on Read more about Page 25 Delivering our Responsible Business Ambitions on Page 60 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 13
