CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW 2018 HAS BEEN A LANDMARK YEAR FOR THE GROUP Moshe Greidinger CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 2018 has been a landmark year for the Group following the OUR STRATEGY successful acquisition of Regal Entertainment Group on Our strategy is to: 28 February 2018.
We are well on our way to achieving a successful business integration following strong performance and record box office results in the US.
The combination with Regal has exceeded our expectations we have incorporated the best of both companies by bringing together world-class talent, integrating best practice from Provide the best Expand and both sides of the Atlantic and deepened our understanding of cinema experience enhance our estate the US market.
Although the Group has expanded significantly, our strategy and vision remain the same, to be The Best Place to Watch a Movie by continually focusing on providing the best customer experience, maintaining technological leadership, expanding and upgrading the estate, and training and retaining highly motivated, experienced and loyal staff.
An overview of our key achievements in 2018 is provided below.
Be technological Drive value leaders in the industry for shareholders INTEGRATION OF REGAL Following the completion of the transaction, we spent the past year implementing our strategy and vision for Regal.
Read more page 14 I am very pleased with the Regal acquisition.
Cost synergies are not only greater than originally expected, but they are also being delivered at a faster pace.
Revenue synergies are well underway with many initiatives covering a large scope of our activity.
We are focused on delivering on the full potential of the combination through the strengths of our brands, focus on customer experience and investment in technology.
2018 was a record year for the US box office.
Audiences flocked to action-packed thrillers such as Avengers: Infinity War, Black Panther and Venom and re-joined some of the most beloved animated characters in Incredibles 2, Mary Poppins Returns and Ralph Breaks the Internet.
This year proved again that cinema is the premier way to experience the magic of movies.
04 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Part I: Strategic Report Part II: Corporate Governance Part III: Financial Statements T he combination with Regal has exceeded our expectations we have incorporated the best of both companies by bringing together world-class talent, integrating best practice from both sides of the Atlantic and deepened our understanding of the US market.
Leicester Square London, United Kingdom As part of our estate management, during 2018, we closed CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE 14sites: 11 in the US, one in the UK and two in the ROW, We have expanded our viewing offering for customers as the lease terms expired and it was not commercially in 2018 with the introduction of ScreenX: the worlds first beneficial or feasible to renew these leases.
multi-projection immersive cinema auditorium which provides a 270-degree viewing experience.
Our cinemas now offer TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION up to seven different formats of how to watch movies: regular Investment in technology continues to be a key pillar of our screens, 3D, 4DX, ScreenX, IMAX, Premium Large Format strategy to make the cinema The Best Place to Watch a Movie.
Through both our expansion and our We signed new agreements with IMAX, 4DX and ScreenX during refurbishment programme, we are focused on ensuring as 2018 to install a total of 55 new IMAX Laser projectors across the many of our sites provide a range of these formats for our estate, 80 4DX screens in the US and 100ScreenX.
In 2018, we customers, giving them the choice of not only which movies opened 19 ScreenX and 9 4DX screens.
Many customers have to watch, but also how to watch them.
now experienced ScreenX across our estate since we launched As well as developing our exhibition offerings and ensuring the first screen in Speke in August 2018.
At the end of 2018 we world-class customer service, we continue to pay particular had a total of 130 IMAX screens, 53 4DX screens and 116 attention to our retail products and services.
Our on-site Premium Large Format screens.
concessions aim to be best in class, providing a variety of In the US, our new Regal website was launched and was food, drink and snack options.
positively received by our customers and now more tickets are purchased online than ever.
EXPANSION AND REFURBISHMENTS As well as acquiring Regal, during 2018 we also opened 13additional cinemas: six in the US, six in the UK and one in the ROW, a total of 108 screens.
We have a further 184screens scheduled to open in 2019 across the Group.
Our refurbishment programme is progressing well to ensure we are providing consistently high quality cinemas across the estate.
Four refurbishments were completed in the UK, including our flagship Leicester Square and O2 sites in London.
We have The Regal acquisition started the refurbishment plans in the US with ten sites to be refurbished in the first phase of the programme.
By combining demonstrates the continued new sites with refurbished sites to enhance the cinema delivery of our strategy.
experience for our customers, we want to ensure that Regal is The Best Place to Watch a Movie.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 05 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW CONTINUED SPECIAL FEATURE REGAL 339 Washington DELIVERING 11 ONTHE FULL Montana 206 POTENTIAL Oregon OFTHE REGAL 73 Idaho ACQUISITION 142 Nevada 14 Utah 162 Colorado 1,073 California We are focused on delivering on the full potential of the 14 combination through the Arizona 60 strengths of our brands, focus New Mexico on customer experience and investment in technology.
Moshe Greidinger CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 2 American 7 Samoa Saipan 72 Hawaii 14 Guam 49 Alaska 500 screens 100500 screens 50100 screens 50 screens 06 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Part I: Strategic Report Part II: Corporate Governance Part III: Financial Statements 20 Maine 16 Minnesota 33 New Hampshire 113 Massachusetts 550 New York 43 26 Connecticut Michigan 311 Pennsylvania 154 New Jersey 16 274 Nebraska Ohio 33 139 Delaware 129 Indiana Illinois 36 187 West Maryland 429 Virginia 84 Virginia Kansas 96 52 14 Missouri Kentucky District of Columbia 256 North Carolina 179 Tennessee 69 Oklahoma 24 230 Arkansas South Carolina 46 52 Mississippi Alabama 288 Georgia 415 43 Texas Louisiana 674 Florida 7,269 102 8 Screens RPX screens Number of 4DX screens 555 95 9 Sites IMAX screens Number of ScreenX screens Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 07 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW CONTINUED VALUE FOR SHAREHOLDERS HR AND COMMUNITY The cash generative nature of our business underpins our We are committed to ensuring our people have the opportunity business model.
Following the Regal acquisition, our priorities to develop themselves and reach their full potential.
With the for the use of our cash remain consistent: to invest in the enlarged Group, there are now even more opportunities and we business to support growth in revenue and earnings, to repay continue to nurture our talent and promote internally wherever our loan and to grow the dividend.
During 2018 we have been possible.
Our training programmes are specifically tailored for able to reward shareholders with growth of 20.4% in the rights each level and department within the business to ensure adjusted, adjusted diluted earnings per share EPS.
The everyone has the right knowledge and skills to provide the Group maintained its dividend pay-out ratio for another year, best customer service.
increasing the full year cash dividend paid by 163.1%.
The Our wider communities are also important to us.
Every year proposed final dividend is 10.15c per share.
we undertake a range of activities and initiatives with charities, schools and community groups.
Through the Regal Foundation, a non-profit charitable organisation, we have raised over $5.0m to support selected charities in the US in 2018.
In the UK, we were proud to partner with the BBCs Children in Need fundraising initiative for the third year, through which we raised over 600,000.
08 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Part I: Strategic Report Part II: Corporate Governance Part III: Financial Statements Leeds, United Kingdom.
We look forward to the strong film slate for the remainder of FUTURE OUTLOOK the year.
Upcoming movies include Captain Marvel, Dumbo, As our integration with Regal has successfully progressed, Shazam!, Avengers: Endgame, Aladdin, Godzilla: King of we will continue to draw on the skills and expertise of our the Monsters, Toy Story 4, Spider-Man: Far from Home, teams on both sides of the Atlantic and share best practice The Lion King, Fast & Furious Presents: Hobbs & Shaw, in everything we do.
From our experience in the UK, we It: Chapter Two, Frozen 2, Jumanji Two, Star Wars: Episode IX have learnt and demonstrated that the potential in a mature and many more.
market is at least as big as in the emerging markets.
While we delivered solid results in 2018, this is only the start of the Our motivated and dedicated teams are fundamental to us enlarged Groups journey.
being able to achieve our vision to be the Best Place to Watch a Movie.
2018 has been a very significant year for the Group Looking forward, we are well positioned to execute on our and I would like to take this opportunity to thank everyone strategy in 2019.
We have an excellent estate in the US, the UK across the Group for their continued focus and hard work.
and ROW which is growing and constantly being upgraded to Ilook forward to continuing to work alongside the team in 2019. enhance the cinema experience for our customers.
Studios are more committed than ever to provide great content, including Moshe Mooky Greidinger sequels as well as original movies, while our commitment is to CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER provide the infrastructure and the great service that will keep 28 March 2019 the big screen as The Best Place to Watch a Movie.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 09
