Chief Executive Officers review Our investment across the business continues, as we drive innovation and remain focused on furthering Clarksons position at the forefront of the sector.
Andi Case Chief Executive Officer 14 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Strategic report Our strategy is to create long-term sustainable value for all of our stakeholders by building on our strong performance, which allows us to maintain and develop our position as the global market leader in shipping services.
Our strategic objectives 1 Breadth Expanding our breadth to better tailor our integrated offer 2 Reach Extending our reach to support clients globally 3 Understanding Stronger understanding of clients needs 4 People Empowering people to fulfil their potential 5 Trust Maintaining trust in shipping intelligence 6 Growth Growing our business to improve performance See more on pages 28 and 29.
Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report 15 Chief Executive Officers review continued I am pleased to report that, despite Clarksons experiencing The port services team has enjoyed a year of modest a challenging start to the year amidst a backdrop of market profit growth, driven by increased North Sea activity and headwinds in the shipping industry, the business has delivered a significant contract win in Egypt.
The team continues to a full year performance in line with expectations.
strengthen its offering, expanding through new hires and new offices, and we expect to see this level of investment boost This robust performance underpinned by the efforts and activity levels in the new financial year.
best in class service of our market-leading teams across the business and a trend of continuing market share gains, has Our people are our most important asset and it is as a team enabled the Board to recommend another increase in the final that we continue to drive the Clarksons business forward.
dividend, allowing Clarksons to deliver a 16th consecutive year We remain committed to investing in our first class talent, of dividend growth for our shareholders.
as evidenced by the growth of our Tokyo office, where the team has grown to 18 people in just 18 months, and the We remain confident in the overall recalibration of the new wet futures team which expands our futures broking shipping markets despite a macro-economic environment capabilities to take advantage of our significant presence that continues to provide an uncertain trading backdrop for in the physical freight market.
After what has been at times the global financial markets.
The 18% annual increase in the an uncertain trading environment for our teams, I would like Baltic Dry Index and the steady 13% rise in the ClarkSea to thank everyone at Clarksons for their extremely hard work Index, in 2018 compared to 2017, point to the fact that the and dedication during 2018. underlying fundamentals in shipping continue to improve.
Despite geo-political volatilities weighing on market sentiment, We continue to invest in our market-leading technology we believe global trade demand will continue to grow and are offering and are positive about the number of clients that encouraged as we start the new year with a strong forward have shown interest in, and signed up to, our platform order book for delivery in 2019 of US$107m, an impressive modules during 2018.
We are committed to the continued 15% increase on the position going into 2018. roll out of our cloud-based products as we look to provide innovative and improved solutions to our client base and We are confident that Clarksons strengthening position the market more generally.
at the forefront of the market means we can be optimistic about the longer-term outlook for the business.
Following his decision to step down from his role as Acting Chair and his position on the Board, I would like to thank Ed The broking teams delivered an encouraging performance Warner for his significant contribution to the Company over the during 2018 after experiencing what was a difficult start to the last decade.
James Hughes-Hallett will remain on the Board year.
Whilst headwinds from geo-political uncertainty weighed as a Non-Executive Director.
We look forward to once again heavily on market sentiment, a strong level of seaborne drawing on all of his experience in this capacity going demand saw dry cargo vessel earnings reach their highest forwards.
I am delighted to welcome Bill Thomas to Clarksons levels in six years, whilst activity in sale and purchase markets in his new role as Chair, where his significant experience in IT rebounded strongly during the second half of the year.
and business development will be invaluable.
I look forward to Elsewhere, despite a tough three quarters, the tanker market working with him as the business focuses on taking advantage showed more positive signs approaching previous levels in of the various opportunities in the global shipping market.
the final quarter and overall we ended the year with better medium-term visibility with an impressive forward order book Finally, I thank Peter M. Anker enormously for his dedication for 2019.
We anticipate forthcoming regulatory changes such to the business, providing success for so many of our clients, as IMO 2020 sulphur cap regulations will provide significant staff and the business overall.
I understand completely his market disruption towards the end of 2019, and believe that desire to retire from the Board, and look forward to continuing the broking business is heading into the new financial year to work together with him in his changed part-time role over in a strong position following another year where the supply the coming years.
demand imbalance continued to improve.
The fundamentals of shipping continue to improve across The financial division has had a more challenging year, with the sectors, with ongoing growth in demand and a tightening activity being affected by a weakened sentiment in the global of supply arising from lower shipbuilding activity, additionally shipping capital markets.
Macro-economic uncertainties have impacted by increased cost of build coupled with reduced undoubtedly led to a more cautious approach in both the availability of finance, and accelerated scrapping programmes shipping and offshore capital markets, and although the team following greater regulation.
Highlighted headwinds are having executed a number of high profile transactions, we expect an impact, in particular within our financial segment, but as the a similarly cautious sentiment to remain in the near-term.
year progresses, we expect these headwinds to diminish and We continue to invest in our financial teams in the belief that the impact from changes in regulation around sulphur positive markets will return in the medium-term, buoyed by emissions to begin.
Consequently, we believe that the strength global demand and regulatory changes, ultimately allowing and breadth of Clarksons, enhanced by technology platforms Clarksons to take advantage of the exciting opportunities and which continue to be rolled out to our clients, positions the market appetite that remains from an even stronger platform.
Group well and will set the foundations for the next stage of growth in future years.
Clarksons Research continued its strong annual revenue and profit growth during 2018, confirming its position as the global leader in shipping, trade, energy and offshore data.
We have Andi Case invested in the research team during the year, improving our Chief Executive Officer product offering through new technology and innovation.
8 March 2019 By doing this, we have been able to further provide both our clients and internal teams with invaluable insight and intelligence that allows them to make efficient and informed decisions.
16 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Strategic report Our people are our most important asset and it is as a team that we continue to drive the Clarksons business forward.
Andi Case Chief Executive Officer Clarksons culture Clarksons is more than just a job to those that work here and our team culture is something that continues to attract new talent, retain existing and set us apart from others in the industry.
Almost half of our global employees have been with the Company for more than five years, helping to bring working relationships closer together and ensuring continued consistency and stability across our day-to-day global practices.
This is increasingly important as we continue to grow in headcount, offices and diversity.
Our unrivalled global presence is supported by the local knowledge and understanding held by our employees who represent over 60 nationalities.
Embracing technology Shipping is an industry steeped in tradition and Clarksons has been established within it for 167 years.
As a business, it is important that we lead by example, embrace innovation and ensure that the impact of digital transformation is to improve the efficiency and capabilities of all our employees.
Shipbroking is intrinsically a relationship-driven business and we are acutely aware that any technology we look to develop or adopt must not lose sight of the human element of our business.
This is not about replacing, but enhancing the tools that our brokers, operators and support staff have in their armoury.
Clarksons pioneers digital change by developing and investing in digital solutions to support our industry, and this continuous investment in technology is transforming the transaction lifecycle across our four segments.
As technology redefines the shipping markets, we are implementing new processes and technologies to be at the forefront of all new regulations that may come into effect.
