08 Close Brothers Group plc | Annual Report 2018 | Strategic Report Chief Executives Statement Managing for the Long term The consistent application of our business I am pleased to report another good model underpins our long track record of performance in a range of market performance, achieving both strong conditions.
We continue to prioritise margins and underwriting over growth, profitability and significant strategic and we maintain our investment through the cycle and for the long term.
We progress in the last financial year.
All of our maintain strong funding and capital positions and a prudent level of dividend businesses have continued to maximise cover, which supports a long track record of holding or increasing our dividend.
performance, while at the same time Our strategic priorities are clear and focusing on opportunities for future years.
unchanged: to protect, improve and extend our successful business model, providing exceptional service to our customers and clients across lending, savings, trading and wealth management.
Together with our distinctive culture, this ensures that we can continue to deliver on our collective purpose over the longterm.
Strong, Sustainable Profitability The group achieved another year of strong profitability, with adjusted operating profit up 4% to 279 million and a return on opening equity of 17.0%, reflecting good performance in all three of our divisions.
On a statutory basis, operating profit before tax from continuing operations increased 3% to 271million.
In Banking we achieved 2% growth in adjusted operating profit to 252 million.
We have seen no significant change in the operating environment for our lending businesses, and the market overall remains competitive.
We continue to focus on maintaining our prudent approach to lending, evidenced by our strong net interest margin at 8.0%, and conservative loan to value ratios across our businesses.
The credit environment remains benign, and bad debts have remained near historical lows with no significant change in credit performance across the portfolio.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Close Brothers Group plc | Annual Report 2018 09 Return on opening equity Adjusted basic earnings per share 17.0% 140.2p 2017: 18.1% 2017: 133.6p 01 Managing our Business for the Across our group we have close to 900 Retaining and attracting LongTerm customer-facing staff, delivering a We take a long-term approach to tailored, personal service proposition to engaged and expert managing our business, ensuring that our their clients and intermediaries.
employees is critical to the lending criteria, funding and capital position are sustainable as the market During the last year we have undertaken a delivery of our service environment changes.
This in turn significant review to understand better the proposition to customers.
allowsus to deliver good returns to evolving needs of our customer base, shareholders and support our customers making it easier for them to do business 02 in a wide range of market conditions.
with us, and make better use of technology.
This has included a detailed During the year, we further strengthened mapping of the customer journey across Preben Prebensen and diversified our funding position, and our Retail businesses, resulting in a Chief Executive we have maintained a strong capital number of process enhancements.
We position, with a common equity tier1 have also rolled out an extensive Voice of capital ratio well ahead of minimum the Customer and Partner programme, requirements at 12.7%.
creating a framework to more formally Notwithstanding our disciplined approach, we have achieved another year listen, analyse and act upon feedback We also work continuously to respond from our customers and partners.
of loan book growth, with underlying to evolving regulatory requirements.
The growth broadly in line with last year at 03 last year has seen the successful Retaining and attracting engaged 6.6%.
This reflects our strong customer proposition and the diversification benefits implementation of a number of regulatory and expert employees is critical initiatives, including GDPR and MiFID II, to the delivery of our service of our loan portfolio, with our core as well as the transition to IFRS 9.
We are proposition to customers, and we are Property, Premium and Invoice Finance also investing in cyber security to ensure pleased that our regular employee businesses in particular continuing to achieve good growth.
Our Asset Finance we protect our business and our surveys continue to demonstrate clients data.
business also grew, despite significant competition in this market, while the We continue to carefully monitor Our distinctive culture is the foundation of Motor Finance loan book contracted slightly.
We have also seen an increasing developments with regard to the UKs exit our organisation, which unites our people, from the European Union.
our strategy, and our collective sense of contribution from some of our smaller purpose.
During the year we have specialist businesses.
Service, Expertise and Relationships conducted an extensive piece of work to Winterflood delivered another strong Providing exceptional service to our articulate and define the cultural attributes customers and clients is at the heart of which unite our workforce, and have result, with operating profit in line with the our strategy, and manifests itself in added prudence, integrity and teamwork prior year at 28 million, benefiting from long-term customer relationships, high to our long standing core values of consistently high trading activity across the UK market.
Trading performance was levels of repeat business and strong net service, expertise and relationships.
promoter scores across our businesses.
Together these define our culture and the consistently strong throughout the year, positive behaviours that underpin the high with no loss days.
Our core values of service, expertise and service levels we deliver to our customers.
The Asset Management business has relationships are central to our proposition to customers and our corporate culture, In the last year we have also formalised moved forward significantly in the last and we operate in markets where high our corporate purpose statement to year, reporting 17% growth in managed quality, personal service is a real and help the people and businesses of Britain assets, which now exceed 10 billion, and a 33% increase in adjusted operating sustainable differentiator.
thrive over the long term which has generated strong engagement and profit to 23 million.
This reflects good Our customers are varied and diverse, positive feedback from employees new business levels across both our comprising over two million individuals across the group.
direct and intermediated distribution channels, and continued strong demand and SMEs, across a range of both regulated and unregulated financial for both our advice and investment services.
We access our clients both management product offerings.
directly and through a wide network of intermediaries and distribution partners.
10 Close Brothers Group plc | Annual Report 2018 | Strategic Report Chief Executives Statement continued Our strategic priorities remain unchanged: to protect, improve and extend our model to deliver long-term value.
Preben Prebensen Chief Executive Photographed on location at Biggin Hill Heritage Hangar Ltd. Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Close Brothers Group plc | Annual Report 2018 11 01 Investing for the Long Term Invoice Finance business, and growth in Management Changes Maintaining our investment through the the Brewery Rentals business which During the year we announced that cycle is critical to sustaining high levels of provides financing and servicing of beer Jonathan Howell, group finance director service for customers and adapting our kegs and casks to the brewery industry.
since 2007, has decided to leave the offering as their needs evolve.
We have a group to pursue the next stage of his number of investment programmes under In the 2017 financial year we acquired career.
I would like to extend my personal way to enhance our customer proposition Novitas, a specialist provider of loans to thanks to Jonathan for his excellent and maximise the potential of our the legal profession.
The business has contribution over many years.
business for the long term.
seen strong growth since acquisition and 02 expansion of its product offering in the Mike Morgan, currently chief financial Our ongoing investment in the Premium litigation finance market with a loan book officer of the groups Banking division, will Finance business and associated of over 80 million at the year end.
take up the position of group finance technology has supported strong new director and I look forward to working business levels in recent years.
We Winterflood is diversifying its income by closely with him.
have also commenced a multi-year expanding its presence in the institutional investment programme in our Motor market, and we continue to develop Finally I would like to thank all our Finance business, to enhance our Winterflood Business Services, which employees who continue to work service to dealers and end customers, provides outsourced dealing and relentlessly to support the success of and respond to evolving customer execution services to fund managers the group, and to help the people and behaviour in this market.
businesses of Britain thrive over the 03 longterm.
We are also investing to optimise our We have seen strong growth in our Asset funding and capital efficiency.
Next year Management business with net inflows Outlook we will roll out our new deposit platform, exceeding 1 billion in the last year.
We In the Banking division, we will maintain which will enable us to provide a wider continue to see good long-term growth our disciplined approach and expect range of retail deposit products and an potential in this business, and have further continued growth at good returns online offering, while further improving the expanded its growth capacity by benefiting from the diversity of our customer experience.
We are also making optimising our adviser force and recruiting portfolio.
Bad debts remain low, with no good progress on developing the models, additional portfolio managers.
significant change in credit performance systems and processes required to use to date, and our strong margins and the Internal Ratings Based IRB In addition to maximising growth within service led customer relationships approach, which will optimise our capital existing markets, we continue to actively position us well to respond to any change position and better reflect the risk profile explore new business and adjacent in market conditions.
of our lending portfolio longer term.
market opportunities which fit with our business model and risk appetite and Winterflood has performed well since the We recognise that the disciplined have a number of new business initiatives financial year end, but remains sensitive management of costs is critical to our at various stages of maturity.
to any change in trading conditions.
ability to maintain profitability and invest through the cycle.
We remain focused on We are continuing to assess the market In Asset Management, we are focused on controlling our expenditure alongside opportunity for asset finance and other building further scale in the business, by continued investment, while maintaining services in the German market, albeit this growing client assets both organically and the high service levels and personal touch remains at an early stage.
through selective hires and opportunistic which are at the heart of our client acquisitions.
On 14 September we announced the sale of our unsecured retail point of sale Overall, we remain well positioned to Expanding to Maximise our Potential finance business, which had a loan book continue performing well in a range of We are constantly looking to maximise at 31 July 2018 of 66.2 million.
market opportunities for our businesses, gradually and incrementally developing both in existing and new markets.
In this business and assessing the market Preben Prebensen recent years this has included the opportunity over the last several years, we Chief Executive expansion of our Property business into have concluded that it does not provide a UK regional markets, focusing on long-term fit with our predominantly 25 September 2018 commuter hubs around major cities secured business model.
The sale is where there is strong, structural demand expected to complete in the current for new family housing.
The last year has calendar year, subject to regulatory also seen the successful expansion of our approval and other customary conditions.
12 12 Close Close Br Bro ot the hers rs G Gr roup oup plc plc | | An Ann nu ua al l R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 01 18 8 | | S St tr ra at te egic gic Repor Report t Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Close Brothers Group plc | Annual Report 2018 13 Our Culture 01 Integrity We insist on trustworthy behaviour and always acting with integrity 02 doing the right thing internally and externally.
03 Photographed on location at Alicat Workboats Ltd.
