Strategic Report Chief Executive Officers Statement The benefits of our improvement actions are starting to come through 6 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 been uneven and there remains work to do.
We Overview have set out a new capital allocation policy which Returning the Business to 2018 has been a year of progress with establishes a prudent approach to gearing and FinancialStrength Group financial metrics in-line overall and an prioritises organic investment.
We intend to Two years ago there was 1,028m of net debt on agreement reached with Boeing regarding the reinstate dividend payments with our 2019 the balance sheet and a net debt EBITDA gearing KC-46 programme.
ratio of 3.0x, putting Cobham in a weak financial and commercial position.
In contrast, at the end of We expected there would be some significant We continue to believe that there is considerable 2018 there was 10m of net cash on the Balance cash flow challenges during 2018.
These related potential to improve the performance of the Sheet.
This transformation has been achieved principally to the utilisation of the 2016 Group over the medium term and our continuing with the help of our shareholders through the exceptional provisions and accelerated interest focus on customers, culture, operational 2017 rights issue, which raised 497m net payments on the debt pay-down.
Despite these improvement, business simplification and cash proceeds.
However, the remainder has been challenges, we reported 62.6m of free cash flow generation will allow us to realise this.
In 2018 we completed and ended the year with 10.3m of net cash on the a number of divestments, principally the AvComm balance sheet.
and Wireless test and measurement businesses, realising 325m net proceeds.
Over the last two The headline numbers mask a divergence in Market Environment years we have also generated free cash flow of performance between the Groups businesses.
We have seen increased defence budgets in the 203m, in part from reducing working capital by Mission Systems had a much better year achieving US, with ongoing security tensions around the 67m.
This free cash flow result was achieved after strong underlying operating profit growth.
Our strategic positioning in defence 170m of cash was utilised on onerous contracts the one-off adverse revenue impact from the security markets means that our capabilities and and other legacy items.
KC-46 settlement, it also achieved organic revenue know-how are well aligned with end-user priorities.
growth across its markets aerial refuelling, For example, current US Department of Defense pneumatics and actuation.
Communications and DoD priorities include capability modernisation Connectivity and Aviation Services performed for space and communication and situational Focusing the Portfolio largely as we had anticipated.
While security tensions are likely to We are increasingly focused on our defence, persist, there are high levels of government debt aerospace and space markets having divested the and budget deficits in many of our largest AvComm and Wireless test and measurement accessible defence markets, including the US.
This businesses and the Opera software businesses There are considerable will constrain growth in defence spending and in the first half of 2018.
In November 2018, opportunities for medium continue the emphasis on value-for-money.
wealsodivested the Groups small lightning test and consultancy business for 1.9m.
These term performance This is the back-drop to our improvement strategy: were previously all part of Communications improvement an environment where demand for our capabilities andConnectivity.
is accompanied by a requirement for value as well as consistent delivery to customer expectations.
We continue to believe that the Groups underlying Although it achieved organic revenue growth, operating margin enhancement will come from Resolving Onerous Contracts and underlying operating profit decreased.
This result our ability to reduce costs through improved Other Legacy Issues was driven by its operational performance, due to execution, enhanced quality, reduced complexity We continue to progress the contract, legal and poor execution, including 9.5m of programme and effective capital allocation.
regulatory issues originally provided for at the charges, and it also reflected increased overhead 2016 year end.
On 19 February 2019 we updated costs.
Addressing this will be the priority for 2019, the market on the largest of these, the KC-46 and over the last few months we have tanker programme.
We announced a settlement strengthened the management team.
An Our Improvement Progress regarding Boeings damages assertions, taking a overhead cost reduction plan has been formulated, The key components of Cobhams turnaround are: non-underlying charge of 160m in these 2018 which is anticipated to achieve savings in 2019 of Returning the business to financial strength: results, comprising 86m for dispute settlement US$20m.
Investment is continuing to improve its Focusing the portfolio: and 74m for additional costs to complete.
Resolving onerous contracts and other in addition to a 40m non-underlying charge legacyissues: taken in the interims.
We can see the benefits of our actions starting to Operational execution and culture change: coming through but, as anticipated, progress has New capital allocation policy and dividend.
The 86m settlement will be paid during the first half of 2019, after offset against 37m of withheld The merger of Aviation hose and drogue invoices.
This will result in a 49m Services UK and EMEA fixed and rotary wing balancing payment to Boeing, with the payment headoffices was largely withhold against Cobham invoices ended.
7 Strategic Report Chief Executive Officers Statement continued David Lockwood responds to questions investors are asking How will you achieve your medium-term guidance of a When you first joined Cobham, you said it had high Group underlying operating margin 2-3%higher?
value add technology and leading positions in some I have always believed that improvement in Cobhams underlying operating attractive markets.
Do you still believe this to be margin is within our own control and will be driven by our own performance: thecase?
cost control, effective improvement and investment in operational delivery.
Cobham is a business with a history of innovation and technology leadership, To this end, we have been focusing on our cost base, on operational and has some truly impressive achievements to its name.
My conviction in the efficiencies, on the supply chain and on enhancing quality.
It is from this quality of its technology and capabilities has not diminished.
Our businesses relentless focus, we will deliver an increasing margin.
I have consistently said, operate in attractive markets, providing opportunities to leverage our delivering the required improvements will not be quick or easy.
When allied with increased customer engagement, Iampleased to say we are seeing the first fruits of this, although there is more technology investment and an operational improvement focus, I am to do.
convinced we will unlock the Groups full potential.
Is Cobhams turnaround plan, including operational The Balance Sheet is now much stronger than it was improvement and culture change, on-track?
what are your capital allocation plans?
Against the assessment I made at the start of 2017, I believe we are on-track Our capital allocation priority is organic investment for growth and to resolve with our turnaround plan, although the 2018 headline numbers mask a our legacy issues.
We also intend to reinstate an ordinary dividend payment, divergence in performance.
Mission Systems delivered a much better year but which will be progressive, taking into consideration underlying earnings and Advanced Electronic Solutions underperformed: however, this uneven free cash flow cover.
After this, we will consider bolt-on acquisitions, where progress is not surprising in a turnaround situation.
We remain confident we there is strong strategic fit, and the management bandwidth to properly have established a solid foundation from which Cobham can progress by integrate acquisitions, to give an appropriate return on capital.
If there is leveraging on our improvement initiatives.
These include training in surplus cash we will return it to shareholders.
All this will be within the continuous improvement techniques, simplification of structures, reporting framework of a strong balance sheet, with the net debt EBITDA gearing ratio and processes as well as investment in technology and infrastructure.
now starting to embed culture change: all these will continue to be a focus.
Is the portfolio now as you would like it to be, or should we expect more divestments?
Cobham is best placed to generate value when it focuses on its defence, aerospace and space markets.
Following a portfolio review, in 2018 we divested the AvComm and Wireless test and measurement businesses, as well as two smaller businesses.
Today, every business in the portfolio lies within our stated boundaries, although inevitably some lie closer to the core of where we truly excel.
However, I believe a companys strategy should always evolve, so the Board will keep the portfolio under regular review.
8 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The agreement has settled all disputed matters to shareholder value.
We will invest for capability the date of the agreement, settled the damages Operational execution and enhancement and growth, including in technology assertions and rebased the schedule for culturechange and people and on capital expenditure for qualification and production of Wing Aerial We have consistently stated the route to a 2-3% equipment and infrastructure, as well as for the Refuelling Pod WARP and production of the higher medium term underlying operating margin is resolution of legacy items: Centerline Drogue System.
The stringent terms of within our control and will be achieved through our the original contract remain in place.
It is therefore pleasing to 2 Dividends.
The Board intends to reinstate an see the Groups operational performance metrics ordinary dividend payment with the 2019 interim The complex WARP qualification remains in its responding positively to our actions.
It intends to follow a progressive policy early stages and is now anticipated to complete been an increase of 3% points in Cobhams which will take into consideration the profitability around the middle of 2020, with associated flight customer on-time to promise metric on-time and underlying growth of Cobhams businesses test commencing in the first half of 2019.
The delivery to customers to 87% in the last two years and its capital requirements, while ensuring an rebased schedule, in which WARP qualification is a and our quality-related key performance indicators appropriate level of earnings and free cash flow critical milestone, has led to a reassessment of the are also improving.
Supply chain management is a cover.
It anticipates announcing a first full year aggregate remaining risks, including supply chain, priority area as, without timely supplier deliveries, dividend of 1.0p.
Approximately 40% of the full resource and concurrency ahead of final WARP we cannot improve our own delivery.
The timeliness year dividend will be paid at the interim stage: certification and production.
The 74m nonof supplier deliveries is improving as we consolidate underlying charge for additional costs to complete the Groups supply chain to provide best value 3 Bolt-on M&A.
We will carefully consider reflects the best estimate of the retained contract reliability and quality at optimal cost.
bolt-on size business acquisitions and other risks, as well as the costs of the revised schedule.
investments where there is strong strategic fit and The agreed schedule is dependent on certain key We have continued to simplify the Sectors, management bandwidth to properly integrate: third party approvals.
We reorganised Aviation Services into two regionally 4 Shareholder returns.
If, after such Total remaining balances relating to the focused businesses.
Following the business unit investments and distributions and having taken exceptional onerous contracts and other legacy reorganisation in Communications and into account forecast cash flows, there is surplus issues at 31 December 2018 were 206m Connectivity in the first half, we have announced capital, then the Board will look to return cash 2017: 112m.
Net cash outflows relating to the merger of some operating sites and these will toshareholders.
thesewere 103m 2017: 67m with the balances be completed in 2019.
Advanced Electronic expected to be utilised primarily over the next two Solutions has been reorganised into business units Technology investment calendar years.
focused around its technology capabilities.
We Effective investment in technology is a capital continue to believe that ongoing simplification allocation priority.
We have continued to work will yield significant results.
hard to enhance project controls that underpin the effectiveness of our investments and we have In early 2019 we launched our new Cobham also addressed tools, processes and training and purpose, understanding that an effective culture development.
This will help bring to market an will enable us to better serve our customers, for exciting pipeline of new products and capabilities.
This is supported by desired behaviours which are to be bold, be inventive, be determined and be a team.
Outlook We can see the benefits of our improvement actions starting to come through across most of New capital allocation policy the business, particularly so in Mission Systems.
anddividend However, Advanced Electronic Solutions We have set out a new capital structure and underperformed.
We have strengthened its capital allocation policy building on our improving management, increased the focus on execution performance and strengthened balance sheet.
and formulated an overhead cost reduction plan.
The Board will continue to chart a prudent financial course with the Group maintaining a net Overall the Boards expectations for progress in debt EBITDA gearing ratio below 1.5x.
This 2019 remain unchanged with a range of potential approach recognises the cash needs of the outcomes.
We continue to believe that there are onerous contracts and other legacy items, the considerable opportunities to improve the remaining contingent liabilities, as well as the performance of the Group over the medium term One of Cobhams core flexibility and customer confidence a strong and our continuing focus on customers, culture, capabilities is satellite communication technology, balance sheet brings.
operational improvement, business simplification with the Group operating in and cash will allow us to realise this potential.
aerospace, maritime and The Board has also agreed a capital allocation land markets.
policy which will lie at the core of a disciplined Cobhams Davenport, US approach to investment and value creation.
facility is, part of Mission Priorities for capital allocation are as follows: Systems, a market leader in David Lockwood pneumatics and actuation technologies as well as 1 Organic investment.
Investing in businesses Chief Executive Officer aerial refuelling.
9 we know and understand is the best way to deliver 7 March 2019
