CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW A sharper focus Dominic Blakemore Group Chief Executive operating profit grew by 1.5%, which reflects a 6.4% increase 2018 PERFORMANCE organically, offset by an impact of 4.9%, mainly due to the adverse Im delighted to report that Compass had another strong year.
Since impact of currency translation.
taking over in January 2018, my main priority has been to continue to drive the business forward and deliver the financial performance As a result of the business continued strong earnings growth and and value creation that our stakeholders have come to expect from cash flow generation we declared an annual dividend of 37.7 pence Compass.
per share, up 12.5% on the prior year.
Revenue for the Group grew by 5.5% on an organic basis.
New GROUP STRATEGY business wins were 9.1% driven by strong MAP 1 client sales and We have refreshed our strategy to ensure that we improve the marketing performance in all regions.
Our retention rate was 94.9% long term quality and sustainability of our financial results.
In as a result of our ongoing focus and investment, and like for like addition to financial performance, companies are increasingly revenue grew by 1.5% reflecting sensible price increases partially expected to manage social and environmental matters and offset by weak volumes in our commodity related business and in demonstrate the good corporate practices that are so essential to the UK.
On a statutory basis, revenue grew by 1.8%, which reflects sustainable long term growth.
By stepping up the intensity with 5.5% organic growth offset by an impact of 3.7%, mainly due to which we manage the business and with a disciplined focus on adverse currency movements.
Performance, People and Purpose as our main strategic priorities, Underlying operating profit increased by 7.1% on a constant we are well placed to continue to create sustainable long term currency basis.
Operating profit margin increased modestly as we value for all of our stakeholders.
continue to work hard to drive efficiencies across the business.
We have maintained our focus on MAP 3 cost of food with initiatives such as supplier and product rationalisation, menu planning and waste reduction programmes.
Optimising MAP 4 labour and in unit costs and MAP 5 above unit overheads with initiatives around better labour scheduling, workforce management, work design and an increased focus on training and retention have become ever more important in markets like the UK and the USA where labour inflation has been accelerating.
These efficiencies combined with price increases have enabled us to offset cost pressures and continue to reinvest in the business to support the exciting growth opportunities we see around the world.
On a statutory basis, 14 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT We already have good processes with regards to sales and PERFORMANCE retention MAP 1.
We have developed a suite of bestpractices and We remain focused on food, our core competence.
The food processes to help us execute with more intensity and consistency services market is estimated to be more than 200 billion.
With only across the Group.
Our areas of focus will be pricing MAP 2, about 50% of the market currently outsourced and another 26% of purchasing MAP 3 and productivity MAP 4.
We will start with our the market in the hands of small and regional players, we see a large top 10 markets and expand the roll out and adoption to other and exciting structural growth opportunity.
The large and disparate nature of the food services market makes it PORTFOLIO impossible to offer clients a one size fits all solution.
Therefore, we To continue to drive our performance we are actively managing segment the market into various sectors and subsectors using our ourportfolio of businesses.
Targeted and disciplined bolt-on portfolio of B2B brands.
This allows us to get close to our clients, acquisitions strengthen our capabilities and are an important understand their needs and create different and exciting offers that waytoenhance our organic growth potential.
M&A has also meet their requirements and differentiate us from the competition.
proventobean extraordinary source of talent.
This year, our largest We are the largest player in the market.
As we continue to grow and acquisition was Unidine in the USA which strengthened our increase our scale, we further consolidate our competitive advantage capability in the growing and attractive senior living segment.
and our position as the most efficient provider.
This allows us to offer our clients and consumers the most exciting and innovative We have also decided to simplify our portfolio.
This will allow us to solutions, aswell as the best value.
focus on food, our core competence, in our key markets.
The process will involve the disposal and in the case of some smaller The ability to innovate is also very important to help meet our clients markets, exit of up to 5% of revenues of non-core support services and consumers rapidly evolving tastes and needs.
We have industry or food businesses based on their potential be that market growth, leading chefs who develop varied menus that reflect food trends in scalability, or our own position and capability.
For example, in 2018 different markets.
In North America, we also have a team that we have sold our meals on wheels business in the USA and exited develops industry leading digital solutions for our clients including Gabon.
the use of apps and kiosks as well as a team dedicated to data analytics.
PEOPLE People are our biggest source of competitive advantage and the MAP CULTURE keyto delivering great food and services to our clients and For over 10 years, we have used our Management and Performance consumers together with great financial results.
We are in the MAP framework to drive performance across the business.
It is a process of further enhancing our employee proposition to ensure we simple framework that we all use to help us focus on a common set have an engaged, high performing, and fulfilled workforce that truly of business drivers, whether it is winning new business in the right reflects the diversity of the societies we live in and the communities sectors with the right terms MAP 1, increasing our consumer we serve.
participation and spend MAP 2, reducing our food costs MAP 3, We are committed to giving our people the safest and fairest our labour costs MAP 4 or our overheads MAP 5. environment in which to work.
In addition, we are leveraging our We are stepping up the intensity with which we manage market leadership and our great culture to: performance and will continue to use MAP to ensure we have a attract and develop the best leaders disciplined focus on execution.
recruit, retain and develop the highest quality unit managers in the industry have the best and most inclusive work places in the world with a fully engaged workforce have a diverse workforce that mirrors the communities in which we operate You can read more about what we are doing to improve our people proposition on pages 26 to 27.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 15 Chief Executives review continued PURPOSE SUMMARY AND OUTLOOK Our purpose is first and foremost a social purpose, the foundation Compass had another very strong year.
Revenue growth was ofwhich is a safety culture built around caring for people combined healthy, driven by excellent growth in North America, an with personal and food safety.
In addition, we want to integrate our acceleration in Europe and good progress in Rest of World.
sustainability strategy into the business.
It will focus on: We continue to drive operating efficiencies around the business increasing the role of health & wellbeing in our value proposition andwere able to move the margin slightly forward, with improvements in Rest of World offsetting a more difficult volume taking targeted actions where we can make the greatest andcost environment in Europe, especially the UK.
environmental difference driving positive outcomes beyond our business to make the world Given the excellent cash generation and overall strength of the a better place, such as our continued work with our suppliers to Group, we have invested in the business to support the exciting long source product responsibly and our commitment to enriching term growth opportunities we see.
At the same time, we continued to local communities reward our shareholders with strong dividend growth while reducing our leverage back to our target of 1.5x net debt to EBITDA.
We already have a strong commitment to corporate responsibility and great initiatives like our global Stop Food Waste Day.
We are We are making progress with our strategy to focus on Performance, now building on this existing strength and working more proactively People and Purpose.
We have codified our best practices around with our clients and consumers in those areas.
the Group and will now use our Management and Performance MAP framework to roll them out across our larger markets.
You can read more about what we are doing in this area on pages 38 to 43 and on www.
We are actively managing the portfolio to increase our focus on foodand are in the process of disposing of up to 5% of revenues CASH, BALANCE SHEET AND RETURNS TO innon-core businesses.
We continually look at bolt-on acquisition SHAREHOLDERS opportunities that strengthen our offer and meet our strict Excellent cash flow generation, a strong balance sheet and returns returnscriteria.
to shareholders continue to be an integral part of our business Our expectations for FY2019 are positive.
The pipeline of new model.
Our priorities for how we use our cash remain unchanged.
contracts is strong and our focus on organic growth, efficiencies and We will continue to: i invest in the business to support organic cash gives us confidence in achieving another year of progress.
We growth where we see opportunities with good returns: ii grow the expect organic growth to be in the middle of our 4-6% range with dividend in line with underlying constant currency earnings per modest margin progression.
share: iii pursue M&A opportunities: our preference is for small to medium sized bolt-on acquisitions, where we look for returns greater In the longer term, we remain excited about the significant than the cost of capital by the end of year two: iv maintain strong structuralgrowth opportunities globally, the potential for further investment grade credit ratings by returning any surplus cash to revenue growth and margin improvement, combined with further shareholders to target net debt to EBITDA of around 1.5x.
Dominic Blakemore Group Chief Executive 20 November 2018 16 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Performance Innovation is important to us and helps us meet the evolving tastes and needs of our clients and consumers.
Our industry leading chefs are passionate about developing menus that reflect food trends in our different markets In 2018, Compass was ranked the number one food service company in the Fast Company list of the worlds top 50 innovative companies.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 17
