Chief Executives strategic review COMPUTACENTER IS ONLY AS GOOD AS THE PEOPLE THAT WE EMPLOY, SO I THANK ALL OF OUR PEOPLE FOR WHAT TURNED OUT TO BE A RECORD YEAR IN 2018.
Mike Norris Chief Executive Officer 04 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 2018 was a very strong year for our European customers requirements in STRATEGIC HIGHLIGHTS Technology Sourcing business as, just like this market.
This acquisition brings us a Our strategy has continued to 2017, customers invested heavily in new Technology Sourcing capability, as well as drive our business forward in 2018. technology.
As we explained to investors at a significant number of new and exciting our conference in April, we believe customers customers.
will continue to invest in enhancing their digital workplace, increasing the speed of In 2018, we passed the landmark of 20 years their networks, building out their cloud as a public company.
Tony Conophy, our capability for their customers and, most Group Finance Director, and I have been of all, increasing their resilience against proud to lead the business the entire time.
These investments are We do, however, continually search to significant across all industries but there has strengthen our Management team, to take been particular investment by companies advantage of new growth opportunities.
that sell , as they build In 2018 Mike Keogh, who has been with us their infrastructure to meet increased since 2015, joined the Group Executive 1 demand.
While individual customers will have Management team to manage the combined To lead with and grow our Services business their highs and lows in spend, we believe the entities of our existing and acquired Through key renewals, we maintained the general thrust in the marketplace will business in the USA.
In the middle of 2018, annual Contract Base which grew by 6 2 remain positive.
Arnaud Lepinois took over the responsibility million to 766 million in constant currency.
of Managing Director of Computacenter Another continuing trend is customers France, after a handover period from Lieven desire to reduce the cost of ongoing support.
Bergmans, who has stabilised the business This has created significant pressure in the in the last few years.
We believe that market, as it leads to lower overall growth Computacenter France is now in a position 2 rates and there is less business to go around.
to grow and that a French national is better To improve our Services productivity and There has been a noticeable increase in the placed to source new opportunities.
Lieven enhance ourcompetitiveness occasions where we have not won new Bergmans is now Managing Director for what We continued our global expansion of our opportunities and seen the winning bidder we will refer to going forwards as The Rest Service Desk and Infrastructure Operations.
of Europe, which today includes Switzerland, We established a new location in Poland, In short, the competitive pressure in the Belgium and our newly acquired business helping us to meet the needs of our German marketplace is taking people to a financial in the Netherlands.
This time last year I announced some During 2018, we were successful with changes to our Management within Services.
renewals, particularly where we have Disappointingly, this did not work out as we demonstrated innovation and cost savings had expected.
We have subsequently divided 3 to customers through the life of previous responsibilities between Julie OHara, who To retain and maximise the relationship contracts.
Current market conditions make it has been with us for the long term and who with our customers over the long term even more critical that we invest to improve will be responsible for major Service Centers Through our acquisitions, we have added our productivity and competitiveness, as we and resources, and Jim Yeats, who is new to 14 Group customers who generate more than strive to be the leader in our chosen areas Computacenter and who will be responsible 1 million per year of gross profit.
for Service Management and major projects.
They will both join my Group Executive At our investor conference in April, we Management team.
indicated that we saw opportunity in geographical expansion.
We were therefore I would like to take this opportunity to thank 4 pleased to announce two acquisitions in the our customers, who entrust us with major To innovate our Services offerings to build second half of 2018.
In the Netherlands, we projects and significant support future growth opportunities have acquired a business that has been responsibility.
While we are often pleased A high rate of renewals and some new under significant balance sheet stress.
We with what we achieve, we will always strive to contract additions have positioned us well believe that over the next few years we can do better.
Computacenter is only as good as to learn the lessons from several difficult establish a successful and profitable the people that we employ, so I thank all of contracts.
business in the Netherlands, due to revenue our people for what turned out to be a record synergies, our expertise in this marketplace year in 2018.
Finally, I would like to thank and and the strength of our balance sheet.
More appreciate our shareholders for their significantly, we acquired FusionStorm at the long-term support.
end of September, which is our largest acquisition ever in terms of purchase price.
We had indicated to investors for some time that we were interested in acquiring in the Mike Norris USA and we are very pleased that the Chief Executive Officer acquisition fits well with our strategy and 11 March 2019 culture.
In 2016, we established a significant presence in the USA by organically growing a Services business that delivered to our 05
