ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 10 CEOs review ContourGlobal, the operating business, had a strong year.
GLO, our publicly traded stock, did not.
As you will read in my letter and this report, an abundance of good things happened in 2018.
Performance review As a reminder, in our Renewable business, Both solar technologies were slightly We had another extraordinary year for our strong technical availabilities are a below plan but performed well.
most important objective to work safely.
necessary but not sufficient condition for Ourhydroelectric facilities were above We equaled our record year in 2017 with reaching targeted financial performance.
plan in Brazil and below plan in Armenia.
our key lagging indicator, our Lost Time We need the cooperation of mother nature Incident Rate1, ending the year at 0.03 to provide wind, sun and water.
Despite the challenging weather despite nearly six million hours worked conditions, our financial performance including, as in 2017, at several recently In 2018, we asked our Chief Information remained robust reflecting the acquired businesses.
Officer Michael Kuperman to run our diversification benefits of our multiRenewable business.
Although for the second year in a row Theselection reflected both Mikes five Financial results in 2018 followed wehad only one lost time incident LTI, successful years as a project manager par wefailed to achieve Target Zero.
excellence, building out our operational operations and reflected our operationally Weended the year with at least top decile and corporate IT network, but also led acquisition model.
2 Not too surprisingly, reflected the accelerating reality of and FFO were up 19% and 18% our one LTI occurred at one of our new theRenewable energy business a datarespectively, and reflected operational businesses, our CSP facilities in Spain.
intensive, people-light business whose performance, capacity additions and Aspeck of airborne grit, floating through technical success increasingly depends strategic minority sales.
Thermal Adjusted the air and into one of our employees upon sophisticated monitoring of EBITDA reflected good performance in eyes.
Wind, sunshine, a large solar field, equipment and meteorological variables ouroperating fleet in all three core regions.
missing safety glassesa corneal abrasion, and using this data to increase Avery slight decrease in financial results fortunately not too serious, but a few days performance and drive down costs.
primarily reflected a one-off provision off work.
But also Weasked Mike to focus on the Brazil release in 2017.
The 47% growth in agood learning experience for our new windfleet, our largest, and one that did Adjusted EBITDA in the Renewable joiners to ContourGlobal about our notperform well in 2017.
Mike led an fleetdespite poor global wind resource approach to health and safety and more impressive turnaround, materially reflected capacity additions in Spain and importantly our response to failure.
increasing availabilities by 5% in our Italy.
Our financial results were produced Talkabout it, examine it, Five Whys it.
3 Brazilwind farms and executing to plan by over 100 individual power plants Dont blame, certainly dont blame anambitious organizational, commercial thereby reducing over dependency upon theinjured worker.
any one asset, technology type or country.
Fixed cost control was excellent both at Elsewhere in the Renewable fleet, theasset level and at the corporate level We had a good year in the power plants.
weperformed better than our already overhead.
Thermal performance was not what it stretched targets in the hydro, PV solar shouldhave been, but it had little impact andCSP fleet.
We also did a good job getting cash up onfinancial performance because the tothe parent company the entity that services the publicly-traded Eurobonds, minimum availabilities in our PPAs were Renewable resource performance met.
The Availability Factor AF was below wasmixed.
The wind did not blow pays dividends and provides capital for previous years excellent performance wellanywhere we had a wind turbine, new investment.
We believe that the cash although the shortfall primarily impacted the andthiswas consistent with the distributions to the parent, and the ratio of gas turbine and coal fleet, with our Solutions entireindustrys experience in 2018. the outstanding Eurobond debt to those and liquid fuel fleet performing ator better Assuch, weexperienced much lower cash distributions, is the best measure than plan.
4 2018 was a very good year for thanexpected capacity factors in Peru, ofour financial leverage.
the AF in the Renewable fleet.
Karl Schnadt Brazil, Austria andBonaire.
Other than and I are very proud ofour Renewable team foreign currency fluctuations, wind for improving the technical performance resource was the largest detractor ofthe global wind fleet in 2018. fromAdjusted EBITDA.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 11 1 LTIR measures recordable lost time incident LTI Growth, capital and market outlook Bonaire and the future of hybrid rates on the basis of 200,000 working hours.
We grew well in 2018 and capitalized on generation 2 Meredith Armstrong Whiting, Charles J. Bennett, opportunities to recycle capital that had Integrating thermal generation with Driving Toward 0: Best Practices in Corporate Safety started to emerge as the year progressed.
renewables and advanced battery storage and Health, The Conference Board Research Report R-1334-03-RR 2003 It was an extremely active year with as we have done in Bonaire provides 3 Five Whys is a technique for performing failure meaningful capacity additions in both another illustration of the opportunities analysis originally developed by Sikichi Toyoda of thegreenfield and acquisition segments thatexist across the thermal-renewable Toyota Production System fame.
The technique ofour development efforts.
5 continuum in the aspiring low carbon involves asking five times why a failure occurred thereby arriving at the root cause and enabling world.
In many emerging markets thedevelopment of a proportional response.
During the IPO process, we highlighted whereaccess to electricity has not 4 Thermal Fleet Equivalent Availability Factor for twolarge potential acquisitions that fit beenguaranteed, thermal generation 2018 was 90.2% for the year, which was 2.6% below 2017.
The most significant squarely within our strategy of growing isanecessary condition for deploying underperformance occurred in our Combined with operationally led, opportunistic renewable technologies.
In Senegal, Cycle Gas Turbine facility in Spain which was 5.1% acquisitions.
We achieved important forexample, a recent high impact Solar PV worse than the previous year albeit with little milestones with both, signing and closing project would have been impossible financial impact.
5 Our business is international with a concentration the acquisition of five CSP plants in Spain without placing Cap des Biches I and II inthree primary regions: Europe, Latin America and, and, just over year-end 2018, signing the intoservice over the past three years.
to a lesser extent, Sub-Saharan Africa.
We operate acquisition of two cogeneration plants in inthe market for electricity generation infrastructure and participate in that market through our own Mexico.
These successful acquisitions ContourGlobal is at the forefront of these development greenfield development which show the strength of being able to trends.
2018 saw us begin a multi-year plan involves creating an asset by taking it through the participate in broad market trends within to modernize the unique hybrid facility that permitting, financing and construction processes aswell as the acquisition of existing power plants.
both the Renewable and Thermal sectors.
we own and operate on the island of We operate, develop and acquire power plants Bonaire.
The Bonaire business is much using conventional fuel-based technologies as well 2018 also saw us capitalize on more important to us than its size would as those using renewable technologies currently opportunities to recycle capital by selling wind, solar and hydro.
An integrated renewable, storage wefocus on two broad categories of customers: minority interests at a very attractive and thermal generation facility that national grids and the utilities that supply these valuation in our Italian and Slovakian produces nearly 100% of Bonaires gridsand commercial, and industrial customers solarportfolio to Credit Suisse Energy electricity, it is a good model for island withsubstantial energy needs who prefer to procure their electricity supply directly from on-site facilities.
Infrastructure Partners CSEIP and entering nations and decentralizing electricity into a partnership with them to further grow systems.
Renewable generation our solar portfolio in Italy.
Later in the year technologies provide the opportunity to we once again teamed up with CSEIP generate electricity at a much lower cost bysigning an agreement to sell to them but their variability means that they require aminority interest in our Spanish CSP efficient and reliable complementary portfolio that we acquired from Acciona production from other sources namely earlier in the year.
thermal generation and, increasingly, battery storage.
WE GREW WELL IN 2018 AND CAPITALIZED ON OPPORTUNITIES TO RECYCLE CAPITAL THAT HAD STARTED TO EMERGE AS THE YEAR PROGRESSED.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 12 CEOs review continued We are not yet at the point when battery storage can displace thermal generation.
ContourGlobals 2018 highlights That seems a long way off.
Buttoday we can use the energy storage system to 1 Record Low LTIR enable us to maximize the low cost renewable production and buffer the swings when the wind dies down before the thermal generation can kick in.
Wehave upgraded this buffering by 2 Adjusted EBITDA growth installing anew lithium ion battery that increases our capacity by 100% and storage from 0.15 MWh to 6 MWh equivalent to improving the buffering from3 minutes to 60 minutes.
3 Successful acquisition and integration of Spanish CSP assets Theimproved storage enables us to furtherincrease wind generation by 10%.
Additionally, as we are doing in Austria, 4 Extremely good year for Renewable operations wewill begin to repower the wind farm in Bonaire this year to enable us to produce much more electricity with the existing wind resources.
As you may recall, last Refinancing of Corporate Bond at 3 3 8% 5 year and 4 1 8% 7 year year in Austria we began repowering our 5 saving $9.8 million in interest expense first two wind farms, a process that involves replacing older wind towers and turbines with newer technology.
6 These two projects offer a startling illustration of the 6 Successful repowering of Austrian wind farms dramatic improvements that have been achieved in wind turbine technology in thethirteen years that have passed since these wind farms first entered operations.
Using the same physical footprint as 7 Record year for Five Whys before, new tower and turbine technology will enable us to capture more wind and thereby produce 80% more energy annually than what was achievable just over a decade ago.
We made excellent progress in 2018 on our Austrian repowering initiatives.
By early in the newyear 2019, our first repowering wascomplete and we expect the secondto beplaced into service shortly.
An innovative hydroelectric refurbishment in Armenia As a world-class operator with a reputation for reliability and innovation, we see opportunity to bring these capabilities tomany over-looked areas of the world.
We have enjoyed collaborative relationships with many of the worlds leading Development Finance Institutions DFIs and together mobilized investment and innovation in many marquee projects in thedeveloping world.
One of these is the Vorotan hydro-electric complex located insouthwestern Armenia, a spectacular 404 MW facility that we acquired in 2015 and simultaneously entered into a substantial commitment to rehabilitate inaunique collaboration with the Government of Armenia, the International Finance Corporation, the Dutch FMO andGerman development banks KfWandDEG.
6 Myles McCormick, Wind Farmers Look to theNew Wave of Turbines Financial Times, 12th March 2019.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 13 Phase one of the rehabilitation The existing coal fired power plant is AS A WORLD-CLASS commenced in 2018 with the upgrading Europes single most polluting source with OPERATOR WITH ofthe control systems, turbines and emissions, particularly of particulate matter, generators.
This work was executed safely, which would not be tolerated in any A REPUTATION FOR on time and on budget despite the remote developed country.
Thereality of our RELIABILITY AND conditions and significant mobilization of project to develop a modern efficient people and material.
In addition to coalplant is that we will directly, and INNOVATION, WE SEE financing provided by DFIs who support dramatically reduce CO emissions 40%, 2 OPPORTUNITY TO BRING private sector projects such as this one, particulate matter 93%, Sox 85% and weachieved a very innovative solution NOx 93%.
These improvements will have THESE CAPABILITIES with the development bank of Germany an immediate, dramatic and positive impact TO MANY OVERLOOKED KfW and the Government of Armenia to on the population.
enable the German bank, which usually AREAS OF THE WORLD.
lends directly to sovereign states, to In the area of greenfield development, enable the Armenian government to webelieve that extending our existing on-lend a very long duration, low interest platforms in the Caribbean with renewable, rate concessionary loan to the project.
thermal and storage, converting liquid fuel Thisunique arrangement enables us to equipment to burn natural gas and substantially upgrade the facility a facility developing natural gas fired power that represents 15% of the energy generation in Mexico offer the most generated in Armenia while keeping compelling new greenfield development theprice of generated electricity in our opportunities.
In Africa, we continue to Power Purchase Agreement at a very low develop extensions of existing businesses 2.8 USD cents per kWh.
and have begun to see some new development opportunities with 2018 saw steady progress on our Kosovo renewables and natural gas.
project with much preparatory work conducted during the year that will provide the background for major contracting actions in 2019.
We expect to announce the equipment and EPC contractor and financing parties this year and then to commence construction on this muchneeded project.
How we are making a positive impact around the world 1 2 Principle Principle Operate safely and efficiently and Grow well minimize environmental impacts Page 17 Page 18 3 4 Principle Principle Manage our business responsibly Enhance our operating environment Page 21 Page 22 ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 14 CEOs review continued People, organization and learning Thissharing produces amazing benefits THE CONTOURGLOBAL The ContourGlobal team takes a common vocabulary for talking about TEAM TAKES PERFORMANCE performance management very seriously.
performance, failure and experience and They are unafraid to talk about failure, asense of belonging to a company in MANAGEMENT VERY which learning is embraced by everyone.
learnfrom it and share their learnings with SERIOUSLY.
Measure, adjust and improve itstarts with being willing to recognize For six years, we have been committed to UNAFRAID TO TALK thatthere has in fact been a failure.
the Five Whys methodology for performing ABOUTFAILURE, LEARN Uniquely, every function and operation failure analysis.
The embrace of the atContourGlobal shares their internal methodology and the benefits were FROM IT AND SHARE targets and their progress against those displayed prominently in 2018.
THEIRLEARNINGS WITH targets with the rest of the company.
Ourperformance management engine Our Five Whys performance was excellent ONE ANOTHER.
starts upon Sundays when our Thermal across the board but particularly so in Chief Operating Officer and Renewable ourcorporate functions where Amanda Chief Operating Officer publish their Schreiber our General Counsel and weekly operating statistics focusing on Laurent Hullo our Controller and interim Chief Financial Officer led a significant AF, EFOR and major events.
Unexpected outages orproduction deviations are increase in high quality Five Whys, highlighted, explained and lessons learned whosevolume was equally met with are presented.
Every week this document qualityand depth of analysis.
Gionata is distributed to the top 150 people in the Visconti led 27Five Whys for us in 2018 company.
The culture encourages you while also overseeing the operations toget comfortable quickly with failure.
ofCap des Biches I and II in Senegal, abusiness thathit every one of its In many companies, particularly industrial operational andfinancial metrics in 2018.7 ones, failure analysis is a one-sided affair because of the transparency produced by modern information systems, the industrial operations are under minute byminute scrutiny but the corporate services the functions representing areassuch as finance, legal, compliance, IT, human resources work in comfortable anonymity.
Corporate service plans, performance 7 Francisco Javier Martinez Garcia, our plant andfailure are shared within the corporate manager at the Alvarado CSP participated in service group as well as with our 11Five Whys which, on a pro-rata basis, was the most in the company since he was part of the operations teams in the power plants.
acquisition of the five CSP plants from Acciona and didnt even join until May!
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 15 In 2018, we welcomed over 100 new Outlook IN 2018 WE WELCOMED employees from our newly acquired As we commence our second year as Concentrating Solar Power facilities in apublic company, I am confident that OVER 100 NEW EMPLOYEES Spain.
I would like to thank our new wewill continue to deliver the ambitious INTO CONTOURGLOBAL Spanish colleagues for their strong results expected of us and to hold performance and enthusiasm as they ourselves accountable when we fail.
WITH OUR ACQUISITION OF integrated into a company that does things In2019, we will deliver marked increases THE FIVE CONCENTRATING a bit differently than they were accustomed inearnings and capacity as we close to before.
This is a great team and I see andintegrate our Mexican cogeneration SOLAR POWER FACILITIES many future leaders for our global business business into the company and expand IN SPAIN AND I WOULD LIKE coming out of Spain.
through additional development and acquisition globally.
We expect significant TO THANK OUR NEW On a similar note, early in 2018 we bid operational performance achievements SPANISH COLLEAGUES farewell to our colleagues in Kramatorsk, beginning with Health & Safety.
Ukraine, as the reality of trying to conduct Maybethisis the year that we reach FOR WORKING SO WELL business in the destabilized eastern TargetZero.
We made substantial LAST YEAR.
Ukraine overwhelmed our ability to commitments to newinvestors during worksafely and manage the business theIPO process.
Kramatorsk was one of our andwe are on track to deliver those earliest acquisitions, a prototype of sorts andthen some in 2019 and beyond.
for the acquire, rehabilitate, improve model that we bring to many of our acquisitions.
The business will live on in ContourGlobal Chief Executive Officer through its people.
Over the years, 4th April 2019 Ukrainehas produced some amazing ContourGlobal people, five of whom Andrew Berezhnoy September 2006, Oleksii Liakhovetskyi October 2006, Olena Stetsenko March 2008, Tatyana Kosarchuk 2008 and Olesya Kulikova August 2009 have been over a decade at ContourGlobal and have risen to positions of prominent leadership.
