Chief Executive Officers review Rick Anderson Chief Executive Officer We did not deliver our original targets for revenue growth and Our Executive Committee operational improvements in 2018 due to poor execution.
The Board and the Executive Committee were disappointed with the Groups performance and we are addressing these failures with a series of immediate actions.
Following the departure of Paul Moraviec in October 2018, the Board immediately initiated the search for a new CEO.
To ensure that we address the Groups poor performance without delay, I was Frank Schulkes George Poole appointed Interim CEO.
The fundamental opportunities of our Chief Financial Officer President, Americas markets, products and brands remain sound.
Our strategy to leverage our product portfolio for growth in attractive segments and geographies, develop and commercialise new technologies and services, and reduce complexity while increasing efficiency, is also sound.
However, our execution failures need to be urgently addressed.
Accordingly the Board gave me a mandate to develop a plan to improve, on a sustainable basis, the Groups commercial and a c David Shepherd Supratim Bose operational performance, in order to deliver better financial results Franchise President, Executive Vice President for shareholders over the medium to long term and to develop an Advanced Wound Care and President, APAC execution model that our new CEO, once appointed, can immediately leverage without constraining any potential strategic changes that they may wish to implement.
Over the past four months, along with the Executive Committee, I have undertaken an extensive review of all aspects of our business b and, following Board approval, we are now implementing a refreshed Stephan Bonnelycke Donal Balfe execution model to support our strategy.
We will focus on delivering Franchise President, Executive Vice President, Ostomy Care Global Operations sustainable and profitable growth by concentrating on those geographies, product and market segments that offer the best returns, simplifying our business and running it more effectively and efficiently whilst increasing our investment to drive growth and substantially improve the performance of the business.
Further information about our refreshed execution model is provided on the next page and on pages 28 to 31.
Frank Gehres Sean McGrath Franchise President, Executive Vice President, Increased investment to drive growth will be needed over the next Continence & Critical Care Human Resources three years whilst we transform the business and ensure all elements of the Group are operating at an optimal level, enabling the Company to deliver the returns that our shareholders and other stakeholders rightly expect.
This is expected to be funded by reinvestment of anticipated cost savings from our cost out and efficiency programmes, which are outlined on page 31.
John Lindskog Robert Steele We have a values-led culture and this is a core strength of our Franchise President, Executive Vice President, B2B and Infusion Devices Quality, Regulatory & Clinical Affairs business.
However, we also need to implement a high-performance culture, focused on continuous improvement in both operational and commercial excellence, with significantly better execution and delivery of profitable growth.
This will require improved performance management, with personal performance targets focused on each individuals contribution to the delivery of our strategy.
People will be held personally accountable for the delivery Kjersti Grimsrud Adam Deutsch of their targets.
President, EMEA Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Development a.
Joined Executive Committee on 19 November 2018. b.
Joined Executive Committee on 1 August 2018. c. Joined Executive Committee on 17 December 2018.
08 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 We will focus on delivering sustainable profitable growth by concentrating on product and market segments and geographies that offer the best returns, running our business more effectively and efficiently and continuing to invest to drive profitable growth.
2018 results overview continuing planned product rationalisation and the impact of Group reported revenue in 2018 of $1,832.1 million grew 3.8% a packaging recall in the second half of 2018, which together 1 2 year-on-year, 2.7% CER or 0.2% organically, in line with the revised negatively impacted revenue by c. $6 million.
Reported revenue guidance provided in October but below our initial expectations grew by 15.7% primarily as a result of the inclusion of Woodbury given in February 2018.
Significantly reduced orders in Infusion Holdings, which was acquired on 1 September 2017, and J&R Devices, due to an unexpected change in inventory policy in the Medical, which was acquired on 1 March 2018 net of the Symbius fourth quarter by our largest customer, was the main driver of Medical divestiture on 1 March 2018. reduced guidance.
Continued underperformance in our US AWC business, challenging market dynamics for AWC in the UK and, For more information on CCC performance see page 52. to a lesser extent, weakness in Ostomy Care also contributed to this result.
Infusion Devices 2 Revenue fell by 2.4% on a reported basis, and 3.5% on an organic Reported EBIT margin was 14.6% 2017: 14.0%, a result of higher basis in 2018, and in the fourth quarter declined 25.6% on a reported 2 revenues, lower costs related to manufacturing plant consolidation, basis and 24.9% organically, with good underlying growth offset by a reduction in costs from pre-IPO share based payments and the significantly reduced orders in the fourth quarter, due to an unexpected absence of any further costs related to the compliance and control change in inventory policy by our largest customer.
remediation programme resulting from the IPO.
For more information on Infusion Devices performance see page 54.
Adjusted EBIT margin was 23.4% 2017: 25.9%, again in-line with the revised guidance given in October 2018 but below our initial Adjusted Costs and EBIT expectations.
Increased investment in commercial initiatives, the Following the supply issues in Haina in the second half of 2017, internal infrastructure and capability of the business and negative stability in our manufacturing lines improved during 2018 and we sales mix were the main drivers of lower adjusted EBIT margin, along delivered $20 million in gross cost benefits.
However, we are still with lower than expected revenues.
Despite this cashflow remained experiencing cost headwinds such as higher depreciation, excess robust with adjusted cash conversion at 81% 2017: 77%.
freight, inflation and negative mix, coupled with costs related to the CCC packaging recall and some additional inventory write-downs.
Advanced Wound Care These headwinds more than offset cost benefits and resulted in 2 Revenue grew 1.7% on a reported basis, or 0.2% organically in 2018. a lower adjusted gross margin year-on-year.
Our AQUACEL Foam and anti-biofilm silver dressings performed As we had previously indicated, adjusted opex as a percentage of well, offset by challenges in our older DuoDERM and base sales increased to 36.7% of revenue 2017: 35.1%, while on a reported AQUACEL dressings, as a result of the supply constraints of 2017 basis it was flat at 38.5%.
This increase in adjusted opex was driven and challenging market dynamics, most notably in the UK.
primarily by the inclusion of Woodbury and J&R Medical and Performance in the US continued to be below expectations, driven commercial investments in US wound, HDG and China, as well as primarily by weak sales of surgical cover dressing and disappointing increased R&D in part to support new product development, progress on the wound acceleration plan.
particularly our next generation of ostomy products.
We also saw increased freight costs as we dealt with back orders built up due For more information on AWC performance see page 48. to the 2017 supply issues and the packaging recall.
Ostomy Care As a result, adjusted EBIT margin was 23.4%, compared to 25.9% 2 Revenue grew 0.8% on a reported basis, but fell 0.5% year-on-year in the prior year.
A refreshed execution model to deliver our strategy This was primarily driven by lost patients, a result of the supply As highlighted above, the Board gave me a mandate to develop a constraints in the second half of 2017.
We also saw some weakness plan to improve, on a sustainable basis, the Groups commercial and in the US retail channel and the recent trend in new patient capture operational performance, to deliver better financial results for rates in US hospitals.
However, we saw good results in both Latin shareholders over the medium to long term.
In the past four months, America and certain markets in Asia Pacific and Europe.
There were along with the Executive Committee, I have undertaken an extensive encouraging results from our recent product launches such as review of all aspects of our business and, following Board approval, Esteem Flex Convex.
we are now implementing a refreshed execution model called Pivot to Growth.
For more information on Ostomy Care performance see page 50.
Constant exchange rates CER growth is calculated by applying the 1 2 applicable prior period average exchange rates to the Groups actual Revenue grew 15.7% on a reported basis, 15.2% CER or 4.1% performance in the respective period.
organically in 2018, with a strong performance from our Home 2.
Organic growth presents year-on-year growth at CER, excluding Distribution Group HDG in the US being partially offset by M&A activities.
09 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Chief Executive Officers review continued Our strategy and the fundamentals of our markets, our products Further biographical information on all members of the Executive and brands remain sound.
Our CCC and Infusion Devices franchises Committee is available on our website www.
are fundamentally performing well, although AWC and Ostomy Care are clearly not.
A number of execution issues need to be urgently During my short time as CEO I have visited many parts of the addressed, such as delayed product launches, a focus on topline business and met with local management.
I have been consistently growth at the expense of margin, inefficiencies and cost headwinds impressed by the passion and commitment of our people to our in our manufacturing facilities, and our commercial and go-to-market core Purpose, to improve the lives of the people we touch, and their approach including price and segmentation.
These have all absolute desire to do the right thing.
negatively impacted our business, not only in terms of sales and margin, but also in management time, reputation and credibility Corporate responsibility with our stakeholders.
Since my appointment as an Independent Non-Executive Director in 2016, I have been a member of the Boards CR Committee.
As CEO Consequently, the objective of Pivot to Growth is to deliver I now have an executive role in guiding and driving our CR sustainable profitable growth and long-term value for all performance to achieve our medium-term objectives namely: stakeholders by better capitalising on ConvaTecs core strengths: To strengthen our management of CR-related risk.
leading positions in large, structurally growing markets: strong To improve our transparency.
brands and a range of differentiated products: a well-diversified To develop our employee and community engagement.
business platform across a range of market segments and To improve the sustainability performance of our products.
geographies: and robust cash generation capabilities.
The core principles of Pivot to Growth, which will improve our execution It has been a very positive year in respect of the advancements we capabilities and ensure we deliver on our strategy, are: Simplify, have made as we continue to drive our CR programme forward.
We Innovate, Segment and Invest.
Information about each of these have made good progress in our management of health and safety.
pillars is set out on pages 28 to 31.
Our approach to respecting the labour rights of our employees and those who work in our supply chains has been recognised in an People independent assessment conducted by one of our key customers.
To deliver improved performance and better execution we need We are now increasing our efforts to reduce our impact on the the right people in the right positions.
Over the past 18 months our environment, and I was delighted with our move to procure Executive Committee has been greatly strengthened.
David renewable energy for all our UK operations.
Shepherd was appointed President of AWC in November.
David joins from Johnson & Johnson, where he worked for 26 years in a variety One of the highlights of the year has been the successful launch of of sales, marketing, strategic and operations roles.
Most recently he our global community programme, LIFE by ConvaTec and you was the Area Vice President, Southern EMEA with responsibility for can read more about this on page 25.
David will lead the development and delivery of our AWC strategy, working closely with the other Franchise and Acquisitions Regional Presidents and other key functional areas.
On 1 March 2018 the Group acquired J&R Medical, a Texas-based independent distributor of catheter-related supplies.
The addition In January 2019 George Poole, previously President, APAC, of J&R Medical strengthens our presence in the substantial and became President, Americas.
George joined ConvaTec in 2015 from important US market.
Concurrently, the Group divested its Symbius Medtronic, where he spent nearly 16 years in leadership roles in Medical respiratory business.
commercial, marketing, operations and general management.
He has implemented a successful commercial strategy in our APAC UK withdrawal from the European Union Brexit region over the past three years.
For some time we have been monitoring the potential outcomes of the Brexit negotiations, assessing the potential effects on our Supratim Bose joined the Group in December 2018 as Executive business, whatever the circumstances under which the UK will cease Vice President and President, APAC, from Boston Scientific to be a member of the EU, and preparing contingency plans to Corporation, where he served as Executive Vice President & address the potential outcomes.
Our Brexit taskforce is actively President of Asia Pacific, Japan, Middle East and Africa.
Prior to preparing for a No-Deal scenario with external advisory support as Boston Scientific, Supratim spent 29 years with Johnson & Johnson.
However, it remains unclear what will be the position for the UK on 29 March 2019 and our planning will continue to evolve I am impressed with the quality of the Executive Committee.
The and adapt in light of political developments.
additions over the last 18 months bring significantly improved capability and experience.
Working alongside myself and Frank Schulkes, our CFO, I am confident that we will be able to improve performance through our refreshed execution model which provides much greater clarity and direction to our strengthened management team.
10 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 Our Brexit risk assessment process identified several key areas We recognise that there remains significant uncertainty around the of focus for potential impact, including: eventual Brexit outcome.
However, based on our understanding Regulatory frameworks and compliance today we do not believe that Brexit will generate unmanageable risks Customs duties and tariffs for our business.
Supply chain Employees and mobility Group outlook and 2019 guidance Tax and treasury As mentioned previously, our strategy and the fundamentals of our markets, products and brands remain sound.
3 Our products are CE marked for sale through a Notified Body.
Our Notified Body at present is BSI UK, which has set up a sister Whilst CCC and Infusion Devices are fundamentally performing well, company in the Netherlands, BSI NL, which has completed the AWC and Ostomy Care are not.
A number of execution issues across process to be a designated EU Notified Body, and a migration process the Group need to be addressed.
We have developed a refreshed with the respective National Competent Authorities has been agreed execution model Pivot to Growth which will focus on four principles: for CE certifications.
This is an administrative process, which has Simplify, Innovate, Segment and Invest, to deliver sustainable and recently now been put in motion by BSI on the advice of the MHRA profitable growth by concentrating on those product and market Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency.
This segments that offer the best returns, simplifying our business and means, for our products that are sold in the EU, that CE certification running it more effectively and efficiently, whilst continuing to invest would be migrated to BSI NL and existing certificate numbers would to drive growth.
BSI have also confirmed that a protracted period will be allowed in which to make associated labelling and packaging Our Transformation Initiative, which is described on page 31, will changes.
In addition, a ConvaTec Group company located within contain four workstreams which will improve our operational and the EEA EU will be designated as the Authorised Representative commercial execution.
However, we will need to invest in the in the EU for those products where ConvaTec Limited is the business over three years whilst we address performance issues, legal manufacturer.
enabling the Company to deliver the returns that our shareholders and other stakeholders rightly expect.
The UK authorities have recently made arrangements to allow continued sales in the UK of existing medical products manufactured In 2019 we expect organic revenue growth of 1% to 2.5%, with an in the EU.
EU standards and regulations will continue to be accepted improved performance year on year in AWC, Ostomy Care and CCC.
and thus we expect our products manufactured within the EU and Whilst Infusion Devices will be impacted by the exit of Animas, we exported to the UK will be not be impacted from a regulatory and expect growth to be above the level seen in 2018.
margin is expected to be 18% to 20%, including $50 million of operational spend associated with the Transformation Initiative and ConvaTec has undertaken an indirect tax assessment in conjunction costs related to the Medical Devices Regulation MDR.
Excluding with external advisors to establish the potential duty impact on the these transformation costs and MDR, the adjusted EBIT margin would flow of its products that move in and out of the UK.
We manufacture be 21% to 22.5%, reflecting a positive contribution from cost out our products in eight countries around the world, with the UK being initiatives, partially offset by price and increased negative mix and one of those locations.
This means that the potential duty impact ongoing commercial spend and other cost increases.
only affects a modest proportion of our imports and exports.
Our opportunity over the medium to long term is to drive organic We do buy raw materials in the EU that are shipped to the UK, for revenue growth in line with or higher than market growth rates and use in the manufacture of our AWC products.
However, the final we continue to see adjusted EBIT margin expansion potential.
duty costs will not be known until the mechanism for effecting Brexit has been confirmed.
The inventory levels required during a There is a lot to do to execute our strategy more effectively but I am No-Deal Brexit transition have been assessed and we are working confident that the energy and commitment of all our people, allied to to have these in place at the appropriate time.
a refreshed execution model will help us to deliver an improved performance and move us to a position where we can deliver the It is reasonable to expect that there shall be delays at the custom sustainable returns that shareholders and other stakeholders deserve.
borders into and out of the UK on and after 29 March 2019 for a In doing so we will continue to do the right thing for our business and limited period.
We have assessed the potential impact of such delays all our stakeholders.
I am confident we are now set on that course.
on our supply chain and have put in place mitigation plans, including reviewing inventory and appropriate stock positioning.
Rick Anderson Chief Executive Officer 3.
An organisation designated by an EU country to assess the conformity 14 February 2019 of certain products before being placed on the market.
11 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
