Group Chief Executives review SECTOR-LEADING EARNINGS AND COMPLETION GROWTH The Group continues to deliver against its strategic objectives of growth, returns and resilience.
IPO targets exceeded Group strategy Our strategic objectives of growth, returns 2018 IPO target andresilience underpinned by our strong operational performance have enabled us Total completions 4,295 3,600 tocontinue to grow strongly in 2018.
Adjusted operating margin 17.2% 17% Our ability to deliver on these priorities is Return on capital employed 37.1% 28% basedon a number of strategic choices we took ahead of the IPO.
At the forefront of these was our decision to cease a number Future resilience ofperipheral activities and focus instead on thecore activities of our balanced operating 2018 2015 model: Partnerships and Housebuilding.
Partnerships preferred bidder and land bank 29,878 10,760 In particular, our mixed-tenure approach to development that comprises private, affordable Housebuilding land bank 19,778 18,410 and PRS homes gives us the ability to deliver Net cash debt 45.0m 59.5 m accelerated growth, returns andresilience.
In terms of growth, we have outperformed oursector in both earnings and homes completed Non-financial metrics during 2018.
We have built on our strong new business pipeline in both our operating divisions 2018 2015 tounderpin the medium term.
Our Partnerships Health and safety AIIR 162 265 pipelineand Housebuilding strategic land bank are industry-leading, delivering balance sheet efficiency Customer Satisfaction NHBC Recommend a friend 84.6% 82.7% and continuing to underpin our future growth.
Build Quality Reportable Incidents, RIs 0.22 0.22 Our excellent asset turn, particularly in our Partnerships division and our strong operational execution means we are highly efficient in generating revenue and cash from our assets.
This helps us operate a capital-light model and deliver asuperior return on capital employed while maintaining strong operating margins.
Our Housebuilding division continued to grow to scale with operating margins and ROCE both improving strongly in the year.
Our resilience is supported by a number offactors.
The mixed-tenure model reduces ourexposure to the private housing market which we expect will represent around one third ofdelivery in 2019.
In addition, forwardfunding of affordable and PRS homes helps to reduce our balance sheet risk while accelerating growth in sectors of highdemand.
6 Annual report 2018 Countryside Properties PLC Strategic report We support our three strategic priorities through prudent financial management, ensuring we deploy capital appropriately through the cycle.
We have a clear focus oncash generation and manage debt carefully.
During 2018, we were able to use our own cash to make two important investments to accelerate our future growth the purchase ofWestleigh in April 2018 and the development of an offsite modular build factory, which will come on stream in 2019.
Overall, we believe our low-capital mixed-tenure model provides strong growth and remains more resilient to the cyclical nature of the UK housebuilding sector.
Our target customers The commitment of both national and local government to deliver more housing and in particular to increase the amount of affordable housing in London is aligned closely to our strategy.
We have grown our delivery of affordable housing during the year, both organically and with the acquisition of Westleigh.
We are one of the largest providersof affordable homes in London as a proportion of total completions.
The rapidly expanding PRS sector remains afocus for us, with over 2,000 homes now completed with our partner Sigma Capital Our 2018 results, combined with a strong inthe North West and the Midlands.
We plan toexpand this relationship further with the aim forward order book at year end, giveus great ofdelivering an additional 5,000 PRS homes confidence in delivering our medium-term overthe next three years.
growth target of 10 to 15 per cent per annum.
63 per cent of our private sales during the yearwere to first time buyers in areas of strong demand.
By focusing on this customer segment we were able to reduce our private average selling price to 402,000.
This has been achieved while still focusing on placemaking with no reduction in the quality of build or strength oflocation.
Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2018 7 Group Chief Executives review continued These panels will be delivered tosites for assembly, In response to the Grenfell fire tragedy, we acted A step change in growth where skilled tradespeople will supply finishes.
quickly to review all tall buildings constructed Our acquisition in April 2018 of Westleigh, The new facility will ultimately produce around byCountryside, taking corrective action where along-established partnerships home builder 1,500 units per year to serve the Partnerships required.
We anticipate further changes to covering the East Midlands and Yorkshire, division across the Midlands andthe North West.
Building Regulations following the review.
increased the scale of our Partnerships division and extended our operational footprint into We anticipate that this approach will allow us Our performance new geographies.
to take a building from foundations to completed During 2018, we delivered another year property in around ten weeks from the current Having tracked Westleigh for some years prior ofstrong growth and improved financial returns.
12 to 14 weeks, increasing thenumber of homes tothe acquisition, we recognised that it already Our mixed-tenure approach and decision to our sites can deliver in a year.
As well assignificantly met a number of the requirements of our own reposition average selling prices to improve improving our operational efficiency, there are business model and strategy, including strong affordability saw us being able to adapt to a number of other benefits including protection relationships across its markets, a high-quality theareas of strongest demand.
from site labour shortages, reduced waste and supply chain and a highly experienced workforce.
The acquisition added around 5,000 plots to our During the year, we saw house price inflation land bank and a further new business bid pipeline of around two per cent asprice growth moderated Market overview of potential sites, delivering a strong platform for particularly at the upper end of the market.
By introducing our mixed-tenure Overall demand for housing of all tenures Whilst build cost inflation varied between three model to Westleigh, we aim to accelerate remains strong across all our areas of operation.
and five per cent, we had already largely allowed growthand improve underlying returns.
Mortgage availability and the recently announced for this in our development forecasts and there extension of Help to Buy until 2023 have ensured was therefore no impact on gross margin.
We are well advanced with the integration that demand from first time buyers has remained andexpansion of the business and expect it to Our Health and Safety record improved again in robust.
However, some stresses in the UK housing deliver accretion to adjusted earnings per share 2018 with the AIIRfalling to162 per 100,000 market started to emerge during the year, with in the first full year of ownership.
Regrettably, an property sales in the second-hand market slowing, incident at one of our sites post year end has particularly at higher price points as a result of resulted in the fatality of one of our Off-site construction the impact ofincreased Stamp Duty together subcontractors, which is currently under One of the biggest challenges facing Countryside with the uncertain macro-economic backdrop.
Our sympathies are with the and the industry as a whole is a shortage of The impact on Countryside is limited by the family and everyone connected with this tragic labour, in areas including project and site strategic decision we took four years ago to event.
We maintained our high level ofbuild management as well as skilled labour on site.
reduce average selling prices to ensure our quality as measured by the NHBC Reportable While it is possible to address the issue to product is affordable for local owner occupiers.
Incidents at 0.22 per plot versus 0.21 in 2017.
Our some degree through training and development At the same time, according to the National customers satisfaction is veryimportant to us programmes, we also need to challenge the and we were disappointed that our NHBC House-Building Council NHBC, 2017 was the way we build our homes.
We believe the right best year for new builds in the decade since the Recommended aFriend score decreased to approach is to automate some parts of the 84.6 per cent.
We have financial crisis, with builders delivering 160,000 construction process off site to ensure skilled new homes, up by six per cent on 2016. taken a number of steps to improve this people on site can concentrate on the tasks performance in 2019, including setting targets that add the most value.
Government and all-party recognition of the to be included in the Group bonus metrics and need for additional housing continued to be This was the motivating factor behind our decision appointing Graham Cherry tolead the strong during the year, with nearly 200,000 new to invest in a new off-site manufacturing facility improvement initiatives at the Executive homes expected in 2018 and the Governments that will enable us to achieve more with our Committee.
stated annual target of 300,000 newhomes.
existing people, supporting the faster delivery of new homes.
Two important Government reviews have Strong company values beenpublished in 2018 the Letwin Review We have for some years used an open-panel The fact that 2018 was our 60th anniversary on tackling barriers to building and the timber frame system in our Northern and served as a reminder to everyone connected recommendations following the inquiry Midlands regions to produce standard components with our business that it was founded based intothe Grenfell Tower disaster.
offsite for around 40 per cent ofour output.
onavery strong set of core values, which still From 2019, our new 6m facility in Warrington influence how we engage with our staff, partners, The Letwin Review concluded that measures will take this further, producing more complete, investors and other stakeholders today.
are needed to promote faster delivery of homes quality-assured wall and flooring systems with on large strategic sites.
This aligns well with our As the business has grown, and we have constantly first-fix plumbing and electrical channels mixed-tenure delivery model which reduces sought ways of becoming more efficient and installed, windows in place and insulation sealed ourreliance on the absorption rate for effective, these values have continued to have into the unit, ensuring all relevant regulations are privatehomes.
an important role in our success.
In particular, met in a production environment.
our impressive performance in winning bids is still based on building long-term relationships and delivering high-quality placemaking to create Places People Love.
They provide us with tangible competitive strength, and an anniversary of this kind is agood moment to remember and reflect ontheir importance.
8 Annual report 2018 Countryside Properties PLC Strategic report Our 60th anniversary served as a reminder to everyone connected with our business that Countryside was founded on a very strong set of values that still prevail today.
Our Housebuilding division continues to see Investing in our people Outlook the benefits of greater scale and operational The rapid growth in our business over the last Despite some of the political and economic efficiency.
As more strategic land is pulled five years has brought with it a threefold increase uncertainty around Brexit, we have started through into the business and our core house in our directly employed workforce, from around thenew financial year in a strong position.
type range is delivered, we anticipate a strong 600 to more than 1,800.
We are very aware Weenter 2019 with a record forward order underpin to our future performance.
that continued fast growth means that we need book, we have excellent visibility over future to focus on maintaining our standards.
It is Partnerships work and a strategic land bank At this time, it is paramount that we maintain our therefore vital that we retain our best people, that continues to feed the business with high build quality, customer satisfaction and health and investing in their development and reward to quality land.
Ourmixed-tenure model is expected safety standards, all of which have been improving ensure they feel valued by theGroup.
to deliver strong growth and resilient returns in recent years.
We will continue to focus on over themedium-term.
ensuring that we have a large enough skilled Further detail is set out in the People section workforce to continue delivering on theground.
Many of the large Partnerships developments secured over the last two years together with the Overall, I am confident that we are ideally placed acquisition of Westleigh will deliver homes in 2019, to continue to meet the markets expectations underpinning the future growth of the division.
Ian Sutcliffe Group Chief Executive 20 November 2018 Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2018 9
