6 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Chief Executive Officers review 2018 has been another transformational year for CYBG, in which we have continued to execute on our strategy and consistently delivered against the targets we have set.
Our strong progress since the IPO has put in place the foundations that enabled us to acquire Virgin Money and to deliver on our ambition to create the first true national competitor to the status quo.
I am delighted to report that we have seen cost efficiency programme is ahead of plan, These include the ability to grow our SME another year of significant progress in with underlying operating costs of 635m, business through the RBS Alternative 2018.
Our disciplined approach to while impairment charges remain low.
Remedies Package schemes, the delivery of executing on our strategic plan and an enhanced customer experience by fully While the Group delivered a strong delivering our commitments has translated leveraging our digital platform in an Open underlying performance, the significant into both improved financial performance Banking environment and, of course, the action taken to manage the Groups legacy and strong strategic positioning.
recently announced acquisition of Virgin conduct issues means we have reported a Money.
I believe our combination of scale The UK economic outlook remains statutory loss after tax of 145m.
While and growth opportunities are unique in the uncertain and while the economy has the additional PPI provision charge required UK marketplace.
remained more resilient than expected, in 2018 is disappointing, the Groups strong economic data through the year has capital position means we have been able The Virgin Money acquisition was clearly a pointed to a slightly weaker environment.
In to absorb this without any impact on our landmark moment for the Group.
The particular, consumer spending has slowed strategy and future ambitions.
combination will create the first true and businesses have been holding back national competitor to the status quo in UK Capital optimisation and, specifically, investment.
This has reduced demand for banking in over a decade, offering a achieving IRB accreditation, was one of the lending, although credit conditions remain genuine alternative for consumers and Groups key strategic targets.
In the mortgage market, economic small businesses.
The following transaction another year of hard work across the uncertainty has reduced customer demand overview section recaps the compelling Group, I am delighted that in October 2018 while competition has remained intense, strategic and financial rationale.
We have we received IRB accreditation from the resulting in a challenging pricing already begun a comprehensive strategic PRA for both our mortgage and SME environment, with swap rate increases not planning process for the Group and I would portfolios.
It is a testament to the strength being fully passed on to customer pricing.
expect us to be in a position to update the of our risk management approach, delivers There is still significant uncertainty as to market on our strategy and targets at a a significantly more capital efficient bank the outcome of the UKs negotiations with Capital Markets Day event in June 2019. and will enable us to compete in a broader the EU.
However, the Groups outlook and range of products in the marketplace.
I want to thank our Board and colleagues 2019 guidance is based on our planning for their support and hard work, and I assumption of a transitional agreement Our digital transformation also continued would also like to extend a very warm between the UK and EU from March 2019. at pace, with the significant, multi-year welcome to our new colleagues from Virgin investment made in our technology Despite some of these uncertainties, our Money.
Together, we have a once-in-aplatforms enabling us to leverage the iB market position as the only full-service UK generation opportunity to change the platform to deliver an enhanced digital challenger bank of scale across both Retail competitive dynamic in UK banking and I customer experience.
Key achievements and SME enabled us to deliver ahead of am sure I speak for everyone when I say include: the migration of our c. 2m Retail market growth in both mortgages and that we cant wait to get started!
customers onto our iB platform: beginning SME, prudently funded by our strong our first Fintech partnerships: and being deposit franchise.
Our performance in SME the first challenger bank to offer an Open means we remain on track to deliver our Banking enabled current account commitment to provide at least 6bn of aggregation service.
lending to SMEs by the end of 2019.
While our Group NPS score of 10 is not David Duffy Our 2018 financial results show improved at the level we aspire to, customer Chief Executive Officer underlying profit and returns, sustainable experience is very much a top priority for loan growth and the payment of an 26 November 2018 my leadership team.
We are therefore increased ordinary dividend of 3.1p per encouraged by the strong 34 NPS score share.
Income was down slightly, with for our digital-only brand B. continued growth in net interest income more than offset by lower non-interest Looking forward, I believe CYBG is truly income.
NIM declined 10bps in the year to differentiated from its UK banking peers 2.17% driven by the competitive front book through the genuinely unique combination pricing environment in mortgages.
Our of growth opportunities available to us.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information
