08 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report 09 The portfolio retains considerable reversionary potential, totalling 114.9m.
Nearly half of this growth is already contracted and largely accounted for in the Groups earnings per share, which leaves 59.6m, Chief Executives subject to rental incentives, still to benefit our earnings.
Thiswill require another 133m of capital expenditure.
We are enhancing this potential income growth in 2019 with our next major developments: Soho Place W1 and The Featherstone Building EC1.
These two statement well-located projects will be major beneficiaries from the opening ofthe Elizabeth line now expected in 2020 and have a combined ERVof30m.
They are expected to require an additional 359m of The London office market has remained capital expenditure, including the deferred land purchase payable toCrossrail on completion of Soho Place.
These projects will extend resilient following the result of the EU ourdevelopment programme out to 2022. referendum over two and a half years ago.
While we have made no significant acquisitions recently, 29% of Occupational and investment demand is holding up and Londons ourexisting portfolio, in addition to our current projects, holds economy and workforce continue to grow, although at a slower rate.
substantial potential for major regeneration.
This includes two Businesses continue to look beyond the short-term uncertainty, WestEnd schemes, which already have resolutions to grant whichhas created an unusually stable period of rents and values for planningpermission, totalling 443,000 sq ft.
Both could start by the second year in succession.
Derwent London has again been able 2022thereby extending our development programme out to 2025. tooutperform the central London office market, benefitting from itssuccessful development activities, which justifies the positive After thirty-five years as Chief Executive, I will be stepping down at this decision taken in 2016 to progress with our regeneration programme.
years AGM to become Non-Executive Chairman.
It has been a privilege to lead and watch the business grow from total assets of only 1.1m in Despite average rents and values remaining stable, the underlying 1984 to the sizeable operation it is today.
From the start, I have been market is witnessing a number of dynamic trends as occupiers are able to work with outstanding colleagues.
In particular, Simon Silvers increasingly focused on the impact of their workspace in attracting design flair and attention to detail has been so important to the Groups andretaining their employees.
These trends include the strength reputation for providing special buildings which has become part of our ofdemand for new space compared to secondhand space, and DNA.
I am delighted that he is continuing to play his valuable role within occupiers increasing emphasis on lease flexibility, well-being and the Group.
Demand is no longer purely focused just on location and price.
This has seen the proportion of London office space occupied The merger with London Merchant Securities in 2007 proved a pivotal byflexible office providers increase from 3% to 5% in recent years.
moment, doubling the size of the Group and providing a rich seam of Meanwhile, in the investment market, the strongest demand remains opportunities which are still delivering for us today.
During my tenure, for properties on longer leases.
Ihave benefitted from the advice of two exemplary Chairmen: first, John Ivey and, subsequent to the merger, Robbie Rayne.
Robbie will Our development at Brunel Building W2 has seen excellent demand retire at this years AGM.
I am most grateful for hisconsidered advice with the majority of its space let for a minimum of 12 years before and wish him well with his other business andcharitable interests.
Some of our smaller spaces in Clerkenwell have been let as fully fitted flexible units on simplified shorter leases.
White Collar Derwent London has an excellent team with a broad range of Factory EC1, as well as winning numerous architectural awards, expertiseand experience and we have continued to invest in the hasalso won the NLA well-being award.
Additionally, the asset talentpool through our Fit for the Future programme.
Our business management team has had a busy 2018, extending a number of issupported by strong relationships with our occupiers, advisers existing leases on our portfolio, notably creating a new 20-year andother stakeholders.
Together, we have established a brand leasefor Burberry at Horseferry House SW1.
recognised for itscutting-edge design, providing the spaces and services needed by todays businesses.
I would like to thank all who We are well positioned to respond to market conditions, reflecting the have been involved in Derwent Londons remarkable journey so far, multiple skills of our team as well as the Groups portfolio and financial especially my colleagues and family for their support.
Our properties are predominantly income-producing, let off middle market rents, with plenty of opportunities toadd value through Outlook both management initiatives and regeneration.
Our business is Making any short-term prediction today is difficult with so many major underpinned by prudent financing, giving us the freedom to pursue political decisions unresolved.
Longer term, we remain confident about ourstrategies at our own timing.
We vary development exposure by Londons prospects and its status as a global city.
This belief, shared accelerating or slowing the pipeline depending on the letting success with many other businesses, continues to support occupier demand.
ofour current projects and our market view.
The overall portfolio Assuming demand is maintained, we expect the London office market PERFORMANCE IN 2018 will follow a similar pattern to last year so, for2019, we estimate our balanceis maintained by disposing of assets where we have maximised ERV growth at 1% to -2%, with stable investment yields.
Our strong the growth and re-investing the proceeds into new opportunities.
financial position means that, were London offices to suffer an Tenant retention re-lets Development potential Reversionary percentage From the outset, Derwent London has been passionate about the unexpected downturn, we would be poised to take advantage Measures our ability to We monitor the proportion of our Measures the growth in passing rents, buildings it creates.
We listen to our occupiers which means that, ofanyopportunities that might occur.
retain or re-let space portfolio with the potential for assuming the rent increases to ERV formany years, we have tried to create the most flexible internal space following lease expiry refurbishment or redevelopment and all current developments are possible and offered communal break-out space and amenities in our With its unique portfolio offering a very strong pipeline of potential completed and let multi-let buildings to help create a positive experience.
The Group likes projects, I am confident that Derwent London will continue to to remain innovative and uses a range of materials to provide the most prosperunder the future leadership of Paul Williams.
Enhanced practical, sustainable and aesthetic buildings.
Our designs consider a byitsregeneration skills and the financial strength to invest when buildings impact on the environment and the local community, not just opportunities present themselves, this will ensure that the Group during construction but for the long-term.
Wedonot do this alone but continues to deliver great buildings backed up by equally strong returns.
90% 41% 72% collaborate with specialists who we believe are the best in their field.
Tenant retention alone was 76%, above Within our target range Up from 69%, reflecting rise John Burns No Derwent London refurbishment or redevelopment is the same, but our target range of 50-75% see page 125 of 37-47% see page 125 in contractual uplifts Chief Executive all aim to be of the highest quality with a long-lasting positive impact.
