10 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report 11 Q You have been the Director responsible for sustainability foroversix years now: how do you think this will impact your role asCEO?
A CEo SUCCESSION Derwent London has always felt that it is good business to take along-term view of the environmental and social impact of our buildings on our neighbours and the wider community.
We also look Questions and answers with Paul to promote well-being initiatives at our larger multi-let buildings.
Williams, who will succeed John Burns The Group takes its sustainability disclosures seriously, asChief Executive immediately after demonstrated through the publication of our first Annual Sustainability Report in 2009 and the appointment of a Head ourAGM on 17 May 2019.
Wearecontinually looking at ways of improving our sustainability performance and adopted the TCFD Derwent London in 1987, becoming reporting framework in 2018.
The Group launched a Community amainBoard Director in 1998.
Fundin2013, which has supported 76 projects since inception.
In a further move to ensure weare considering our impact on all Q How do you think Derwent has changed over the years?
ourstakeholders and to manage our environmental, social and A In some ways very little, as our passion for buildings, creativity, governance risks and opportunities, we set up theResponsible focus on central London offices striving to attract the best tenants Business Committee in 2018.
This will be chaired byCillaSnowball, and the desire to do the right thing wasthere from the start.
We still aNon-Executive Director, and I will be a Committee member.
focus on buying buildings with good bones that we can regenerate Q inimproving locations.
However, one obvious difference is our size, What are the biggest challenges that you face?
A which means that we have taken on larger schemes and increased I believe it is important that any listed business can demonstrate the depth of our pipeline.
It has also meant that we have needed to toits investors that it has good growth potential.
We have little become increasingly tech savvy asabusiness.
control over the office cycle or the challenges of Brexit, but we can generate our own momentum through asset management and Q During that time, has there been any specific transaction development.
It is important that our ambition matches our size, thatyou would highlight?
andthat this in turn is balanced through preserving a suitable risk A Over the years there have been many deals which were seen as profile and maintaining strong capital discipline.
exceptional at the time, butthen we go on to make a further one.
Derwent Londons approach is very team-orientated and my area Over many years, Derwent London has built a brand through the offocus has been in leasing, development and seeing potential in creation of its buildings.
We believe that, in part, this reflects our sites.
Our recent leasing activity has been strong, notably with the desire to be the best that we can be in all aspects of our business.
pre-letting of most of the commercial space at our largest ever Oneis to ensure that, as far as possible, our buildings are having development, 80 Charlotte Street W1, and the success we have beneficial impacts on their occupiers and neighbourhoods and hadat Brunel Building W2.
Wecontinue to work hard to know our thatlonger term we are minimising any negative impacts they have occupiers and their needs andthat drives us in everything we do.
Dealing with potential climate change presents challenges to all businesses, and it is one other area where Derwent Q Do you propose to do anything differently to your London will continue to strive to be among the best in class.
A The Group has always aspired to be a market leader in the provision Given my predecessors outstanding track record, there is no needto make any immediate changes, but I will have my own of office space.
This means that we cannot afford to stand still.
individual style and the Group will continue to evolve.
Internally, Weneed to keep investing in our people and investing in new myappointment will give opportunities to others as I take on new designsand technologies.
We must continue to be bold and offer roles and relinquish most of my old ones.
Derwent London has a newsolutions for each property.
Only then can we ensure that we strong set of Executive Directors and an experienced team eager willcontinue tooffer our occupiers the spaces fit for not just today totake on new responsibilities.
Externally, we will continue but tomorrow too.
 to benefit all our stakeholders.
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures OUR PRIORITIES IN 2019 fide-risk the pipeline Capital recycling Promote responsible business Derwent London had 623,000 sq ft under We always look to take advantage of The Group has recently established the development in December 2018, and has opportunities to either acquire or dispose of Responsible Business Committee to focus started an additional 410,000 sq ft in 2019. assets in the portfolio.
At the same time we on social and environmental matters and, We will be seeking additional pre-lets during seek to maintain the balance between core aspart of its remit, we will be continuing to the year.
income and future development properties, promote diversity, inclusion and well-being as well as to ensure that we can meet our amongst our staff.
