12 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Chief Executives statement Chief Executives statement Volume Organic volume movement movement 0.7% 2.5% 2017: 1.7% 2017: 1.1% Net sales Organic net movement sales movement 0.9% 5.0% 2017: 14.9% 2017: 4.3% Operating profit Organic operating movement profit movement 3.7% 7.6% 2017: 25.3% 2017: 5.6% I am pleased to report another year of All our regions delivered growth in net sales, strong and consistent performance.
as did all categories, with the exception of I am proud of our peoples passion and vodka.
Our global giant brands grew 4%, with engagement, and want to thank all 30,000 Johnnie Walker up 5%, Tanqueray up 15%, colleagues for their commitment to our Guinness up 5%, Baileys up 6% and Captain Diageo is becoming a purpose and values, and for the spirit Morgan up 2%.
Smirnoff organic net sales with which they are making Diageo a were down 2%, driven predominantly by great blend of every day stronger business.
US Spirits and Europe, as well as competitive efficiency and reinvestment pressure in South Africa.
Our local stars Performance were up 6% and reserve was up 14%, with in our brands.
Our results We have become a more efficient, agile particularly strong performances from company, through the rigorous execution reflect the high performance Chinese white spirits and Don Julio, up 63% of our strategy and by capitalising on and 39%, respectively.
culture we have created in established trends: consumers in developed We have a broad portfolio across markets are moving to better quality, more geographies and categories, which provides a the company, as well as the premium brands: those in emerging markets natural hedge against challenging conditions are also trading up into spirits.
Of course, while ongoing rigorous execution in some countries, such as Cameroon and we are one of the largest distillers in the world, Ethiopia, this year.
In Ethiopia, currency of our strategy.
We are more beer is also an important part of our business devaluation, changes in the competitive and accounted for 16% of our net sales.
It is consumer focused and our environment and political unrest created a the second largest category for Diageo after difficult operating environment.
ability to move swiftly on scotch, and Guinness, our premium beer, Earnings per share before exceptionals is growing strongly.
trends and insights means were up significantly again this year, Organic net sales were up 5%, driven increasing 9.3%.
This was primarily driven we are better placed to by volume growth and strong price mix.
by organic operating profit growth.
Growth was broad based across categories capture opportunities and We delivered another year of strong and regions, including our three focus areas: consistent free cash flow performance, deliver sustained growth.
scotch, US Spirits and India.
I am pleased with our margin expanded by 78bps.
We delivered continued focus on driving working capital organic operating profit growth of 7.6% efficiency and the progress we made on and increased investment behind our brands average working capital.
Chief Executive Strategic report Chief Executives statement DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 13 Our focus areas World Spirits Competition, we were awarded employment with quality work placement Scotch net sales grew 2% and US Spirits and 72 medals, including three Best in Class and opportunities for young people not in India grew 3% and 9%, respectively.
Our Water of Life programme has reached Johnnie Walker had another strong year with Increasingly, we find consumers want a 5% organic net sales growth.
However, we greater and more personal connection to over 10 million people in 21 countries since know we have more to do on malts and local the brands they admire.
In response to this, 2006, making a real impact on vulnerable stars, Buchanans and Old Parr.
we recently announced plans for a state-ofcommunities.
And the impact of our gender equality and empowerment programmes for In US Spirits, share gains were made the-art Johnnie Walker immersive visitor across all key brands, except vodka.
Net sales experience in Edinburgh and a new Bulleit women and girls is amplified across many were down 3% in vodka and although there Bourbon Visitor Centre in Kentucky.
markets through our global partnership with were early signs of improvement in Ketel One CARE International.
Diageo in society We have set ourselves stretching vodka and Croc vodka, we know we have A company that wishes to be truly sustainable more to do.
A stronger performance in environmental targets, supported by capital must strive to have the most positive impact India reflected a more stable operating investment.
Over the last decade, we have it can on society.
For Diageo, this means environment in the second half, following reduced carbon emissions from our direct developing the most talented and engaged operations by 41% and from our entire supply a year of challenges brought about by employees: investing and innovating to regulatory headwinds.
chain by 23%, against our 2007 baseline.
ensure we are environmentally sustainable: We cannot be complacent, however, as Creating value creating a positive role for alcohol around the we do face challenges and it has taken We have developed a better understanding world: and investing in the community with longer than expected to implement certain of how our consumers celebrate life with our programmes that support job creation, access environmental projects.
We are now focused brands.
Alongside improved performance, to clean water and womens empowerment.
on investments in renewable energy and we are creating long-term value by building We know the misuse of alcohol can water efficiency, as well as our new ambition brands that consumers love.
It requires insight, harm individuals and communities and we on plastics.
are committed to promoting moderation.
The consistency in our execution is supported by a blend of This year, we set out a new strategy to drive Outlook creativity, data and analytics.
further progress globally through hard-hitting Diageo is becoming a great blend of every Our insights have led to the development campaigns to reduce excessive consumption, day efficiency and reinvestment in our brands.
In US Spirits, we drink driving and underage drinking.
We Our results reflect the high performance launched Ketel One Botanicals, in response advocate to establish laws and industry culture we have created in the company, to increasing interest in natural ingredients.
standards, such as minimum legal purchase as well as the ongoing rigorous execution of Distilled with real botanicals and infused age or drink driving enforcement, where these our strategy.
We are more consumer focused with natural fruit and botanical essences, are not already in place.
We also continue to and our ability to move swiftly on trends Ketel One Botanicals has no artificial flavours lead the fight against consumption of illicit and insights means we are better placed and sweeteners and no added sugars.
It is and dangerous alcohol in emerging markets.
to capture opportunities and deliver sustained growth.
made with 100% non-GMO grain and is 30% I am honoured to represent Diageo ABV.
In Great Britain, Gordons Premium Pink as Chairman of the CEO Group at the We are on track to deliver our medium Distilled Gin has become the number one International Alliance for Responsible Drinking term guidance of 175bps of organic operating new product launch in spirits and the most IARD, which brings together the 11 largest margin expansion for the three years ending 30 June 2019 and our expectation of successful new spirits launch of the last alcohol producers to encourage moderation i decade.
This year, IARD members mid-single digit net sales growth over this Overall, our brands continue to receive many accolades: at the San Francisco have committed to address the use of period is unchanged.
Diageo is a stronger technology and data in digital marketing, company and I am confident that we continue to make progress toward our to ensure we are targeting adult consumers 2018 net sales by category % in a responsible way.
ambition to be one of the best performing, Our community investment and most trusted and respected consumer programmes promote skills and employability, products companies in the world.
empower women and increase access to clean water.
Our Learning for Life programme has reached more than 130,000 people since 2008, with training that opens up permanent and high quality job opportunities in the hospitality sector.
Through our leadership of Ivan Menezes Movement to Work in the United Kingdom, Chief Executive Scotch 25% Liqueurs 5% our ambition is to remove barriers to Vodka 11% Gin 4% US Whiskey 2% Tequila 3% Canadian Whisky 7% Beer 16% Rum 7% Ready to drink 6% IMFL Whisky 5% Other 9% i Based on RSV in the first 14 weeks since launch in the off-trade only.
Data provided from Nielsen Scantrack and dated back to 1 June 2007.
