STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW Focusing on our customer-centric mission I am pleased to announce a strong set of results driven by our resilient business model which performed well ina highly competitive market.
I am pleased to report another strong set of results in a In Direct Line we launched another two new unique highlycompetitive market driven by the Groups resilient propositions in Home and Motor.
Our new Motor andcustomer-centric business model.
We continued to make propositionremoved one of our customers greatest frustrations significant operational progress in 2018 and we head into and protected their no claim discount on no-fault claims.
apivotal year of delivery in 2019, with the aim of delivering Wenow offer a combination of nine Direct Line propositions aspringboard from which to grow the contribution from that our customers cannot get anywhere else in the market.
We maintained good cost discipline Direct Line for Business achieved its 11th consecutive in 2018 and are determined to leverage our investment in the yearofpremium growth.
This time last year, we launched business to stepchange our efficiency.
The new technology amore personalised approach for our business customers, and greater efficiency are, in turn, designed to support our fromstart-ups to growing businesses.
Starting with Hair and ambition to innovate more rapidly and find new ways to Beauty and followed by Bed & Breakfast in 2017, this year serveour customers as their demands evolve.
Financially, weramped up our delivery by releasing cover for over 500 wecontinued to see the benefits of improving the efficiency new trades, taking us to 75% of our target trades on the new ofour balance sheet, which has contributed to another platform.
A national marketing campaign was launched in attractive dividend, while continuing to invest in the theyear and the early campaign metrics have been positive.
This has driven higher volumes to the website and there has been a100% increase in brand searches.
Work is underway Trusted brands and direct growth to re-launch two of our biggest products on our new system, Once again, the growth we achieved across Direct Line, Direct Vanand Tradesman in 2019.
This continues to demonstrate Line for Business and Green Flag demonstrated that by giving our increased ability to work in an agile way and to launch customers a reason to come to us direct, they will.
Since 2014, new, innovative products quickly to meet the ever-changing our own brand in-force policies have grown by over one needs ofour customers.
million, to over seven million policies.
CO. UK 15 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW CONTINUED And finally Green Flag, our challenger brand in the Rescue Improving our efficiency market, continued to display great growth potential and In order to be able to give our customers the best value for demonstrated this again by achieving another period of money, we recognise it is imperative to operate efficiently.
doubledigit percentage growth in policy count and premiums.
Over the past five years, weve made significant strides Our Rescue network dealt with over 640,000 breakdowns inreducing our costs, such as through improved marketing in2018, which is one every 49 seconds.
There has been efficiency, where we reduced marketing spend by over 30% great progress in Rescue in 2018, launching a five-year whilst returning our direct own brands to growth, and reducing transformational plan and the team have relocated to a Centre our number of sites by nearly a half and annual rental costs by of Excellence, bringing together multi-skilled teams to recognise around 40%.
efficiencies and offer greater flexibility.
The Rescue Me app, Over the past two years we have been expanding our which is rated 4.8 in the Apple App store, was rebuilt roboticprocess automation capability and are now managing usingin-house digital capabilities and was used in over concurrently 28 processes and approximately 500,000 35,000 claims.
But we dont intend to Moving towards best in class in the price stop there and have already identified a strong pipeline of comparison website market processes to add to our existing portfolio and which has the potential to increase our transaction volume capability by a We see a real opportunity in strengthening our capabilities on further500,000 in 2019. price comparison websites.
We increased our focus in 2018 and created a new trading hub in Motor and Home to support The actions weve taken supported the reduction in the operating this.
We made some tactical pricing changes driven by improved expense ratio and we aim to continue to transform our business anti-fraud capabilities and this helped increase Churchill and and improve our efficiency and long-term competitiveness.
Privilege Motor new business volumes by 18%.
We believe Leveraging our scale via partnerships there is an opportunity to strengthen margins in this channel.
In Home, we leveraged our capabilities in digital and data to Investing in technology streamline the customer experience.
Our improved capabilities Whilst we have already made significant progress in delivering in digital are helping us have conversations with potential our Direct Line for Business systems, most of our transformational newpartners.
work has been going on behind the scenes on our core In Travel, we are building a new system that is designed to personal lines technology, as we continued our ambitious enable customers to self-serve and interact with us day or night, programme to build our latest generation IT capabilities.
offering greater support and helping us renew our partnerships These systems, which started to go into testing at the end with RBS Group and Nationwide.
of2018, are designed to make insurance much easier for In Motor, our new partnership with Volkswagen Insurance ourcustomers by introducing more self-service and customer Service Great Britain Limited is going well.
In addition they are designed also to bothannual insurance cover and complimentary 5day enable a step change in our ability to use internal and external driveaway cover for customers buying new and used cars data more effectively to improve our pricing accuracy and fromVolkswagen, Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles, SEAT, improve our competitiveness.
Our new pricing engine is Audi and KODA dealers.
designed to make it much easier and quicker to develop, test and deploy new models.
This is intended to allow us to tailor Investing in our talented people our models better to the price comparison website channel and The success of the business is due to the commitment and improve our speed to market.
We are also in the process of dedication of our people who use their expertise to serve our testing our new digital Travel platform.
We rightly celebrate our diversity and are united year in starting to deliver these systems which we see as a inour customer focus.
This focus is reflected in our unique keyenabler in transforming our business.
propositions and the fact that on average we manage one claim every single minute of every single hour, every day of We continue to make good progress on our alternative theyear.
The freezing weather earlier in the year hit many pricingproject which we expect to give us new capability by drivers, households and businesses hard, and the way our applying new data science methods and machine learning.
people helped our customers get their lives back on track We believe this approach will enable us to deepen our during this difficult period demonstrated the value of our competitive footprint with more granular and flexible pricing insurance cover and gives customers a reason to keep coming capabilities.
Testing is progressing well and we are aiming back to us.
Nearly 10,000 of our people now own shares in tolaunch in Q22019 under a new brand.
our company which gives them a real sense of ownership and investment in our future success.
Our engagement scores 16 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS increased again in 2018 and Im proud that this year The insurance market is very competitive with high levels of wecame third in the Sunday Times list of the 25 Best Big switching and lots of introductory discounts which leads to most 1 Companies to Work For in 2019.
This is a huge achievement people shopping around for the best deal.
For those customers and is testament to the value we place in our people.
who dont shop around it is crucial that insurers have active pricing processes for all their long-term customers.
We have Business performance had these measures in place for several years and increasing We ended 2018 having delivered a sixth successive year of numbers of long-standing customers have seen their renewal strong financial performance and a return on tangible equity of premium either frozen or reduced as a result.
We worked 21.5% 2017: 23.0%, well ahead of our target of at least a closely with the Association of British Insurers on their pricing 15% return on tangible equity.
principles and actions on premiums which we hope will embed best practice across the whole industry.
Our direct own brands gross written premium increased by1.8% whereas total gross written premium was lower as Outlook expected due to the exits from Nationwide and Sainsburys The Group targets a combined operating ratio of 93% to 95% Home partnerships.
We achieved an operating profit of for 2019 and over the medium term, normalised for weather.
The reduction in Over time, the Group expects to increase the contribution from operating profit was primarily due to lower prior-year reserve current-year underwriting as the contribution from prior-year releases and investment return.
Both years benefited from reserve releases reduces.
The latter is predominantly as a result reserve releases relating to the Ogden discount rate.
In respect of increasing the level of reinsurance purchased by the Group of 2018, we have now assumed a higher Ogden discount in recent years which has reduced the risk profile of the Group.
rate of 0%, following Royal Assent of the Civil Liability Act 2018 which contributed 55 million to operating profit 2017: The targeted improvement in current-year underwriting 49 million of which 51 million related to the prior years.
profitability is supported by the significant investment the Groupis making in building future capability.
This aims to Weather returned to normal levels in 2018 after a benign improve the current-year loss ratio by delivering additional 2017 and this offset the non-repeat in 2018 of the 57 million pricing sophistication and supporting multiple initiatives to non-cash impairment charge incurred in 2017 in relation to IT combat fraud.
In addition, the Group is targeting to improve projects.
Normalised for weather and adjusted for the assumed efficiency through self-service and digitalisation.
These Ogden discount rate change, the combined operating ratio improvements are targeted to emerge over a number of was approximately 93.5%, towards the lower end of our years.
In 2019, the Group expects to make further progress in medium-term target range of 93% to 95%.
reducing operating costs and is targeting operating expenses Overall, our current-year combined operating ratio was stable, below 700 million.
We reiterate our ongoing target of demonstrating the value in the Groups diversified product base achieving at least a 15% return on tangible equity.
and channel portfolio, as well as lower operating expenses.
As I prepare to hand over the reins to Penny not only do Regulation Ilookback over the last ten years with great pride, I also looktothe future with great excitement for our customers, The Group has continued to operate within a highly dynamic people and shareholders.
Over the next 12 months, as we and evolving regulatory landscape, where there are a number begin the roll-out of our new core personal lines IT applications, of reviews and initiatives, including those that have been we planto increase our flexibility to deal with changing announced by the UK Government, the FCA and the PRA.
business requirements, offer more self-service and deliver more In 2018 both the FCA and PRA have been focused on Brexit straight-through processing.
This combined with our leading preparations and the implementation of the Senior Managers brands and great people will help Direct Line Group with and Certification Regime.
The PRAs focus continues to be itsmissiontomake insurance much easier and better value onthe pillars of its financial risk framework, namely reserving, foritscustomers.
The FCA has also been focused on pricing practices including the launch of its market study.
The Group is supportive of the FCAs market study.
Atthis early stage however, the outcomes are not yet known.
PAUL GEDDES CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 1. www.
b. co. uk the-lists big-companies WWW.
