Dominos Pizza Group plc 18 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Chief Executive Officers review OVERVIEW With 1,103 stores now across the 2018 has been a year of steady growth in our established markets, underpinned UK, we are very confident of by important and successful operational reaching our target of 1,600. developments behind the scenes.
In our newer markets, revenue growth has been David Wild strong but accompanied by a number of Chief Executive Officer operational issues that have increased Key points losses in the short term.
None of these Continued good growth in changes our view of the long term UK & ROI profitable growth prospects that these markets offer.
A leading digital business: 79% of UK sales ordered online Our strategy remains simple.
We aim to Franchisee profitability be the number one pizza company in each down only slightly, despite neighbourhood, through a commitment to a tougher market offering the best product and service to our customers.
Significant investments in IT and infrastructure to support franchisee growth UK Challenges in some MARKET international operations, but The overall delivered food market in long term potential clear the UK continued to grow strongly in 2018, with the ongoing stimuli of increased awareness, the convenience of digital ordering, and improved home entertainment.
The pizza market also continued to grow, albeit at a slightly slower rate, reflecting its very strong starting position and increased competition from new cuisine options.
All of the delivered food market was negatively impacted in the middle of the year by the record hot and dry weather.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 19 The casual dining market also witnessed 58 new stores were opened in 2018, Dominos in the UK is a leading digital concerted cost inflation during the taking the total over the last three years success story.
The speed of migration to year, particularly labour.
With 1,103 stores across the UK, digital ordering over the last five years has the National Living Wage, as well as the we are confident of reaching our goal been extraordinary.
In 2018, online orders introduction of the apprenticeship levy, of 1,600 over time.
This confidence is represented 79% of all orders by value, impacted on profitability for the sector.
underpinned by the strong performance and 89% of delivery orders by volume.
Combined with high rents and rising of stores opened in the last three years, During the year we began a project to business rates, a number of operators which have had an average address count upgrade both our eCommerce platform closed restaurants or went out of of 16,577 compared to 24,159 across the and our app, to make it easier and more business altogether.
Sales per address cost effective to make future updates, per week, at 84p, were up 3.3% across and to make further improvements to As in 2017, we have been operating in the mature store base, and sales per the customer journey.
The Group will an uncertain consumer environment.
address in new and immature stores are contribute 10m to this programme.
Although employment is at record levels respectively 5.7% and 1.4% higher than and wage inflation has picked up, costs After a period in the first half of 2017 the mature store base.
of living are rising and customers are very when customers were telling us we focused on value.
Until the UKs future We now directly operate 33 stores in werent offering value for money, we have relationship with the EU becomes clearer, London, after our acquisition of 25 stores renewed our focus on the appeal of our we expect this uncertainty to continue.
in 2017 and the further acquisition in promotions and improved communication August 2018.
London is an important around them.
We saw the benefit not DRIVERS OF GROWTH part of our strategy for UK growth, and only in an improvement in volume Compared to the equivalent 52 weeks operating the stores ourselves gives us growth, but also in customer ratings of 2017, UK system sales were up 7.1% to scope to develop operational expertise for value: through 2018, an average of 1,091.6m.
Like-for-like growth, excluding and to test innovations.
Trading in the 32% of customers rated us 5 5 for value the effect of splitting territories, was stores acquired last year improved compared to 27% during 2017.
Like-for-like growth was relatively significantly through 2018 and achieved level of promotional activity remained balanced between order volume 2.2% a like-for-like performance well ahead of relatively steady, with 88.2% of orders on and value 2.4%, with order volume the rest of London, as we successfully some kind of promotion, and an average slightly below our initial expectations as a implemented a number of commercial discount to menu prices of 38.6%.
result of the prolonged heatwave.
We also continue to use collection We continued to take share in the overall CUSTOMER VALUE AND EXPERIENCE deals as a way to reinforce the value pizza delivery market, thanks to our message.
Collection business tends to be We operate in a highly competitive scale, our brand, our new store growth incremental to delivery and has limited marketplace.
Technology and new and the quality of our product: and of labour cost attached to it, so still makes business models have given customers course, from the continued expertise an attractive contribution at lower prices.
more choice and greater convenience, and dedication of our franchisees.
Collection sales rose 5.9% in 2018. as well as making it easier to seek value.
Our own business has evolved rapidly to meet these challenges and look for additional opportunities.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 20 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Chief Executive Officers review continued 19.7m 7.0% SWITZERLAND TOTAL SALES 52 WEEK BASIS SUPPORTING FRANCHISEES We recognise, though, that many UK continued new store openings have a temporary During the year we completed our biggest BRAND negative impact on existing stores where ever investment in the business, our The strength of the Dominos brand is franchisees are splitting territories.
Franchisees While the returns are still very attractive By the year end it was making dough contribute 4% of their sales into a national for franchisees longer term, we do and delivering supplies to 285 stores.
advertising fund which we then invest provide some short term relief in the Warrington gives us ample capacity for on their behalf.
As we drive sales higher, shape of incentives for new stores.
In the next leg of franchisee store openings, the advertising fund grows, creating a 2018 these incentives totalled 3.4m, supporting their profitable growth plans virtuous circle.
equivalent to 75,000 per new store that and making sure we have the most qualified.
See pages 24 and 25 for more The strength of the brand, supported efficient supply chain in the industry.
by great tasting pizza, excellent service Technology is another key element of and good value for money, drives our support for franchisees.
We expect higher store sales and profitability.
ROI them to be a key beneficiary in the new Our spontaneous recall in 2018 was platform investments outlined above, as Our performance in the Republic of 82%, compared to an average of 55% we drive the next leg of growth through Ireland was steady this year, with a much for our closest competitors.
further personalisation and improvements stronger second half compensating for to the customer journey.
We opened one The Official Food of Everything new store, taking the total to 50, and platform, launched in September 2017, We are also conscious of the inflationary achieved like-for-like growth of 4.0%.
was the mainstay of our communications environment, notably in labour.
This has We still see ample opportunity to raise throughout the year, and showed its inevitably contributed to a period of more store numbers to 75 over time: the Irish versatility through a range of campaigns.
intense commercial discussions with economy has recovered strongly and As we increased our focus on major franchisees, which have continued into the casual dining market is booming.
events, our campaign for the football the new year.
We are confident that we World Cup was particularly effective, will resolve our differences to the benefit In November 2018 we reached supported by a range of topical out-ofof customers and maintain the long term agreement to invest 12.5m for a home billboards, a strong video presence alignment of interests that has served all 15% stake in Shorecal Limited, the on social media, and a dedicated pizza, parties very well for so long.
Dominos franchise business owned the Meatfielder.
by the Caldwells, the largest Dominos Despite these inflationary headwinds We continued to sponsor relevant TV franchisee in Ireland.
This was part of a and an uncertain consumer environment, platforms, such as Hollyoaks, Sky Sports wider transaction in which we invested franchisee profitability per store News and the ITV Hub, and we also alongside a private investor that took a measured across all stores was only began to target the large and growing 34% stake.
Shorecal will open 10 new slightly down during the year.
Solid likegaming audience through our multi-year stores in Ireland of which six will be in for-like growth, as well as some additional deal with Gfinity, a leading e-sports ROI over the next four years.
support on food costs to provide solutions provider.
compelling value for customers, partially offset inflationary pressures.
JUST EAT During the year we ran a trial on Just customers, with the overall profit Eat, the menu aggregation marketplace.
per order slightly higher than direct We recognise that a number of business.
We have continued the customers, particularly in a younger trial into 2019. demographic, prefer to use a single app for all their delivered food orders, and we see these platforms as a potential customer acquisition channel.
See more online at Results from a small sample showed https: investors.
co. uk an encouraging proportion of new Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 21 40.3m 4.2% 40.1m 8.6% 4.0m 53.5% ICELAND TOTAL NORWAY TOTAL SWEDEN TOTAL ANNUALISED ANNUALISED ANNUALISED SALES SALES SALES TH 50 STORE IN IRELAND In July we opened our 50th store in the The recent transaction with our largest Republic of Ireland, in Ringsend.
After Irish franchisee, where we have taken six years without expansion, we saw our a small minority stake as part of a store count in ROI begin to grow again consortium, paves the way for further in 2017, supported by a strong economy store growth towards our 75 store target.
Stores in the ROI are very productive, with 1,444 orders per week and nearly 25,000 of weekly sales, and are highly profitable See more online at for franchisees.
co. uk recognise the higher risk profile in the In Germany, our associate in which we own International business given underperformance over a 33% interest completed the acquisition We continue to believe in the long term several years.
of Hallo Pizza, the largest independent potential of our international businesses.
The In Iceland, constant currency system We are making some progress as we business made significant progress in sales were up 4.2%, with like-for-like further refine the operating model in store conversions and continues to build growth of 1.4%.
We opened two stores in each market.
We have, however, faced nationwide scale under the Dominos brand.
2018, taking the total to 25 in Dominos a number of challenges which have Icelands 25th year of operation.
Iceland impacted on certain markets this year, Outlook continues to achieve record sales per and have resulted in a worse financial store performances despite the lowest We expect further growth in the UK result than anticipated.
We are investing population per store of any major and ROI in 2019, both from like-for-like more in people and infrastructure to Dominos market.
growth and new store openings.
There ensure we are best positioned to take are likely to be fewer new stores this advantage of the opportunities.
In Norway, we now trade from 42 year given the ongoing discussions with Dominos branded outlets, adding a Overall pro forma system sales growth franchisees on commercial terms, but we further 15 Dominos stores during the year.
in our controlled international operations are confident that the strong commercial System sales growth in local currency was 7.7% on a constant currency rationale will drive decision-making in from the Dominos chain was 115.0%.
Likebasis, and we generated an EBIT loss the medium term.
for-like performance was flat, reflecting of 4.1m.
Within this, Iceland and our the impact of persistent warm and dry In our international businesses, we are German associate were profitable, and weather, and increased store density as investing in new stores and improved Switzerland, Norway and Sweden all we build scale in Oslo and complete the capabilities to sharpen execution, continue to be loss-making.
conversion of Dolly Dimples stores.
Given and, while recognising a heightened Switzerland achieved constant currency the underperformance in Norway, and risk profile in delivery in the Nordics, system sales growth of 7.0%, with like-forthe higher risk profile of the business, we anticipate a break-even result for like performance of 0.4% reflecting a very we have recognised an impairment of International as a whole in 2019.
Overall strong performance in the prior period.
This is discussed in more detail in Group capex is expected to be 2530m.
We opened two stores in the year, taking the financial review.
Growth was negatively In Sweden, constant currency system sales affected by planning restrictions on David Wild in our nine stores were up 53.5%.
We have our two most recently opened stores in Chief Executive Officer recently appointed a new country manager Geneva, which were resolved before the 11 March 2019 with significant experience in the QSR year end.
We now have a good pipeline sector, and continue to strengthen the local of new openings in Switzerland, and management team.
Although we remain a strengthened management team.
confident that the Swedish market can be Although we remain confident of reaching profitable, we have taken a net impairment profitability in Switzerland, we have taken charge of 2.7m to reflect the higher risk an impairment charge of 1.2m to profile in the business.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 22 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Chief Executive Officers review continued BEING #1 FOR CUSTOMERS IN EVERY NEIGHBOURHOOD TO BE THE FAVOURITE SUPERIOR END-TO-END GREAT LOOKING STORES TAKEAWAY AND DELIVERY CUSTOMER SERVICE, VALUE WITHIN EASY REACH OF ALL BRAND AND PRODUCT POTENTIAL CUSTOMERS Balanced network Profitable, balanced and aligned franchise and Read more corporate store network on pages 24-25 Innovative technology Market-leading and innovative use of digital capability and Read more data to drive customer interaction and franchise innovations on page 27 Efficient manufacturing Highly productive and efficient manufacturer and supplier of Read more on page 26 food and non-food services Engaged colleagues Read more in Our People Engaged colleagues performing in a great and safe place to work on pages 44-45 Capital management Read more in the Strong financial foundations, rigorous capital allocation Financial Review and efficient capital structure on pages 28-31 FOUNDATIONS BUSINESS PRIORITIES CUSTOMER GOALS Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 23 TO BE THE FAVOURITE TAKEAWAY AND DELIVERY BRAND We are the number one pizza business in the UK, with around a 13% share of the UK delivered food market SPONTANEOUS We are the most preferred brand in pizza, being first RECALL choice for 37% of customers We want to grow faster in collection, which is 82% currently c. 20% of sales 16 17 18 SUPERIOR END-TO-END CUSTOMER SERVICE, VALUE AND PRODUCT We aim to deliver every pizza within 30 minutes: ideally, within 20 ONLINE Most of our promotions are designed to feed a PENETRATION family of four for 5-6 each We source high quality ingredients from trusted 79% suppliers, and make fresh dough six days a week 16 17 18 GREAT LOOKING STORES WITHIN EASY REACH OF ALL POTENTIAL CUSTOMERS UK STORES Over the last 5 years, new store catchment areas have reduced from over 24,000 addresses to around 17,000 1,103 bringing us closer to every neighbourhood 234 stores have opened in the last three years, with a further 377 updated with the latest fit-out 16 17 18 Stores are increasingly in high visibility, high footfall areas to maximise impact 950 72% 81% 1,045 75% 84% 1,103 79% 82% Dominos Pizza Group plc 24 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Chief Executives Officers review continued BALANCED NETWORK Profitable, balanced and aligned franchise and corporate store network The scale of the system and the inherent profitability of pizza mean that there is room in the system for both the Group and its franchisees to make an attractive return.
OVERVIEW 64 45% The division of responsibilities between the Group and franchisees is clear.
UK FRANCHISEES OF FRANCHISEES It is our role to source high quality OPENED STORES IN 2018 ingredients, mix fresh dough, and make regular, reliable and accurate deliveries to stores.
Our purchasing scale allows franchisees to share in the benefits of a much bigger business, so that they can be very competitive even when they are still small enterprises.
We also develop new menu innovations and Share of top 2 40% invest in technology and supply chain Share of rest 60% infrastructure, driving order volume, labour efficiency and capacity for future growth.
Finally, in collaboration with franchisees, we plan national campaigns and invest the national advertising fund to drive sales growth and build the brand.
Franchisees open and operate Dominos stores up and down the country.
They employ store staff and drivers, invest Around 30 franchisees operate between in local store marketing, set prices and 5-25 stores, and we expect these to be promotions, and manage their overheads.
The Group makes money predominantly the main drivers of new store growth from selling supplies to franchisees: franchisees make money by marketing, over the coming years.
The scale of the system and the inherent profitability of pizza as a cuisine mean that there is room in the system for both the Group and its franchisees to make very attractive returns.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 25 The most effective ways to ensure a We continued to see some food cost A BALANCE OF CORPORATE STORES profitable and balanced network are to inflation in the year, the effects of which For many years, Dominos UK was the keep growing system sales and profits.
were in part offset by like-for-like growth.
odd one out among major Dominos We have a saying in Dominos sales We also continued to support franchisees master franchises in running an entirely solve everything.
with rebates on specific campaigns franchised system.
Running some where we wanted to really highlight directly-operated or corporate stores STORE PROFITABILITY value for customers.
brings significant benefits in terms of the Profits per store are a crucial measure of development of operational expertise and On labour efficiency, our investment the health of the system.
A good level of the ability to trial new pricing, technology in GPS has been a major benefit for store profitability enables franchisees to or menu items in a live environment.
Many of them have achieved finance new store openings, generate an cost efficiencies of greater than 0.5% attractive return on those openings, and of store revenue, net of the cost of build personal wealth.
Over time we expect this We continue to work closely with our to lead to sales benefits and other cost partners to support this metric.
Since savings such as insurance.
We focus on three main 2012, EBITDA per mature store has DEVELOPING THE NEXT GENERATION increased from an average of 105,000 levers for supporting OF FRANCHISEES to 138,000 in 2018.
Profitability has store profitability: sales slipped a little from the peaks in 2015 It is important to have a broad spread of and 2016, but this was a period of franchisees that are eager and able to growth, food costs and unusually low food prices combined with grow, and reducing our dependence on a structural step-change in the level of the very biggest franchisees.
store productivity, as the delivery market Over the past five years the franchisee boomed with the digital age.
base has consolidated from 104 to 64, as During 2017 we acquired 25 stores in We focus on three main levers for some franchisees retired and stronger London, and then added to that with supporting store profitability: sales operators took over weaker ones, the purchase of a further six stores in growth, food costs and labour efficiency.
We have trialled a number we have a system in which the biggest of initiatives within these stores, including During 2018, UK like-for-like sales growth two franchisees, who have built lower menu prices, launching on the was 4.6%, driven by a combination significant and highly valuable businesses Just Eat platform, and improved labour of order volume and value.
On our in partnership with Dominos, represent rostering.
The performance of the initial estimates, franchisees capture 72% of the around 40% of the system.
25 stores has improved throughout the value of incremental sales.
We supported year and by Q4 they achieved like-for-like sales growth through the strength of Our focus now is on supporting the sales growth of 6.2%, significantly ahead our campaigns, under the Official development of smaller franchisees.
Food of Everything strapline, and the Around 30 franchisees operate between introduction of great new pizzas such as 5-25 stores, and we expect these to be the Cheeseburger, which was our most the main drivers of new store growth over successful new product launch since 2011. the coming years.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 26 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Chief Executives Officers review continued EFFICIENT MANUFACTURING Highly productive and efficient manufacturer and supplier of food and non-food services Our aim is to be a highly efficient manufacturer and distributor of food and other supplies to our franchisee customers.
At its heart, Dominos is a supply chain is on a similar scale to our facility in West 39m business, and this is where we direct Ashland, Milton Keynes, with capacity to much of our investment.
Our aim is to serve around 700 stores.
It will enable us INVESTED IN be a highly efficient manufacturer and to serve the north of the country much WARRINGTON SCC distributor of food and other supplies to more efficiently than we do today, with our franchisee customers.
They need to the consolidation of multiple smaller be able to rely on us to make accurate sites and shorter average delivery legs.
and cost-effective deliveries to stores Crucially, it will underpin the growth three or four times each week.
plans of our franchisees as we head 285 towards 1,600 stores.
2018 has been a pivotal year in this regard, with the completion of our single We expect to make further investments in STORES BEING biggest investment ever, the 39m new our supply chain over the coming years, SUPPLIED Supply Chain Centre in Warrington in to capture more of the value chain and the North West of England.
Warrington provide capacity for future growth.
NEW SUPPLY CHAIN CENTRE IN WARRINGTON Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 27 INNOVATIVE TECHNOLOGY Market-leading and innovative use of digital capability and data to drive customer interaction and franchise innovations We are always giving customers more ways to order and more ways to pay, making the whole experience quicker and easier.
We have a proven track record as a digital and helps to shorten delivery times, 22m innovator, and every year we invest particularly on busy nights.
But GPS millions of pounds into our IT platforms.
also improves the customer experience: We are always giving customers more customers can now track their order as it APP DOWNLOADS ways to order and more ways to pay, comes through the streets to their door, making the whole experience easier and so they know exactly when their hot pizza quicker, and driving repeat sales as a is going to arrive.
Our app has been downloaded Looking ahead, we need to ensure 88% over 22m times, and over 88% of delivery complete roll-out across the store base orders are now made online.
to make for a consistent customer OF UK DELIVERY Franchisees benefit directly from this experience.
GPS will also provide ORDERS MADE ONLINE improved customer engagement and franchisees valuable information about repeat orders.
In addition, we have delivery times to different streets, developed tools such as GPS to improve allowing them to plan more accurately.
GPS enables store Through the use of telematics, it will also managers to track their drivers this help to bring down insurance premiums.
helps to optimise driver performance Online 88% INVESTING IN Offline 12% NEW PLATFORMS In August 2018 we announced plans to contribute 10m to new platforms for eCommerce and our app.
This will make it quicker and easier for us to make updates and enhancements, while also completely redesigning the customer journey to make the app even more engaging.
