CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Progressing our strategy and supporting the UKs transition to a low carbon economy.
Will Gardiner Group CEO, Drax Group STRATEGY During 2019 we will be strengthening 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Our purpose is to enable a zero carbon, our focus to reduce the number of high 1 Acquisition of lower cost energy future, and this is the potential incidents.
ScottishPower SUMMARY OF 2018 generation assets Over time we expect the UKs power We have made good progress with the system to become increasingly dominated delivery of our strategy during 2018 and 2 Adjusted EBITDA growth by intermittent wind and solar power.
delivered a Group Scorecard performance A smaller, but important, part of our power ahead of target.
3 Group Scorecard will need to be provided by other forms performance ahead of low carbon generation that is available Total Recordable Injury Rate TRIR, our when wind and solar power are not primary safety measure, was 0.22.
Our strategy is to meet that reflects a strong performance in Power need and support the UK power system.
Generation but with a significant failing in 4 Conversion of Pellet Production.
As always there is more fourth biomass unit Through addressing UK energy needs, we can do in our pursuit of zero incidents, and those of our customers, our strategy and in 2019 we will be redoubling our 5 Commissioning is designed to help us deliver long-term efforts to improve our safety performance.
and full production financial performance across the Group.
In doing so we are reducing our historic Adjusted EBITDA, a financial KPI, was at LaSalle Bioenergy exposure to commodity markets and 250 million, in line with our expectation delivering higher quality earnings with and significantly ahead of 2017.
In Power 6 Completion of US opportunities for growth.
Generation the impact of unplanned bond issue biomass outages in early 2018 restricted Further growth will come from flexible renewable power output.
However, 7 Share buy-back operation of the Groups expanded a strong team effort, the flexible and programme generation portfolio and the provision of responsive operation of our coal system support services as well as growth generating units and the conversion 8 Launch of Bioenergy in our Pellet Production and B2B Energy of a fourth unit to biomass helped to Carbon Capture and Supply businesses.
As we integrate mitigate the impact.
Pellet Production the ScottishPower assets in 2019 we increased output and reduced cost per Storage BECCS pilot will be reassessing our longer term pellet, although challenges remain on financial targets.
B2B Energy Supply grew its market share and margin per meter, The Groups commitment to safety remains but faced a challenging market for strong and, while the number of overall customers and competitors.
incidents was low, we did have a serious injury in one of our pellet plants in the US.
6 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Group Financial Review page 34 In December 2018 we completed the our target for 2018 and are focused demonstrates the combustible nature of acquisition of a portfolio of assets on addressing this issue in 2019. biomass and the need for strong controls from ScottishPower for an initial net and processes.
Throughout the year we consideration of 687 million based on Increased volumes, operational commenced installation of suppression total consideration of 702 million, less improvements and a continuing focus equipment throughout our biomass customary working capital adjustments.
on cost contributed to a year-on-year handling plant.
These complement our We expect the portfolio to provide high reduction in cost per tonne of 10%.
This existing processes and respond to the quality earnings and financial returns represents good progress, but there are detection of ingition events in milliseconds.
significantly ahead of the Groups cost more opportunities for cost reduction of capital.
Integration of these assets in order to achieve our goal of making In August 2018 we completed the will take place during 2019. biomass power generation viable without conversion of a fourth generating unit subsidy.
We will do this by using a greater from coal to biomass.
This allows us to During the year we replaced floating debt proportion of the very cheapest wood produce a greater amount of renewable with fixed rate bonds, reducing our overall residues and expanding the use of power at times of high demand, which are cost of debt and extending the maturity sustainably sourced low-cost materials.
typically periods of higher carbon intensity.
profile to further strengthen our already In this way we plan to deliver more strong balance sheet.
Net debt to Adjusted Early progress in this regard was the renewable power, while providing system EBITDA was 1.3x at the end of December signing of a co-location agreement with support at minimum cost to the consumer.
2018, ahead of the forecast contained Hunt Forest Products, a sawmill operator, The operational experience to date has in the Shareholder Circular, dated which will see them build and operate been encouraging.
5 December 2018, of around 1.5x for a sawmill next to LaSalle.
The agreement the full year.
The acquisition consideration will enable a greater proportion of lower In May 2018 we commenced a low-cost was paid on 2 January 2019. cost sawmill residues to be used, reducing pilot project looking at the potential for transportation and the number of steps in Bioenergy Carbon Capture and Storage OPERATIONAL REVIEW the production process, thereby reducing BECCS.
While at an early stage, the Our TRIR in Pellet Production was 0.63, a the cost.
scheme is capturing carbon and offers reduction on the previous year 2017: 0.83. the potential for biomass to deliver carbon We had five recordable safety incidents, We have also built a new rail spur linking negative generation, which will be required three at our LaSalle plant and two at LaSalle to the regional rail network and if the UK is to achieve its decarbonisation Amite.
Morehouse completed the year our port facility at Baton Rouge.
This will targets, further supporting the case for with no incidents.
increase transportation efficiency, provide biomass generation in the long-term.
economies of scale and reduce both cost Our Pellet Production operations saw and carbon footprint.
Stronger power prices in 2018, reflecting growth in Adjusted EBITDA and record colder weather and higher underlying levels of pellets produced, with output of We continue to evaluate opportunities for global commodity prices, led to an increase 1,351kt, up 64% year-on-year.
This reflects the acquisition of pellet capacity as well in the level of coal generation in the latter the successful commissioning of our as the expansion of our existing sites.
However, the market for third pellet plant, LaSalle, which has now coal generation was challenging and our achieved full production ahead of plan In Power Generation, the unplanned two remaining units increasingly focus on as well as consistent production at our biomass unit outages in early 2018 short-term power market opportunities, Amite and Morehouse plants.
Biomass rather than baseload power generation.
availability is a KPI for the Group.
Since The focus of our activity is the US Gulf returning to service the units have In 2018 Value from Flexibility a Scorecard region an area with strong commercial performed well, with high availability measure of the value from flexible power forestry, and good infrastructure and during the remainder of the year.
In 2018 generation, support services provided to sustainability credentials.
Recognising the availability of our biomass units was the power network and attractively priced the importance of the region, we relocated 91%, ahead of target.
coal fuels was 79 million, in line with plan.
our US administration from Atlanta, Given the structural shift in UK generation Georgia to Monroe, Louisiana, providing Notwithstanding outages our biomass towards intermittent renewables we operational savings and supporting our units produced 12% of the UKs renewable expect greater power price volatility, a focus on delivering good quality power enough to power four million growing need for system support services sustainable pellets at the lowest cost.
This level of renewable generation, and increasing value from flexibility.
combined with the flexibility of our Pellet costs and pellet quality, which we expanding portfolio, allows the Group to Our heritage is coal but our business is measure based on the amount of fines support the continued deployment of now flexible, low carbon and renewable smaller particles of wood pellet material intermittent renewables and the UKs power.
We believe gas generation is in each cargo, are KPIs for the Group.
High ambitious targets for decarbonisation.
consistent with supporting the transition levels of fines lead to higher levels of dust, of the energy system.
To that end we are which can create health and safety risks The protection of both our people and making progress with the development of through the supply chain.
Year-on-year we our assets is a top priority.
The fire options for four 299MW Open Cycle Gas have seen a significant improvement in we experienced in December 2017 Turbine OCGT plants and up to 3.6GW of pellet quality, although we did not achieve Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 7 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued Adjusted EBITDA coal-to-gas repowering at Drax Power route to market for more than 2,000 small Station.
These projects would require embedded renewable generation sites.
support through the Capacity Market once re-established and if successful in POLITICS, REGULATION AND POLICY 250m a future auction could result in 15-year Brexit remains a key issue for the UK.
index-linked capacity agreements, To date the impact on the Group has been 2017: 229m providing a clear investment signal and limited, with the principal risk being a extending visibility of our contract-based weakening of sterling and the cost of Total operating profit earnings through the late 2030s.
biomass which is generally denominated in other currencies.
Through our use of As part of the acquisition of the medium-term foreign exchange hedges ScottishPower generation assets, the the Group has protected its position out 60m Group also acquired a permitted option for to 2022 at rates close to those that we 2017: 138m the development of a 1.8GW Combined saw before the Brexit referendum vote.
Cycle Gas Turbine at Damhead Creek, Kent.
Most of our wood pellets are imported B2B Energy Supply customer meters In B2B Energy Supply, we increased our from North America and Europe.
This was a creditable potential for delays at ports is a challenge, performance in what is a competitive but with access to facilities at four UK market, although below target.
ports and associated freight links, in 396k addition to storage throughout our supply 2017: 376k The quality of business a measure of the chain, we have a good degree of resilience margin from power sales was below our should delays occur.
target, reflecting exceptionally cold winter Total Recordable Injury Rate weather, the costs associated with In the event of a hard Brexit, the UK has competitor failure, and a challenging indicated that it will leave the European market for customers resulting in Energy Union and EU Emissions Trading increased bad debt expense and Scheme.
This mechanism is an important 0.22 provisioning.
In the context of the wider part of the UKs total carbon price the 2017: 0.27 market this reflects a good performance.
combined UK Carbon Price Support CPS and the European Union Emissions Trading Integration of Opus Energy is progressing Scheme EU ETS.
The Government has and we have now consolidated our confirmed that were this to happen the Northampton operations into a single site, UK would increase the carbon tax to which we expect to deliver additional 34 tonne, compensating for the loss operational efficiencies and cost savings.
CPS has been the single most effective instrument in We are making progress in reducing our reducing the level of carbon emissions in cost to serve against target, which will power generation and Drax continues to be an important source of competitive support an effective carbon price signal advantage in the future.
We are currently for investment in low carbon technology.
progressing the implementation of a new technology platform which will provide CAPACITY MARKET further opportunities for efficient In November 2018 the Court of Justice operations.
Technology has a key role of the European Union declared that the in shaping the market and our business process used by the European Commission and we remain alert to opportunities this to approve the UK Capacity Mechanism may present.
Following this decision the UK Government suspended capacity Digital offerings are a growing feature payments whilst the European of the market.
We believe our investment Commission conducted a formal in this area will provide commercial investigation.
The European Commission opportunities, a reduced cost to service is also challenging the Courts ruling.
and an enhanced customer experience.
It will also provide scalable data analytics The suspension of the Capacity Market and build on the roll-out of smart meters impacted Group Adjusted EBITDA during to deliver tailored customer propositions.
In Generation we continued to meet our obligation and provide capacity but The business has a strong renewable did not receive or accrue the revenue proposition, with 69% of power sales expected from this activity during the final renewable in 2018, a level which we expect three months of the year.
In B2B Energy 1 B ased on the year-on-year change to the number of SME customer meters on supply to increase.
Opus Energy also provides a Supply we provided for all costs associated 8 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information with the Capacity Market in 2018.
Our carbon emissions are 131kgCOeq MWh employees spend in the wider consumer 2 approach was based on continuing to of electricity, less than half the UK economy was 1.6 billion, supporting include charges in customer bills, with Governments 285 kgCOeq MWh limit.
2 cash collected from those customers during the period.
The cash will be paid to The sustainability credentials of biomass OUTLOOK Elexon, as the collection agent, and held in have been further reinforced by the EUs Our focus remains on the delivery of our escrow pending the re-establishment of Renewable Energy Directive which was strategy and long-term earnings growth, the capacity market for generators, at a agreed by both the European Parliament underpinned by safety, sustainability, date yet to be determined during 2019. and Council in June.
This includes operational excellence and expertise The net impact across the Group in 2018 biomass sustainability criteria which in our markets.
was a 7 million loss to Adjusted EBITDA.
should reinforce the credentials of sustainable biomass.
During the year In Pellet Production we remain focused The Group assumes 68 million of we also became participants of the CDP, on the production of good quality pellets capacity payment revenues in 2019. a global disclosure system to measure at the lowest cost, cross-supply chain Of this, up to 47 million is derived from and manage environmental impacts.
optimisation and identifying low-cost the ScottishPower assets.
As part of the We reported our performance for the options to increase self-supply.
acquisition of these assets we agreed a climate and forest programmes.
In Power Generation, 2019 will see the In the event that capacity payments are During 2018, we published our second integration of the ScottishPower assets not received in respect of these assets in statement on the prevention of slavery and into our generation business and 2019, the mechanism provides, subject to human trafficking in compliance with the opportunities to operate as a coordinated gross margin thresholds, up to 26 million UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 and have portfolio of flexible, low-carbon and of payments to Drax.
The agreement also joined the UN Global Compact UNGC.
allows for payments of up to 26 million to We are committed to promoting the UNGC Iberdrola by Drax, subject to significantly principles on respect for human rights, We believe that biomass has an important higher than expected gross margin.
These labour rights, the environment and role to play in the UK power market.
We payments, if made, would not form part of anti-corruption.
also believe that existing and new gas Adjusted EBITDA for 2019. generation has an important role to play in PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES supporting the transition to a zero carbon, We believe that the Capacity Market is Our people are critical to the success of lower cost, energy future and we continue an important cornerstone energy policy, the business.
Through 2018 we have to develop our projects in that area.
a cost-effective safeguard for security continued the implementation of our of supply and necessary to underpin people strategy focused on driving In B2B Energy Supply, we are investing the development of new generation performance and developing and retaining in digital infrastructure which we believe projects, including our own gas projects.
talent to deliver the Groups objectives.
will enable us to continue to grow, offer Our view that the Capacity Market will be We have established Group-wide practices, market leading propositions and develop re-established on the same or similar terms including a behaviour framework focused our presence in the market for flexible is consistent with the position expressed on performance and personal development, demand management and other valueby the UK Government.
We expect the and a Group-wide approach to recognising added services.
issue to be resolved during 2019 and we and retaining talent.
reflect this in our expectations for the year.
We have made good progress with the We are committed to having a diverse delivery of our strategy and will continue SAFETY, SUSTAINABILITY AND and inclusive workforce, where every to build on this as we progress our targets, GOVERNANCE employee has the opportunity to realise while playing an important role in our The health, safety and wellbeing of their potential.
As part of this we aim to markets and enabling a zero carbon, our employees and contractors is vital have, by the end of 2020, 40% of senior lower cost energy future for the UK.
to the success of the Group and remains leadership roles held by women.
We believe that a safe and Will Gardiner sustainable business model is critical to In March 2018 we published our first Group CEO the delivery of our strategy and crucial gender pay gap data.
While the data for long-term performance.
showed that our businesses were in line with the energy sector overall, it We have continued to maintain our highlighted that we still have work to do.
rigorous and robust approach to biomass sustainability, ensuring the wood pellets We continue to make an important we use are fully compliant with the UKs contribution to the UK economy and to the mandatory sustainability standards.
The local communities in which we operate.
biomass we use to generate renewable According to a study published by Oxford power provides an 86% carbon emissions Economics in 2018, Draxs total economic saving against coal, inclusive of supply impact including our supply chain and chain emissions.
Our biomass life cycle the wages our employees and suppliers Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 9
