In conversation with the Group Chief Executive Redefining packaging for tomorrow At DS Smith, we are ambitious and excited about the future.
How would you sum up the 2018 financial year?
The past year has been a success both with regard to the existing business in Europe and the newly acquired business in the US.
In Europe, we have seen our sales of boxes increase in volume by over 5 per cent year-on-year, which compares to an annual growth rate of c. 3 per cent for the prior three years.
That tells me that we are getting things right for customers.
We acquired our first US corrugated packaging business in August 2017 and Iam delighted with the progress.
Growth there has been higher than in Europe and the integration has gone smoothly too.
This success has not happened by accident.
Our people are stepping up to the challenge that being a larger group presents.
In addition, our business model is designed to be sustainable, both from an environmental perspective Miles Roberts Group Chief Executive as well as a business perspective, which is important for all our stakeholders.
Your corporate purpose is to redefine Will corrugated packaging become packaging for a changing world more popular as consumers become what does that mean?
increasingly aware of sustainability issues?
New technology and the massive growth in e-commerce are fundamentally changing the way we buy and use We recognise that packaging is an issue for consumers.
This represents a huge opportunity Corrugated packaging has the advantage of being fully for brands and organisations to deliver in new ways.
But and readily recyclable and largely made from recycled the opportunity also brings challenges.
From complexity material, so we are working with customers to maximise and cost in supply chains, to urban congestion and waste, the opportunities to use this versatile material.
That there is a need for a new approach to packaging.
said, the issue of packaging is complex, particularly when you consider the benefit of packaging in reducing At DS Smith, we are ambitious and excited about waste in the supply chain.
Multi-use plastic packaging, the future.
We are strategists that bring together for example, can be very environmentally sustainable.
an understanding of how to meet the massive opportunities for e-commerce, with the knowledge of As one of the largest paper recyclers in the UK, we how to deliver a more sustainable solution that meets have invested in research into the recycling of singlechanging societal needs.
We are redening packaging use coee cups, which is a major issue at present.
A decade of unprecedented Our experts found that coee cups can be recycled growth in the industry means we do not just tell but in the normal waste stream, although there remain show customers how to respond to change with speed barriers to achieving this at present, for example around and scale.
Our integrated approach enables us to unlock food contamination and the collection and recycling 360 degree solutions that would otherwise be out of infrastructure.
We are working with others in the reach.
Sustainability is at the heart of our business and industry more broadly to see how these barriers we believe we can help our customers to grow, but not can be reduced and so play our part in reducing the at the cost of the environment.
number of single-use coee cups that go to landll.
14 Strategic report Our strategy To be the leader in sustainable packaging solutions Our strategy is balanced across our four Many of your major customers, such as FMCG businesses, are under pressure key stakeholders of employees, customers, in mature markets such as Europe and communities and investors.
How are you able to succeed in this environment?
To delight our customers Major customers are under pressure, so they need a Delivering on all our commitments supplier partner who can create real value for them.
Further improving our quality standards We can do so by using our expertise and innovation to Driving innovation on a multinational basis help them reduce their overall costs, while also aiming to drive their sales.
We have the international reach to Read more on page 20 do so on a multinational basis and of course our product is inherently sustainable.
Therefore customers are working more with big suppliers, like us, who can To realise the potential of our people oer a high quality packaging solution for them.
Ensure the safety of all Creating an environment that fosters pride in our people and where How are you planning to grow in they can give their best the US?
Building individual and organisational capability We have something dierent to bring to our US Read more on page 22 customers, in particular retail-ready packaging.
This type of packaging is well developed in Europe and less so in the US, so we have an advantage versus To lead the way in sustainability competitors, along with our technology around making corrugated packaging from light-weight paper.
We Building sustainability into our decisions therefore have a strong commercial position.
That has Growing our recycling platform been seen in the excellent customer response in the Read more on page 26 US, which exceeded our initial expectations.
In addition, we expect to expand further in the US.
The To double our size and profitability acquisition of four further packaging sites in June 2018, will help us to build our network further.
Winning market share Growing with our customers What has been your highlight Expanding our footprint through acquisitions and greeneld sites of the year?
Building a resilient and sustainable business model Gaining entry to the FTSE 100 was a milestone, but Read more on page 30 aconsequence of success rather than an aim in itself.
We now expect more scrutiny, so it is up to us to demonstrate leadership.
In January 2018 we held a senior managers conference at which we committed to stepping up and taking the business forward to the next level.
It was a pleasure to see the energy of our senior leaders and their enthusiasm to continue to build on the success of the past year.
That commitment among senior management is also reflected through the organisation with our employee charter, which we agreed with our union groups, to establish ways of working throughout the organisation.
Watch the full year results interview: www.
com investors Annual report & accounts 2018 | dssmith.
