STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate social responsibility Gender Pay Gap GPG Human rights and slavery Publicans In March 2018 we published our GPG report for the snapshot date in April 2017, required for The Group employs over 1,800 people, with two of our companies, Ei Group plc and Bermondsey Pub Company Limited.
The results are the largest concentration at the Groups summarised below: head office in Solihull and with increasing The Group is committed to fair, transparent Awards for Excellence New publican support numbers employed in our managed houses and lawful dealings with our publicans.
The This years inaugural Ei Group Awards for Our support programme is designed to located throughout England and Wales.
We Pubs Code 2016 applies to the Group and all Excellence recognised the achievements of give new publicans the best possible GPG disclosure Ei Group Bermondsey spend over 300 million of annual revenue of our tied publicans as we are the landlord our operators from all around the country.
chance of success to run a sustainable pub Mean GPG 47% 7% on goods and services required to carry out of more than 500 tied pubs.
The regulations This new programme offered us the chance business.
We aim to provide all the support Median GPG 51% 1% our day-to-day business and this activity is define our obligations to our tied publicans to celebrate the most outstanding operators and information they need from their first Mean gender bonus gap 78% 61 % managed by a dedicated procurement team and provide guidelines for processes across our estate, to learn from the best contact with us through to the selection Median gender bonus gap 72% 352 % who operate in accordance with an agreed governed by the Code.
The Pubs Code is and inspire other publicans and managers to and operation of the best pub business for policy.
That policy includes the requirement Proportion of males females receiving a bonus payment 86% 87% 3% 2% overseen by an independent Adjudicator.
We further raise their offerings.
to source supplies from approved suppliers Proportion of males females in each pay quartile: submitted our first compliance report to the and for business to be conducted honestly, We saw an impressive number of entries Every new publican has access to a Lower 25% 75% 48% 52% Adjudicator for the period ended 31 March ethically and with respect for the rights and 2018 which is also published on our website.
across all categories and worked with dedicated regional manager, our awardLower middle 42% 58% 42% 58% interests of the people with whom we do a group of experts from the industry to winning training, business tools and Upper middle 74% 26% 49% 51% business.
We expect honesty, openness We are passionate about the training judge.
They were most impressed by the materials including a free website, Upper 84% 16% 69% 31% and courtesy from all suppliers and their support we provide to our publicans.
With extraordinary levels of dedication and comprehensive commercial support employees.
We conduct business in 11 courses available for our publicans and passion our publicans demonstrated for their and a mentor to help them shape their accordance with our responsible sourcing their teams to attend free of charge, we individual businesses and to the industry.
We provide free first principles and our Code of Practice sets out trained 933 people, delivering 8,600 hours year membership to their choice of the The GPG is the difference in average pay Anti-bribery and corruption our expectations of suppliers based both in of training in the year under review.
In June BII or FLVA as well as their first years and bonuses for all men and women across The Group operates a full suite of policies the UK and abroad on issues such as pay, 2018 we launched a new online training membership of Cask Marque, a non-profit an organisation.
Whilst we are confident and procedures to guard against bribery and working hours, child labour, workers rights platform for new and prospective publicans making organisation engaged in continuing that men and women are paid equally for corruption.
Whilst we operate in an industry and representation.
We have in place a and close to 700 people have so far used to drive beer quality through training, project equivalent work across the business, we that is not believed to be especially prone to process to audit suppliers adherence to all this e-learning platform.
work and an accreditation scheme.
recognise that we have a gender pay gap bad practices the risk of bribery, corruption, requirements contained in our Code when under the prescribed definition.
This is fraud or theft exist in every company.
primarily driven by more male employees are committed to conducting our business occupying senior roles compared to female with the highest level of integrity.
This While we consider the risk of modern employees and the lower representation of includes a zero tolerance approach to all slavery or human trafficking taking place in males in more junior positions.
forms of bribery, corruption, fraud and our supply chain to be low we do recognise theft and procedures are in place which are the importance of combating slavery and We train line managers so they understand designed to minimise or eradicate risks.
Our human trafficking and the duty to tackle any unconscious bias and manage and Responsible retailing Code of Practice applies to all employees, these issues.
challenge how this may impact recruitment all our business dealings and transactions and progression within the business.
and is reviewed at least annually by the Tax strategy Alcohol Health and safety Allergens Where possible we promote gender Board of Directors together with details We are a UK based business and pay UK The Group recognises its responsibility We have a dedicated health and safety As a responsible hospitality business, we balanced shortlists for senior positions and of all hospitality offered by employees or taxes which support the economic and social towards the promotion and management of function within the Group with the skill aim to serve great tasting, good quality, for our future management development attended by them.
objectives of the UK Government.
We are a responsible drinking environment in all of set to support all areas of our leased and responsibly sourced food and drink to all our programmes.
We will monitor progress and committed to conducting our tax affairs in its pubs.
We participate in various schemes tenanted estate and managed businesses.
customers and give them the opportunity movement in our GPG when assessing the Whistleblowing a clear, fair and transparent way and do not and initiatives including sponsoring the The function engages with the different to make healthier choices with accurate, performance of these activities.
The Group encourages any reports of have an aggressive tax planning strategy.
We Drinkaware Trust, promoting proof of age business areas to ensure best practice in accessible and clear menu information.
We malpractice, illegal acts or omissions or aim to meet all filing, reporting and payment schemes and other initiatives associated development and implementation of safety aim to proactively respond to market trends We have recently subscribed to the matters of a similar nature by employees, obligations promptly and operate an open, everywoman network to support us in with addressing the consequences of systems.
We were early adopters of the in our managed house food offerings and former employees, contractors, publicans, honest and positive working relationship with alcohol misuse and minimising alcohol Primary Authority Scheme and now work aim to offer vegetarian, vegan and wellbeing attracting, developing, advancing and suppliers or advisors using mechanisms HMRC.
For further detail of our tax strategy, retaining more female colleagues.
Within our managed houses, closely with West Midlands Fire & Rescue options as demand for these products and for reporting, and support the framework please see our website.
teams are fully trained and our pricing and Service and Milton Keynes Borough Council dishes grow.
We work closely with our for protecting whistle-blowers who have a promotional strategies do not encourage to help us build on and deliver the best suppliers and supply chain to provide full genuine concern about malpractice from irresponsible behaviours.
All our managed safety and regulatory solutions across all of allergen information for each ingredient victimisation, dismissal or detriment.
houses include a range of soft drinks and our businesses.
served in every dish in our managed low and non-alcoholic options displayed and houses, helping our customers make the sold alongside a broad range of alcoholic right decisions for them and ensure that beverages.
staff are trained to provide customers with accurate ingredient information.
As we continue to expand, we work on IT solutions to further develop the ways in which our customers can access both nutritional and allergen information.
28 Ei Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2018 Stock code: EIG www.
com 29 26212 12 December 2018 11:39 AM Proof 9 26212 12 December 2018 11:39 AM Proof 9 STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate social responsibility energy audit report to determine how to Energy Performance Standards Energy Savings Opportunity Environment improve efficiency and rating.
The energy The Minimum Energy Performance Scheme ESOS saving measures routinely include draught Standards Regulations came into effect in Throughout the next financial year, we proofing, new boilers and LED lighting.
April 2018 and as part of our compliance will be working towards completing the Distribution efficiencies We are now looking to further commit to with this we have now improved visibility submission for our next ESOS phase Our drinks delivery partners operating our compliance with these regulations by on the energy performance of our portfolio.
two which is due in December 2019.
We processes are focused on efficiency, ensuring that all of the properties in our We have worked proactively to ensure that embraced this initiative during phase one which delivers environmental benefits.
estate have a valid energy performance where leases and tenancies are approaching and took learnings from all of the energy Pooling volumes from our multiple brand rating by the end of 2020.
This will allow us expiry, they are appropriately assessed for saving opportunities highlighted in our owner supply base delivers reduced costs, to forward plan and future proof our estate their rating ahead of being re-let.
Since December 2015, we improves supplier performance and reduces against increasing regulatory constraints, sites with low ratings have been identified have continued to complete surveys on road mileage and fuel consumption.
increased energy costs and to operate we are seeking to prioritise these by all properties moving into our managed responsibly.
Typically this is estate, highlighting the ways to reduce Our publicans can benefit from the supply preceded by a bespoke and comprehensive of food and non-consumable products from energy consumption when pubs move from the leased and tenanted estate to our our partner Booker.
Rather than order or collect multiple products from multiple management.
This activity will help ensure sources, orders can be consolidated and compliance with the next phase.
supplied to their premises in a single vehicle.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions GHG Statement Oil recycling The Group continues to work with suppliers We are committed to reducing energy The GHG statement below provides a When comparing the GHG statement to increase the number of managed pubs Bermondsey Pub Company to recycle cooking oil used in the estate.
consumption and reducing our carbon summary of Ei Groups Greenhouse Gas against that reported for 2017, a 7% over the coming years and therefore it is In 2018 we have continued to monitor 668 publicans are participating in this free footprint.
carbon emissions from 1 October 2017 to reduction in tonnes of CO emissions per expected that the carbon emissions will savings achieved from upgraded LED service by recycling oil with Booker.
It gives a summary of full time employee has been seen at head continue to rise.
As stated above, we are lighting, heating controls and cellar the past year, this has delivered 77,000 Our head office facility emissions from fuel combustion and the office.
There has however, been an increase better able to harness energy efficiencies pumps.
We have quantified the savings of cash back to publicans in exchange for In 2017 we embarked on and completed operation of our facilities which include our in the overall emissions across the entire where we have direct control so whilst the realised from the 8 sites upgraded to 380,000 litres of oil.
The used cooking oil a refurbishment of our head office facility.
offices, managed houses and company estate due to the increased number of total emissions reported will rise, we will be date at 56,164 which is 622,266 kWh, is converted into biodiesel which is used in An important part of the specification for cars Scope 1, and from our purchased managed pubs opened and operated in employing the measures discussed above with all the 2016 sites savings now having the Booker HGV distribution fleet.
delivering this major project was to harness electricity used during the year Scope 2.
It is the Groups strategy to continue to manage the growth in emissions.
exceeded the costs of their installations.
solutions for reduction in energy costs Waste reduction We have adopted the operational control From the learnings we are currently and emissions associated with operating approach, as defined in The Greenhouse reviewing undertaking work on a further The Group continues to fulfil its obligations the site.
LED lighting and a high efficiency imposed by the Packaging Waste Gas Protocol, A Corporate Accounting and 8 sites and we will continue to work on our heat recovery VRF system were installed Reporting Standard Revised Edition, 2004. investments where the payback periods are Regulations based on all recyclables sold to along with more efficient computers and demonstratively beneficial.
For all projects, publicans and distributed to our managed Therefore, emissions associated with our monitors.
The consumption data for this energy emissions and cost reduction are estate.
We are in the third year of our tenanted pubs are not included in this financial year confirms that our overall major considerations before final product partnership with SUSTAIN Drinks Packaging, statement as they are considered to be energy consumption at our office facility choice is made.
a BBPA led industry initiative, which has outside of our operational control.
For ease is 16% lower in the year following the helped us develop our waste packaging of comparison, the GHG statement is set refurbishment.
Craft Union Pub Company strategy.
out in two parts: an assessment breakdown Throughout 2018 we have been completing for the head office only with the baseline Our managed businesses We have been working with our waste upgrades on five Craft Union sites.
We Along with our head office facility our management partner for a number of years year 2013 and the total combined emission have taken the energy saving learnings statement head office and managed managed businesses are within our direct and are seeing significant progress across experienced from our Bermondsey estate operational control and we seek to deliver our rapidly expanding managed estate houses with the baseline year of 2015 and replicated them across our wet-led ensuring year on year continuity as we grow best practice in management of waste towards our CSR policy goal of zero waste pubs.
From installed LED lighting, new disposal, recycling and energy efficiency.
We continue to promote policies our managed businesses.
Due to a major heating systems, heating controls and cellar refurbishment carried out at our head office and procedures that implement new pumps, there have been savings realised At a commercial level we recognise that greener ways to manage waste and reduce in the last financial year, the building is now of 16,894 between March and September updating older buildings with new, more our use of single use plastic products.
run entirely on electricity resulting in no gas which totals 134,258 kWh.
efficient technology can help reduce the being consumed in the last year.
energy demands of those businesses, We initially targeted to recycle a minimum Water management lowering operating costs and improving of 75% of all waste across our managed Where possible we have smart meters estate.
This target has been consistently profitability.
By improving energy in our managed houses and use regular performance this also helps us reduce our exceeded and now measures some 95% or readings to identify and mitigate leakage, nearing 5,000 tonnes per annum.
carbon footprint and become a greener as well as using waterless urinals and business, something we know is important cistermisers on refits where appropriate.
30 Ei Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2018 Stock code: EIG www.
com 31 26212 12 December 2018 11:39 AM Proof 9 26212 12 December 2018 11:39 AM Proof 9 STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate social responsibility Head office and managed houses Head office only Assessment parameters Assessment parameters Baseline year 2015 Baseline year 2013 Consolidation approach Operational control Consolidation approach Operational control Boundary summary All facilities under operational control were included including our Boundary summary Head office only managed houses Consistency with the financial statements The use of the operational control approach causes a variation to those Consistency with the financial statements The use of the operational control approach causes a variation to those assets listed in our financial statements.
Our tenanted pubs listed on our assets listed in our financial statements.
Our tenanted pubs listed on our balance sheet were not under our operational control and are therefore balance sheet were not under our operational control and are therefore not included in our emissions table.
However, approximately 189 leased not included in our emissions table.
However, approximately 189 leased vehicles which were under our operational control appear in our vehicles and 195 hire cars, which were under our operational control emissions table but not in our consolidated financial statements.
appear in our emissions table but not in our consolidated financial Emission factor data source Defra August 2018 statements.
Assessment methodology The Greenhouse Gas Protocol and ISO 14064-1 2006 Emission factor data source Defra August 2018 Materiality threshold Materiality was set at group level at 5%, with all facilities estimated to Assessment methodology The Greenhouse Gas Protocol and ISO 14064-1 2006 contribute 1% of total emissions included.
Materiality threshold Materiality was set at Group level at 5%, with all facilities estimated to Intensity ratio Emissions per full time equivalent employee FTEE contribute 1% of total emissions included.
Intensity ratio Emissions per full time equivalent employee FTEE Years Years 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2018 2017 2016 2015 tCO e tCO e tCO e tCO e tCO e tCO e tCO e tCO e FTEE tCO e tCO e FTEE tCO e tCO e FTEE tCO e tCO e FTEE 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 tCO e FTEE tCO e FTEE tCO e FTEE tCO e FTEE tCO e FTEE tCO e FTEE 2 2 2 2 2 2 Scope 1 Scope 1 Fuel combustion Fuel combustion natural gas, diesel and fleet vehicles 4,949 3.62 3,665 2.98 2,673 2.72 1,997 3.14 natural gas, diesel and fleet Operation of facilities refrigerants 377 0.27 198 0.16 126 0.13 77 0.12 vehicles 1,174 2.08 1,106 2.02 1,528 2.84 1,454 2.86 1,403 2.84 1,380 2.94 5,326 3.89 3,863 3.14 2,799 2.85 2,074 3.26 Operation of facilities Scope 2 refrigerants 89 0.16 5 0.01 6 0.01 9 0.02 Purchased electricity 5,764 4.20 4,517 3.68 2,525 2.57 1,244 1.95 1,174 2.08 1,195 2.18 1,533 2.85 1,454 2.86 1,409 2.85 1,389 2.96 Statutory total Scope 1 & 2 11,090 8.09 8,380 6.82 5,324 5.43 3,318 5.21 Scope 2 Purchased electricity 283 0.50 328 0.60 388 0.72 444 0.87 481 0.97 450 0.96 Group metrics Statutory total Scope 1 & 2 1,457 2.58 1,523 2.78 1,921 3.57 1,898 3.73 1,890 3.82 1,839 3.92 Full time equivalent employee FTEE 1,371 1,229 981 637 Group metrics Intensity ratios gross emissions Full time equivalent employee Tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per FTEE 565 547 538 509 494 470 full-time equivalent employee tCO e FTEE 8.09 6.82 5.43 5.21 2 Intensity ratios gross Statutory carbon reporting disclosures required by Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013. emissions Tonnes of carbon dioxide Note: Both grey fleet and a private flat for staff have been excluded from this statement as they did not meet the materiality threshold.
A small number of managed equivalent per full-time houses that had not been open for four weeks prior to the end of the financial year September 2018 have also been excluded as they did not meet the materiality threshold.
82 3.92 2 Statutory carbon reporting disclosures required by Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
Note: Both grey fleet and a flat for staff have been excluded from this statement as they did not meet the materiality threshold.
Hire cars have also been excluded from the head office but included in the Combined Emissions Statement to ensure an accurate year on year comparison.
32 Ei Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2018 Stock code: EIG www.
com 33 26212 12 December 2018 11:39 AM Proof 9 26212 12 December 2018 11:39 AM Proof 9 STRATEGIC REPORT Risks and uncertainties The Board is ultimately responsible for ensuring there is a robust assessment Description and potential impact Mitigation processes Link to our business of the principal risks facing the Group which it does through our risk model identification and evaluation process described in the Audit Committee Property valuations The Board believes there is no change to this risk.
The executive directors report to the Board that they are appropriately managing the risks through their senior management team, with each The Groups properties have been valued at 3.6 billion at The Group has a policy to revalue every asset in its property Our assets 30 September 2018.
Values could, as they have in the past, portfolio annually at market value by qualified external and business unit responsible for identifying, assessing and managing risks in move downwards due to changes in the UK property market, internal valuers in accordance with the RICS Red Book 2017 including the uncertain impact of Brexit, or as a result of Global Edition plus UK 2014 revised 2015 supplement.
valuations comply with the requirements of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
The valuation this year This impacts the Group through its ability to dispose of has led to a marginal net uplift in the book values of the pubs The Board delegates the review of The adjacent table sets out the principal Key: underperforming pubs and realise acceptable disposal recorded in property, plant and equipment or investment the effectiveness of the Groups risk risks and uncertainties facing the Group at proceeds and may also more widely impact the value of the property.
management processes to the Audit 30 September 2018, an indication of how Increase Group and its financial covenants.
Committee, which formally reports back that risk has changed in the year and an The valuers have confirmed that there is uncertainty in the annually.
The Groups internal audit function overview of how we control and mitigate Decrease general economy around Brexit negotiations, however there agree with the Audit Committee an those risks.
Our principal risks are those has been no significant impact on the property markets, and annual internal audit plan which is driven that are deemed by the Board as high risk, Unchanged the market for licensed properties in particular remains buoyant.
predominantly by business risks and which together with some medium risks which We invested 81 million on developing and improving our gives assurance on the internal control the Board deems should be disclosed due Considered as part of assets during the year.
This is not intended to be an viability assessment exhaustive analysis of all the risks the Group Liquidity risk may face.
The Board believes there is no change to this risk following the risk decreasing last year.
The Groups primary liquidity risks are to ensure its debt is The Group has a flexible financing structure comprising bonds Our capital structure serviced, financial covenants are met, investment plans are issued from the Unique securitisation securitised bonds, Board oversight satisfied and working capital requirements are met.
corporate bonds issued by the Company and bank borrowings.
The securitised bonds have quarterly interest payments The Board regularly reviews detailed financial forecasts of Board meetings Audit Committee Internal audit compliance across all four outstanding bonds, two of which also have the Group, including budgets, to ensure there is sufficient Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Group risk appetite and policies scheduled amortisation, while the corporate bonds have headroom on all covenants and that there is sufficient cash semi-annual interest payments and are non-amortising.
The available to meet the requirements of the Group.
To manage next scheduled maturity of the Groups corporate bonds cash, the Group can reduce capital expenditure on pubs, at 30 September 2018 is 100.5 million of bonds due in dispose of pubs or raise new finance.
Monitoring and review During the year, the Group concluded an increase of its bank facility to 150 million and extended it for two years to August 2022.
This was 15 million drawn at year end.
Risk register Annual review: The Group also issued an unsecured and non-amortising 150 Risk appetite Integration with strategy and planning Assurance mapping million bond due in 2024 and used some of the proceeds to Group risk policy Risk changes response Internal audit tender and cancel 95.4 million of the convertible bonds due in Operation of management and control systems Incidents and action points 2020.
At the year end the Group has undrawn facilities of 185 Determination of principal risks million in order to repay the 100.5 million corporate bonds due in December 2018.
Company culture Ownership Incentivisation of strategic goals Responsibility Appraisals 34 Ei Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2018 Stock code: EIG www.
com 35 26212 12 December 2018 11:39 AM Proof 9 26212 12 December 2018 11:39 AM Proof 9 STRATEGIC REPORT Risks and uncertainties Description and potential impact Mitigation processes Link to our Description and potential impact Mitigation processes Link to our business business model model Regulatory changes, including the regulation of Litigation The Board believes there is no change to this risk.
The Board believes there is no change to this risk.
the tied pub model The Pubs Code legislation includes a tenants right, under The Groups various operating models enable it to allocate Enable our The Group operates in a heavily regulated industry and may The Group employs an in-house solicitor and other specialists to Enable our operating operating certain circumstances, to change the freely-negotiated assets to maximise value where opportunities arise and allow be involved in legal or statutory proceedings in relation to ensure we comply with legislation and to manage any litigation models models commercial terms of their agreement to a new MRO it to take the operational control of pubs at the end of leases if our pubs, our publicans or our suppliers.
The impact of such with our publicans.
compliant agreement, and is overseen by an independent this generates incremental income for the Group.
litigation may be immaterial in value but may result in harm to The Group will work with Local Authorities as necessary Adjudicator.
The Code is expected to be reviewed during the Groups reputation.
The Group issued its first Pubs Code annual compliance report whenever any statutory issues are raised in relation to its pub 2019, being three years after it was introduced.
during the year, which was audited by the internal audit team, estate.
Where appropriate, the Group takes legal proceedings The operation of the Pubs Code could have an impact upon giving us additional confidence that all provisions of the Code against publicans to ensure compliance with their agreements.
our profitability, our operational strategy and the relationships are being complied with.
Health and safety with our publicans.
We work closely with Local Authorities as necessary to ensure Other regulatory risks that could impact the Groups business licensing requirements are dealt with appropriately.
include changes in the legislation governing the sale of A health and safety incident could result in serious injury to The Group has developed an effective health and safety Provide We are also an active member of the BBPA ensuring that we alcohol, licensing, duty and areas of social responsibility.
our offer the Groups employees, publicans or customers.
management system to ensure compliance with all legal are aware of and can contribute to discussions that impact duties placed on the organisation by health and safety law.
All The current year also saw the introduction of the General the industry and we are a contributor to the Drinkaware Trust, There is a risk that we dont have visibility of our full supply systems are subject to regular review with training provided as Data Protection Regulation GDPR regarding the collection, working closely to promote responsible drinking.
Further details chain, especially where food products are concerned, that appropriate.
storage and destruction of personal data.
can be found in the corporate social responsibility section of our could lead to unsafe foods entering the chain without our website at www.
These measures ensure effective control of the managed house operations as well as continued appropriate focus on the During the year we engaged a third party consultant to conduct In addition, the importance of allergen information continues issues facing the Publican Partnerships estate.
a GDPR readiness review on the Group to ensure that we were to grow and the Group needs to make sure that its in the best possible position when the legislation went live on information is accurate and readily available.
The Group employs a health and safety manager, a fire safety 25 May 2018. manager and a food safety manager to maintain the health and safety management system along with the identification and General economic conditions The Board increased this risk in the prior year due to the remediation of specific risks.
It also operates a strategic and uncertainty of the impact of Brexit and inflationary cost pressures.
As we have no additional clarity on Brexit, the risk operational health and safety regime and operates within a remains unchanged this year.
Primary Authority Scheme with Milton Keynes Borough Council and the West Midlands Fire Service.
The Group operates in the leisure industry which is sensitive The Board regularly reviews results and forecasts to assess Enable our operating to economic conditions and pressures on disposable the impact of economic conditions on its budget, strategic Supply chain management models income.
Whilst the full impact of Brexit remains uncertain, plans and our publicans.
The Group is well placed to react to The Board believes there is no change to this risk.
it is unclear to what extent consumer confidence may be additional competition for leisure spending by being able to impacted.
respond quickly in our managed pubs to adapt offers, and we The Group places reliance on key suppliers and distributors to The Group works closely with its key suppliers and distribution Provide also have the scale and tools available to support our publicans our offer ensure that there is a continuous supply of drinks and other partners to ensure good working relationships, as well as The Group operates wholly within the UK and all of the in doing likewise.
products to its publicans or to its managed operations.
There taking reasonable steps to try to ensure that key suppliers and Groups supply contracts are sterling denominated such that is also a risk of over reliance on any one individual supplier.
distributors have appropriate disaster recovery plans in place to we do not anticipate that Brexit will have a significant direct Although the cost inflationary pressures have a direct impact on maintain continuity of supply.
However, as well as consumer spending our managed pubs, this is a growing business and therefore we Interruption or failure of these key suppliers and distributors considerations, the Group could be impacted by restrictions are able to design operations to best mitigate increasing costs, could result in such products not being delivered on time or The Group also has its own contingency plans to minimise the on migrant labour see People risk.
albeit we are acutely aware of the cost base that our publicans the pubs not having sufficient products to operate.
disruption of any external interruption to supply.
In the year and operators face and look to support them as best we can.
CO shortages affected the supply of certain key product lines 2 The market is also enduring inflationary cost pressures for a short period, however the Group mitigated the disruption relating to food prices, business rates, utility costs, pension We also continue to foster mutually beneficial relationships by being able to substitute for like products from alternative contributions and the National Living Wage.
These impact the with key suppliers to ensure the impact of any price increases suppliers.
Groups managed business directly but also impact publican is minimised wherever possible.
profitability in our Publican Partnerships estate.
The Group regularly reviews its WACC in line with the capital In addition, changes in interest rates and other economic structure, and how it compares to its competitors.
It annually factors could lead to an increase in the Groups weighted reviews the carrying value of goodwill and would write down average cost of capital WACC, reduced revenues or the value if it deemed an impairment was necessary.
Any increased costs, all of which could impact our profitability and goodwill that is allocated to pubs that are sold, is written off could lead to an impairment in the value of goodwill carried during the year.
36 Ei Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2018 Stock code: EIG www.
com 37 26212 12 December 2018 11:39 AM Proof 9 26212 12 December 2018 11:39 AM Proof 9 STRATEGIC REPORT Risks and uncertainties Viability statement Going concern Description and potential impact Mitigation processes Link to our business In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the The directors have considered the Groups financial resources model directors have assessed the prospects of the Group over a period including a review of the medium-term financial plan, which significantly longer than 12 months from the approval of the includes a review of the Groups cash flow forecasts for the period Systems failure The Board believes there is no change to this risk.
of at least 12 months from the date of approval of these financial statements along with the principal risks and uncertainties.
The Board has continued to review its progress against its strategic The Groups operations are reliant on its information A thorough business continuity plan is in place to ensure the Provide plans during the year, and evolved these plans where opportunities Based on the outcome of the above considerations the directors our offer technology systems for business processes, accounting, business could continue to function in the event of a major and the market have suggested it is necessary.
In addition, as in have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate reporting and communication.
There is a risk of serious systems failure.
This plan is tested in full at least annually.
This prior years, the Group has continued to assess the principal risks resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable disruption if these systems fail for an extended period of plan and testing has been extended in order to incorporate the and mitigating factors that could impact the Group.
For this reason the directors continue to adopt the going time.
and future risks, controls and assurances available have been fully concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
analysed and documented, resulting in a clear picture of the risk There are comprehensive controls in place to protect profile across the whole of the business.
This has been reviewed information technology systems, including anti-viral software Strategic report approval and the principal risks and uncertainties, which are detailed on and the back up and off-site storage of data.
pages 34 to 38, agreed by the Board.
Furthermore, additional The strategic report, on pages 1 to 39, incorporates Cyber risk information regarding the future prospects of the Group is included highlights, at a glance, the Chairmans statement, our The Board believes there is no change to this risk.
within the Chief Executives review on pages 16 to 20. market, our business model, our strategy, KPIs, the Chief Executives review, the financial review, the corporate social The Board has concluded that the most relevant time period for the Increasing levels of cybercrime represent a threat to every The threats facing IT are regularly monitored as part of the Provide responsibility report, the risks and uncertainties and the our offer viability assessment should be the three year period of the normal business with the potential to cause a loss of system ongoing review by the IT steering committee, which regularly viability and going concern statements.
availability, which could have a consequential financial loss.
reports to the executive management group.
business forecasting cycle, unless there are any significant events that would suggest that a longer period would be more appropriate.
By order of the Board IT disaster recovery and business continuity plans exist and The Board has assessed that there are no events of note that are tested regularly to ensure the business could continue to fall outside of the normal three year cycle such that the viability L Togher function in the event of a major incident.
assessment for the current year has been considered over the three Company Secretary year period to 30 September 2021.
With the continued uncertainty of Brexit and the impact it will People have on the availability of migrant labour together with our 19 November 2018 growing managed estate, the Board has increased the Those risks that could affect the future viability of the Group over people risk in the year.
the next three years were identified and the resilience of the Group to the occurrence of these risks in severe yet plausible scenarios The Group is reliant on the ability to attract, train and retain The Group is committed to providing appropriate employee Support has been evaluated.
our people the best employees, publicans for its leased and tenanted training, retention and reward policies and holds the prestigious pubs as well as managers and team members for its accolade of Gold status for Investors in People.
As outlined in The directors have specifically considered the financial liabilities managed pubs.
the corporate social responsibility section on pages 26 to 33, maturing within the period, being the 100.5 million corporate we conduct annual staff engagement surveys which are used bonds maturing in December 2018 and the 125 million corporate With Brexit uncertainty there is increased risk that in certain to identify issues and opportunities to improve the working bonds maturing in February 2021, and have concluded that they geographies recruitment may be more difficult if restrictions environment.
have a reasonable expectation that these will either be paid by on the use of a migrant workforce are introduced, or if cash available in the business or from currently existing facilities, or living and working in the UK becomes much less attractive The Groups publican recruitment and training programmes and following the conclusion of the Brexit negotiations.
its variety of tenancy and lease agreements are designed to adequately refinanced prior to being repayable such that the Group attract the best quality people.
will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three year period assessed.
The Group has also established a robust programme for the recruitment, induction and training of all of the managers and team members in each of its managed pub operations, which it continues to evolve and improve as the business grows.
38 Ei Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2018 Stock code: EIG www.
