CEOS STRATEGIC OVERVIEW 2018 WAS A YEAR OF PORTFOLIO TRANSFORMATION AND WE NOW HAVE A STRONGER PLATFORM FOR GROWTH.
PAUL WATERMAN CEO In 2018, the second year of our Reignite Growth strategy, we Going forward, we will focus on maintaining and improving this delivered good organic profit growth and made material strategic record still further.
progress in transforming our portfolio, capabilities and customer service.
Moving into 2019 we have a stronger platform from CSR AND SUSTAINABILITY which to grow the value of Elementis.
With wider consideration of how we do business, sustainability is a core value at Elementis, and here too we made strides in 2018.
RESULTS We continue to improve our CSR and sustainability performance Starting with the Group financial results, I am pleased to report across all aspects of the organisation.
Examples include our a year of solid adjusted operating profit growth.
Adjusted Milwaukee leather tanning plant which is a zero water, air and operating profit from continuing operations rose by 8% on the solid wastes discharge plant, and an innovative R&D programme prior year to reach $133m, driven by an extra quarter of that is focusing on new products built around natural and contribution from SummitReheis, two months contribution from sustainable ingredients.
In addition, we have increased the Mondo and good growth in Personal Care and Chromium.
transparency of our commitments by becoming a UN Global These positive factors more than offset a decline in Coatings, Compact signatory.
where 7% organic growth in adjusted operating profit helped offset the impact of the Delden plant disposal, and in Energy The green credentials of our products are foremost in our mind where the market was impacted by infrastructure constraints in and we have verified the naturalness of our products against North America, leading to lower drilling volumes.
Further details rigorous standards such as ISO, COSMOS and Ecolabel which on each business segments performance can be found on enables our customers to make sustainability claims about pages 34 and 35.
Profit before tax fell 17% to $65m due to an their products.
increase in non-recurring items and higher net finance costs.
Reflective of our progress, in 2018 Elementis was ranked by Following the acquisition of Mondo in October 2018, Elementis Ecovadis in the top 7% of companies for CSR in the global net debt position has increased from $291m at the end of chemical manufacturing sector, up from 23% in 2014.
This 2017 to $498m, representing a leverage ratio of 2.5x adjusted is a welcome achievement and more information on our pro forma EBITDA.
Looking forward we see a rapid initiatives in this area are available in our Resources and deleveraging profile for the Group as a result of strong Relationships section.
underlying cash generation, the impact of our cash focused self-help initiatives and the positive outcome of the UK pension PEOPLE scheme triennial review.
Our people and the culture that they embody are at the centre of our success.
I am pleased to welcome all Mondo employees SAFETY to Elementis.
Mondo has an experienced management team with Safety remains our top priority and in 2018 I am pleased to a proven track record of repositioning the business and delivering report significantly improved performance, with three recordable growth, and I am pleased to say Christian Kather, previously injuries 2017: 16 and a total recordable incident rate of 0.22 Mondo CEO, has joined our leadership team, as VP Talc.
2017: 1.1, the lowest on record at Elementis.
This improvement was driven by investment to reduce operational risks, safety After a career in the chemicals industry of 23 years, and with leadership training and the implementation of Elementis safety Elementis for ten years, Ken Smith, VP Technology retired at the processes at former SummitReheis sites see Q&A on page 12 Continuing operations for more information.
On a 12 month pro forma basis see pro forma calculations on page 164 10 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION end of 2018.
Technology is a cornerstone of what we do and I WELCOME TO MONDO EMPLOYEES would like to thank Ken for the huge contribution he has made I want to extend a warm welcome to to Elementis his impact on the business will be felt for years Christian Kather and everyone at Mondo.
Whilst it is sad to see Ken go, I am pleased to welcome Joe Lupia to Elementis as his successor.
Joe has a career The integration of Mondo is progressing of more than 30 years in the chemicals industry and joins at pace and the combination of our Elementis from BASF where he most recently held the position businesses will create significant of Director, Technical Innovations and Customer Support Care opportunities for customers, staff Chemicals USA.
MONDO The acquisition of Mondo, the second largest producer of premium REIGNITE GROWTH OVERVIEW talc based additives in the world, represents a great opportunity At the end of the second year of our programme to Reignite for Elementis.
Our new Talc business segment will strengthen us Growth we have a platform to deliver tangible results.
as a higher quality, higher margin company with attractive growth potential, consistent with our Reignite Growth strategy.
2016 Nov 16 Our Talc business has strong competitive advantages and a Completed a Capital Markets Day track record of growth.
Aligned with Elementis hectorite based business wide Launch of Reignite Growth strategy value chain, Mondo leverages access to a distinctive, high strategic review quality natural resource to create high value additives that deliver Dec 16 Introduction of global functions exceptional product performance improvement to customers at a relatively low percentage of the end products cost.
Premium talc follows a specialty additive logic driven by custom formulations, customer demand for quality, reliability and service and rigorous supplier qualification which results in value based pricing and high customer loyalty.
Demand for talc additives is anticipated to grow at around 5% per annum, sustained by favourable structural trends, including the light weighting of vehicles and fast growth in life sciences 2017 Mar 17 such as cosmetics and pharmaceuticals.
Mondo is well Reignite Growth: Acquisition of SummitReheis positioned to grow at or above this rate, over the medium term, Strengthening the Mar 17 by further developing its position in high end talc markets.
foundations Sale of US Colourants business May 17 We see significant opportunities in Coatings, Personal Care Completed working capital review and and the broader innovation space from combining Mondo with identified $18m of reductions Elementis surface chemistry expertise, global scale and relationships.
These synergy opportunities, discussed in more Jun 17 Implemented key account management detail on the next page, will unlock additional value for Elementis processes stakeholders.
Dec 17 Introduction of new global Coatings organisation REIGNITE GROWTH In November 2016, we launched our Reignite Growth strategy.
In the second year of strategic implementation we have made 2018 Feb 18 significant progress against our four priorities.
Key achievements Reignite Growth: Sale of Surfactants business are outlined in more detail on pages 20 to 29 but highlights in the Portfolio Aug 18 year included the acquisition of a brownfield production site in transformation Disposal of Jersey City site India, the sale of our Surfactants business and acquisition of Mondo.
Elementis now has a significantly stronger platform to Oct 18 Completion of Mondo acquisition grow value.
Nov 18 OUTLOOK Closure of Changxing organoclay site Going forward we will focus on actions that will create sustainable Dec 18 shareholder value.
Maintaining our focus on safe, reliable Acquisition of India manufacturing site operations will create a strong foundation for growth.
The quality and commitment of our people is at the core of our success and at Elementis we are fortunate to have a talented, dedicated and improving team.
Business insight: Elementis now has a broader, more diversified and better Whilst global market conditions remain challenging, particularly enabled platform to Reignite Growth but sustained success in coatings, we have entered 2019 with a strong platform to will come from a focus on customers, innovation and deliver long term growth and improved returns.
In the year continuous improvement in everything we do.
Growth means ahead we are confident of delivering further progress and this never standing still.
will be underpinned by the integration and synergies of the Talc segment, delivery on self-help initiatives and an unrelenting For more on our strategic pillars see pages 20 to 29. focus on cash generation and deleveraging.
PAUL WATERMAN CEO 11 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 CEOS STRATEGIC OVERVIEW CONTINUED Q What are the risks to your Reignite Q&A Growth strategy?
A Q We consider both general and market specific risks, concentrating on the What improvements controllable and mitigating those that are beyond our direct influence.
More detail can have you made be found later in the Principal Risks and to safety in 2018?
As we focus on execution of our growth plans and operational A performance, the leadership teams in each During 2018 we rolled out Enablon, the of our businesses carefully consider all industrys most comprehensive HSE software decisions in the risk context of their individual platform, undertook several capital markets.
I believe that we now have the right investments to eliminate risks and progressed people in place, with the experience and the implementation of our advanced safety expertise to do this, across the Group.
audits and management safety interactions.
We are encouraging our employees to become further engaged and thinking Q proactively about staying safe.
An even stronger safety culture throughout the Group What does the will drive further improvement in our already excellent safety performance keeping acquisition of Mondo everyone safe at the end of the day.
Q A What are Elementis In financial terms, the acquisition will be innovation priorities?
earnings per share accretive in the first full year of ownership and we expect return on A invested capital to exceed our weighted In innovation our focus is on creating products cost of capital in year two.
On top of that, that deliver superior performance, improved we expect our net debt position to rapidly efficiency and increased sustainability to decline supported by our strong cash our customers.
Products such as our new generation.
In business terms, Mondo brings Bentone Hydroclay for Personal Care a complementary business, based on a applications tick all these boxes.
Our unique value chain and with outstanding innovation pipeline is in good shape and growth prospects, to our portfolio.
This all looking forward we will continue to prioritise adds up to value creation for our shareholders the delivery of enhanced performance both in the short and in the long term.
12 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION MONDO MINERALS EXPLAINED Plastics Allows long life plastics to have similar properties to metal, at lower cost and lighter weight.
Applications: Automotive plastics, household appliances.
Coatings Increased sheen, mechanical resistance, barrier effects, opacity.
Applications: industrial coatings, architectural coatings.
Life Sciences Increased inertness, sheen, silkiness and anti-caking.
Applications: Cosmetics, food and beverage, pharmaceuticals.
APPLIED INNOVATION Technical Ceramics Talc is a clay mineral At facilities in Finland and the Improved resistance to cracks and heat.
composed of hydrated Netherlands, Mondo applies Applications: Insulation, catalytic converters.
magnesium silicate with unique proprietary processing methods features: microscopic crystalline and formulation expertise to platelets which are strong yet create customised talc based soft, resistant to acids or solutions for technology driven alkalines, oxidation, radiation, industries.
Talc adds new Paper or ageing.
At the same time it features to products and makes Enhanced printability and barrier effect.
Mondo processes more efficient across Applications: High end magazines and operates four high quality talc a range of industries.
mines in Finland with approximately 92 years of resources.
ELEMENTIS AND TALC OPPORTUNITIES FOR Revenue synergies of approximately Coatings THE GROUP $10-15m by 2023 are anticipated to Aligned with Elementis hectorite arise primarily through geographic based value chain, Mondo expansion of Mondo, using Elementis leverages access to a distinctive, relationships to increase market share high quality natural resource to in industrial coatings in North America create products that serve and Latin America, and also through diverse end markets.
Clear areas deepening strategic relationships with of complementarity range from existing Elementis customers for the formulation expertise to sale of talc and a greater share of their application driven research and materials spend.
development, through to end markets and customers, notably Revenue synergies of approximately Coatings and Personal Care.
Personal Care $10m by 2023 are expected via enhanced access for Mondo to leading personal care formulators and distributors as well as an expansion to new markets in Asia and the Americas utilising local sales, distribution and logistics networks and greater sales coverage within Europe.
Value will also be created through an extension of the product portfolio to attractive cosmetic applications.
Innovation The potential applications of talc are considerable.
New business opportunities are anticipated for Mondo through the leverage of Elementis expertise in surface active chemistry, rheology and product formulation in the field of talc based additives.
13 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
