CEOS REVIEW BECOMING FIRST CHOICE We have taken a good step forward in our quest to become first choice but the opportunity for improvement still remains significant.
It is this opportunity that we, as a management team, remain extremely focused on.
LINDSLEY RUTH CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Over the last two and a half years since the launch of the significant opportunity to take share in what remains a large Performance Improvement Plan PIP, we have taken a and highly fragmented market.
However, in order to capitalise significant step forward in our quest to become first choice on this opportunity, we need to ensure that we continue to for customers, suppliers and employees.
Over the course of move forward on our quest to become first choice.
Our internal the plan, our rolling three-month RS Net Promoter Score NPS benchmarks illustrate that we still have more work to do on this has risen by around 20%, with all regions contributing to front and it is this opportunity that we, as a management team, the improvement.
Our Senior Management Team has been remain extremely focused on.
Like-for-like revenue growth has accelerated We aspire to become best in class and in our business that and gross margin has increased.
We have greatly improved means achieving NPS customer satisfaction scores in the 60s, efficiency, delivering 30 million of cumulative annualised driving adjusted operating profit conversion ratios towards the savings, and have increased our adjusted operating profit 30% level and delivering mid-teen operating profit margins.
Our conversion ratio from 15.3% to 23.6%.
Adjusted operating profit best-performing regions are already achieving these metrics: has more than doubled to 177.1 million in 2018 2015: 85.2 other regions have further to go.
So while we have made some million and strong free cash flow has reduced net debt to good progress to date, I continue to believe we are only adjusted EBITDA to 0.3x 2015: 1.3x.
approaching the half-way point on this journey of improvement Importantly, we have achieved these results while increasing and from here we need to accelerate the pace of change in investment in areas we believe are key to longer-term growth order to fully capitalise on our significant market opportunity.
such as talent, brand awareness, digital, value-added services, Therefore in May 2018 we launched a second phase to the PIP.
Moving forward, it is clear we have a Achievements over first phase of PIP c. 20% 9.3 pts 8.3 pts 1 1 Improvement in rolling Improvement in like-for-like Improvement in adjusted three-month RS NPS over PIP revenue growth operating profit conversion 25% 3.7 pts 30m 1 Compound annual growth rate Improvement in adjusted Cumulative annualised in operating profit over PIP operating profit margin cost savings over PIP 1.
Refers to improvement achieved over the three years from 31 March 2015 to 31 March 2018.
12 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Second phase of the PIP The second phase of the PIP is aimed at further building and enhancing the organisation model and capabilities to enable us to continue to drive profitable growth and operational improvement across our five strategic priorities see page 14.
In order to move faster and adapt in an evolving marketplace, we need to make changes to our model to ensure it is simpler, even more customer centric, scalable and more efficient.
Our proposals, which will be subject to consultation with employees, are based on two core principles: Simplicity We need to continue to make our organisation simpler, more customer centric and capable of driving success in both the industrial and electronics marketplaces.
A regional model with a lean centre: We are proposing to move to a regional model, based around three regions: EMEA, Asia Pacific and the Americas, with the regional presidents reporting directly to the CEO.
This structure would have a much leaner corporate centre with activities, such as product and supplier management and marketing, primarily being run within the regions, mirroring the way Allied is set up today in the Americas.
Our aim is to be an even more customer-centric organisation where decisions on activities such as range and marketing are made closer to the customer.
The proposed structure will give greater autonomy, agility and accountability to the region, which will enable us to adapt faster to changes in our customer needs and the marketplace.
Finally, it should lead to efficiencies, removing duplicated cost between the centre and the region.
Reporting structure: Under this proposed structure we would report results for the three regions: EMEA, Asia Pacific Scalability and Americas.
We are building a global scalable platform using shared Savings: As a result of a new simpler organisational services and increased automation and technology.
structure we hope to generate significant efficiencies and Global shared services and automation strategy: We savings.
Our longer-term aim remains to drive a best-in-class are rolling out a global shared services strategy aimed adjusted operating profit conversion ratio of 30%.
We are at driving an improved customer experience at lower cost targeting cumulative annualised cost savings of 12 million to complement our existing shared services operations by March 2021, with 4 million of cost savings in the current in the UK, China and the Americas.
Initially our focus year to 31 March 2019.
We expect to see reorganisation will be on increasing the use of shared services to handle costs in relation to the second phase of the PIP in the region standardised transactional activities driving improved of 12 million, the large part of which are likely to be cash accuracy and scalability.
As part of this plan, we will increase costs, depending on the final details following consultation.
the use of automation with robotic process automation and, The majority of this charge would relate to labour-related in the future, machine learning tools to increase speed and restructuring costs.
accuracy of processing and efficiency.
The first step of the programme will be to move our existing Asia Pacific customer services shared service centre into a new larger regional centre of expertise based in Foshan in China.
This will have the capability to cater for additional activities in line with our strategic ambitions and will be completed in calendar 2019.
This project will not only drive improved customer experience but will also create the capabilities required to drive scale and profitable growth in Asia Pacific in the longer term.
Customer-centric supply chain: We will optimise and invest in supply chain to support our growth plans.
The first phase includes an extension of the Allied warehouse in the Americas to house an expanded range and a project to optimise transport across the globe.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 Electrocomponents plc13 S c a l e, d e i r g a i CEOS REVIEW CONTINUED OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Distribution is a simple business where superior returns depend on best-in-class execution.
As such, our strategy is also simple and focused on five key priorities.
If we do these well, we will succeed in our quest to become first choice for customers, suppliers and employees and deliver attractive growth and high returns for our shareholders.
Best customer and supplier experience Excelling at the basics and driving di erentiation for our customers and suppliers via innovation and data-led insight Reinvestment to accelerate growth High-performance Being disciplined in our team allocation of strong cash Investing in talented leaders ows between investment in to build a results-orientated, the business to drive faster customer-focused, diverse, FOCUSED market share gains and global talent base providing attractive returns ON BECOMING to shareholders FIRST CHOICE for customers, suppliers and employees Innovation Introducing new products and solutions for our Operational customers harnessing excellence our digital expertise, data and insight, and taking Continuously improving advantage of changing service and e ciency market dynamics and new opportunities for growth and e ciency 14 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 h t a s l t e e x k p r a e r m t i s g e n i a n n i a d g o y u b r a e l b a i l c i t s y g t n o i v s i e r r d v e e r o a u e r W c u s t o m e r s g l o b a l l y STRATEGIC REPORT Best customer and supplier experience Providing world-class customer service: We continue Customer experience to train our sales and service people so they can offer our Our business was conceived to make our customers lives easier customers a best-in-class experience.
We upgraded our and find them the right part or solution for each job.
While much Live Chat programme and are now actively rolling it out in all has changed in the way we serve our customers, as well as the our key markets.
We also continue to increase the technical products and services we offer them, the imperative to deliver expertise within our sales functions via training and educating a brilliant customer experience and make it easy for them to our people and recruiting additional technical talent.
do business has not changed in order to succeed, this needs to continue to be part of our DNA.
During the year, we have made good progress on driving an improved customer experience, with our rolling 12-month RS NPS score improving year on year by 8.6% to 45.7 and our Allied NPS score improved 4.4% to 68.1.
We still have room for improvement in all regions, particularly Asia Pacific our lowest ranking region, but I am extremely pleased by the progress we have been making here and across the board since the launch of the PIP and excited by the future plans we have to accelerate this focus.
Our plans to improve customer experience focus on three key areas: Driving a better online experience: We are building an industry-leading digital capability to ensure we continue to remain ahead of the game in digital and offer our customers a brilliant online experience.
With over 60% of our revenue now online this is of vital importance.
During the year ended 31 March 2018, we accelerated the number of Agile improvements we made to our website to 128 2017: 58.
These changes have been focused on improving areas such as: search, website speed, functionality, filtering and our mobile site.
As a result of these actions, we have seen a 28% year-on-year improvement in the RS website speed and our CSAT online customer satisfaction score measured in the UK, France, Germany and Japan stands at 69, compared to the B2B industry benchmark of 64.
Improvements in our online experience have enabled us to hold conversion rates firm while significantly increasing website traffic.
Looking forward, we IMPROVING CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE are committed to accelerating the pace of improvement and as such we have expanded our Agile approach to encompass NIKO NIKO all aspects of the customer experience both online and offline.
Across the Group we now have 15 Agile teams 2017: In early 2016, our Asia Pacific team launched a project six teams working on improving customer experience and we called Niko Niko aimed at accelerating improvements expect to grow this resource further as we move into the year in customer service in the region.
Niko Niko incorporated to 31 March 2019.
During 2019, our teams will be focused on numerous different work streams, which included areas including, but not limited to, onsite and offsite search, but were not limited to: mobile experience and localising the web experience in China Online experience improvements improvements and Japan.
in website speed, content and functionality Delivering On Time To Promise OTTP : OTTP is a key driver Improving OTTP in China by rationalising the of customer satisfaction and as such a ratio which we watch range, increasing local sourcing and optimising carefully.
During the first half of 2018, we took the decision to the supply chain increase inventory levels to improve product availability and Tactical local IT changes fixing local customer our OTTP ratio, which had trended down in H2 2017.
We have issues, for example offering increased payment also made good progress at driving a more consistent service optionality in the Philippines and improving offering across the globe with particular progress in Asia invoicing in Australia Pacific.
Looking forward, our key areas of focus are offering our customers end-to-end supply chain visibility of their There has been a significant improvement in the OTTP goods from order to delivery, and making sure we improve in China.
All this has led to a 48.5% improvement in Asia our processes and the way we communicate on orders when Pacifics rolling three-month NPS over the two years to an item is out of stock: both of which should drive further 31 March 2018. improvement to the service we offer to our customers see page 17.
48.5% improvement in our rolling three-month Asia Pacific NPS ratio since March 2016 Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 Electrocomponents plc15 CEOS REVIEW CONTINUED IMPROVING SUPPLIER EXPERIENCE WORKING TO EXPAND FESTOS REACH Festo is a leading provider of pneumatic and automation and control products.
Prior to 2016, RS did not have a relationship with Festo and it was an obvious gap in our range.
We introduced the Festo products into our range for Europe in June 2016.
Since then, our collaboration has extended to Asia Pacific, followed by the US in 2017.
We are the first distributor to have a truly global relationship with Festo.
Since the launch in June 2016, we have rolled out 2,200 products and attracted over 18,700 customers to the Festo portfolio.
Festos analysis showed that over 70% of these customers were new to them, showing the scale of our reach.
Supplier experience with suppliers to improve delivery performance and piloted We continue to believe that we have significant potential to a new dashboard with strategic suppliers, which gives them drive faster growth and better terms by offering our suppliers increased access to data and insight.
During 2019, we aim an improved experience.
We are unique in the marketplace to roll this out more extensively.
with our global footprint, strong salesforce and leading digital Accelerating new product introduction NPI : During position and, as such, are an important partner and lead 2018, we significantly simplified the data collection process generator for our suppliers.
These strengths are helping us for new products which has led to an approximate 41% to add new suppliers and during 2018 we added over 40 new year-on-year reduction in our NPI lead time in Q4 2018. suppliers at RS and 23 at Allied.
We are focusing on leveraging During 2019, we will focus on a further significant reduction our extensive reach and data to give our suppliers the focus in NPI lead times.
and insight they need so that we can accelerate growth Improving end-to-end efficiency: We are focused on together.
Our key priorities are as follows: using continuous improvement techniques and automation Building a partnership with key strategic suppliers: During to reduce end-to-end process costs.
Looking forward 2018, we implemented a clear supplier segmentation allowing to 2019, our focus is on driving more automation in the additional resource to be directed towards the Groups creation of supplier and product information, leading strategic suppliers.
We created a dedicated team to work to improved service at lower cost.
41% 63 year-on-year reduction in new suppliers added NPI lead time in Q4 2018 during 2018 16 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT High-performance team Over the past two years we have transformed the leadership of this organisation, bringing in a more diverse team with significant industry experience: a team that shares my ambition and vision for the business and remains excited by the opportunity ahead of us.
During 2018, we further strengthened this leadership team with the addition of a new President of Global Supply Chain and a new leader for Asia Pacific.
With our leadership team in place, the key focus for 2018 has been to build a more aspirational, customer-focused and accountable culture across the Group: a culture where passion, innovation and collaboration are encouraged.
We have also increased our investment in training and are in the process of setting up a central learning management system tooffer our people the learning and development resources required to be the leaders of the future.
One of our key differentiators is our people and we need to ensure we invest, educate and motivate them to drive best-in-class results for our customers, suppliers and shareholders.
HIGH-PERFORMANCE TEAM LEADERSHIP Operational excellence We have made good progress at driving efficiency and in the Employee engagement and learning and development year we delivered 5 million of net annualised savings, which have been key in driving improved focus and great took our total cumulative annualised savings over the duration results in Northern Europe.
During the year, we have of the PIP to 30 million.
As a result of strong revenue growth trained over 800 employees in the UK, Ireland and and an increased focus on efficiency, our adjusted operating Scandinavia with a focus on improved people profit conversion ratio rose a further 3.3 percentage points to management, the RS value proposition and sales 23.6% 2017: 20.3%.
We continue to aspire to move this ratio effectiveness.
We have rolled out a management closer to 30%: as such we remain committed to operating for development programme across our sales and service less and investing in shared services and automation to drive management community to drive improved employee operational excellence and efficiency.
engagement and, as a result, better service for As part of the second phase of the PIP, we are planning to customers.
We have also trained 250 of our sales roll out a global shared services strategy to complement our people on the RS value proposition, educating them existing shared service operations in the UK, China and the on the full capabilities on offer and empowering them Americas.
Weaim to drive improved service and efficiency to engage in conversations that drive greater value through standardisation.
This will deliver the scalability that for our customers and RS.
the organisation requires to support its growth plans, enabling usto deliver improved service at a lower cost.
OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE AVAILABILITY MATTERS Our customers tell us that whenever we have a product in stock we are the very best at keeping our promises, however when we dont our reliability suffers.
This represents an opportunity we must address as part of our journey to becoming first choice.
In support of this, we have established a cross-functional team to work on all aspects of the end-to-end back order management process using continuous improvement methodology.
The teams objective is to ensure that we can provide our customers with a clear and intuitive delivery promise and, when all else fails, that we proactively notify them.
Workstreams include, but are not limited to, ensuring process rigour around order entry and purchase ordering, enhancing quality of supplier lead time data and improving customer communication.
Early results are already being realised from this project but we expect to see a step change in improvement during 2019.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 Electrocomponents plc17 CEOS REVIEW CONTINUED Innovation We need to constantly innovate to remain relevant to our customers in an ever-changing marketplace.
Our innovation has been focused in three key areas: Driving innovation into our existing solutions: A large part of our focus is making sure we make our customers lives easier by driving a best-in-class digital experience and improving the tools and insight we offer our suppliers.
During 2018, we also redesigned our eProcurement and ePurchasing systems to offer customers more control and personalisation of their RS Allied experience: these improvements will be rolled out tocustomers during 2019.
Developing new tools and services: We are also designing and piloting new tools and services for both customers and suppliers and during 2018 we piloted a number of tools, such as chatbots and Internet of Things IoT solutions, with a view to rolling out some of these services to our customers in the future.
During2019, we will also be trialling a smart asset management solution with a select group of customers in INNOVATION & OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE Northern Europe, which in time could be rolled out more ROBOTIC PROCESS widely across the Group.
Accelerating and monetising DesignSpark: We are focused AUTOMATION on developing a community for makers and supporting innovators using new technology and DesignSpark tools During 2018, the Group has been exploring the and resources.
We continue to invest to improve functionality opportunity to increase the level of robotic process and the range of services available: we are piloting automation we use in areas of the business including DesignSpark Marketplace, which connects inventors with finance, HR and customer services.
We have been buyers to bring their creations to market.
We continue to running a proof-of-concept exercise with technology grow our DesignSpark membership and the future global vendors covering multiple processes.
During 2019, roll-out of DesignSpark Labs, with partners such as Barclays, we plan to roll out and industrialise this, making it promises to further accelerate this growth and position a central plank of becoming first choice.
DesignSpark right at the heart of innovation in our communities.
INNOVATION DESIGNSPARK During 2018, we developed a number of strategic partnerships to expand the DesignSpark platform through a franchise model as well as opening collaborative innovation labs across the globe.
The first of these was a strategic alliance with Eagle Labs, a Barclays initiative, to provide spaces that offeropen and membership-based access to foster innovation in communities.
As technology partner, RS is installing DesignSpark Labs within Eagle Labs, providing world-leading engineering equipment and technical expertise.
Eagle Labs already has 13 innovation centres and are opening up more throughout the UK as well as in other markets across theworld.
18 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Reinvestment to accelerate growth Selling more to our customer base: We continue to look We have strong momentum in our business and we are taking at opportunities to sell more to our customers and make advantage of this to increase investment in areas that we our relationship with customers stronger.
believe will be key to driving strong future growth and market Range expansion: Both Allied and RS are continually share gains.
We are focused on three key areas: investments reviewing opportunities to expand their range and capture toaccelerate growth in customer numbers: investments to a higher share of customer wallet: we have plans to increase basket size via range and service expansion: and significantly expand our stocked and non-stocked ranges investments to accelerate the development of our RS Pro during 2019 with a customer-led inventory strategy.
While our primary focus to date has Developing our value-added service proposition: We been on organic expansion, we will consider value-accretive are also building a comprehensive range of value-added acquisitions which fit well with our strategy toaccelerate services for larger customers such as calibration services, growth in these areas.
eProcurement and inventory management solutions.
The acquisition of IESA, a leading provider of value-added Investing in our brands: We are investing in our brands again outsourcing services to industrial customers, further to ensure they are in the hearts and minds of our customers enhances our value-added service capabilities and and we develop a brand leadership position in our space.
will enable us to offer our customers a full service During 2018, RS launched a global multi-channel brand end-to-end solution for all their indirect procurement, awareness campaign, for the inspired, which celebrates inventory management and storeroom needs.
some of the great achievements of inspired people within the engineering community.
Likewise, Allied is investing in brand Driving faster growth in RS Pro and electronics: awareness to dominate mindshare in the automation and We are focused on building our electronics business.
control space in the Americas.
As a result of our social media We have some key competitive advantages in electronics campaigns we have seen a 111% year-on-year increase in including: extensive customer reach in key markets engagement with our audiences.
We have also significantly such as the UK, Germany, Italy, China and Japan: increased digital marketing investment right across the DesignSpark, our community of over 650,000 design globe with higher pay-per-click PPC marketing, search engineers, makers and students: and our leading presence engine optimisation SEO and link building, which is driving in the single-board computing SBC market.
All of these double-digit growth in website traffic during the year.
position us well to exploit growth opportunities in this Finally, the latest version of our interactive technology market.
We are focused on enhancing our electronics truck, Titan II, which showcases our new innovative products product range and adding new global supplier franchises and technologies at trade events, customer site visits and and developing our SBC and IoT strategy.
educational establishments, is also playing a key role in RS Pro also remains a key focus.
During 2018, we increased increasing engagement with our customers, suppliers and, investment in RS Pro inventory to improve availability, more importantly, our communities to encourage innovation tailored our local product ranges to reflect local market and inspire the engineers of the future.
needs and refreshed product packaging.
This, and the continued salesforce education, has led to an acceleration in RS Pro revenue growth to 12.7% in H2 2018 versus 9.6% in H1 2018.
Looking forward, we aim to continue the momentum as we accelerate NPI, with over 10,000 new products planned for 2019.
REINVESTMENT TO ACCELERATE GROWTH ALLIED MEXICO During 2018, we increased our sales presence in Mexico.
As a major manufacturing economy, Mexico presents a significant opportunity for Allied: with the proximity of its distribution centre in Fort Worth, Texas, customers will benefit from the excellent multi-channel service and highly relevant offer.
During 2018, we launched a local website and hired outside sales people to operate in Mexico, supported by our existing sales office in El Paso, Texas.
Within 12 months, we have seen significant year-on-year revenue growth in Mexico and, as a result, we are expanding the resource and adding further outside sales people to capitalise on the growth potential in this market.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 Electrocomponents plc19 CEOS REVIEW CONTINUED STRONG PROGRESS ACROSS ALL FIVE REGIONS Overall results 1 Like-for-like 2018 2017 Change change Revenue 1,705.3m 1,511.7m 12.8% 12.8% Gross margin 44.0% 43.4% 0.6 pts 0.5 pts Operating profit 172.6m 132.3m 30.5% 25.7% 2 Adjusted operating profit 177.1m 133.2m 33.0% 28.1% 2 Adjusted operating profit margin 10.4% 8.8% 1.6 pts 1.4 pts 2 Adjusted operating profit conversion 23.6% 20.3% 3.3 pts 2.9 pts 1.
Like-for-like change excludes the effects of changes in exchange rates on translation of overseas operating results, with 2017 converted at 2018 average exchange rates.
Revenue is also adjusted to eliminate the impact of trading days year on year.
Adjusted excludes substantial reorganisation costs, asset write-downs, one-off pension credits or costs, significant tax rate changes and associated income tax refer to Note 3 on pages 97 to 99 for reconciliations.
Business review via improved delivery On Time To Promise OTTP and better Overall, we saw good progress in 2018 with strong double-digit customer communications when things do go wrong.
As a revenue trends across the business and further improvement result of all this activity, our RS NPS, a measure of customer inour gross and operating profit margins.
Group revenue satisfaction, rose 8.6% to 45.7 2017: 42.1, with all regions increased by 12.8% on both a like-for-like basis and a reported seeing positive year-on-year trends in NPS.
We have also basis to 1,705.3 million 2017: 1,511.7million.
Digital revenue, continued to improve supplier experience by significantly which represents around 61% of Group revenue, outperformed speeding up our new product introduction process, the Group growth rate with 13.4% like-for-like growth as we improving supplier segmentation and allocating more saw the benefits of improvements to online experience and a resource towards our key strategic suppliers.
step up in digital marketing.
RS Pro, which represents around Customer acquisition 12% of Group revenue, saw 11.3% like-for-like growth with an During 2018, we have been highly focused on driving acceleration in growth to 12.7% in H2 versus 9.6% in H1.
customer count and, as a result, almost half of our revenue Group gross margin rose by 0.6 percentage points, growth has come from growth in customer numbers.
In order 0.5 percentage points on a like-for-like basis, to 44.0% to drive this success we have increased investment in brand 2017: 43.4%, aided by a continued focus on pricing, discount awareness and marketing.
Our ambition is to build a brand discipline and good growth in higher margin product areas.
leadership position in our space and we continue to find Strong revenue growth, higher gross margin and continued new and innovative ways to engage with our customer base.
cost control drove a 1.3 percentage points improvement We have also significantly stepped up pay-per-click PPC in operating profit margin to 10.1% 2017: 8.8%.
Operating marketing across the globe and we continue to invest profit was up 30.5%, 25.7% on alike-for-like basis, to in search engine optimisation SEO, which has driven 172.6 million 2017: 132.3 million.
Adjusted operating profit, significant growth in traffic to our site, with over 40,000 which excludes substantial reorganisation costs of 4.5 million more visits to our sites each day.
2017: 0.9 million rose 33.0%, 28.1% on a like-for-like basis, Selling more to existing customers to 177.1 million 2017: 133.2 million.
Adjusted operating profit Finally, all of our regions have been focused on selling more margin improved 1.6 percentage points, 1.4percentage points to our customers and during 2018 we have seen growth in on a like-for-like basis, to 10.4% 2017:8.8%.
both average order value and online basket size, reflecting the progress we are making in these areas.
We are using our Segmental review data to qualify and prioritise our sales resource and training All five of our regions saw double-digit like-for-like revenue our people in value-added selling.
In the online world we growth during 2018.
Performance was aided by a healthy are investing to drive more personalisation into the online market backdrop with strong PMIs Purchasing Managers experience to drive higher basket size.
We have also been Indices across the globe, however, our teams have executed working to broaden our product range and make it more well and driven market share gains by focusing on the relevant to our customer base and during 2018 we have following three areas: added over 40 new suppliers at RS and 23 new suppliers Improving customer and supplier experience at Allied.
We have continued to invest to develop and We are focused on becoming first choice for suppliers and improve our technical support functions and improve our customers.
We believe that when we are first choice for our value-added solutions, which include eProcurement solutions, customers they spend over 25% more with us.
As such, our managed inventory solutions and calibration services.
teams are relentlessly focused on making improvements to RS Pro remains a key focus for our regional teams and during our customer experience, both online via improved search, 2018 we increased investment in RS Pro inventory to drive website speed, content and payment processes and offline improved availability and tailored product ranges to reflect local market needs.
20 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT NORTHERN EUROPE SOUTHERN EUROPE 1 1 Like-for-like Like-for-like 2018 2017 Change change 2018 2017 Change change Revenue 454.3m 413.1m 10.0% 11.3% Revenue 344.8m 301.9m 14.2% 10.5% Operating profit 84.1m 79.5m 5.8% 5.4% Operating profit 55.9m 36.1m 54.8% 41.2% Operating profit margin 18.5% 19.2% 0.7 pts 0.7 pts Operating profit margin 16.2% 12.0% 4.2 pts 3.7 pts 1.
Like-for-like adjusted for currency: revenue also adjusted for trading days.
Northern Europe Southern Europe RS is our trading brand in Northern Europe.
This region consists RS is our trading brand in Southern Europe.
The Southern of the UK, Ireland and Scandinavia and is our most profitable European region consists of France, Italy, Spain and Portugal.
The UK is the main market and accounts for around France is the main market for this region and accounts for 90% of the revenue.
In the UK we have 16 RS Local trade counters approximately two-thirds of the revenue.
providing a range of innovations and solutions for customers.
Southern European revenue increased by 14.2%, 10.5% on alike-for-like basis, to 344.8 million 2017: 301.9 million.
Northern European revenue increased by 10.0%, 11.3% on Like-for-like revenue growth moderated slightly in H2 to alike-for-like basis, to 454.3 million 2017: 413.1 million.
9.8% versus 11.2% in H1 due to tougher trading comparatives.
Like-for-like growth was broadly consistent across the two halves of the year H1 11.1%, H2 11.4%, despite tougher Our Southern European team has made good progress trading comparatives in H2.
ondriving stronger supplier partnerships via more effective All three markets within the region saw strong underlying account management during the year.
Strong execution revenue growth trends.
Scandinavia saw the fastest inpositive underlying markets drove robust double-digit growth in the region, with the UK also delivering a strong revenue growth in all markets in the region.
performance aided by a robust manufacturing export Digital revenue, which accounts for around 71% of revenue market and continued market share gains.
inthe region, increased by 9.4% on a like-for-like basis.
Our team in Northern Europe has been highly focused at RS Pro, which accounts for around 15% of revenue in the developing its value-added services into a comprehensive region, grew at 10.6% on a like-for-like basis.
proposition including calibration services, product plus Gross margin increased, aided by the impact of foreign extended range, eProcurement and inventory management exchange, higher vendor rebates and our own actions on solutions.
As a result we have seen significant growth in pricing, mix and continued discount discipline.
these services during the year.
During 2019, we plan to roll Operating profit margin improved by 4.2 percentage out these services into other regions around the globe.
points, 3.7 percentage points on a like-for-like basis, Digital revenue, which accounts for around 69% of revenue, to 16.2% 2017: 12.0%.
The improvement was driven by increased by 13.9% on a like-for-like basis as we significantly higher gross margin, operational gearing, the change in stepped up digital marketing investment during the year.
intercompany charging for picking and packing goods and RS Pro, which accounts for around 22% of revenue in the tight cost control.
These effects more than offset increased region, grew at 11.0% on a like-for-like basis.
investment in digital and innovation during the period.
Gross margin was broadly stable during the year with the Operating profit was up 54.8%, 41.2% on a like-for-like negative impact of weaker sterling offset by two factors basis, to 55.9 million 2017: 36.1 million.
being, firstly, our own actions to drive improved mix and pricing and, secondly, higher vendor rebates due to increased inventory investment.
Operating profit margin fell by 0.7 percentage points on both a like-for-like basis and on a reported basis to 18.5% 2017: 19.2% with the benefits of operational gearing offset by a substantial step up in digital investment and a change in intercompany charging for picking and packing goods.
At the beginning of 2018, we reduced the intercompany charges that our central distribution centres in the UK charge the other regions for picking and packing goods to more accurately reflect the cost of picking and packing.
This change has had no impact on overall costs or profit for the Group but it changes the mix of profit between regions.
This led to a c. 3 million increase in net supply chain costs for Northern Europe and a commensurate lower share of costs for our other European regions and Asia Pacific.
Operating profit was up 5.8%, 5.4% on a like-for-like basis, to84.1 million 2017: 79.5 million.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 Electrocomponents plc21 CEOS REVIEW CONTINUED CENTRAL EUROPE ASIA PACIFIC 1 1 Like-for-like Like-for-like 2018 2017 Change change 2018 2017 Change change Revenue 238.8m 206.6m 15.6% 12.8% Revenue 226.6m 197.1m 15.0% 18.2% Operating profit 28.5m 14.3m 99.3% 71.7% Operating loss 0.5 m 10.4 m 95.2% 95.4% Operating profit margin 11.9% 6.9% 5.0 pts 4.3 pts Operating profit margin 0.2 % 5.3 % 5.1 pts 5.4 pts 1.
Central Europe Asia Pacific RS is our trading brand in Central Europe.
The Central RS is our trading brand in the Asia Pacific region.
The Asia European region consists of Germany, Austria, Benelux, Pacific region consists of four similarly sized sub-regions: Switzerland and Eastern Europe.
Germany is the main market Australia and New Zealand, Greater China, Japan and South for this region and accounts for approximately two-thirds East Asia.
We also have emerging markets operations in South of therevenue.
Africa and India while using distributors in other territories.
Overall, our Central European region saw strong 15.6% Asia Pacific revenue increased 15.0%, 18.2% on a like-for-like revenue growth, 12.8% like-for-like growth, to 238.8 million basis, to 226.6 million 2017: 197.1 million.
Growth was consistent across the revenue growth accelerated in H2 to 19.0% versus 17.2% in two halves of the year at 12.8%.
All four sub-regions saw double-digit like-for-like growth during the year as the team executed well in a healthy All markets in the region saw double-digit like-for-like growth underlying marketplace.
Our emerging markets operation trends with some standout performances from the smaller also saw strong double-digit like-for-like revenue growth.
markets of Austria, Eastern Europe and Switzerland.
We have made significant progress in Asia Pacific over Digital revenue, which accounts for around 71% of revenue the last two and half years since the launch of the PIP.
inthe region, grew at 12.7% on a like-for-like basis.
In August 2017 we hired a new leader for the Asia Pacific RS Pro, which accounts for 12% of revenue in the region, region, who has continued to develop his team with new grewat 12.8% on a like-for-like basis.
leadership appointments in Australia, South East Asia, China, Gross margin increased, aided by foreign exchange benefits, marketing, product management and a new head of digital higher vendor rebates, actions taken to improve discount for the region.
The teams work to drive improved customer discipline and pricing initiatives, including a new quotation experience has driven a further 20.9% improvement in Asia process on our corporate account business.
Pacifics rolling 12-month NPS in the year to 32.4 2017: 26.8.
This is a good step forward but there still remains work to Operating profit margin improved by 5.0 percentage be done to bring customer service in Asia Pacific up to the points, 4.3 percentage points on a like-for-like basis, to Group benchmark.
Next steps include localising our online 11.9% 2017:6.9%.
Central Europe saw the benefits of experience and increasing engagement with local suppliers higher gross margin, operational gearing and the change to drive a China-for-China inventory strategy, which will in intercompany charging for picking and packing goods, enable us to deliver a more relevant range to our customers which more than offset increased investment in areas such as digital and innovation.
Operating profit was up 99.3%, 71.7% on a like-for-like basis, Digital revenue, which accounts for around 52% of to 28.5 million 2017: 14.3 million.
revenue inthe region, grew at 19.2% on a like-for-like basis.
RS Pro, which accounts for around 12% of revenue in the region, grew at 10.1% on a like-for-like basis.
Regional gross margin declined due primarily to product mix in our emerging market operations, where we saw faster growth in lower gross margin product areas such as single-board computers.
Strong revenue growth and tight cost discipline has resulted in the Asia Pacific region delivering a profit for the first time during H2 and as a result we have seen a significant reduction in operating loss for the full year to 0.5 million 2017: 10.4 million.
While this is a significant step forward and a great credit to the team in Asia Pacific, we remain committed to driving scale and improved profitability in the region.
22 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT AMERICAS CENTRAL COSTS 1 1 Like-for-like Like-for-like 2018 2017 Change change 2018 2017 Change change Revenue 440.8m 393.0m 12.2% 13.5% Central costs 44.5 m 32.5 m 36.9 % 36.5 % Operating profit 53.6m 46.2m 16.0% 17.0% 1.
Americas Central costs Allied Electronics & Automation is our main trading brand Central costs are Group head office costs and include Board, in the Americas region where we have operations in the USA, Group finance, Group HR and Grouplegal costs.
together with smaller operations in Canada, Mexico and Chile.
Central costs of 44.5 million 2017: 32.5 million increased The Americas revenue increased 12.2%, 13.5% like-for-like, by 36.9%, 36.5% on a like-for-like basis.
The year-on-year to 440.8 million 2017: 393.0 million.
Like-for-like revenue increase in central costs was impacted by a 2017 foreign growth moderated in H2 to 11.6% versus 15.6% in H1 given exchange gain on centrally managed cash flow hedges which a much tougher trading comparative.
This accounted for just under half of the increase.
The balance was due to higher performance-related Allied continued to drive market share gains in the pay, an increased pension charge due to higher retirement automation and control market, which remains its key obligations at the start of the year and some additional dual focus.
Growth was also aided by the addition of field sales running costs related to the relocation of our head office from in Mexico during the year and there are plans for further Oxford to London.
expansion of our Mexican salesforce in 2019.
The team at Allied remain focused on driving an exceptional customer and supplier experience.
Rolling 12-month NPS saw a further CURRENT TRADING 4.4% improvement to 68.1 2017: 65.2.
Allied also added 23 new suppliers and significantly extended its product We have made an encouraging start to 2019, with strong range during 2018 adding 15,000 new stock keeping units revenue growth in the first seven weeks of the year despite SKUs.
Looking forward to 2019, we have plans for further tough trading comparatives.
All our regions continue to expansion of the product range with the addition of 25,000 see good revenue growth and market share gains.
To cope with strong growth and range expansion, accelerating initiatives to create a leaner and more efficient we are planning to expand the Fort Worth warehouse: see operating model, which means that we are well positioned more details on page 30. to continue to make good progress in the year ahead.
Digital revenue, which accounts for 43% of revenue in the region, grew at 15.4% on a like-for-like basis.
RS Pro continued to grow strongly from a very low base in the Americas with significant further potential.
Gross margin rose, driven by initiatives to drive improved pricing and discount discipline.
Operating profit margin rose 0.4 percentage points on both a like-for-like basis and a reported basis to 12.2% 2017: 11.8%, with strong revenue growth, improved grossmargin and tight underlying cost control, offsetting increased investment in digital and marketing during theperiod.
Operating profit rose 16.0%, 17.0% on a like-for-like basis, to53.6 million 2017: 46.2 million.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 Electrocomponents plc23 BECOMING FIRST CHOICE INNOVATIVE We are investing in innovation and digital to drive differentiation and data-driven insight into the services we offer both our customers and suppliers.
We aim to inspire our customers, students and communities.
INNOVATIVE DOING THINGS DESIGNSPARK PRODUCTS AND DIFFERENTLY INSPIRING SOLUTIONS ENGINEERS We aim to inspire our customers by We are trialling new ways to increase Our online design community, offering the most innovative products efficiency and differentiate customer DesignSpark, offers engineers a suite and solutions.
We are using data, insight of resources, design tools and access support the entire product life cycle, and product knowledge to develop new to technical information and expertise from R&D, through pre-production to services for our suppliers and customers.
We are maintenance and repair.
Our broad Our digital team uses Agile methodology constantly adding new resources portfolio, which encompasses industrial to identify customer issues that need to DesignSpark such as the printed and electronic products, means we are to be addressed and regularly review circuit board parts library, which gives uniquely positioned to support the the progress on these updates.
This users the ability to view schematics growth of the Internet of Things IoT.
accelerates the speed of changes to for components in any format they our website and quickly improves our want when they are designing.
24 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 S ST TR RA AT TE EG GI IC C RE REP POR ORT T DESIGNSPARK ENABLING INNOVATION We strive to inspire and support great design and innovation.
DesignSpark was used early on in the engineering process of the Daedalus jetWe want to not only engine flight suit, conceived by Richard Browning, demonstrate how founder of Gravity Systems.
The Daedalus design technology is one of team used complex 3D design software, however, the coolest and most Richard wanted to make changes to the design exciting areas to work in and shape 3D models himself and the quickest way but also challenge some to do so was to use the free-to-download DesignSpark stereotypes associated Mechanical 3D modelling software tool.
with engineering as a career choice.
The Titan In November 2017, Richard flew Daedalus II truck and the Gravity over Titan II, the new version of the 35-tonne Jet Suit are initiatives RS interactive technology truck, at its launch that we expect should event.
Titan II showcases our innovative products play a crucial part in to customers, universities and schools, inspiring engaging girls and boys innovation in both our existing customer base and inspire them to be and the engineers of the future.
The latest more open to innovating technologies include Raspberry Pi, 3D printing, ideas in engineering.
robotics, the IoT and thermal engineering.
RICHARD BROWNING Furthermore, visitors see demonstrations of FOUNDER OF virtual reality and augmented reality, bringing GRAVITY SYSTEMS innovation to life.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 Electrocomponents plc25
