Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Chief Executives review continued A material fide-risked opportunity continued Our seismic programme in Israel and Montenegro Monetising Katakolo Adding hydrocarbons We have fide-risked the project through a scalable development Post period-end, a seismic campaign of three separate 3D seismic In addition to the Prinos Basin, we also own 100% of the Katakolo plan.
Our new-build FPSO, the Energean Power, will allow surveys was scheduled using the PGS Ramform Titan seismic development project in Western Greece, which we received Energean to develop its assets in the region and will be available vessel in order to maximise operational and financial synergies.
government approval to develop in 2017 and which holds Exploration to be used as a tie back option for future third party oil and Energean opted for a turnkey contract to limit the risks that our 10.5MMbbls of 2P oil reserves and 6.2 Bcf of 2C gas resources.
Energeans focused exploration strategy is to deploy capital only in gas discoveries.
The FPSO is currently the only such vessel shareholders are exposed to.
The seismic campaign started on The government has already issued a 25 year exploitation licence balanced risk, high potential return scenarios, targeting prospects earmarked for operation in the region, and we expect it to be 23December 2018 in Israel.
Acquisition commenced on licence for Katakolo, although Energean has no commitments in the area.
and leads that can be quickly, easily, economically and safely a key strategic piece of infrastructure, presenting us with an 31followed by licence 23, before the vessel moved to Montenegro We expect to either take FID or farm down the project in 2019: if we monetised.
We focus on identifying and exploring undeveloped advantage to quickly capitaliseon suitable nearby discoveries.
to shoot 3D across licences 26 and 30 combined.
decide to take FID, it is likely that the first pilot well will be drilled in areas where we have technical experience of similar geologies Ourlump-sum Engineering, Procurement, Construction, 2020 with first oil in late 2020 early 2021.
Drilling will be undertaken tominimise exploration risk.
Our exploration portfolio consists of Israel, Licences 31 and 23: Installation& Commissioning EPCIC contract with TechnipFMC using extended reach technology to drill from onshore to the offshore prospects in Greece, Montenegro and Israel, which we rank based Energean committed to cover licences 31 and 23 with 3D seismic has supportedour capability to deliver the project on time and on reservoir, thus avoiding the construction and use of offshore facilities on various riskand return-based metrics.
specifically excluding those areas previously covered as part of the budget and protects our shareholders against the risk of delays in an area of natural beauty and cultural importance.
Our exploration acreage in Israel In December 2017, Energean Israel was awarded five licences The North-East corner of licence 31 had already been covered by Optionality at Katakolo In December 2018, Energean Israel signed a Memorandum of forBlocks 12, 21, 22, 23 and 31.
During 2018, NSAI certified gross the Dolphin-2013 3D seismic survey.
Sparse 2D seismic, acquired Understanding MoU with Israel Natural Gas Lines INGL that prospective resources of 7.5 Tcf 212 bcm of gas and 101 MMbbls by Spectrum in 2008, covered the South-West corner, therefore the will result in approximately $98 million of cash inflow for Energean 2 of liquids across these five blocks plus the Karish and Tanin leases.
newly acquired 3D seismic survey targeted the remaining 181 km Israel between now and first gas.
This cash inflow was not in the South-West corner.
The objectives of the seismic survey in accounted for in our initial project economics and demonstrates licence 31 were primarily to delineate the South-West extent of the Energeans intention to create value for shareholders at every Targeting upside through infrastructure-led exploration Orpheus prospect and secondly to investigate further prospectively opportunity.
The MoU covers the onshore section of the Karish South-West of the Orpheus prospect.
and Tanin infrastructure and the near shore section of pipeline extending to approximately 10km offshore.
It is intended that the The South-West corner of licence 23 was already covered by the handover to INGL will become effective shortly after the delivery Dolphin-2013 3D seismic survey.
Sparse 2D seismic, acquired by of first gas from the Karish field in 1Q 2021.
Following handover, Spectrum in 2008, targeted the North-East corner.
Therefore, the INGL will be responsible for the operation and maintenance of this 2 newly acquired 3D seismic survey covered the remaining 255 km part of the infrastructure and Energean will not incur any charges in the North-East corner.
The objectives of the seismic survey or tariffs for use of the infrastructure.
Energeans collaboration were primarily to delineate the Hercules prospect and secondly with INGL demonstrates the Israeli governments support for toinvestigate deeper prospectivity.
The Mesozoic Hercules lead is andcommitment tothe Karish and Tanin project.
themost likely prospect across Energeans acreage to be charged with oil.
Karish and Tanin project milestones 2019 The data quality across both licences in Israel was excellent.
The 1Q 2019 processing of the new 3D will be finished by the end of October 2019 and will be merged with the legacy Dolphin-2013 3D into a X Four well drilling programme commenced single mega 3D seismic volume.
2Q 2019 X Keel laying on the FPSO The Karish lease is the most prospective of the seven blocks with 2.5 Tcf and 31.9 MMbbls of gross unrisked prospective 3Q 2019 resources.
Energeans first exploration well in Israel is Karish North, which spudded in March 2019.
At just 5.4km from the Energean X Beach crossing at Dor to be completed Power FPSO, a Karish North discovery could be quicklyand .
4Q 2019 X Sales gas pipeline installation Dor to Karish X FPSO Hull sailaway from the COSCO yard China to Singapore for topsides integration 12Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018 Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 201813 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Chief Executives review continued Montenegro Maintaining a disciplined financialframework Outlook Post-period developments Energean committed to cover licences 26 and 30 with 3D seismic We have successfully maintained a conservative balance Over the last 10 years, Energean has grown from being a company 2018 demonstrated our ability to move quickly and deliver as part of the exploration licensing bid round.
The licences were sheet throughout the commodity down-cycle, through careful with a $1 million valuation to one of $1.5 billion today, and the upon our planned milestones.
We are continuing this already partially covered by the PGS-2003 3D seismic survey.
management of working capital and low levels of bank debt.
We aim Board believes that it can continue this growth in the coming years momentum into 2019, which will see a further step-up ThePGS survey was oriented in the dip direction orthogonal to the to preserve our balance sheet flexibility, alongside disciplined capital through leveraging both organic and inorganic opportunities.
Energean planned the new 3D seismic survey in the strike deployment, backed by strong cash flow from our producing assets.
direction and parallel to the coastline.
The new seismic dataset will Through our full-cycle operations, we are well positioned to continue X Spudded the highly prospective Karish North exploration be processed together with the legacy seismic dataset using a dual As our track record demonstrates, Energean continually assesses creating value for our shareholders and I believe you will see 2018s well in March, targeting 1.3 Tcf 36.7 bcm plus 16.4 MMbbls azimuth processing workflow.
The total coverage of the new 3D ways to create further sustainable value and act upon valuemomentum continued into 2019 and beyond.
2 of gross prospective resources, and made a gas discovery.
We have strict investment criteria for new X Signed a further gas sales agreement for 0.4 bcm yr 2019 is set to be an exciting year for Energean, which I expect to projects, typically targeting an unlevered internal rate of return of Licences 26 and 30 were acquired in March 2017, when Energean with I. P. M. Beer Tuvia Ltd, contingent on the results of deliver a number of catalysts for our story.
In the Prinos Area we more than 15%.
This approach, alongside the Groups production, signed an exploration concession contract.
Preliminary estimates, the upcoming four well drilling programme.
The signing plan todeliver a further 25% year-on-year increase in production development and exploration prospects, will underpin Energeans made before the recently acquired seismic data was available, of this contract ahead of results from our 2019 drilling in 2019, whilst completion of the Epsilon platform development sustainable growth in the future.
placed unrisked prospective resources at 1.8 Tcf 51 bcm of natural programme demonstrates not only the attractiveness of will precede a further significant step-up in production into gas and 143.9 MMbbls of liquids.
We believe Montenegro has the Karish and Tanin fields but also the strong incremental 2020.
Significant progress will be made at our Karish and Tanin Health, safety and the environment significant exploration potential for future oil and gas discoveries demand for our gas.
development asset, and before year-end you will see drilling of all We see our health, safety and environmental HSE performance and the entry of ENI into the four blocks neighbouring those held three production wells completed and the Energean Power Hull X Delivered first production from the Epsilon satellite as a key aspect of the overall success of our business.
We by Energean, with significant exploration commitments, is an sailaway from China to Singapore for integration of the topsides.
are committed to the highest standards of HSE regarding our indication of the areas potential.
It is also a big year for exploration: the Karish North well could employees, contractors, partners and the general public, and the X Completed seismic acquisition and initial processing on add significant reserves, thus generating additional gas sales mitigation of our environmental impact.
Blocks 23 and 31, offshore Israel and Blocks 26 & 30, Our seismic programmes in Western Greece agreements and high-return revenues, and we are confident that offshore Montenegro.
In Western Greece, Energean and Repsol, the operator, our seismic operations will generate additional prospects for future Our experience of operating in environmentally sensitive areas commenceda seismic acquisition programme in the Ioannina X Became a constituent of the Tel Aviv 90 TA-90 index in drilling that adhere to our exploration strategy to target resources without compromising them is something we are proudof.
Block in November 2018 and expect to complete the acquisition and January and subsequently the Tel Aviv 35 TA-35 Index in that can be quickly, economically and safely monetised.
Energeans HSE record has been an important factor inour 2 processing of 400km of data in 2019.
In the Aitoloakarnania Block, February.
The TA-90 and TA-35 consist of the 90 and 35 successful bids for licences, including Karish and Tanin.
Repsol and Energean expect to complete the first stage of a seismic largest stocks, respectively, by market capitalisation on the acquisition programme during 2019.
Energean is substantially Tel Aviv Stock Exchange.
Energean is the only oil and gas producer in Greece and, carried through both seismic programmes by Repsol.
togetherwithits predecessor business, has a 38-year track recordof operating offshore and onshore assets in Mathios Rigas Inorganic opportunities  areas.
Energeans experience and Chief Executive Officer Energean continues to assess the opportunity to inorganically conscientious approach towards the management of its assets acquire additional hydrocarbons.
All opportunities are rigorously constitute a key differentiator in the sector.
assessed and Energean will only participate in deals that i are As we continue to scale up operations, we will remain focused aligned with its strategy and ii add value for shareholders.
on our key HSE performance indicators and the safety of our employees.
These are key aspects of how we operate as a business and are integral to our culture and our engagement withourstakeholders.
14Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018 Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 201815 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Our business model Energean has gone from strength to strength in 2018, from its Premium Listing on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange at the beginning of the year, to listing Creating value in on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange later in 2018.
The Group was the best performing FTSE 250 oil and gas company in 2018 and continues to deliver on itsvision of theMediterranean becoming the leading independent E&P company in the Mediterranean.
Our key inputs How we operate What we do Operational expertise and strength Produce Develop Explore and appraise We seek to maximise value from our We are implementing active development programmes in Israel We have a focused exploration strategy that targets opportunities low-cost production base to generate and Greece.
Our most significant assets under development are that can be quickly, safely and economically monetised.
We sustainable long-term cash flows.
the 2.4 Tcf 68 bcm Karish and Tanin gas fields located offshore have a ranked portfolio of prospects in Israel, Greece and Israel, that will materially increase the scale of the Groups Montenegro and continually seek value-accretive opportunities operations with first gas targeted for 1Q 2021. intheMediterranean.
Skilled and dedicated workforce Near-term value generation Medium-term value generation Longer-term value generation Our key differentiators Strong financial management and proven Low cost Experienced and Strategically Track record of Experienced World-class Strong HSE and access to capital producerwith stable proven offshore positionedin management with partners and strong CSR record value creation cash flow operator an increasingly international industry financial backing activeregion track record Delivering our strategy Exemplary HSE management 1 2 3 4 Optimising production Developing reserves Adding more hydrocarbons Maintaining a Read more on pages 24-25 Read more on pages 26 - 29 Read more on pages 30 - 31 disciplinedframework Read more on pages 32 - 33 Effective corporate governance By successfully employing our business model we aim to create value for all ourstakeholder groups, Our responsible behaviour underpinned by effective risk management, sound stewardshipand a culture of safety and responsibility.
16Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018 Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 201817 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information A strong investment proposition Leveraging our key differentiators Track record of Experienced management with Our strong investment proposition Low-cost producer with stable value creation international industry track record andkey differentiators set usapart in a cashflow competitive industry.
Energeans growth Energean has a strong track record of value creation, having built Energeans management team and operational and technical staff Energean has historically been able to respond to oil price volatility its initial portfolio at low cost, during downturns when others were are drawn from international and national oil companies, major and through its low cost of production at its Prinos oil field.
This has been story is oneunderpinned by long-term focused on fixing balance sheets and unable to direct attention smaller independents and engineering contractors.
Management achieved through increasing production, as the largely fixed element contracts to supply oil and gas togrowing to growth opportunities.
During 2018, Energean increased its 2P are also well aligned with shareholders through substantial of its costs remains the same.
In 2018, Energean saw its average reserve base by more than six times, owing primarily to FID on the shareholdings in the business.
cost of oil production at US$17.6 bbl, down from US$24.7 bbl in 2017. markets and is backed by leading financial Karish and Tanin project.
This was made possible only due to the With high netbacks and favourable fiscal terms, the Group aims to During 2018, the Group has added further to its wealth of experience and industrypartners.
technical, operational and financial capabilities of the Company continue this downward trajectory in costs as it increases its Greek with the appointment of Iman Hill as Group Chief Operating Officer and the strong relationships that Energean has with its customers, production base, and believes that costs should dip below $10 bbl COO.
Iman brings significant experience in the MENA region, lending banks and shareholders.
having worked for Dana Gas, BG, Shell and BP.
Production from low cost, FID on the Karish and Tanin development represented a significant Energeans continued aim is to maximise value by optimising assets inGreece step in creating value from these assets, which were, at the time production, reserves and cash flow from our existing low-cost World-class partners and strong of purchase, stranded gas discoveries with no gas contracts or production base, while pursuing sustainable growth and returns financial backing financing in place.
Energean has contracted TechnipFMC under a through active development and exploration programmes in turnkey, lump sum EPCIC contract to provide the full suite of FPSO theMediterranean.
The Group has always seen collaboration as key to its success.
and SURF services during the construction phase and believes that Low-cost Whether this be with industry-leading technical support, or with this contracting structure is a key contributor to risk mitigation and Experienced and proven efficient banks and credit institutions, our collaboration with our partners that, by minimising contractor interfaces, project management will production has enabled us to become the leading independent E&P company offshoreoperator be simplified.
Stena and Halliburton have been selected to provide base inthe Mediterranean.
drilling services, and Wood Group will provide operations and A core competency of Energean is its capability as an operator, maintenance services once production has commenced.
Energean giving the Group the flexibility to progress projects using the believes that its partnerships with these world-renowned oil and gas Strong HSE and significant operational and technical knowledge within the service providers will minimise operational and development risk CSRrecord team.
Energean is an approved operator in Israel, Greece, Egypt and help generate maximum value from these assets.
by the end of 2018, Group has secured US$13 billion of future Energeans objective is to generate sustainable value through both Material and Multiple growth revenues by signing 13 contracts for domestic gas supply, firmly growth and optimisation of existing assets.
We are committed to Energeans dedicated teams of geologists, geophysicists and fide-risked opportunities in a underpinning the project economics.
Further volumes are expected conducting our business responsibly, which means safeguarding production and reservoir engineers draw from extensive experience development highly prospective to be contracted in the coming year and Energean has a mediumthe health and safety of our employees, caring for our environment, from around the globe and specifically within the Mediterranean.
project region term target of filling the spare capacity in the Groups 8bcm yr FPSO, supporting the local communities in which we operate: not only Aswell as growing production at Prinos, Energeans experienced which we believe will generate strong incremental economics for meeting their expectations and needs, but also contributing to the team has taken the Groups development project in Israel to the ourshareholders.
sustainable development of those communities.
At its operated nextlevel of development and has fide-risked it further in the process.
production licences in North Eastern Greece, the Group has a 38-year In August 2018, an updated independent Competent Persons track record of safe operations in environmentally sensitive locations.
Report from Netherland Sewell & Associates NSAI for Energean's Strategically positioned in an Exploring the Eastern Transformational development Israeli portfolio included the certification of 2.2 Tcf 63 bcm and of $1.6 billion project in Israel Mediterranean with increasingly active region 31.8MMbbls of gross 2P reserves, 0.2 Tcf 5 bcm of gross 2C low commitment high resources and 7.5 Tcf 212 bcm and 101 MMbbls of gross prospective impact assets in Greece, Our focus on the Mediterranean region leverages our relationships resources.
This is the first assessment of prospective resources in the Montenegro and Israel with key stakeholders and regional knowledge and expertise, Karish and Tanin leases and the new Blocks 12, 21, 22, 23 and 31 that ensuring that we can optimise our strengths of capital discipline, were awarded as part of the 2017 offshore licensing round.
risk mitigation, effective project delivery and, ultimately, deliver operational excellence.
In Greece, Energean delivered full year 2018 production of 4,053bopd, which represented 45% growth on the previous year 2017: 2,803 The region itself has seen significant activity in recent years, having bopd.
Fourth quarter production was 4,573 bopd and represented experienced several world class natural gas discoveries which the sixth successive quarter of production growth from the Prinos have attracted the global oil and gas industry.
Despite this production growth, 2018 unit cost of production position in the region equips it with early mover advantage, and its was down 29% on the previous year 2017: $17.6 bbl.
The combined position as an independent E&P with existing local offices, means trajectories of increasing production and decreasing costs are that it is well positioned to move swiftly on opportunities in the fundamental to our strategy of maximising value from the Prinos Area regions.
We are focused on expanding our position in the region licences, and we expect to continue this performance into 2019 as both organically and inorganically.
investment in, and management of, Prinos and Epsilon continues.
18Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018 Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 201819 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Market overview Maximising opportunities in a highly prospective region The Eastern Mediterranean Regional overview and recent activity Meeting growing Israeli gas demand 2018 was a decisive year in the Eastern Mediterranean in confirming Israel 30 the regions potential as a gas hub, underpinning Energeans view Alongside Energeans Karish and Tanin project, the development 25.8 that its 'early mover' status in the region is a strategic advantage.
of Nobles Leviathan is on track for first gas at the end of 2019.
25.3 24.8 24.3 Leviathan holds estimated recoverable reserves of 605 bcm 23.7 25 The region represents a large captive market in which governments 23.0 21.4Tcf of gas and will supply both the Israeli domestic market 22.3 21.7 are seeking to transition to cleaner sources of energy and are keen and the regional export markets of Egypt and Jordan.
As part of 21.0 20.3 to expand sovereign resources.
Growing demand from Western its export strategy, Noble and its partners acquired a stake in the 19.6 18.9 Europe for alternative sources of gas has raised the prospect of 20 East Mediterranean Gas EMG pipeline through which they intend 18.3 17.9 17.4 strategic pipelines being put in place that will considerably increase to export 64 bcm of gas to Egypt over 10 years, both for local 15.9 the economic importance of Eastern Mediterranean assets.
14.3 14.1 15 In November 2018, the Israeli Ministry of Energy announced a 12.8 Our opportunity second offshore licensing round.
Nineteen blocks in five zones are 11.2 11.0 11.0 10.9 10.9 Energean is well positioned to target and compete for opportunities open for bidding and all are located in the southern part of the Israel 10 in this region.
In addition to our strong track record of value creation Exclusive Economic Zone EEZ.
Bids are due in June 2019 with from assets in the Prinos Basin, we have secured world class industry allocation decisions expected in July 2019. partners such as BP, Repsol and TechnipFMC and strong financial Over the last decade, Israeli natural gas demand has been backing from our lending banks.
5 among the fastest growing globally.
Future demand is forecast The Energean Power is currently the only planned FPSO for the toincrease substantially, primarily driven by the electricity sector Eastern Mediterranean and we believe it could become a strategic to serve population growth, rising living standards, increased 0 piece of infrastructure in this emerging hub.
We are building our water desalination, electrification of the railway system, and the FPSO with 8 bcm yr of capacity and 1 million barrels of liquids adoption of electric vehicles and compressed natural gas CNG for storage capacity and are seeking to fill the 3.4 bcm yr of spare transportation.
Israel consumed 10.9 bcm of gas in 2018.
The Israeli Electricity Heavy industry and distribution Transport Petrochemical industry Total local demand capacity with new discoveries in the medium term.
Ministry of Energy anticipates that demand will increaseto 11.0 bcm in 2020 and to 18.3 bcm by 2030, of which almost 95% will be for Our expanding presence in the Eastern Mediterranean will electricity generation and industrial use.
Egypt Cyprus strengthen our ability to create new opportunities.
Natural gas dynamics in Egypt are undergoing a period of ENI announced the 6 - 8 Tcf Calypso discovery in February 2018, In October 2018, the Ministry of Energy published a policy to reduce substantial change owing to recent large domestic discoveries, expecting appraisal drilling in 2019 to confirm the potential of emissions in energy production with a view to reducing the use of inparticular ENIs Zohr.
the play, and adding to the countrys offshore gas resource base, polluting fuel products by 2030.
According to the policy, the goal which also includes the 4 - 6 Tcf Aphrodite discovery.
Exxon is a fuel mix of 80% natural gas and 20% or more from renewable Early 2018 saw the ramp-up of the 30 Tcf Zohr field to 2 Bcf d in the commenced its two-well drilling programme towards the end of energy sources in the electricity production sector, by 2030, and third quarter following first gas in December 2017, with a target of the year, announcing the Glafkos-1 discovery in late February.
The thegradual closure of coal-fired power stations.
reaching a plateau of 2.7 Bcf d during 2019.
Cypriot government tendered Block 7 to a select group of bidders in October, and has entered into negotiations with a Total ENI joint The Zohr project is playing a fundamental role in the gas venture tosign a final contract for Block 7. independence of Egypt and the Petroleum Ministry expects production to reach 8 Bcf d in 2019 - 2020.
Egypt has now Until Cyprus can produce its own gas, the authorities are planning receivedits final LNG shipment in September and is widely to import LNG and have launched the tender for a Floating Storage expected to become an LNG exporter.
Supporting this latter view Regasification Unit FSRU.
A second tender to supply LNG is is the signing of agreements that could see the import of gas from expected in 2019.
The proximity of Cyprus to the Energean Power neighbouring countries, including Israel, specifically to feed the FPSO provides an opportunity for Energean to export gas to Cyprus LNGplants for re-export.
and we have already made a proposal to the Cypriot Government inthis regard.
Towards the end of 2018, ENI commenced drilling the Nour-1 well in its Nour concession, which has been widely speculated to contain very large prospects.
A success at Nour could further boost Egypts gas renaissance and further spur infrastructure developments in the region.
20Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018 Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 201821 bcm year 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 2030 2031 2032 2033 2034 2035 2036 2037 2038 2039 2040 2041 2042 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Market overview continued Lebanon A floating gas storage and regasification unit offshore Future pipeline developments Oil price outlook During 2018, Lebanon signed its first offshore E&P agreements and Alexandroupolis is expected to begin operations in the coming Energean is supportive of all infrastructure developments in the Oil prices continued to steadily recover throughout most of 2018, is preparing for a second licensing round in 2019.
Two Exploration years, creating a fourth import route to Greece.
We believe that infrastructure is paramount to the reaching a peak of $86 in October.
However, prices weakened and Production agreements were signed with a Total-led consortium natural gas transmission system operator, launched a new tank at Mediterranean achieving status of a global gas hub, in which we aim thereafter, reaching a transient minimum of $50 in December.
for Blocks 4 and 9, and drilling in Block 4 is expected during 2019. the LNG terminal on Revithoussa Island, increasing its total storage to be the leading independent E&P player.
Energeans conservative financial management and its focus on Lebanon is also completing plans to import LNG, having launched capacity by 73% to 225,000 cubic metres.
operating costs ensure it is well placed to withstand the high level atendering process for up to three FSRUs in May2018, although a East Med Pipeline, an export route to Europe Energean is also expecting a tender to be issued for the conversion of variability currently being experienced in the commodity markets final decision may need to wait until a government is formed.
A 1,700km pipeline connecting the Eastern Mediterraneans of its South Kavala field to the first Underground Gas Storage UGS and give the Group confidence that it can prosper under a range Levantine Basin Israel with the European gas network, via Greece, Greece project in Greece.
Cyprus and Italy, could be completed around 2025.
Known as Energean is currently the only company in Greece operating Montenegro the East Med Pipeline, this development has been classified as a producing oil and gas assets.
In July 2018, a consortium of Brent Oil Prices 2018 US$ The Eastern Adriatic remains underexplored, despite having what European Project of Common Interest.
An MoU has already been ExxonMobil, Total and Hellenic Petroleum was awarded a contract 88 appear to be all the necessary  components.
signed between Israel, Greece, Italy and Cyprus to support the to explore for hydrocarbons in the ultra-deep water West of Crete Large prospects have been identified offshore Montenegro.
These expected US$6 - 7 billion pipeline construction.
and South West of Crete blocks, although drilling is not expected are on a par with recent oil discoveries in northern Albania, such as until the second exploration phase, most likely in five to six years.
80 Two further pipelines that could traverse Greece the onshore Shpirag-2 discovery.
To date, over five billion barrels of Repsol and Hellenic Petroleum were awarded an interest in a third There are currently two further major pipeline projects which could oil in place have been discovered within this prolific carbonate play.
block in the Ionian Sea to the west, which is thought to have similar traverse Greece.
The Trans-Anatolian pipeline is planned to run Energean owns two licences to the immediate north of four licences characteristics to those off Crete.
72 from the Turkish border with Georgia, to the Greek border at Edirne.
owned and operated by ENI a joint venture with Novatek which Here, the pipeline will connect to the Trans-Adriatic pipeline, which is completed a 3D seismic survey in late 2018, and is expected to drill under construction and runs from Greece to Albania in the west.
64 Cyprus Egypt pipeline Cyprus has signed an agreement with Egypt that will eventually allow 56 natural gas found in the Aphrodite field estimated at 4 - 6 Tcf to be exported to Egypt, most likely for re-export as LNG to Europe.
48 Proposed East Med Pipeline Existing Under-construction pipelines 22Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018 Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 201823 1 Jan 18 10 Feb 18 22 Mar 18 1 May 18 10 Jun 18 20 Jul 18 29 Aug 18 8 Oct 18 17 Nov 18 27 Dec 18 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Our strategy in action Energean is focused on a clear strategy to deliver value by optimising production, efficiently developing and effectively exploring existing and new Optimising production assets in the Mediterranean region.
By maximising the potential of our assets and building momentum in this increasingly active region, we aim to deliver real through disciplined capital andsustainable value.
allocation to increase production and reduce per unit costs Maximising our low-cost production base A key strategic priority is to increase Prinos Basin production and cash flow.
Our existing development plan targets the monetisation of 2P reserves of 38 MMbbls of oil and 5.2 Bcf of gas, as well as 2C resources of 32.5 MMbbls of oil and 8.3 Bcf of gas, as of 31December 2018.
We estimate average production rates to increase to 5,000 - 5,500 bopd in 2019 Over the next 12 months we will complete the construction of an unmanned platform to exploit the Epsilon Field, adjacent to Prinos, alongside continued activity in the Prinos Area.
We estimate average production rates to increase to 5,000 - 5,500 bopd in 2019 as the drilling programme is continued, workovers are completed on the existing well stock and additional wells are brought into production.
Our focus in Greece for the next 12 months X Continue drilling in the Prinos Area X Increase production to between 5,000 and 5,500 bopd 2019 average X Reduce per-barrel operating costs to $14 - 17 X Deliver first production from the three-well Epsilon platform development 24Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018 Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 201825 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Our strategy in action The development of the 2.4 Tcf Karish and Tanin gas project, offshore Israel, Developing reserves through will ultimately transform the Groups business and position us as a significant strict risk mitigation and player within the Mediterranean.
Delivering commercial production from Karish and Tanin will ultimately transform our business.
With an estimated 2.4 Tcf capitalallocation to deliver 68bcm of natural gas and 31.8 MMbbls of liquids 2P reserves plus 2Cresources, and 7.5 Tcf 212 bcm of natural gas and 101.8 MMbbls of liquids prospective resources, our acreage is highly strategic forthe development of the Israeli energy market and will help tomeet increasing Israeli demand, increase market sustainable cash flows competition andimprove security of supply.
The Karish and Tanin development will position Energean as a significant player within the region.
Final Investment Decision was taken in the first quarter of 2018, the key milestone of First Steel Cut on the Energean Power FPSO hull was achieved in November 2018, and on the topsides in December 2018.
We are on track to deliver first gas into the Israeli domestic market in the first quarter of 2021.
Working in partnership with world-class contractors X TechnipFMC EPCIC contract for FPSO, onshore and subsea workstreams X Wood Group Operations and maintenance manpower and specialist engineering services X Stena Drilling Contracted for four firm and six optional wells X Halliburton Drilling services A transformational project in Israel World-class asset Gas sales 2.4Tcf 4.6bcm 2P reserves and 2C resources per year gas contracts in place World-class exploration Substantially fide-risked potential project 7.5Tcf FID Unrisked prospective resources Achieved March 2018 Our focus for the next 12 months X Continue our active drilling programme X Commence keel laying on the FPSO in2Q 2019 X Complete the Beach Crossing at Dor in 3Q 2019 X Energean Power Hull to sail away fromthe COSCO yard inChina to Singapore for topside integration inDecember2019 26Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018 Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 201827
