Strategic Report Chief Executives Review There is much left to do but I am immensely encouraged by the momentum I see building in terms of Creating our Stability, Strategy, Growth journey: the three steps to long-term success we identified in 2017.
We have placed our people at the centre of that journey, making their safety a Growth From non-negotiable priority at all our sites and working hard to improve communication and engagement.
I want everyone at Essentra to have a voice and ensure we are maximising all of our peoples talents.
Stability Our ambition is for everyone to feel safe, respected, valued and able to thrive as part of a winning, engaged and diverse team.
During the year these efforts have led to adjusted profit growth being restored Thanks to the tremendous from a stable revenue base for the first time since 2015 and I am confident that contribution of our employees we are building a firm foundation for future growth.
We are also restoring a reputation across the world, we ended the for identifying priority areas for action and then delivering on them.
year a more stable and sustainable While our people are the heart of our organisation, facing the future organisation, our customers are our lifeblood.
After all, our purpose is to provide with a renewed sense of purpose the parts, products and services our customers need to succeed as businesses.
Restoring their faith in our ability to deliver quality products On Time and In Full OTIF has been a key focus for 2018 and we have made tremendous progress.
4 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Three steps to long-term success Adjusted earnings per share 23.1p 2017: 22.1p Employee engagement 75% 2017: 69% A Strategic development WINNING The purpose of our Stability, Strategy, ENGAGED Growth roadmap is to create sustainable TEAM profitable growth at Essentra.
Stability is the foundation and during 2018 we Freedom to operate Delivery continued to drive improvements in all within a framework keep our promises our underlying operating metrics: people, customers, processes and finances.
Openness, honesty Safety, respect Energy The Components, Packaging and Filters and integrity and diversity for change divisions have been progressing the strategies set out in 2017 and the six businesses in Specialist Components developed strategic plans during the year.
BUILDING ESSENTRA Across Essentra, strategic momentum has been building, with renewed employee and TOGETHER customer focus increasing the businesses investment in innovation and product development.
Furthermore, in January 2019 a five-year Business Process Redesign BPR programme was launched.
This will Packaging with each of the potential game focus on business model redesign and ERP The Packaging division reached an changers we identified in 2017: further investment, ultimately reducing risk across inflection point during 2018, with revenue outsourcing, a joint venture in China Essentra.
Finally, we continue to ensure we progressively improving over the course and Next Generation Products NGP.
are well placed for inorganic opportunities, of the year and both regions returning The division has made considerable where they can move our business into to profit from loss in the prior year.
This investments in its operational capability complementary product categories or performance reflects a continued focus on and processes and is now world-class in end-markets, or further our geographic service and quality as well as investments terms of key operating metrics that will distribution capability.
in machinery and the Design Hub.
The division has introduction of a clear Key Account also built on a strong track record of Financial performance Management structure and product successful innovation, launching a number pipeline development helped secure a of new products during the year in both Components number of new business wins in 2018 and combustibles as well as new technologies.
2018 saw another strong performance the divestment of Swiftbrook in Ireland across all regions in Components despite and the closure of sites in Kilmarnock in the Specialist Components declining industry production levels.
The UK and Largo in the USA underscore the Revenue in Specialist Components Hertila business in Sweden acquired in strategic focus on the health and personal decreased during the year, largely due the year and the recently acquired Micro care end-markets.
to ongoing weakness in Tear Tapes, driven Plastics business in the USA performed by lower end-market volumes, reduced at least in line with expectations.
There Filters demand for certain tobacco lines and has been good progress across a number of While revenue in Filters declined during macro-economic weakness in Latin strategic objectives: the division continued the year as a result of pipeline volatility America.
At the end of 2018 we ceased to refine its product range and in terms of characteristic of the tobacco industry, the production of Speciality Tapes in customer service, initiatives around business ended the year in a stable position Nottingham, UK.
Neither the Tear Tapes communication, website investment and making good progress with independent business based at Nottingham, nor the improved delivery have contributed to a customers, notably in China, India and the vast majority of Speciality Tapes activities further increase in the Net Promoter Score Middle East.
In addition, the results from located in the USA, were affected by this and lay a firm foundation for the launch our joint ventures in India and Dubai were decision.
The performance in the latter of a new online platform in Q1 2019. driven by a strong performance in capsule business reflected specific customer related products.
We continue to make progress softness in the retail POP and appliance CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 5 GROWTH STRATEGY STABILITY Strategic Report Chief Executives Review continued segments, which offset a stable result for tapes used in industrial end-markets.
A modest increase in Industrial Supply was supported by the expansion of core product lines and the introduction of new branded ranges.
Revenue in Extrusion was broadly unchanged versus the prior year and the result in Card Solutions reflected the 2018 priorities consolidation of business in, and development of, ID solutions for certain sectors.
B uild a winning engaged team with a shared Pipe Protection Technologies PPT sense of purpose delivered good growth and benefited from the strength in the oil price.
Shortly after Restore and enhance our relationship with customers year-end we announced the divestment C ontinue to improve the stability of IT, business of our PPT business to National Oilwell Varco, Inc. a disposal which represents processes and finances good value for shareholders and provides B uild strategic momentum, both as a Group and the PPT business with a strong platform for future successful growth.
within each of our divisions Customers R estore revenue and profit growth while laying the foundations for future growth During the year we developed a clearer purpose centred around our customers: to provide the parts, products and services they need to succeed as businesses.
Although we serve a wide range of in terms of tenure, level, gender, age, During the year we also made significant customers across our divisions, each nationality and background and has made progress in terms of improving our internal business has put customers at the centre significant progress in helping to build an communications to employees.
Under the of their strategic journey and are making inclusive culture in Essentra where diversity leadership of a new Group Communications huge strides in improving service and is embraced by everyone, ensuring we get Director who arrived in January, we have quality and crucially investing in the full business benefit while making refined how we describe who we are, what communication.
These efforts will help Essentra a rewarding and successful place we stand for, and what that looks and to sustain growth as we move into 2019. to work for our colleagues.
During the year sounds like for employees, creating a more we partnered with everywoman to support engaging and vibrant internal brand around People our work on gender and Business In The the concept of We Make It Work.
We also Community for our work on multiculturalism, launched Essentras first global intranet, As Chief Executive my ambition is for the latter leading to Essentra becoming a The Works, and our first global recognition everyone to feel safe, respected, valued signatory of the joint UK government and programme, the Make It Work Awards.
and able to thrive as part of a winning, Business in the Community Race at Work engaged and diverse team.
To this end, in I am delighted that these efforts have led Charter.
This is the start of an exciting and January 2018 I sponsored the establishment to a six-point increase in employee important journey for Essentra and one to of the Diversity and Inclusion Steering Group.
engagement from 69% in 2017 to 75% which I, the Board and Group Management The Steering Groups membership is broad in 2018, a result in line with global and Committee are passionately committed.
Launched a new Health, Safety and Environment information Key milestones of the year management system Acquired Hertila Established Diversity and Created Group Divested Swiftbrook Inclusion Steering Group Sustainability Committee Conducted strategic Constituted a new Group Held Leadership review of Specialist Risk Committee Conference in Components division Charlotte, USA Joined Business in the Launched global Community employee intranet 2018 January February March April May June July 6 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT In 2018 I continued employees, temporary workers, to meet customers contractors, customers, suppliers, visitors and colleagues and members of the public alike.
In particular, During the year we continued to meeting employees significantly invest in our global Health, is a source of Safety and Environment HSE capability, tremendous pride launching a number of improvements and energy for me.
Throughout a busy for example upgrading our machinery year they have guarding and rolled out a new HSE shown unstinting information management system that dedication, provides all employees with a standardised commitment and professionalism.
incident and near-miss reporting tool.
We refreshed the look and feel of Health and Safety communications throughout the organisation and almost 200 managers were trained in safety leadership.
I am delighted that as a result we achieved a 46% reduction in Lost Time Incidents LTIs and the number of days lost has As Chief Executive my ambition is reduced by 53% compared with 2017.
Clearly, the only acceptable number of LTIs for everyone to feel safe, respected, is zero, but this highlights the significant strides we have made in improving valued and able to thrive as part of a processes as well as culture.
winning, engaged and diverse team.
Corporate Responsibility We are committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and manufacturing industry averages.
This Largo and the cessation of production responsibility, getting behind local good also reflects world-class levels of survey of Speciality Tapes at Nottingham.
causes while minimising our environmental participation, 91% up from 89% last year.
impact on the wider world around us.
In These decisions, taken after thoughtful There is still much to do and it will take 2018 we established a Group Sustainability consideration, were in no way a reflection time, but together we are making Essentra Committee and developed a strategy in on the quality or dedication of the a great place to work.
order to focus our efforts in four key areas.
impacted employees but rather a We also launched a Community We have continued to make organisational consequence of the need to ensure we act Engagement Policy, allowing sites to changes in light of our strategic review.
in the best interests of our customers and identify local volunteering opportunities These have resulted in a number of key other stakeholders.
and releasing our employees to support senior appointments such as the them.
We know from the employee survey appointment of Lily Liu as Chief Financial Health and Safety that our people want to see us Officer in November 2018 and Oshin Cassidy Nobody involved with our operations demonstrate our contribution to as Group Human Resources Director in should suffer injury or harm, and Essentras communities more so this is something January 2019.
Regrettably, these have also commitment to achieving and maintaining that we will be focusing on in 2019. included some changes that have negatively the highest standards of occupational impacted our people, such as the closure health and safety extends to our Outlook of our printing facilities in Kilmarnock and When I first joined Essentra in January 2017 I was struck by how strategically attractive Essentras businesses are, with leadership Launched global employee survey positions in our markets and strong competitive advantage.
My view has Announced the intended closure of Kilmarnock not changed.
Combined with the actions and Largo sites and cessation of production of we have taken in 2018 to embed stability, Speciality Tapes at Nottingham deliver the strategy and restore growth, we are building on solid foundations.
Signed Race at Work Charter Launched Of course there is more to do, but I am Launched first global awards new internal incredibly proud of the great strides we are programme, Make it Work Awards brand making to restore sustainable growth and have every faith in our ability to achieve positioning success together as a team.
Launched global Paul Forman partnership with Chief Executive everywoman 1 March 2019 August September October November December CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 7
