Strategic Report Chief Executives Strategic Review Our best-of-both-worlds operatingmodel enables ustoserve our customers moreeffectively Overview At our Investor Day in March 2016 we said that 2017 would be a year of transition and 2018 a year of growth.
In fact, we returned to growth in 2017 and that growth has continued during 2018.
Both underlying profit and revenue are ahead of last year.
We continue to invest in Pricing, Data & Market Intelligence I am constantly impressed and have seen strong growth in this segment.
This growth has outpaced the headwinds buffeting our Asset Management by the commitment, energy segment which continued to challenge our investment research businesses, BCA and NDR, whose customers are reducing and determination of our research spend, a trend which has been accelerated by MiFID II.
We have taken action to address these challenges by reducing costs significantly.
We are also prioritising investment in product exceptional people our development for research areas where we see growth and in sales and marketing.
M&A remains a core part of our strategy and we recycled capital Andrew Rashbass this year by selling businesses which do not align with our strategy.
The sales of our Global Markets Intelligence Division GMID, our Chief Executive Officer minority stake in Dealogic, and Mining Indaba completed shortly after year-end are examples of this.
Our strong balance sheet means when assets become available we can make acquisitions which align with our strategy.
During the year, we acquired Random Lengths, TowerXchange and Extel.
We are investing time and money in developing our people.
I am delighted at the response from our staff across the world to our challenge to them to help us make Euromoney a better place to work.
Although there remains much to do, it is rewarding to see how engaged our people are in this.
Our Group Management Board sponsored a range of activities to make all staff feel Euromoney is a place where they can thrive personally and professionally.
As a result, we now have a wide range of groups which are run by our staff.
These include Women@Euromoney, environment@Euromoney, a LGBT&A group, a Race, Faith & Inclusion group and a Well-being Forum.
You can read more about these initiatives in the CSR section on page 22.
Strategy Our strategy is to manage a portfolio of businesses in markets where information, data and convening market participants are valued.
We deliver products and services that support our clients critical activities.
We look to serve markets which are semi-opaque, that is, where the information which organisations need to operate effectively is hard to find.
Our strategy is designed to develop the businesses we own and deliver strategic, timely and well-executed acquisitions and disposals.
We aim to allocate and recycle capital efficiently to good organic and inorganic opportunities via our investment quadrants.
Our ambition is to generate consistent and meaningful returns for our shareholders at relatively low risk.
10 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report We characterise the business models of B2B information Capacity Media, one of our largest events, welcomes more than companies into three generations, which we call B2B Information 2,000 visitors 1.0, 2.0 and 3.0.
Their characteristics are set out on page 5.
As we manage our portfolio to achieve our strategy and to Adjusted profit before tax become a 3.0 business, we categorise our businesses into four quadrants.
We allocate capital to the top two quadrants and 3% withdraw capital from the bottom two.
This quadrant-based assessment leads to three pillars of strategic activity which we Statutory profit before tax describe on pages 12 and 13.
Performance for the year 161.2m We have delivered a robust performance over the year.
Overall, statutory revenue is up 1% year-on-year.
The adjusted operating profit and adjusted profit before tax are both up 3% on last Underlying revenue growth year.
Total revenue is down 3%, reflecting only seven months of revenue from GMID, which we sold during the year, and currency headwinds.
3% The Pricing, Data & Market Intelligence and Commodity Events Our Board segments performed very strongly, contributing to our growth, In closing, I would like to note two retirements and one joiner.
whereas the Asset Management segment, in particular BCA Colin Jones became Euromoneys Finance Director in 1996. and NDR, continued to hold back the Groups performance.
Colin has a well-deserved reputation among our shareholders We have taken strategic actions to address these challenges.
for his part in stewarding Euromoney for more than two decades.
Advertising revenues continued to decline, though they now make I would like to thank Colin for his outstanding contribution and up less than 9% of the Groups adjusted revenues.
for his openness to change over the past three years.
At the same time, I would like to welcome Wendy Pallot who succeeds Colin.
Our full-year adjusted profit before tax of 109.2m represents an In her first few months, Wendy has already demonstrated how her encouraging performance for the Group, with adjusted diluted skills and experience will help us seize opportunities in potentially earnings per share growing 6% to 81.3p from 76.4p last year.
turbulent times for our customers and for information businesses.
Statutory profit before tax of 161.2m is higher than adjusted profit before tax largely due to exceptional gains relating to Finally, I would like to thank Sir Patrick Sergeant who retired from our disposals.
In addition, we continue to achieve strong cash the Board this year.
Euromoney will be 50 years old in 2019 and our conversion with underlying conversion of adjusted operating profit plans for celebrating this milestone of course include recognising to cash in the year at 102%.
I did not know Sir Patrick before I joined Euromoney and I have been amazed at his openness to Outlook change in the business he started.
I have gained enormously from We remain confident about the prospects for continued, strong his clear-sighted sense of priorities.
I am delighted that I and the growth for our Pricing, Data & Market Intelligence segment which rest of the Board will continue to tap into Sir Patricks wisdom in his includes the majority of what we call our B2B 3.0 businesses.
Our investment research businesses will continue to face tough market conditions.
We therefore expect to see continued divergence in subscriptions performance between the Pricing, Data & Market Intelligence and Asset Management segments.
Our strategy continues to deliver growth in our businesses and value for our shareholders.
However, we enter the new financial Andrew Rashbass year with uncertainty around Brexit and this could disrupt our Chief Executive Officer customers and therefore us.
That said, Euromoney is made up of exceptional people and I am constantly impressed by their 21 November 2018 commitment, energy and determination to win whatever the world throws our way.
I would like to thank them all for their hard work our results are down to them.
Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 11 Strategic Report Chief Executives Strategic Review continued Active quadrants Non-active quadrants 3 4 3 4 3 4 Prepare for Invest Prepare for Invest Prepare for Invest the upturn the upturn the upturn 1 2 1 2 1 2 Disinvest Use the Disinvest Use the Disinvest Use the time wisely time wisely time wisely Strategic pillars Invest around Transform the Actively manage the big themes operating model the portfolio Price discovery Our target business model Dispose of non-strategic assets page 8 to free up capital Proprietary, must-have market intelligence A best-of-both-worlds operating A cquire businesses consistent model encompassing four with our investment priorities Post-trade activities segments, six divisions and Telecoms We continue to manage our portfolio central functions by investing in our big themes, We deploy capital to invest in removing the bottom-left quadrant An entrepreneurial culture the themes which best serve our drag of businesses that are structurally customers critical needs.
We invest combined with the benefits of an challenged and finding better owners in our existing businesses and also efficient, capable corporation for businesses that do not fit our strategy.
Our best-of-both-worlds operating model continues to strengthen under the leadership of our Group Management Board where the heads of our business divisions come together with the heads of our functions to serve our four segments.
12 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Strategic progress in 2018 Invest around Transform the Actively manage the big themes operating model the portfolio We look to serve semi-opaque markets We have developed what we call Acquisitions remain an important part where the information organisations a best-of-both-worlds operating of our strategy.
We have a record of need to operate effectively is hard to model.
Euromoney is known for its identifying good businesses where our find.
This determines our big themes entrepreneurial culture our people ownership adds value.
We also sell which include price discovery, postare creative, action-orientated, close businesses where we believe we are trade activities, proprietary, must-have to their customers, passionate about not the best owners.
This generates market intelligence and telecoms.
their brands, knowledgeable about the capital to invest in other parts of our industries they serve and accountable business and in acquisitions which fit Progress made in 2018 for their results.
Across four segments we our strategy.
Investment in the creation of are structured as six divisions supported Fastmarkets encompassing Metal Progress made in 2018 by central functions.
This ensures we take Bulletin, American Metal Markets Disposed of Adhesion and World advantage of Euromoneys scale, share and Industrial Minerals to provide Bulk Wine, II Journals, GMID and our best practice, operate strategically and our customers with one definitive minority stake in Dealogic create career paths for staff across the source for commodities pricing, data Acquired Random Lengths, whole company.
insights and events TowerXchange and Extel Progress made in 2018 The successful integration of Successfully integrated RISI Launched our Global Finance RISI and Random Lengths Transformation Programme to improve How we measure progress into Fastmarkets the Groups reporting and analytical We have invested 30m in acquiring Acquisition of TowerXchange to capabilities while reducing cost and new businesses aligned with provide our Telecoms customers standardising controls our strategy.
with access to the leading source of Developed an action-oriented information on the telecoms tower Priorities for 2019 approach to risk management, and mobile infrastructure markets M&A will continue to be important for example, in the creation of to our strategy to accelerate the How we measure progress risk-management tools for our Groups transition towards a B2B 3.0 The Pricing, Data & Market Intelligence events businesses information business.
We will also segments underlying revenue A more rigorous approach to hiring continue to disinvest where a business increased by 9% and underlying senior roles does not align with our strategy, as operating profit by 18% see page 20. demonstrated by the sale of Mining Created a Senior Management Group Priorities for 2019 Indaba in October 2018. of approximately 75 people across We will continue to invest in the Group Pricing, Data & Market Intelligence.
Investing in our people through Fastmarkets and Telecoms will remain leadership and management courses an important theme and we will and an early career academy continue to look out for acquisitions.
How we measure progress More than 200 staff have attended at least one of our new development courses during the year.
Priorities for 2019 Continued investment in our staff to ensure continued collaboration between our divisions and central functions to ensure that our best-of-both-worlds operating model delivers value across our segments to our customers.
In 2019, we will roll out a company-wide sales academy.
Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 13
