Annual report & accounts 2018 Chief executive officers letter The Groups strategic vision remains unchanged.
EVRAZ is a global steel and mining company, leading producer of infrastructure steel products with low-cost production along the value chain.
Dear Shareholder, In 2018, EVRAZ delivered robust growth amid capitalisation to US$9.2 billion in 2018, an 197% favourable market conditions and as a result increase from that in 2017. of continuing initiatives to improve efficiency and reduce costs.
The Group generated EBITDA Global markets were supportive in 2018, of US$3,777 million during the reporting period, driven mainly by developments in China, where its highest level since 2008, which made the government finalised its supply-side reform it possible to pay dividends of US$1.6 billion.
of the steelmaking industry and enacted winter EVRAZ remained focused on implementing its output cuts in a number of provinces.
These efficiency improvement programme in the amount efforts kept utilisation rates at Chinese steel mills Financial of 3% of the cost base, the effect from which at a level of more than 87% throughout the year.
review totalled US$340 million in 2018.
Shareholders In pursuit of better productivity from existing appreciation of these results is evidenced furnaces, coke and pig iron producers required by the rise in the Groups average market higher-grade raw materials.
Combined with higher See pages 3033.
com STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate governance Business review Financial statements CSR report Additional information demand from India and South-East Asia, this led 201922.
The expansion is driven by four major to constantly adapt to evolving customer needs.
hard coking coal prices to average US$207 per development projects, including constructing a flatIn 2018, EVRAZ launched a project with a key tonne, higher than had been forecasted.
Positive casting and rolling facility in Siberia, building a new client, Russian Railways, that included developing developments on the vanadium market also long rail mill in Colorado, as well as modernising new types of rails and extra services.
The Group influenced EVRAZ performance in 2018.
Chinas a rail and beam mill and launching a new continued to execute its programme to promote new rebar standard requiring higher vanadium continuous-casting machine in the Urals.
the application of beams in construction content in products and its ban on vanadium slag and increase the available stock of beams.
EVRAZ imports, coupled with scarce operating capacity Safety remains the underpinning of EVRAZ also conducted a set of workshops and meetings of vanadium producers globally, created a deficit business sustainability.
In 2018, the Group with clients at which the Groups senior for the metal that drove prices up by 150% yearmaintained its lost time injury frequency rate management team sought to better understand on-year.
LTIFR at the level of 1.9x, focusing on two major customers changing needs and most pressing new initiatives: a contractor safety programme issues in order to create additional value for them.
The Groups strategic vision remains unchanged.
and an HSE performance assessment EVRAZ is a global steel and mining company, for operations managers.
However, despite In 2018, the Group continued to implement leading producer of infrastructure steel products every effort that was undertaken, EVRAZ was EVRAZ Business System EBS transformation with low-cost production along the value unable to make substantial progress in reducing projects, the overriding goal of which is to engage chain.
The Group focuses on four key strategic fatal accidents in 2018: there were a total every employee in the process of continuous priorities: maintaining a stable dividend payout of 10 fatalities across all Group assets.
To achieve improvement and idea generation.
These and proactively managing maturities: expanding a radical change in its safety culture, in 2019, ideas are the major source of new efficiency the CAPEX programme with selective investments EVRAZ is launching an initiative to engage workers improvement initiatives and EBS transformations in development projects: continuing to generate at every level.
are the projects that create the necessary efficiency improvements with an annual infrastructure for this process to continue.
effect of 3% of the cost base: and developing In 2018, the Group also devoted special attention In 2018, the Group successfully completed the product portfolio and customer base across to environmental protection, an important aspect 24 EBS transformation projects across its steel all assets in Russia and North America.
During and coal assets, and employees generated the reporting period, EVRAZ ZSMK completed a total of 17,732 ideas, 5,985 of which were In terms of debt management, EVRAZ ended 2018 the reconstruction of the gas purifying facilities implemented.
In overall, EBS has already involved with net debt of US$3,571 million and retains its at its sinter plants that, together with other a total of 15,234 people, and its total identified medium-term debt target at below US$4 billion.
initiatives, has achieved annual reductions and potential economic effect equalled US$268 In the longer-term perspective, the Group in plant emissions of 16 thousand tonnes million.
EVRAZ aims to reach 100% EBS coverage aims to maintain its net debt EBITDA ratio and in wastewater discharge of 6 million cubic at all Russian assets by 2021. at an average level of 2.0x throughout the cycle, metres.
EVRAZ current environmental protection taking into account risks of EBITDA fluctuations.
programme includes 23 projects, five of which EVRAZ also established a new dividend policy will be included in the federal presidential in 2018 that envisages paying a minimum ecological programme for 201924, driving of US$300 million per annum of dividends a reduction in total annual emissions of another provided that the net leverage ratio remains 52 thousand tonnes by 2024. below 3.0x.
The dividend payout may be higher if the Groups net debt remains close to the stated In terms of human capital management, the Group target and the amount of cash flows generated believes that motivated, competent and loyal covers the investment programme needs.
Because employees create the foundation for the business.
such conditions were met in 2018, EVRAZ paid In 2018, EVRAZ implemented several initiatives dividends of $1.6 billion with a dividend yield aimed at developing managerial capabilities of 17%.
and enhancing personnel engagement levels.
One key initiative was the newly launched In 2018, EVRAZ took further actions to streamline Top-300 programme, which has been designed its operations and divest of non-core assets.
as a transformative set of personal training In June, the Group announced the disposal sessions and workshops for shop superintendents of a 15% minority stake in Chinese steel producer and mine directors.
The Group also conducted Delong Holdings Ltd due to a lack of links a series of information days at each production site with our core operations.
EVRAZ also finalised to increase employee awareness of EVRAZ strategy its efforts to exit the Ukrainian market by divesting and initiatives and conducted the We are together of EVRAZ DMZ, a decision primarily driven poll to collect feedback in an effort to further by the limited growth opportunities in the region.
Overall, employee The Groups asset optimisation process will allow engagement at the Group improved by 1 percentage it to more fully concentrate on developing its core point to 53% in 2018, while the average engagement figure for the Russian metals assets.
and mining industry decreased by 5 percentage points.
EVRAZ has tailored its CAPEX allocation programme in a way that it contributes as much as possible To ensure stable development, EVRAZ aims to achieving the stated strategic priorities and targets.
In 2018, the Group presented to secure leadership in key markets, namely in long and construction steel products.
an investment programme that envisages annual total CAPEX spending of US$800-990 million during To achieve these targets, the Group needs 9 Annual report & accounts 2018 COAL SEGMENT EVRAZ Coal segment is the leading Russian producer of coking coal.
In 2018, the Group increased coal mining volumes by 0.9 million tonnes to a total of 24.2 million tonnes a year.
Coal concentrate production grew by 8% to 14.1 million tonnes.
The Coal segments EBITDA equalled US$1,218 million for the period, remaining flat compared to 2017.
In 2018, the Group also generated US$70 million from efficiency improvement initiatives.
The increase in mining volumes was driven by ramp up of the  openSTEEL SEGMENT of an integrated flat casting and rolling facility pit project, which added more than 1 million that will help to enter the flat products market tonnes a year of premium low-vol coal OS The Steel segment remains the core of the EVRAZ with 2.5 million tonnes of coil a year, including grade.
It, combined with focus on internal coal business with a unique mix of transportation 1.5 million tonnes sold domestically by 2023.
The shipments and the disposal of EVRAZ DMZ, led and construction finished steel products.
technology entails continuous casting and rolling to the improvement of self-sufficiency in coal from steel to coil, eliminating the slab stage, which by 19 percentage points to 69%.
In addition In 2018, total output of steel products declined will significantly lower production costs.
Thickness to the mining ramp-up, EVRAZ boosted its coal by 5% down to 10.2 million tonnes.
Sales of produced coils will range from 1.2 millimetres export shipments to 7.7 million tonnes up 17% of finished steel products in Russia rose to 25 millimetres.
Total CAPEX for the project year-on-year through such actions as expansion to 4.6 million tonnes, up 5% from 4.4 million is estimated at US$490 million.
of its sales geography up 2.4x times to Europe, tonnes in 2017.
The segments EBITDA surged increase in the share of long-term agreements to US$2,672 million, including a significant EVRAZ NTMK is considering a product mix with railcar operators to 75% and improvements effect from the vanadium business.
Efficiency improvement programme that includes investment to the efficiency of operational management improvement initiatives had a total effect projects to update the rail and beam mill for shipments to Russias Far East.
of US$198 million, most of which came for US$215 million and install a new continuous from the launch of investment projects, increased casting machine No.
Both Looking forward, the key goal of EVRAZ Coal domestic sales and savings on steelmaking projects will add capacity to produce more valuesegment is to continue growing coal mining operations.
added products, including 230 thousand tonnes volumes to 28.4 million tonnes a year by 2021. a year of beams, 50 thousand tonnes a year To reach this target, the Group plans to further One of the most significant events of sheet piles and 460 thousand tonnes a year expand mining of high-vol coal coking coal for the Steel segment was the successful of pipe blanks for seamless oil country tubular grades by 4.1 million tonnes.
Major effect launch of blast furnace No.
7 at EVRAZ good OCTG production.
of 2.5 million tonnes will come from such NTMK.
It took only 18 months to complete projects as the development of seam No.
48 construction of the project, which had a total In 2019, for these three projects, the Group at the Uskovskaya mine and seam No.
The furnace has plans to finalise selection of the general at the Esaulskaya mine.
EVRAZ also continues an annual pig iron output of 2.6 million tonnes suppliers of equipment, develop project to increase the supply of low-vol coal grades and is considered to be one of the cleanest documentation and conduct engineering works.
through the implementation of its longwall in Russia, with an increase in air purification It also plans to complete major construction mining project at the  of 2.5 times and a reduction in coke consumption works for the overhaul of blast furnace No.
The project will add 0.9 million tonnes of 5 kilogrammes per tonne compared with other EVRAZ NTMK, after which blast furnace No.
5 of low-vol coals K grade shipped internally, operating furnaces.
will shut down in 2020. helping to improve coal the Steel segments selfsufficiency.
EVRAZ also launched several successful projects during the reporting period, including: a grinding ball mill at EVRAZ NTMK with CAPEX of US$17 million, which increased the production of balls to more than 300 thousand tonnes: and the launch of a wheels resurfacing line at EVRAZ NTMK with CAPEX of US$14 million, which processes premium S-wheels and has a production capacity of 66 thousand wheels.
Looking ahead, one of the Steel segments key targets is to reach 6.9 million tonnes of finished steel sales to the Russian market by 2023.
To achieve this target, EVRAZ is considering several investment projects to enhance the product mix.
EVRAZ ZSMK is considering the construction 10 www.
com STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate governance Business review Financial statements CSR report Additional information STEEL, NORTH AMERICA SEGMENT EVRAZ operations in the US and Canada product mix and streamline the product flows make it a leader in the North American rail between Canadian operations.
In 2018, the Group initiated the design Total sales of steel products reached 2.2 million and engineering work on a new rail mill at EVRAZ tonnes, up 14% from 1.9 million tonnes in 2017.
Pueblo that is planned to be launched in 2021.
The segments EBITDA was US$14 million, The project entails building a brand-new rolling down from US$58 million in 2017, mainly due mill with annual capacity of 600 thousand to the effect of tariffs and duties on Canadian tonnes and will be able to produce rails large-diameter and line pipe sales into the US, with a length of 100 metres.
Total investments as well to production issues at EVRAZ Regina.
required are estimated at US$480 million.
The operational performance at EVRAZ The project will allow EVRAZ North American Pueblo and EVRAZ Portland was strong operations to maintain technological leadership, and the segments efficiency improvement reach a 45% market share in North American programme contributed a total of US$72 million.
rails and shift to a higher value product mix in rails.
In 2018, the major focus was set to achieve the target effect from the two For 2019, the Group plans to finalise investment projects implemented in 2016- the selection of general suppliers of main 17: EVRAZ Reginas steelmaking upgrade equipment, complete equipment and plant and the construction of the new large-diameter engineering and prepare the construction site.
The targets for monthly slab production, degassing rate and prime yield for large-diameter pipe were achieved in the fourth quarter of 2018 and full capacity should be reached in 2019, supported by solid demand for energy pipe in Canada.
In addition, most of the construction work has been finished for two investment projects focused on electric resistance welded ERW and seamless OCTG operations.
The first project, a threading line with annual capacity of 110 thousand tonnes at EVRAZ Pueblo, will contribute savings of US$10 million on third-party services when it reaches full capacity.
The second, a heat treatment project with annual capacity of 100 thousand tonnes at EVRAZ Red Deer, will be launched in 2019 to upgrade the OCTG OUTLOOK FOR 2019 EVRAZ believes that its strong pipeline of existing investment projects, the continued evolution of its efficiency improvement initiatives and its low net leverage levels will help the Group to resist possible market downturns that Alexander Frolov Chief Executive Officer could potentially squeeze margins, thereby ensuring the business stable development.
