Experian plc 06 Strategic report Chief Executives review Good strategic progress We made great progress over the course New products.
We launched Experian of this year, nancially, operationally and Ascend, our next-generation analytical strategically.
The pace and range of new sandbox, which has had a very strong product innovation has increased dramatically reception since launch in the USA.
This, plus the investments New agreements across multiple territories we have made in technology and our One for major Experian platforms, including for Experian approach, position us strongly for PowerCurve, our decisioning platform, and the future.
for CrossCore our fraud prevention platform We delivered a strong financial performance, which signed 51 client agreements in the with: year, and we have a pipeline of new product introductions which will launch during the Total revenue growth of 8%, total revenue forthcoming year.
growth at constant currency of 7%, organic revenue growth of 5%.
B2B delivered New and extended client engagements organic revenue up 8% for the year and in which exploit the breadth of our capabilities We delivered a strong performance Consumer Services the rate of organic as One Experian.
These included major in FY18 as we execute on our revenue decline moderated to 5% overall new data and decisioning contracts in innovation agenda and our One and was at in the fourth quarter.
the USA, the UK and Brazil with large Experian approach.
Growth accelerated as the year progressed, particularly strong across B2B with organic revenue growth of 4% in H1 and We launched the new identity protection of 6% in H2.
We substantially and we have made signi cant developed our credit comparison services progress in Consumer Services, Benchmark EBIT growth was 8%, with EBIT and we have agreed the acquisition of margins of 27.7%.
which returned to growth in North ClearScore, subject to UK regulatory America in the fourth quarter.
Double-digit growth in Benchmark earnings approval, which will add a complementary per share, which grew 11%.
credit comparison brand in the UK.
The investments we have made Cash conversion of 93% of Benchmark EBIT We have made signi cant additional will continue to power our into Benchmark operating cash ow.
investments in information security in order to maintain strong defences and continue to performance.
We begin the year We are executing well against our strategy, provide a secure environment for data.
with momentum in the business, and have invested in a series of initiatives to sustain growth in the future.
These include: With regards to capital allocation and uses and we expect another year of of cash: New sources of data.
We acquired Clarity strong performance, with EBIT Services, Inc.
Clarity, which adds We invested organically across a broad growth at or above revenue growth non-traditional credit data assets in the range of initiatives during the year in and further strong progress in USA, improving visibility of over 60m support of our strategy.
We also made Benchmark earnings per share.
consumers with traditional lenders, and inorganic investments through acquisitions, extending the superiority of our datasets.
minority investments and venture investments totalling US$305m.
Brian Cassin Chief Executive Offi cer To see our latest results presentation please visit www.
com Strategic report 07 We are announcing a second interim Since completion of the acquisition in October, We are expanding our position with larger dividend of 31.25 US cents per share, up synergies realised include the roll-out of clients in Brazil, moving beyond pure credit 10% on the prior year to bring the total for Clarity Services products to our traditional data services to off er alternative data sources, FY18 to 44.75 US cents per share, up 8% on bureau clients with the introduction of our first analytics, software, consultancy services and the prior year.
This dividend will be paid on new product which will combine data from client access to our data labs.
We see good 20 July 2018 to shareholders on the register both Clarity and our credit bureau to enhance prospects for Experian software platforms at the close of business on 22 June 2018. credit risk decisions.
Credit Services such as PowerCurve and CrossCore, as well performance also bene ted from the new as for new product innovations such as mobile We completed a US$566m share Fannie Mae trended data agreement, which credit-prequali cation services, recently repurchase programme.
We also expect was implemented in Q4.
There was also launched with major Brazilian retailers and to execute a new net share repurchase strength in business information, health and where we are establishing a decent pipeline.
Decision Analytics which each delivered We are also developing new services for We maintained tight discipline on capital double-digit organic revenue growth.
smaller businesses in Brazil, to help them allocation, ending the year with net debt of better manage and gain access to relevant Consumer Services returned to growth during US$3,408m, which places us at 2.1 times credit off ers.
We have diversi ed our revenue streams EBITDA by the end of the year, compared to in this business towards high growth market This was an important year for the our target leverage range of 2.0 to 2.5 times segments, helping to off set an overall decline development of services to consumers in net debt to EBITDA.
Our identity protection off er is Brazil.
By the end of the year we had enrolled Return on capital continues to be strong at growing rapidly, and we have now enrolled over 22m people into Serasa Consumidor.
15.7%, up 20 basis points on the prior year approximately 200,000 paying members.
We have introduced a new credit comparison 2017: 15.5%.
We are extending the product off er with good service eCred, which we will seek to expand take-up rates for premium plans and new over the coming year.
Our debt resolution free services such as triple dark web scan.
service Limpa Nome is also expanding Regional highlights We are developing our credit comparison rapidly.
We have converted this into a digital Organic revenue growth was strong across service which, while still at a relatively early service which helps millions of consumers three of our four regions, with double-digit stage, is growing strongly.
We are also highly to negotiate and settle debts with lenders.
growth in EMEA Asia Paci c. Organic revenue focused on enhancing the experience for We see signi cant potential for Serasa was at in the UK and Ireland.
both consumers and lenders by using our Consumidor in Brazil, and are investing to capabilities to drive relevance and approval extend our product range and to scale our North America rates.
Partner solutions, which accounts for existing off ers over the coming year.
Total revenue growth in North America was c. 40% of North America Consumer Services 8% and organic revenue growth was 6%, revenue, is also well positioned as we secure UK and Ireland re ecting a strong performance across B2B new clients, provide new products for existing In the UK and Ireland, organic revenue was of 9%, partially off set by Consumer Services client programmes and as we fully bene t at as growth in B2B of 5% was off set by a decline of 2%.
from the client wins secured this year.
decline in Consumer Services of 16%.
Our B2B business is performing very We saw good momentum across our B2B Latin America well driven by successful new product portfolio in the UK and Ireland.
Across our introductions and major One Experian client Latin America delivered a good performance, core, we have secured new client wins driven wins.
The Experian Ascend Sandbox tool, with 6% organic revenue growth, re ecting by demand for unique Experian capabilities which gives clients access to current and strength across Credit Services, Decision such as ExPIN our proprietary data pinning historic credit data for the development of Analytics and Marketing Services.
analytical models and strategies, has grown In Brazil, we have placed signi cant strategic Regulatory changes such as the Open quickly, and since launch we have signed emphasis on expanding the services we Banking directive are also opening up new contracts with 11 of the top financial provide to our larger clients and on developing opportunities, with both existing and new institutions, with a strong pipeline of future more extensive services for smaller clients.
Our strategy is to automate key prospects.
We have seen early momentum in businesses and for consumers.
We see processes to enable better consumer our strategy to introduce new sources of data signi cant potential as the macroeconomic experiences in areas such as aff ordability to the credit bureau, and the Clarity Services environment in Brazil improves and as assessment, which is mandatory for acquisition has exceeded our expectations.
we grow our presence across the Latin mortgage and in debt management services.
Experian plc 08 Strategic report Chief Executives review continued We have developed new capabilities built on two complementary brands and to generate One Experian, integrated solutions.
This Runpath and Experian technology to address signi cant synergies.
Subscription-based is leading to a change in perceptions of this opportunity.
We also continue to expand credit monitoring services have continued Experian as we become more of a strategic our position in new market segments such as to contract, a trend which we expect to partner to our clients.
It also improves the the price comparison sector, background persist, although we have seen the rate size and scale of our client engagements checking and within industry verticals such of decline start to ease as we have and builds recurring revenue streams.
introduced new product features and as We are also making signi cant investments we drive greater engagement with our to access the considerable opportunities we In Consumer Services, we now address an paying membership base.
see in these markets, driven by the growth audience of nearly 4m consumers through of population and wealth, and the need for our free services.
We made considerable new sources of data to assess credit risk.
EMEA Asia Paci c progress in credit comparison, and For example, we are developing propositions EMEA Asia Paci c performed strongly, CreditMatcher saw a big step up in both which use mobile data to conduct credit with organic growth of 11%, with positive traffi c and revenue over the year.
We are risk assessment, we are investing in a new contributions across Credit Services, enabling lenders to be more precise in which innovation hub in Singapore and we are Decision Analytics and Marketing Services.
off ers they make to which individuals, leading assessing opportunities to expand services to greater use of data and analytics in the Our operations in EMEA Asia Paci c are to consumers in key bureau markets.
Our business is shifting from acquisition of ClearScore will allow us to providing point solutions to providing more address more of this growing market through Revenue and Benchmark EBIT by region, Benchmark EBIT margin 1 2 2 2018 2017 Total growth Organic growth US$m US$m % % Revenue North America 2,646 2,452 8 6 Latin America 788 730 6 6 UK and Ireland 830 80710 EMEA Asia Paci c 393 3411111 Total ongoing activities 4,657 4,330 7 5 1 Revenue exited business activities 5 5n a Total revenue 4,662 4,335 7 Benchmark EBIT North America 833 779 7 Latin America 267 251 5 UK and Ireland 260 246 2 n a EMEA Asia Paci c 9 3 Sub-total 1,369 1,273 6 n a Central Activities central corporate costs 79 76 Benchmark EBIT from ongoing activities 1,290 1,197 7 1 n a EBIT exited business activities 1 2 Total Benchmark EBIT 1,291 1,199 7 Benchmark EBIT margin ongoing activities 27.7% 27.6% 1 Results for 2017 are restated for exited business activities which comprise our Experian Public Records business, divested in March 2018.
See the Financial review for analysis of revenue, Benchmark EBIT and Benchmark EBIT margin by business segment and note 6 to the Group financial statements for fide nitions of non-GAAP measures.
