Strategic report Governance Financials Other information Marketplace overview Our markets are large and fragmented with strong growth characteristics The USA continues to be our largest market with the greatest growth opportunities.
It has strong growth characteristics and is highly fragmented withno market dominated by any single distributor.
Market characteristics and opportunities Average customer Customers needs Clear need for distributors basket of goods are local Large supplier base in the supply chain Ferguson serves over one million The customer base is fragmented.
Ferguson distributes over one million Distributors, including Ferguson, customers.
In the USA, the average Professional contractors typically products from approximately 43,000 bridge the gap between a fragmented basket size is five products valued operate within 20 miles of their home suppliers across the world.
supplier base and the large and atapproximately $700.
base and may visit their local branch geographically dispersed professional several times per week.
they continue to increase the usage of digital channels which complement their working patterns.
Highly fragmented Strong organic Bolt-on acquisition industry Benefits of scale growth opportunities opportunities Our markets are typically highly Due to scale benefits, market leaders Market characteristics Ferguson has a large database of fragmented, with few large can perform better through the support long-term organic targets to support continuedgrowth.
economic cycle and customers have growth opportunities.
Market growth drivers Population growth Housing transactions Consumer confidence Total population growth of more than 6 per cent Existing single family home sales In the USA, consumer confidence in 2018 was high, isexpected in the USA in the next decade.
continuetogrowwhile remaining significantly August 2018 was the highest in 18 years.
There is a belowthe previous peak.
strong correlation between consumer confidence and activity levels in our markets.
Source: United Nations Department Source: National Association Source: The Conference Board.
of Economic and Social Affairs.
Ageing housing stock Increased comfort levels in homes Disposable income 42 years 80% No.
1 The median age of homes in the USA is 80% of new homes in the USA have two or The USA has the highest levels of disposable 42 years.
There is high demand for repairs, morebathrooms.
There is a trend towards income per household in the OECD.
maintenance and improvement in the large increasing levels of comfort in homes.
Source: US Department of Source: US Department of Source: Organisation for Economic Housing and Urban Development.
For further information on the regional markets we operate in, please see pages 34 to 39.
Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 21
