Our key priorities 1 2 Generate Execute the best profitable the UK restructuring and growth in the USA  3 4 Capitalise Accelerate on the significant growth innovation across opportunity in Canada the Group To achieve our key priorities we must drive profitable growth across our regions through three areas of focus: Fulfilling customer wants Attractive growth opportunities Excellent execution Engaged associates Organic expansion Operating model and Well trained, highly engaged associates We want to accelerate profitable growth e-commerce development deliver excellent customer service.
through above market revenue growth We need to ensure that our operating model A relentless focus inthis area drives andtargeted branch expansion.
isagile and flexible so it can adapt to customer loyalty.
changing customer needs and that we are able to flex ourcost base when required.
Bolt-on acquisitions Increasingly our customers want to deal with Excellent service ethic We complement our organic growth strategy us online and we mustensure we have the Our aim is to provide the best customer with bolt-on acquisitions to expand our leading e-commerce platform in each market service in the industry, consistently across leadership positions or capabilities to extend in our industry.
These are rapidly integrated into our network to deliver attractive returns.
Pricing discipline Strong sales culture We will work constantly to understand our We will continue to drive a strong sales customers needs more accurately and Adjacent opportunities culture.
When our associates are proud structure our pricing to be fair, consistent and confident about our services and have We will utilise our existing knowledge, and transparent.
the best tools, knowledge and data to skillsand infrastructure to capitalise on support them, we will achieve the newmarket opportunities.
They engage with Facilities Supply and our B2C e-commerce Own brand penetration existing and new customers to make sure businesses.
We will systematically build upon and extend we are front of mind when it comes to bids our portfolio of own brand categories which for work which generate a significant provide additional choice and great value for proportion of our revenue.
We have an opportunity to offer a wider range of own brand products to our customers, some of which attract higher gross margins.
16 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information Group Chief Executives review of 2017 18 Measurable progress against our key priorities The Group delivered a good result in the year, revenue increased to $20.8 billion and ongoing trading profit increased by $200 million to $1.5 billion.
In the USA, all businesses grew well and continued to gain market share.
Markets in the USA and Canada have remained good throughout the year despite recent inflationary pressures, though the UK remains tough.
We have made measurable Ever since the establishment of Ferguson A year of further progress Enterprises over 65 years ago, our culture progress against our On behalf of all our associates whom I have has been defined by a relentless focus strategic objectives and the privilege to represent, I am pleased to on the recruitment, training, development delivered the Groups report measurable progress against the and retention of the very best people in priorities we set out last year.
We continued best ever financial our industry.
We have retained this focus to develop our people, enhance our services performance to the benefit during the year, recruiting more than 600 and focus relentlessly on our customers of all stakeholders.
graduates alongside our other 1,900 recruits to improve our market position in all our and introduced a number of College of businesses.
We have made measurable Ferguson programmes to provide up to six progress against our strategic objectives months of specialist training at the start of and delivered the Groups best ever a career in Ferguson.
We have revamped financial performance to the benefit of all and invested substantially in our HR stakeholders.
We have continued to focus business platforms throughout the Group our resources on those opportunities and achieved creditable improvement in where we are best equipped to win and associate engagement to impressive levels.
where we can generate attractive returns for shareholders.
We have allocated significant resources to the acceleration of our own brand Building on the priorities set out last year we capabilities which now represents 6.9 have introduced a new priority, to accelerate per cent of US revenues through organic innovation across the Group, to ensure that expansion and selective acquisitions, we identify new technology and business developing new own brand categories to models to stay relevant to our customers.
provide additional choice and great value Having completed the sale of our Nordics to our customers.
This also enables us to business we have introduced a new priority capture a greater part of the value chain to focus on growth in Canada.
which is reflected in better margins, and to compete more effectively with transactionPriority one only competitors.
Generate the best profitable growth in the USA We continue to develop our logistics and supply chain capabilities.
This year Market conditions were supportive and due we invested in an important new market to our consistently strong service culture we distribution centre in Indianapolis.
We have continued to gain profitable market share.
plans to introduce more of these selectively Some of the drivers of outperformance are in our major metro markets during 2019. shown in the diagram opposite which sets We are also building a large freehold out how we aim to win in our local markets, distribution centre in Perris, southern outperform our competitors and drive strong California, to serve one of the largest financial results.
Our businesses are not plumbing and heating markets in the homogeneous and they require specific world.
We expect to complete the facility in strategies which depend on local market 2019 and it will replace an existing smaller conditions, specific customer needs and leasehold site nearby.
Our growth opportunities are enviable, and we continue to prioritise investment to capitalise on the most attractive opportunities in each region and across each business unit.
You can read more detail about our business in the US regional performance section on pages 34 to 37.
John Martin Group Chief Executive Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 17 Group Chief Executives review of 2017 18 It has been a period of considerable progress in the development of our e-commerce capabilities, with the migration to new platforms in every region and the continuing development of mobile-optimised sites.
Basic transactional capabilities are not enough to encourage customers to switch online.
Tradespeople and contractors demand more sophisticated applications to add value to their businesses and search functionality, inventory availability and historical order lists are widely used as isthe capability to convert quotations into orders.
We are making good progress in further developing this and other valuable functionality for our customers.
Priority two Execute the UK restructuring and repositioning programme Trading performance in the UK this year was disappointing.
Our priority remains on rapidly implementing the restructuring programme we announced last year.
In the autumn, A focus on developing our people: The College of Ferguson we made some changes to accelerate the pace of change and improve focus and Graduate intake remains a cornerstone of our recruitment process.
In March, we appointed Mark 29per cent of Fergusons workforce in the USA now have higher education degrees.
Higson to lead the business.
Mark is an Growing early career talent is critical to our success and the goal of our College of experienced executive having previously Ferguson programmes are to increase the speed of impact for these new hires.
been Chief Operating Officer of Royal Mail Each trainee, in conjunction with their College of Ferguson trainer, works through a and British Plasterboard.
well-rounded curriculum and syllabus that includes coursework on Ferguson culture and An important part of the strategy was history: product knowledge: finance and credit: customer service: warehouse, counter to invest in more disciplined category and showroom management: systems training and much more.
They are tracked and management, defining a clear range of assessed locally by their trainer, but additional support and feedback is provided by products to drive availability which our assigned mentors who guide and inspire the trainees during their time in the programme.
customers can rely on and weve made We are beginning to use quantitative and qualitative metrics total sales, tickets per good progress here.
The re-configuration of associate, retention and promotability to measure the value trainees bring to the business.
our logistics and supply chain infrastructure This year over 600 associates attended speciality programmes for Blended Branches, is underway, including a move to in-night HVAC, Facilities Supply, Industrial and Waterworks in 18 training centres across the USA.
replenishment of our branches, which We are already experiencing excellent retention rates of the associates who took part in supports a better service proposition prior year programmes.
We have surplus distribution centre capacity and will close one distribution centre.
This will reduce the amount of double-handling of inventory.
We are also downsizing and relocating the UK headquarters in Leamington, which we expect to complete later this year.
In January 2018, we closed the BCG wholesale business, which generated unsustainably low margins, we completed a further 60 branch closures and implemented a redundancy programme which has lowered the cost base by $30 million per year.
Some of these actions have been a headwind to our financial performance this year but we are confident that they will help us build a better business for the future.
18 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information Priority three We opened a major new distribution centre Priority four in Montreal this year without disruption to Capitalise on the significant growth Accelerate innovation across the Group our customers, and our distribution facilities opportunity in Canada Whilst many of our customers value our in Toronto have been consolidated to give It has been a landmark year for Wolseley traditional services very highly, as the market customers greater access to inventory from Canada, during which we have generated leader we have an obligation and a great the distribution centre in Milton.
We have encouraging growth and made clear opportunity to identify new technologies and also implemented new demand planning progress towards fulfilling our strategic business models that customers will value technology to drive better availability for objectives.
Revenue growth was good and in years to come and which could disrupt our customers.
Strong trading our value chain.
We have established an profit growth enabled us to fund significant innovation and disruption team to identify The plumbing and heating market in investments in the development of the and pursue these opportunities.
We have Canada is attractive and fragmented and business model, as well as generating also established Ferguson Ventures to we are supplementing our organic growth good financial returns.
invest or partner with innovative people, activities with selective bolt-on acquisitions.
businesses and emerging technologies that Towards the end of the year we concluded As in our other businesses, we have can enhance the customer or contractor the acquisition of AMRE, a facilities supply allocated more resources to the experience.
The team includes associates business with a strong and compelling development of our own brand products from inside and outside the business, along customer proposition, which will be andwe have implemented a new platform with some specialist help, to identify and complementary to our existing business and forB2B e-commerce, to improve functionality develop promising new business models.
presents an exciting growth opportunity.
We have begun partnering with some exciting businesses with the potential to help us change and develop new customer propositions in our industry as you can read in the case study left.
Our dedication to customer service The concept behind our business model is simple: we source products and deliver them to the point of use on behalf of our customers.
Getting these basic activities right, though, is not sufficient to build a sustainable competitive advantage.
Our business is not just a series of transactions, we help our customers to deliver their projects, we support them when they are pitching for work and we work hard Ferguson Ventures: forging technology partnerships to solve key throughout the construction and renovation industry problems lifecycle to help them manage their projects.
This year we have added a new priority to accelerate innovation.
Our customers are Our associates are not just looking to currently facing significant challenges with the shortage of skilled trade professionals maximise the profit opportunity of a sales and the need for improved construction productivity.
We created Ferguson Ventures this transaction, they support our customers year to help discover, invest in and partner with technology companies and start-ups to over numerous projects over many years accelerate the use of emerging technologies and business models to help solve some and develop enduring relationships based ofthese industry problems.
In this Annual Report and Accounts we have picked just a few real-life examples We recently entered into our first strategic partnership with GTP Services, a company from the many thousands of interactions that provides software and services for Building Information Modelling BIM.
BIM is we have with customers every day.
a process for creating and managing information on a construction project across the Understanding how we deliver this service building lifecycle.
One of the key outputs of this process is the building information consistently is the key to understanding the model, a digital representation of every aspect of the build, also known as a digital twin.
value we deliver to customers.
You can read This model draws on information assembled collaboratively and updated at key stages of about them on pages 1 to 11. a project.
Through a cloud-based software solution, the company is assisting mechanical, electrical and plumbing trades professionals to develop workflow solutions for the construction element of their jobs.
The software offers users an intuitive tool they can use to plan, collaborate, order, fabricate and track jobs with lean construction methodologies.
We see great opportunities to work with our larger customers to create efficiencies throughout the entire lifecycle of a project from planning to ongoing maintenance.
Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 19 Group Chief Executives review of 2017 18 In March, we completed the sale of Stark Quarterly organic revenue growth rate in the USA Group, our Nordics building materials % business, which funded the $1 billion special dividend paid at the end of June.
In addition, 12% 11.4 11.4 10.9 we have recently announced our intention 10.6 10.3 to dispose of Wasco, our Dutch plumbing 10% 9.5 9.1 8.8 8.8 8.7 8.4 8.5 and heating business.
The business has 8.3 8.3 Average 8.1 8.1 7.8 8% growth a strong leadership team and dedicated 6.9 6.9 6.6 rate 8% workforce and has consistently delivered 5.8 6% 5.5 5.3 strong financial performance, but there 4.9 Market 4.8 growth arefew synergies with the other businesses 3.7 4% c. 45% in the Group.
2% People 0% Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Looking back on the last year, I am most 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 proud of our associates and my colleagues in the leadership team.
Their passion for These are small steps but the business delivering great service to our customers Sustainability is starting to see improvements in the and for executing our strategies is We are conscious of our opportunity to help monthly health and safety key performance remarkable and their pursuit of short-term our customers and suppliers to develop indicators, though we still have a long way goals and long-term strategic development sustainably and to minimise any adverse togo to fulfil our ambition to be best in class.
I would like to thank all our impact of our operations on the environment.
associates for their commitment and hard We continue to make steady progress on work during the year.
The connection our Acquisitions and disposals our sustainability programme this year and associates have to our customers and our you can read about our progress on pages The majority of our growth is organic and business is evident in our outstanding our first priority for the deployment of 40 to 43.
This year we have rejuvenated our engagement surveys and net promoter health and safety programme in order to capital and resources is to support our scores see pages 24 to 26, which provides organic growth.
As you can see in the chart achieve a much better performance and in a great foundation for the next stage of the second half of the year we have made above, in the USA, we have consistently development of our Company.
generated organic revenue growth 3-4 per encouraging progress.
We have launched several new initiatives across the Group cent ahead of the market for many years.
Outlook We also actively search for acquisitions including the establishment of a Health and Safety Committee in the US providing that will deliver attractive returns, improve In the first eight weeks of our new financial our market leadership positions or expand the right senior executive level oversight year organic revenue growth has been and monitoring of health and safety issues.
the capabilities of our existing business broadly in line with the overall growth rate model.
This year we have acquired new Hannah Sesay joined the Group to provide last year, though growth in September was strong functional leadership.
Hannah is an e-commerce capabilities and own brand slightly lower than August.
The growth in our businesses to expand the categories of experienced executive and has led safety order books suggests continued growth in and environmental teams at American products we provide to our customers.
Express, Nabisco, BAE Systems and During the year, we completed 13 AmecFoster Wheeler.
acquisitions with annualised revenue of $435 million in the USA and Canada.
For major incidents we now initiate a safety stand down within 24 hours to draw Since the year end, we have completed John Martin three further acquisitions with annualised immediate attention and awareness to it.
Group Chief Executive An investigation of the incident is conducted revenue of $415 million.
and an injury review panel convened to analyse the findings of the investigations, discuss root causes and share key lessons learned across the organisation.
In the USA, we launched our First in Safety campaign designed to give greater visibility to our actions and embed safety into our culture.
20 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
