Chief Executives report Performance in theyear theserevenue challenges through further cost First Students continued progress from the efficiencies islimited by ongoing increases in fourth year of our up or out contract pricing fleet maintenance and driver costs, resulting strategy and cost efficiency programmes was ina significant reduction in Greyhounds offset by continued driver cost inflation and margin.
We are currently investing to support shortages in parts of the US, a lower contract Greyhounds growth opportunities while retention rate than targeted and the effects of continuing to trim our timetables, and the the severe weather in the second half.
We have Groupis conducting a full external review of had an encouraging start to this years bid Greyhounds business model and prospects to season as we continue to factor the driver cost help determine the most appropriate response inflation being experienced in many parts of the to this long term structural challenge.
We have US into our contract pricing.
also updated our view of the carrying value of the divisions goodwill and other assets in light First Transit continued to grow and to win net of these issues, impairing them by a total of new business, though our shuttle bus operation Tim OToole $387.3m or 277.3m accordingly.
in the Canadian oil sands did not renew two Chief Executive contracts towards the end of the year, which We are encouraged that like-for-like passenger revenue growth in First Bus accelerated in willhave an impact on the margin of the division each quarter of the financial year, though going forward.
The business delivered a 5.5% market conditions for the industry remain margin for the year, with a 7% margin in the uncertain and vary by local market.
We would Although we are not satisfied second half as planned, despite ongoing have had an even better outturn for the year costpressure from driver shortages in certain with our progress this year, had several of our local businesses not been regions, higher medical costs and some the Group delivered stable forced to shut down for several days in the costsin relation to certain poorly performing adjusted earnings per share faceof the severe weather conditions in the contracts which were resolved during the year.
We are pleased that and strong cashflow, Greyhounds significant short haul and stabilising volumes, the cumulative effect of despiteoperating challenges Express growth was more than offset by ouractions to tailor our network, fares, depot declines in long haul demand as a result of forsome ofour businesses.
footprint and other costs and a fuel tailwind intensifying competition from the ultra low have resulted in a significant improvement in Wehave also strengthened costairlines, which are bringing significant ourmargin.
We shall maintain this momentum our balance sheet through additional aircraft capacity into operation in order to meet our ambitions to catch up with whilealso connecting to a growing number thebond refinancing and the most efficient in the industry.
The growth in these further deleveraging.
businesses represents a meaningful shift inUStravel patterns.
Our ability to mitigate Year in review June 2017 Shortlisting for West Coast Partnership FirstGroup isshortlisted alongside our partnerTrenitalia to bid for the West CoastPartnership franchise which will includeinitialHS2 operations.
July 2017 Hull Trains tops passenger survey Scoring 97% for satisfaction, Hull Trains is named the best long distance operator in April 2017 September 2017 theNational Rail Passenger Survey for the Investing in First Bus fleet South Western Railway launched fourth year running.
First Bus commits 71m to introduce 284 Having taken over SWR operations during new low emission buses in Leeds by 2020. theWaterloo upgrades in August, Transport August 2017 Secretary Chris Grayling formally launched First Student acquires Falcon May 2017 thenew franchise at a Waterloo station event Transportation inIllinois Greyhound route information on 4September.
This transaction extends our relationship integrated with Google Maps withthe Chicago public school system and Our Greyhound customers can now plan offers synergies with our other First Student their journeys more efficiently through operations in the city.
06 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Although First Rails like-for-like passenger oftheGreyhound goodwill and other asset Investing in our passengers needs revenue growth accelerated over the course impairments and the TPE onerous contract We have continued to invest in passenger ofthe year, we must acknowledge the slower provision, the Group reported a statutory loss convenience including initiatives to promote rate of overall industry growth that currently before tax of 326.9m 2017: profit of 152.6m contactless payment, online and mobile prevails.
The overall financial result from our Rail and EPS of 24.6 p 2017: 9.3p.
ticketing and travel information improvements division was solid in the year, withcontributions and other technology to streamline and We are however encouraged that we were able from Great Western Railway GWR and SWR enhance our operations and responsiveness to sustain a strong cash flow performance of which we began operating in August 2017. tocustomers and other stakeholders.
110.5m 2017: 147.2m including proceeds However TPEs like-for-like passenger revenue Meanwhile our commitment to the safety from sale of a Greyhound terminal.
This growth, though very substantial at 10.0%, is ofourpassengers, our employees and all excludes the 88.5m of start of SWR franchise lower than our projections at the time of the bid, thirdparties interacting with our businesses cash flows: taken together we generated resulting in an operating loss of 6.5m for the remains unwavering.
Our approach to safety 199.0m of free cash flow, helping to reduce year to March 2018.
Our plans to increase isa combination of innovative technology, our net debt: EBITDA ratio from 1.9 times to 1.5 capacity by more than 80% and create a true external assurance and our behavioural change times in the year, or from 2.3 times to 2.1 times intercity railway for the North over the remainder programme, Be Safe, all of which have made on a Rail ring-fenced cash adjusted basis.
of the franchise are the right ones for our further progress in the year towards ensuring passengers and communities, and we are Balance sheet we are always operating to the highest confident that they will drive a considerable In the year we reached an important milestone standards.
With increasing focus on local air acceleration in TPEs annual patronage and with our long-dated bond portfolio beginning to quality andemissions we are constantly striving revenue growth over time.
However our mature, allowing us to significantly reduce our to improve the performance of our vehicles and assessment is that this growth will be short future interest burden by starting to refinance introduce even cleaner engines.
ofour bid assumptions dueto current market and rebalance the Groups debt.
We are Group outlook conditions, and we have therefore taken the pleased by the support shown in the credit Overall, we expect Group earnings in constant decision to provide for forecast losses of up market for our improved resilience and financial currency to be broadly stable in the year ahead.
to106.3m over the remaining life of the profile.
We raised $275m in February 2018 at The Group is expecting an overall improvement TPEcontract.
aweighted average cost of 4.25%, and in in the Road divisions margins and returns, March we used the proceeds and other monies Overall the mixed performance in our divisions underpinned by the momentum in the First Bus to redeem the 300m 8.125% coupon bond resulted in 1.0% Group revenue growth and turnaround and First Students growth plans in due September 2018.
This action will generate areduction in adjusted operating profit of the year ahead.
We expect First Transits interest savings of an estimated 14m per year 10.4%in constant currency before SWR continuing growth to be tempered by the loss of from the next financial year.
rd andthe 53 week in the Road divisions, high margin Canadian oil sands business, and withlower finance and tax charges resulting that sustaining Greyhounds earnings will be inan increase in adjusted EPS of 3.4% in challenging given the changes in the long haul constant currency.
Principally as a result competitive environment.
The overall progress of the Road divisions is, however, expected to beoffset by a smaller contribution from our FirstRail portfolio in the year ahead, reflecting the slower rate of industry growth and the October 2017 November 2017 rebasing of our margins under new contract Intercity Express Trains enter service GWR franchise extended announced terms.
We also expect higher free cash GWRs new Intercity Express Trains carried The Department for Transport DfT generation from the Road divisions after the passengers for the first time, marking the announced its intention to exercise a 12 month disciplined investment required to support nextstage in the biggest fleet upgrade for extension option of our GWR franchise to run ourpassengers needs, offset by a lower ageneration.
to the end of March 2020. contribution from Rail in the year ahead.
January 2018 Tim OToole Autonomous vehicle trials Chief Executive First Transit tests autonomous vehicles 31 May 2018 inwinter conditions in Minneapolis, while FirstGroup announces the first trial of such vehicles on UK roads.
February 2018 Charity partnership beats target Our donations to our charity partner ProstateCancer UK reach 1.5m in value, easily surpassing our original target.
Anew partnership with Action for Children began in April 2018.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 07
