14 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT Consolidating our growth, advancing our pipeline.
Octavio Alvdrez Chief Executive Officer Since the IPO in 2008, we have recorded We have delivered on the vast majority an excellent set of achievements and of the plans we laid out at the time of the over that period built a track record of IPO, in both financial and non-financial creating value through growth and terms.
We are now firmly established returns.
Now is the time to consolidate as the worlds largest silver producer, our position while also making sure we Mexicos largest gold producer and a continue to fuel our pipeline in order to company that has earned the respect deliver further growth in the years ahead.
of its employees and local communities as well as of its shareholders.
Although it was disappointing not to reach our long-term silver target of 65 Now, in the early months of our second moz, we nevertheless look back with decade, it is time to continue to prepare pride on the achievements of the last Fresnillo for the many challenges and decade, including the fact that we opportunities that lie ahead.
reached our long-term goal for gold three years ahead of target.
CONSISTENCY, CONSISTENCY, CONSISTENCY Our strategy has remained the same throughout the last ten years, and this will continue to be the case.
While other miners may change their stance depending on which way the economic wind is blowing, at Fresnillo we understand that consistent performance can only be delivered by remaining true to a conservative, long-term strategy.
KEY POINTS A decade of creating value through growth and returns.
Silver production for the year increased by 5.3%, and gold production by 1.3%.
Continuous investment to consolidate the business for the years ahead.
Completion of the Pyrites plant at Saucito.
Completion of the second line of the Dynamic Leaching Plant, at Herradura.
Silver resources down by 5.0%, gold resources up by 1.5%.
Disappointing health and safety performance, with five fatalities in 2018 and one more in early 2019.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 15 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Left Employees at the Saucito mine.
Right View of both processing plants at San Julin.
This strategy has and will continue to During the year, average realised silver IT is another example of how we are achieve results across the various price prices decreased by 8.3%, with those using innovation and new ways of cycles of precious metals.
Although for gold remaining broadly flat up 0.1%.
working to improve production while Fresnillo plc has only been in existence At the same time, average prices for zinc lowering costs.
For example, during for a decade, our history stretches back and lead, which are by-products of our 2018, we rolled-out a wide range of over 125 years.
The knowledge and silver and gold operations, decreased by projects that are already beginning experience gathered over that period is 5.7% and 7.4% respectively and this had to transform productivity.
part of Fresnillos DNA and it ensures an impact on our financial performance.
For more information see pages 50-56. that we always take a long-term view, executing our strategy with consistency CONSOLIDATING GROWTH, MAXIMISING POTENTIAL in order to manage fluctuations in prices.
DELIVERING GROWTH THROUGH DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS The first pillar of our strategy is to PRODUCTION HIGHLIGHTS maximise the potential of our existing I fully expect to be able to make a AND PRICE REVIEW operations, and during the year we were positive announcement on our In 2008, we set ourselves the target to pleased to launch a series of operational Juanicipio development project in double annual silver production to 65 excellence initiatives that will provide due course, following a highly detailed moz and to achieve gold production of the platform for further growth in the technical evaluation that demonstrated 750,000 ounces in the decade to the years to come.
We successfully reached from the Fresnillo mine, Juanicipio is the gold target in 2015 and although we At the Fresnillo mine, for example, we expected to contribute to both silver have fallen just short of that ambitious have invested in innovative technology and gold production, delivering high goal for silver, this period of consolidation to improve productivity.
Costing returns for our business while generating will improve our efficiency, strengthen US$22.7 million and capable of boring additional employment in the area.
With our operational base and ensure that we at least 300 metres per month, a new first production anticipated in 2H20, continue to deliver growth in the years state-of-the-art tunnelling machine Juanicipio reaffirms the world-class and decades to come.
is due to be commissioned in 2H19.
status of the Fresnillo district and Together with the vertical conveyor, underlines the wealth of resources Silver production did not quite reach the which was commissioned towards the that have already been discovered levels we forecast at the start of the year, end of 2017, and the installation of new there, as well as those that await following lower than expected ore grades vibrating screens which have already discovery in the future.
at the Fresnillo and Saucito mines, as well proved their value at Saucito, the as lower throughput at Fresnillo.
tunnelling machine will support our In addition, the first stage of the new drive to extract greater value from Pyrites plant has now been completed Notwithstanding, silver production from the long-established Fresnillo mine.
and commissioned on budget, with only our mines increased 7.1% to 58.1 million minor delays.
While the ramp up did not For more information see pages 50-53. ounces in 2018 driven mainly by the accelerate as expected due to issues first full year of production at the San with the vertical mills, which have now Julin Disseminated Ore Body and the Meanwhile, at San Julin we have been resolved, the plant will make an contribution from the first phase of the addressed the low water availability important contribution to production new Pyrites plant at Saucito, which more that limited production during the early by extracting additional quantities of than offset the lower production at the months of 2018.
In the short term this gold and silver from the historical and Fresnillo and Saucito mines.
involved digging wells, but in line with our ongoing tailings at the Fresnillo and commitment to always taking a longSaucito mines.
Stage two is now We achieved better than anticipated term view, we have since successfully underway and is expected to be results for gold in 2018, with production concluded consultations with the concluded in 2H20.
increasing slightly by 1.3% to 922,527 indigenous population regarding the ounces.
This reflected a good construction of a new water reservoir We were also pleased to commission performance at Saucito, the start-up which will ensure sufficient water to the second line at the Dynamic Leaching of the Pyrites plant and higher gold support greater production at San Julin.
Plant DLP at Herradura during the year.
For more information see pages 56-59.
16 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT CONTINUED The testing period took longer than clearly unacceptable.
The safety of all expected and despite production of our employees and contractors is at coming from the plant during the the top of our HSECR agenda for 2019, year, commercial production did not and we will renew our efforts to align commence until 2019.
Now complete, employees and contractors alike with the DLP is processing an extra 8,000 our commitment to safety.
tonnes per day of high grade ore from the pit, taking the daily throughput for As I highlighted in last years report, we the two DLP plants to 16,000 tonnes.
began to roll out a new safety programme Also at Herradura, tests of the leaching during 2018, following encouraging pads led to an increase of 98.9 thousand results from the pilot phase at our ounces of gold in inventory.
Known as The BMX track at the Fresnillo recreational park.
I Care, We Care, this programme builds EXTENDING THE GROWTH PIPELINE on and strengthens our existing processes.
Our approach towards exploration is The key aspect of I Care, We Care is that one of the qualities that sets us apart it encourages people to fully report every from our peers.
Where they may choose incident, no matter how minor, so that our to cut back on exploration in order to safety team can identify its root cause, meet short-term price challenges, our develop risk awareness and put measures commitment remains unequivocal and THE YEAR AHEAD in place to prevent reoccurrence.
The roll unchanging, regardless of the prevailing We anticipate that 2019 will be a more out is expected to be completed in 2019. economic climate.
Rather than opting to challenging year than 2018, with a boost our pipeline through acquisition, number of industry variables potentially For more information see page 73. we remain determined to fuel ours working against us.
While the volatility of organically drawing on the skills of precious metals prices is likely to reduce, more than 100 talented geologists to In terms of environmental sustainability, the prices themselves may reduce, for explore opportunities and build our we passed an important milestone in example, and we could see headwinds resource base.
Over 60% of the electricity we from higher inflation and possibly a consume is now provided by wind power worsening of the US$-Peso exchange Among the years most significant and we aim to increase this to 75% by rate.
The significant investments we exploration developments, we the second half of 2019.
The resultant have made in recent years will inevitably continued to make good progress decrease in our carbon emissions will lead to greater depreciation costs and at Orisyvo and Guanajuato, while the also be supported by an initiative to these will in turn impact our financial project at Rodeo is showing good convert a number of trucks in our fleet performance.
In addition, silver and gold potential.
At the end of 2018, our silver from diesel to Liquid Natural Gas, which production may temporarily reduce, resources stood at 2.2 boz, down by will benefit the environment while also as we invest time and resources in 5.0% over the previous year, with reducing our costs.
consolidating our past achievements our exploration mining concessions and preparing the ground for greater amounting to 1.8 million hectares in Our strong environmental, social and growth in future years, while also Mexico.
Our gold resources increased governance practices have again been focusing on improved safety.
Not only did we retain our place in the None of these possible developments Furthermore, 2018 saw us take decisive FTSE4Good Index, but we also joined are unusual or present us with issues we steps in the internationalisation of our the STOXX Global ESG Leaders index have not faced before.
Change is part of Company, with drilling now expected to for the first time.
In addition, we received the business cycle.
We will continue to take place at two projects in Chile that or retained a large number of national stand firm behind our strategy in the show good potential.
We are also working and international awards and clear knowledge that it has guided us hard to gain the necessary permits in certifications including: through a wide range of market and Peru and continuing to scout projects political conditions in the past, and will in Argentina.
An Ethics and Values award from the do so again in the future.
Confederation of Industrial Chambers ADVANCING AND ENHANCING THE Concamin in Mexico.
While we face short-term pressures, the SUSTAINABILITY OF OUR OPERATIONS The Social Responsibility Award from long-term fundamentals remain sound.
the Federal Attorney for Environmental The safety of our employees and Our model is proven, our people are Protection Profepa in Mexico.
contractors is our highest priority, and skilled, experienced and dedicated, and A Profepa Award for Environmental we continually monitor our performance a track record of creating value through Excellence at Saucito and Herradura.
and introduce new initiatives to address growth and returns will continue to be Clean Industry national certification any gaps or failings in our processes.
So it our defining characteristic.
was both deeply saddening and totally International certifications including: unacceptable that we experienced five Octavio Alvdrez the Cyanide Code at Herradura fatalities during the year and one more in Chief Executive Officer and Noche Buena: ISO 14001 early 2019.
While we acknowledge that Environment : and OHSAS 18001 contractor safety is a particular challenge Safety and Environment.
for our industry, this performance is
