Strategic report Chief Executive Officers statement BUILDING A BETTER FINANCIAL WORLD SME financing is broken Andrew, James and I launched Funding SMEs are the lifeblood of an economy, providing employment, Circle in 2010 with the ambition of rewiring growth and innovation.
However, as they represent a tiny access to finance for small businesses.
proportion of banks overall balance sheets, they have been repeatedly underserved by the traditional banking system and Webelieved the lending market for small very little has changed in the ten years since the financial businesses both in the UK and globally crisis.
What has changed, however, is the ability to solve this problem.
At Funding Circle, our global online platform allows was underserved, and there was an awide range of investors to lend directly to small businesses, opportunity to address this imbalance.
creating a 21st century way to access finance, and opens up an attractive and stable asset class previously only ever held Eight years later, thousands of investors on bank balance sheets.
have lent more than 6 billion to over We have attracted a diverse mix of investors, drawn by our 60,000 small businesses and Funding competitive rates of return, including more than 85,000 Circle is recognised as the leading small individuals, banks, asset management companies, insurance companies, and national and supranational entities such as business loan platform in the UK, the US, the British Business Bank, KfW and the European Investment Germany and theNetherlands.
They have remained with us as we have grown loans under management year-on-year.
Funding Circle helps those made to do more Every day I am inspired by the work of our team to help businesses around the world access the finance they need tofulfil their dreams.
These businesses are the unsung heroes of our economy.
From butchers and bakers, to IT consultants and accountants, these are the businesses that are made to do more.
At the end of 2017, loans outstanding at Funding Circle had unlocked 75,000 jobs across the four markets we operate in.
It is our mission to build a better financial world, where small businesses receive the treatment they deserve and access the finance they need in a fast and affordable way, and investors can earn attractive stable returns.
2018 financial highlights 2018 was a strong year for Funding Circle.
Over the period, ourGroup revenue for the year grew 55% excluding property to 141.9 million, exceeding the c. 50% guidance we provided.
It was also pleasing to report a positive segment adjusted EBITDA of 7 million.
Our key drivers of growth are loans under management and originations.
In 2018, loans under management rose 55% year-on-year, exceeding 3 billion.
Loan originations grew 40% to 2.3 billion for the year, and we were especially proud that in 2018 in the UK, net lending 723 million to SMEs through Funding Circle was higher than all UK high street banks combined 515 million.
This is testament to the exceptional customer experience we deliver to both borrowers and investors.
4 Funding Circle Holdings plc Strategic report This exceptional level of service leads to high satisfaction We also want to continue to build on our market leadership scores and strong and consistent repeat behaviour.
I am position in each of the geographies we operate in.
In the proud that in 2018, 43% of our Group revenue came from UK, the US, Germany and the Netherlands, we are the number existing customers.
one online lending platform for SMEs.
However, we remain approximately a 0.5% share of the combined global addressable In October we raised gross proceeds of 300 million through our market and there is significant opportunity to increase this IPO on the London Stock Exchange and were admitted into the substantially over the medium term.
FTSE 250 at the end of the year.
I would like to welcome all of our new shareholders who joined us at the IPO as well as those People are what makes Funding Circle a success that have joined since.
It is fantastic to have you on board.
All of our successes last year would not be possible without the exceptional talent of the Funding Circle team.
Building an open 2018 operational highlights and transparent culture has been critical to us since we first Last year there were record levels of lending across all of our launched the business.
We believe that being a great place to geographies, helping more than 27,000 businesses globally.
work is an end in itself, and it is our aim to be the best FinTech In the UK, we were pleased to welcome a number of new company to work for globally.
We are proud that every employee investors to the platform, including Waterfall Asset Management, in Funding Circle is a shareholder.
In 2018 we were also delighted whoannounced plans to lend 1 billion in the UK over the to be named as the 16th Best UK Company to Work For in The nexttwoyears.
In addition, government and supranational Sunday Times 2018 annual survey.
I am immensely proud of the entities continued to play a valuable role supporting UK small fantastically talented team we have built and I would like to thank businesses.
The European Investment Fund and KfW, the them for all their hard work and commitment.
German Promotional Bank, announced their investment in asecuritisation of loans originated by Funding Circle in May, Brexit and in December the British Business Bank confirmed plans to We recognise the increasing economic uncertainty caused by lend 150 million to UK businesses through the Funding Circle Brexit and we remain vigilant and prepared for the possible SME Income Fund.
Finally in September, we were delighted to outcomes.
Our international operations represent approximately launch Captain Galactic on to peoples screens with our new 30% of our overall business and our UK business is not directly TV advertising campaign.
The campaign is focused on helping affected on a day-to-day operational basis by the prospect those who want to go further with their business and we have ofthe UK leaving the EU.
However, we continue to monitor enjoyed thepositive reaction to it.
macroeconomic indicators for any possible impact on UK SMEs.
Whilst current business insolvencies remain low, we Our international business continues to go from strength to regularly stress test the loanbooks in each of our geographies strength and now represents approximately 30% of our overall to ensure that investor returns would remain resilient in an business.
In the US we delivered record growth in loans under economic downturn.
management to $939 million and originations of $792 million.
And in September we welcomed Alcentra as a new investor, Looking ahead who announced plans to lend $1 billion to US small businesses Our business is in strong condition.
Over the past eight years over the next three years.
we have proven that Funding Circle is a mechanism for Our youngest markets, Germany and the Netherlands, individuals, institutions and governments to channel funds continued their positive trajectory with both businesses through to the real economy and we will continue to support doubling year-on-year and establishing industry leadership small businesses to access the finance they need to grow positions in their markets.
2018 was a milestone year for Funding Circle and I am Our FC2020 strategy humbled by everything we have achieved so far as a company.
At the start of 2018 we launched FC2020, our medium-term But we have big ambitions and are really only just getting strategic plan.
Our goal is to grow our business so that it started.
For 2019 we have set ourselves high targets for becomes an integral and important component of the financing growing our business volumes and diversifying our customer of SMEs globally.
We envisage a financial system where a base further.
This means investing in marketing to build significant proportion of SME funding needs are addressed by customer awareness, and investing in technology to automate online lending platforms, such as Funding Circle.
FC2020 is what we do and continue to enhance our sophisticated risk about how we achieve our exciting and inspiring long-term assessment models.
Over the next 12 months we will also mission over the next few years.
launch new investor products and expand into Canada, The plan is based on four key pillars that focus on how we helping creditworthy Canadian SMEs to access the finance delight our customers: they need to grow and stimulate job creation.
I look forward toupdating you on our progress through 2019.
1 Drive a better borrower experience 2 Invest in modern data, tech and analytics Samir Desai 3 Diversify funding sources Chief Executive Officer 4 Build a highly scalable global business 7 March 2019 Delivering against this plan will lead to a step-change for our business.
We have already made excellent progress against each of the pillars over the last 12 months and we will continue to invest in these areas.
