CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW INTEGRATED SOLUTIONS IN A CONNECTED WORLD Our Secure Solutions business delivered underlying revenue growth of 3% and profit margins rose from 6.2% to 6.5% reflecting the benefits of commercial discipline, service innovation and productivity gains.
As expected, this was offset by the effect of challenging trading conditions in a number of Cash Solutions markets and a strong comparative performance in Retail Cash Solutions in 2017.
Overall, the Group delivered underlying earnings in line with the previous year.
Our sales wins in the second half of 2018 have underpinned a good start to the year and this, together with growing ASHLEY ALMANZA, Group Chief Executive Officer technology-enabled services in both our cash and security businesses, supports a positive outlook for 2019.
STRATEGIC CONTEXT Since 2013, underlying revenues have Our customers operate in an increasingly grown by 18% and Adjusted EPS connected world and this trend is set to continue by 56%, while we have generated 7.3bn driven by global investment in infrastructure, operating cash flow of nearly 3 billion.
communications, technology and artificial The Groups strong cash generation intelligence and data applications.
The rapid Underlying revenue in 2018 growth in connectivity brings substantial social and has enabled us to invest in technology economic benefits.
It also creates complex risks and pay dividends of more than 850 and threats for our customers and we continue to million.
At the same time, we have invest in the people, skills and technology needed invested in the successful development 546,000 to provide our customers with the industry-leading of products and services for our solutions that help them to operate safely, reliably and efficiently in a connected world.
Employees customers and strengthened the Groups balance sheet.
Central to our customer value proposition is our understanding of our customers objectives and The Group is reviewing separation our assessment of their opportunities, risks and options for the Global Cash Division.
Over the past five years we have invested 90 in the skills and organisational capacity required to We believe that a separation has the provide professional assessments that provide the clear potential to enhance the focus and Countries of operation foundation for the innovative solutions that we across six continents success of both the Secure Solutions design and deliver in both Secure Solutions and and the Cash Solutions businesses and Cash Solutions.
to unlock substantial shareholder value.
We believe that G4S has considerable competitive advantage in our increasingly connected world.
G4S possesses the scale, resources and capabilities necessary to develop and deliver the innovative solutions needed by our customers, and our unique global market positions enable us to offer this to customers on a consistent basis across the globe.
We are not complacent about our competitive advantage and have continued to invest in the people, skills and technology needed to be an industry leader and to offer and deliver an outstanding value proposition to our customers.
Im pleased to say that, despite tough trading conditions in 2018, these investments are delivering benefits for customers and shareholders 2 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 STAKEHOLDER CONSIDERATIONS FOR THE SEPARATION REVIEW In evaluating the rationale for the separation, the directors will consider the potential benefits to all stakeholders including customers, employees, shareholders and the communities in which we operate.
We believe that separation would produce enhanced strategic, commercial and operational focus and that this has the potential to strengthen innovation, customer service and margins.
Our aim is to create two strong independent companies each being an exciting, rewarding and fulfilling business in which to work.
in many of our key markets.
The board and executive andCash Solutions that enabled us to create the team are excited by our plans to extend these Global Cash Division and to consolidate Secure services across the Group as a whole.
Solutions into four regions in January 2018.
This paved the way for the separation review that we PROGRESS WITH THE GROUPS announced in December 2018.
TRANSFORMATION SEPARATION REVIEW The transformation programme we launched at the Following the establishment of our Global Cash end of 2013 has continued to deliver substantial Solutions division on 1 January 2018, the board benefit in a number of important areas: announced in December 2018 that the company Values and Culture: We have established and is reviewing options for the separation of the Cash promoted simple and clear corporate values Solutions business from the Group.
The company has that build a culture based on Integrity, Respect, appointed accounting, legal, tax, financial and other Safety, Security, Service Excellence, Innovation advisors and is evaluating a wide range of separation and Teamwork.
Our regular management options, both public and private, with the aim of and employee engagement surveys show that maximising shareholder value, having due regard for employees positively identify with these G4S values the interests of customers, employees, pensioners, see page 6. partners and other key stakeholders.
Health & Safety: We have invested in people, In parallel with the review, the company is taking training and systems and the Groups fatalities steps to enable it to commence the process of have significantly reduced over the past six years.
separation in the second half of the year.
A final Anyfatality is one too many and zero harm decision on separation may be subject to approval remains our goal.
by shareholders following a recommendation by the Focus: The implementation of our portfolio board.
The date of a potential shareholder meeting programme has improved our strategic, is yet to be fixed and is subject to the timing and commercial and operational focus and produced completion of a number of key work-streams.
Thecompany expects to provide a detailed update at Financial performance: Since 2013 the Groups the half year results in August.
underlying revenues have increased by 18% and In the event of separation, we believe that the underlying earnings per share have increased successor security and cash management businesses by56%.
will be very well positioned to sustain their leading Financial strength and dividends: The balance market positions by investing in growth plans for sheet has been strengthened and 850 million theircore products, services and solutions.
The individends have been paid to shareholders.
separation review will therefore include potential Innovation: We have developed new products portfolio actions to further improve the focus and and services which integrate our security financial flexibility of the successor Groups in the personnel, risk consulting, technology and data event of separation.
analysis to provide our customers with innovative, Since announcing the separation review, the Group industry leading solutions that address their has received unsolicited expressions of interest in security or cash management needs.
The Groups acquiring the Global Cash Solutions and or Retail technology-enabled revenues have grown over Cash Solutions businesses.
Whilst all credible thepast six years to 2.8 billion for 2018.
This proposals will be evaluated by the board, no is having a positive impact on our revenue mix, assurance can be provided at this stage that any of more than offsetting the effects of competition these expressions of interest will lead to a proposal or inmanned security services.
transaction and the Group will continue to vigorously Organisational capability: We developed the pursue all strategic options.
strengthand depth of organisational resource, capability and controls in each of Secure Solutions Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 3 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED SECURE SOLUTIONS STRATEGY, CASH SOLUTIONS STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND OUTLOOK PERFORMANCE AND OUTLOOK STRATEGY: STRATEGY: Our purpose is to create sustainable value by Our strategy is to provide industry leading software, delivering industry leading, technology-enabled hardware, systems and services that improve the security solutions and outstanding service for security, control and efficiency of our customers cash ourcustomers.
We deliver services including: Our Secure Solutions strategy addresses the positive, Cash Technology services comprising: long-term demand for security services.
We do this Cash technology focused on the efficient by designing and delivering industry leading security management of cash, including Retail solutions including: Cash Solutions, the leading software and service solution for large retail formats in Risk consulting.
Premium on-site, mobile and remote security Deposita, CASH360 and G4S Pay solutions for professionals.
medium and small retail formats.
Integrated security systems: design, build, operate and maintain.
Conventional Cash services including Cash in transit CIT, cash processing and automated teller Monitoring and response security operations.
Data analytics and pre-emptive & predictive security operations.
In order to achieve economies of scale, we have built number one or number two positions in 41 of the 44 We operate in over 90 countries around the countries in which we operate.
In all of these markets, world, providing our customers with unmatched a very large share of the overall cash handling and global coverage.
cash management market remains in the hands of banks, retailers and other businesses whose primary PERFORMANCE AND OUTLOOK function is not cash handling.
We believe that these banks and businesses will continue to outsource cash During 2018, our Secure Solutions business delivered management services to G4S.
Despite tightening labour supply and intense competition in manned Our improving unit economics, the strength of security services in some geographies, our commercial our market positions and our innovative cash and discipline, productivity programmes, growing payment technology give us confidence that G4S technology-enabled security revenues meant that we Cash Solutions is well positioned to play a leading role strengthened our Adjusted PBITA margin in all four in the next wave of cash management outsourcing.
regions and the overall Secure Solutions Adjusted We have a market leading position in the large PBITA margin rose from 6.2% to 6.5%.
retailer segment in the United States and we are one of the market leaders globally in the small and midsize business market segments.
Our technology is delivering significant savings for our customers and provides a valuable higher marginannuity revenue stream for G4S.
Market penetration is low at this stage and we therefore see substantial potential for further growth.
Indeed we believe that our cash technology services have the clear potential to produce profits greater than the profits from the Groups conventional cash services in the medium term.
4 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 PERFORMANCE AND OUTLOOK The Group has continuously updated its standard operating procedures in California and there are During 2018, we continued to experience very no other significant labour claims in California or good demand for our cash solutions technology and elsewhere in the United States.
A more detailed the number of bank and business locations that we review of the statutory results can be found on servegrew from 19,800 locations to 23,300 locations.
page 44, and a reconciliation to underlying results is In North America, our operational scale grew in provided on page 50.
Retail Cash Solutions, resulting in our Adjusted PBITA margin growing to c. 15% 2017: 11% for OUTLOOK thisbusiness.
Our sales wins in the second half of 2018 have In 2017, the Retail Cash Solutions business posted underpinned a good start to 2019.
Our growing very strong revenue growth as we mobilised a large technology-enabled services in both our cash cash technology and services contract in North andsecurity businesses, support the Groups America.
Whilst we had a number of significant positiveoutlook.
contract wins in 2018, we did not have a similar mobilisation to that in 2017, leading to a reduction We believe the potential separation of the Cash in Cash Solutions revenues of 9.3%.
Adjusted PBITA Solutions business could provide G4S with the fell by 17.1% reflecting the impact of ATM and bank strategic, commercial and operational focus needed branch closures in a number of markets and higher for the next stage of successful development of security costs in Africa principally South Africa, both the Cash Solutions and the Secure Solutions partially offset by a 5 million benefit from the early businesses.
Combining technology with our completion of a bullion centre contract in the UK.
established security offerings is strengthening our Excluding Retail Cash Solutions, Cash Solutions sales mix and contract retention, whilst the rapid revenues grew by 0.5%.
development of our cash technology business has the clear potential to deliver profits greater than the With the trends highlighted above, we believe good global profits of our traditional cash business in the growth opportunities exist in all of our markets where medium term.
we possess the infrastructure, technology, licenses and track record of reliable and efficient delivery, for Our business plan reflects our commitment to remain banks and retailers to outsource more of their cash soundly financed with operating cash flow conversion management activity to G4S.
In addition, we expect of more than 100% of Adjusted PBITA and net our network and operational efficiency programmes debt to EBITDA of below 2.5x in the medium term.
to be accretive to profits through 2019 and 2020.
Priorities for excess cash will be investment, dividends and, in the near term, further leverage reduction.
GROUP PERFORMANCE AND OUTLOOK The board has proposed to maintain the final dividend at 6.11p DK 0.5321.
Our policy is to PERFORMANCE increase the dividend in line with the long-term growth in earnings.
Underlying results Group revenues increased 1.1% and Adjusted PBITA CUSTOMERS AND EMPLOYEES was in line with the prior year at 474 million.
Our customers and our colleagues are at the core The Groups adjusted earnings per share was of G4S.
I would like to thank our customers for unchanged at 16.7 pence per share.
Operating continuing to place their trust in G4S and to pay cash flow in 2018 was 96% of Adjusted PBITA tribute to our 546,000 colleagues who serve our 2017:107%.
The Groups net debt to Adjusted customers every day.
EBITDA at the year end was 2.7x 2017: 2.4x.
Statutory results ASHLEY ALMANZA Revenue declined by 4.0% and earnings per share Group Chief Executive Officer was down by 65.4%.
In January 2019, we announced that we had reached settlement of a class action suit relating to claims for meal and rest breaks under California law, covering approximately 13,500 employees over the period 2001 and 2010.
A provision and specific item for 100 million addressing the California claim has been reflected in the 2018 results.
The cash outflow in respect of the settlement is expected to be made in the second half of 2019.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 5
