10 Galliford Try plc Chief Executives review A strategy for sustainable growth The Group continues to deliver strong underlying performance and we are making good progress against our growth plans to 2021.
Following the successful rights issue, we have a robust balance sheet to support our planned growth.
Peter Truscott Chief Executive 0.11 Accident Frequency Rate 5.0bn order book The business continued to work through its Performance Implementing our strategy legacy contracts, which had a lower impact Each of our three businesses further improved Last year, we set out a three-part strategy on margins this year.
However, following the performance this year.
to drive operating efficiencies, maintain compulsory liquidation of Carillion and a capital discipline and operate sustainably.
reassessment of the likely out-turn of the Linden Homes continued to prioritise We continued to make progress on all fronts AWPR joint venture, we have incurred margin growth and benefited from further and have updated our targets to reflect this, further exceptional charges totalling 45.0m, standardisation and robust control of as set out on pages 14 to 15. as we previously indicated would be the case.
This enabled it to increase As at the date of this report, the vast majority profitability in a year with modest house price Driving operating efficiencies of the AWPR is complete, with significant inflation.
The business also grew volumes in We continued to make the business more sections of the road open to traffic, and other line with its plan, in a housing market that efficient during the year, reflecting our focus legacy contracts have also completed on site.
remains supported by Help to Buy, good on streamlining and simplifying our operations The final section of AWPR is expected to be mortgage availability and the cut in stamp duty across the Group.
We continue to for first-time buyers.
The land market is In Linden Homes, we increased our use of work with our clients to finalise the accounts favourable, allowing us to buy land at robust standardised house types and reduced on these contracts.
margins, in the right locations for our overheads as a proportion of revenue, standardised product.
At the year end, There are shortages in parts of the supply demonstrating our ability to grow volumes the business had an order book of 366m chain, particularly for some masonry products, without a proportionate increase in costs.
but in general we are seeing a dampening of Partnerships & Regeneration has continued to cost inflation, reflecting more subdued Partnerships & Regeneration is seeing strong invest in people and land to expand its growth growth in the wider economy.
demand, resulting in a record year for revenue platform and is delivering excellent results in and operating profit.
The business is also both its established and newer businesses.
Capital raising benefiting from its expansion into Bristol and Construction remains focused on improving Southampton last year and its new office in the its operations in a number of areas, all of which The Group has a strong focus on maintaining East Midlands.
Its margin progression in the support its margin progression.
In addition, prudent financing, which was why we had the year was largely driven by higher mixed-tenure we continue to ensure we have a lean overhead financial strength to manage the additional revenues, and the business ability to work in at Group level.
However, Carillions long-term partnering arrangements with failure increased the financial obligations on Maintaining capital discipline clients is also benefiting contracting margins.
We therefore faced the choice The rights issue has reinforced our platform Partnerships & Regeneration is also carrying of reducing investment in the business or for growth but, in an uncertain world, we will out more land-led contracting, where we raising additional capital.
Recognising that the always prioritise the quality of revenue over build for a third party on land we control.
underlying performance and potential of the the quantity, and this will influence how we business was strong, we concluded that the The underlying Construction business is allocate capital within the Group.
Our belief is best thing for all our stakeholders was to raise performing well and it continues to see a that margins in the construction industry need new equity through a fully underwritten rights pipeline of suitable opportunities, although to rise to ensure contractors are adequately issue.
We were delighted with an excellent some larger public sector projects have been rewarded for the risk they take on, and we take-up of the issue, and grateful to our existing slower than expected to come to fruition.
will allow some shrinkage in the business and new shareholders for the strong support if suitable opportunities are not available.
Further details of the Similarly, in Linden Homes, we will always rights issue are set out in the Financial review put margin ahead of scale.
Our business Strategic review Business review Governance Financial information Annual Report and 11 Financial Statements 2018 Group highlights Although we had sufficient financial resources to meet our obligations, this Very strong performance, reflecting the Q A would have involved diverting capital excellent progress made towards strategy away from our business plans, reducing to 2021. our ability to take advantage of the Why did you opt for a 6,193 new homes built by Linden Homes and material growth opportunities we would capital raise after the Partnerships & Regeneration 2017: 5,490. otherwise be well positioned to exploit.
Sales order books in Linden Homes and This applies in particular to our Partnerships & Regeneration robust at Linden Homes and Partnerships & 526m 2017: 450m.
Regeneration businesses, where we plan volume growth from existing Successful one for three rights issue in April and new geographies, strategic land 2018 resulting in net proceeds of 150m.
opportunities and increased investment Average net debt of 227m excluding the in the provision of mixed-tenure housing.
See Strategy p14 and Financial review p26 Full year dividend payment of 77.0p per share 2017 restated: 86.0p, covered 2.0x by pre-exceptional profits.
Pre-exceptional return on net assets improved to 29.2% from 27.5%.
To maximise capital efficiency, we also want to Regrettably, the Company was found guilty Our culture is also key to making us a great control no more land than is necessary.
In the in regard to an incident at the Tarporley place to work.
Devolving decision-making is past, faced with an inefficient and unpredictable Wastewater Treatment Works in 2015. empowering our people, making them planning system, housebuilders naturally Our first priority as a business is to ensure responsible for their own businesses and required larger landbanks to ensure that that everyone goes home safely at the end their own decisions.
Our employee survey sufficient schemes with planning consent came of each day.
As a result, we have reviewed gives us a valuable insight into what we are through each year.
While the planning process our already rigorous health and safety doing well and where we need to improve.
remains too slow, improvements achieved procedures and policies and continue to The survey had a 73% response rate, well through the National Planning Policy stress the importance of following them.
above the average of 51% for companies of Framework have significantly alleviated this our size.
We were also accredited by Best We strive to consistently meet the needs issue, which has allowed us to set our target Companies as One to Watch.
of our customers and clients.
Linden Homes for our landbank at 3.5 years.
The challenge retained its four-star National House Building Outlook for the government is to make the planning Council NHBC customer satisfaction rating, process more efficient, if it is to reach its Market conditions are generally good across while Partnerships & Regeneration and ambition for more than 300,000 new homes our businesses but we recognise that there Construction continued to generate high to be delivered each year.
are risks to the UK economy as we leave the levels of repeat business through strong EU.
Our strong balance sheet means we can Operating sustainably client relationships.
However, we recognise continue to grow but it is essential that we Longer-term value creation requires us to that customer and client expectations are maintain our capital discipline and strive to balance our financial performance with our rising and that we need to further improve make each of our businesses as efficient as obligations to all our stakeholders.
possible, so we can drive performance include our clients, customers and employees, through self-help.
Having the right people is fundamental and to and the communities and environment in succeed in the long term, we need to attract which we operate.
In summary, we remain confident that our and retain a more diverse workforce, which in strategy to 2021 is the right one for the Health and safety remains our top priority turn requires us to adapt how we work, so we Group and we remain on track to reach our and we were pleased to reduce our Accident can appeal to the broadest range of potential adjusted financial targets.
Frequency Rate to 0.11 from 0.12 in 2017. employees.
Our approach to smart working, We are investing in new tools to support using digital communication tools to reduce training, as well as our industry-leading travel to meetings, is reaping benefits.
Our Peter Truscott Challenging Beliefs, Affecting Behaviour people spend less time travelling, so they have Chief Executive safety programme.
One of our most significant better worklife balance and more time to be programmes this year is Be Well, which productive, while also reducing our costs and supports our peoples wellbeing and mental carbon emissions.
In the first year, we have health.
We believe it is industry-leading and made significant savings in travel costs alone.
it has already won a number of awards.
From Smart working in turn supports agile working, 1 July 2018, we have realigned the health and which gives our people flexibility over when, safety team to match our business structure where and how they work.
This year we and allow our businesses the flexibility to launched an agile working initiative.
The case tailor their management of health and safety study on page 45 explains more about this to their own needs.
We continue to set policy important initiative.
and minimum standards at a Group level.
