18 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW DELIVERING STRONG 2018 was another strong year for Genus, as the Group made substantial positive progress with THE LAUNCH OF implementing its strategy and achieved a good financial SEXCEL WAS A performance.
The launch of Sexcel, 9% PARTICULAR our innovative and proprietary bovine sexed genetics product, and the start HIGHLIGHT OF Adjusted profit before tax increase in of sales of our IntelliGen technology constant currency THE YEAR to third parties, were particular highlights of the year.
KARIM BITAR CHIEF EXECUTIVE Group Performance The Group performed positively, with 12% results in line with our expectations.
Revenue and adjusted profit before Adjusted operating profit growth in tax rose by 6% and 9% respectively, constant currency excluding gene editing costs in constant currency terms.
Our medium-term target is to generate double-digit compound growth in adjusted operating profit, in constant currency and excluding gene editing costs.
Our growth in this key measure was 12% in 2018.
Currency movements presented a modest headwind.
Revenue in actual currency rose by 2% and adjusted profit before tax was 4% higher.
Genus PIC delivered another robust performance, with adjusted operating profit including joint ventures increasing by 5% in constant currency.
PIC benefited from growth in Europe, both organically and through last years acquisition and partnership with Hermitage, and higher profits in Latin America.
Genus plc | Annual Report 2018 S TR ATE G I C C OR P OR AT E F I NAN C I AL AD D I T I O final 19 R E P OR T G O V E R NAN C E S TAT EM EN T S IN F OR M AT I ON Profits in Asia were stable, as team, and will benefit from PICs People growthin genetic sales was offset by leadership in genetic improvement.
Genus depends on the skills, talents reduced farm margins in China, after and dedication of its people and I exceptionally high pig prices in the prior In Dairy, our majority owned fide Novo want to thank all of my colleagues year.
Performance in NorthAmerica Genetics joint venture delivered 54% around the world for their contribution showed modest growth, despite the of our Holstein bulls which came into to another successful year.
impact of PRRSv infections in the production this year, up from 23% in second half of the year at some of 2017, enabling us to create our industry Toward the end of 2017, we ran our the Groups farms.
The infections leading pipeline of young bulls.
Sexcel third global employee engagement have now been eradicated.
was successfully launched, with sales survey, achieving a record response ahead of our expectations.
The survey showed that our people Genus ABS rebounded strongly in delivering a great on-farm experience, are highly engaged, with a strong 2018, following the successful launch of with materially better conception rates understanding of our vision, strategy, Sexcel in September 2017 and actions than alternative products.
We have also values and our role in pioneering animal taken last year to sharpen execution.
secured third-party technology licensing genetic improvement.
The survey ABS Dairy had a strong year, while ABS and supply deals in Norway and India also helped us identify a number of Beef made encouraging progress in its under the IntelliGen brand.
We continue areas for continuous improvement strategic initiatives.
Overall, Genus ABS to vigorously defend our position in the in our communication and people increased adjusted operating profits US courts against ST. We have filed management.
More information can less non-controlling interest by 29% in Inter-Partes Reviews at the US Patent be found on page 37 of this report.
constant currency, with growth being and Trademark Office, seeking to revoke strongest in Europe and Asia while six patents ST has asserted against us, Outlook profits in North America reduced, as we and have also filed a Motion to Dismiss The Groups established business invested in our key account sales force.
and Counterclaims in the Federal Court.
model, global market position and product strength, together with our As planned, we continued to increase Our PRRSv resistance programme made proven strategy based on delivering Group investment in R&D, which is further progress, with the first batches value to customers through innovation, delivering strong rates of genetic gain of elite gene edited piglets born during position Genus well to achieve its and generating a robust product pipeline.
Along with future batches of medium-term growth objective.
In In total, R&D investment rose by 13% in successfully edited piglets, they will be the short term, Genuss customers constant currency.
This included further the founders of our gene edited herd, face a more challenging external growth in the gene editing expense, which we will monitor and assess for environment due to growing barriers as we continue to advance the PRRSv technical and regulatory purposes.
to international trade and the recent resistance programme see below.
In addition, US and European patent spread of African Swine Fever to China.
grants have strengthened our ability Notwithstanding this uncertainty, Strategic Progress to protect our intellectual property.
Genus anticipates further financial Genus successfully implemented and strategic progress in 2019. a number of important strategic We commenced some important developments during the year.
In investments during the year in the Karim Bitar porcine, we formed a strategic Groups infrastructure, which will Chief Executive partnership with Mllevang, one position us well for the long-term.
5 September 2018 of Denmarks leading pig-breeding GenusOne is a programme to replace companies.
This became effective on our multiple existing dated business 2 July 2018 and will see us combine systems over the next three years our complementary supply chains, with a single global modern enterprise sales and marketing infrastructure system.
In addition, in June 2018 we and genetics.
We will strengthen the were able to secure land in Wisconsin PIC product offering by increasing to meet our requirements for longgenetic diversity, along with offering term bull housing, which will be built customers globally superior genetics out over the next several years.
Lastly, producers in Denmark will have access to PICs products and global technical services Genus plc | Annual Report 2018
