03 GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information CEOs statement In 2018, GSK made significant progress against our long-term priorities of Innovation, Performance and Trust, underpinned by a continuing shift in culture.
We delivered improved operating performance, started to strengthen Expected proceeds from the disposal will be used to reduce our Pharmaceuticals pipeline, particularly in oncology, and undertook debt and increase our investment flexibility.
several significant transactions to support our strategy and reshape In December, we also announced the formation of a Consumer the Groups portfolio.
Our focus for 2019 will be sustained delivery of Healthcare JV with Pfizer.
When completed, this would create this progress and, in particular, continued development of the pipeline.
a new global leader in Consumer Healthcare.
The proposed 2018 performance transaction also supports our key priority to strengthen the Pharmaceuticals business by increasing cash flows.
And with Group sales were 30.8 billion, up 2% at actual exchange rates our intention to separate we have set a clear direction for the AER and up 5% at constant exchange rates CER.
Sales growth Group with the ultimate aim of creating two exceptional UK-based, was driven by new products.
The standout continues to be Shingrix, global companies.
One, a Pharmaceuticals Vaccines company, our vaccine for shingles, which had sales of 784 million a with an R&D approach focused on science related to the immune remarkable launch year for the vaccine.
Our HIV medicines also system, human genetics and advanced technologies.
The other, continued to grow with sales of 4.4 billion for our dolutegravira new world-leading Consumer Healthcare company.
And in respiratory we continued to build our new portfolio with sales of 2.6 billion, including good performances Building Trust from Trelegy Ellipta our new three-in-one medicine for chronic Trust is the third long-term priority I set out alongside Innovation obstructive pulmonary disease COPD and Nucala, our biologic and Performance and is vitally important to me and all employees medicine for severe asthma.
In 2018, we set out new commitments to build Trust with Total Group operating margin was 17.8%, up 4.3 percentage points a strong focus on three principal areas: using our science and AER and 5.0 percentage points CER.
Adjusted Group operating technology to address health needs, making our products more margin was 28.4%, flat AER and up 0.5 percentage points CER.
affordable and available, and being a modern employer.
Total earnings per share more than doubled to 73.7p AER and We are committed to providing access to our medicines and CER, and Adjusted earnings per share were up 7% AER, 12% vaccines across the world, and I was pleased that we once again CER at 119.4p.
topped the Access to Medicines Index.
I was also delighted to see We remain focused on controlling costs and cash generation the approval of tafenoquine for P. vivax malaria and the encouraging and I was very pleased that free cash flow was significantly data we published on our potential vaccine for tuberculosis TB, improved at 5.7 billion, up 63% in actual terms compared with which remains the leading cause of death through infectious 2017.
We delivered on our expectation of paying an 80p per share disease worldwide.
dividend in 2018 and expect to pay 80p per share in 2019.
We also continue to drive a necessary shift in culture towards Strengthening the pipeline one that is focused on performance and based on living our values patient focus, transparency, respect and integrity and expectations I have consistently said our key priority is to strengthen the courage, accountability, development and teamwork.
Employee Pharmaceuticals pipeline to develop the next generation of medicines engagement is key to the progress we are making here, and our for patients, and 2018 demonstrated good progress against this people are encouraged to share their views and ideas on key topics objective, particularly in oncology.
By advancing key internal assets 1 through regular conversations hosted by our leaders, including as well as targeted business development, we will have 16 oncology myself and my executive team.
assets in clinical development double the number we had at the start of 2018.
Our acquisition of Tesaro added a major new product 2019 will be an important year for GSK as we continue to strengthen to our portfolio, Zejula, which is approved for use in ovarian cancer our Pharmaceuticals pipeline, execute on our announced transactions, and we see strong development prospects for this product and the and sustain improved operating performance, particularly as we other assets acquired in this transaction.
We are pleased that we navigate the introduction of generic Advair in the US, for which will be adding to our portfolio with our proposed global alliance we have anticipated and prepared.
We will remain vigilant in what with Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany to co-develop and is a dynamic operating environment and continue to invest in our co-commercialise a novel immunotherapy asset.
long-term priorities, so that we can bring benefits to the patients and consumers that we serve.
In 2019, we expect major data readouts and other significant newsflow on several new medicines.
We expect pivotal data Finally, I want to sincerely thank all of our customers, suppliers, from three oncology assets which all have potential to be launched investors and employees for their support and hard work in 2018 in the next two years.
We also expect an approval decision from the and I look forward to our continued partnership for an exciting US Food & Drug Administration FDA for dolutegravir lamivudine year ahead.
and FDA filings for two other new medicines in HIV, a phase III start for a new treatment for rheumatoid arthritis, and results of a pivotal respiratory study to support filing of Trelegy Ellipta for use in asthma.
Accelerating our strategy and reshaping our business In line with our capital allocation priorities, through 2018 we Emma Walmsley undertook a series of transactions to accelerate our strategy Chief Executive Officer and reshape our business.
In June, we acquired full ownership of our Consumer Healthcare business by buying out Novartis minority stake, and in December we reached agreement with 1 Includes M7824, the subject of the proposed alliance with Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Unilever to divest Horlicks and other consumer nutrition products.
Germany, expected to close in Q1 2019.
