Chief Executive Officers review We have delivered both record Adjusted EBITDA andsignificant cash returns to shareholders in 2018.
With our attractive commodities and high margin assets, we look to the future with confidence fromsanctions imposed on DanGertler, Katangas deliberations with Gcamines over the required recapitalisation of its main operatingsubsidiary see note 33, anew mining code introduced in 2018 and the recent appearance ofexcess levels ofuranium in the cobalt hydroxide being produced atKatanga.
Katanga resolved the matter with Gcamines in a constructive manner, while after careful consideration of itslegal and commercial options and obligations to a broad stakeholder universe, Glencore settled its dispute with the various entities affiliated with Dan Gertler, in a manner that sought to appropriately address all applicable obligations and concerns.
In contravention of the applicable stabilisation protections afforded by the previous mining code, the new mining code includes significant A record performance in a Industrial metals bore the brunt immediate changes to royalties, challenging environment ofincreasingly negative sentiment various taxation requirements and We are pleased to report that we inthe second half, although repatriation of profits.
Given the legal have delivered both record Adjusted average2018 prices were generally risks of non-compliance, our DRC EBITDA and significant cash returns higher year-on-year, e. g. nickel subsidiaries are currently complying to shareholders in 2018.
26%, thermal coal 22% and copper with the new code under protest.
While most commodities We hope to be able to negotiate a Reflecting the strength of our ended theyear materially lower reasonable resolution with the DRC uniquely diversified business model thanwherethey started, thermal government on various key issues and commitment of our people, coal wasbroadly unchanged, during 2019, but remain willing to weachieved these results in a asdemand for high quality coals take the necessary steps to protect challenging operating environment, remained robust against a backdrop our legal rights.
marked by deteriorating market of limited reinvestment in supply.
sentiment as well as some company In early July, a Glencore subsidiary specific challenges.
Notwithstanding the volatility in received a subpoena from the United commodity prices, like previous States Department of Justice DOJ The prospect of synchronised years, underlying demand for to produce documents and other globaleconomic growth greeted ourkeycommodities remained records with respect to compliance thestart of 2018, supporting positive generally healthy throughout with the Foreign Corrupt Practices commodity fundamentals and theyear.
Act and United States money prices.
However, by the end of H1 and laundering statutes.
A committee into Q3, a strong US dollar, increased The year also brought specific comprising only Independent volatility and heightened US trade challenges for Glencore, Non-Executive Directors, led by policy tension, began to weigh on commencingin the form of a ourChairman, TonyHayward, is broader markets, with widespread number of issues at ourcopper overseeing theCompanys response concern around sustainability of andcobalt operations inthe to the DOJinvestigation.
We take Chinese growth also resurfacing.
Democratic Republic of Congo ethics andcompliance seriously DRC, including those arising andarecooperating with the DOJ.
4 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information As one of the worlds Our well positioned Creating largest diversified portfolio includes long-term, resourcecompanies we copper, cobalt, zinc, sustainable have a keyrole in enabling vanadium and nickel returns for thetransition to a low-carbon economy shareholders: Our commodities We aim to prioritise capex underpin the towards commodities infrastructure and essential to the energy chemistry needed and mobility transition for a low-carbon world We are committed to enabling the transition toa low-carbon economy Page 20 Commodity fundamentals Our performance reflects our Enhancing corporate stillpositive continuing efforts to maximise governanceand sustainability Post the peak in mining sector andoptimise the cash generating We recently established an Ethics, capexsome six years ago, sector capability of our unique business Compliance and Culture committee reinvestment has remained limited, model.
to provide oversight and leadership the growth capex pipeline has of the Groups key ethics, compliance, Our Marketing business reported contracted and the demand culture and governance matters.
Adjusted EBIT of $2.4 billion, down backdrop has been solid.
Reasonable The new committee will assume This underpinned favourable market conditions in our Energy responsibility for implementing the fundamentals for a number of our Products and Metals and Minerals new Corporate Governance Code, key commodities, including copper, businesses were hampered by a including, amongst other matters, nickel and thermal coal.
In the case basis risk hedging breakdown assessing and monitoring our of our key base metals, inventory related to alumina sourcing into cultureto ensure alignment with drawdowns have reduced stockpiles medium-term % LME linked legacy ourpurpose, values and strategy.
to record lows in some instances.
sales contracts as well as cobalt We have continued to strengthen market challenges in H2 2018.
As we move through 2019, should our controls and made substantial market supply side data prove Looking ahead, we maintain our investments to enhance our correct, inventory drawdowns are long-term Marketing Adjusted EBIT compliance programme across likely to continue beyond already guidance range of $2.2 to $3.2 billion.
In this regard, we were critical levels for some commodities, We are confident of an improved disappointed by the conduct that in the absence of a material year-over-year performance, ledto Katangas settlement with demandslow-down.
Glencore is working with themiddle of our guidance range.
Katanga to implement the various Strong financial performance changes to improve its reporting Industrial Adjusted EBITDA of Higher average commodity andcontrol functions and to $13.3billion in 2018 was 15% higher pricesin2018 underpinned an addresssome cultural failures than 2017.
Our asset portfolio 8%increase in Adjusted EBITDA thatcontributed to this conduct.
continued to deliver overall to$15.8billion.
Net income before competitive all-in unit costs which, Our commitment to operate significant itemsrose 5% to $5.8 billion, despite some minor production transparently and responsibly whilesignificant items reduced challenges during the year, allowed isreflected in our ambition to Netprofit attributable to equity the Company to capitalise on integrate sustainability throughout holders to $3.4billion, mainly due to healthyaverage commodity prices every aspect of our business.
non-cash impairments of $1.6 billion, and generate attractive margins.
Thisisakey strategic priority primarilyreflecting impairments fortheGroup.
ofthe carrying values of our Mutandaand Mopani assets.
Glencore Annual Report 2018 5 Chief Executive Officers review continued This commitment to sustainability agreed steps to further our 49% of Rio Tintos Hunter also encompasses our desire to commitment to the transition ValleyOperations thermal coal uphold respect for human rights, toalow-carbon economy.
withYancoal retaining 51%, protect the wellbeing of our people, gainingaccess to sizeable high As one of the worlds largest our host communities and the quality energy coal resources, diversified resource companies, we natural environment, while sharing operatorship and marketing rights have a key role to play in enabling lasting benefits with the regions transition to a low-carbon economy.
82% of Rio Tintos interest in where we work and society as theHail Creek mainly coking awhole.
We do this through our wellcoalmine positioned portfolio that includes Sadly, we recorded thirteen fatalities copper, cobalt, nickel, vanadium and 78% in ALE Combustiveis at ouroperations in 2018, an increase zinc commodities that underpin ALE, Brazils fourth largest on 2017.
This is disappointing and energy and mobility transformation.
We have created anew position with oversight and We believe this transition is a Chevrons South African and responsibility for all of Glencores keypart of the global response Botswana mid down-stream oil industrial mining assets and have totheincreasing risks posed business funded already in the appointed Peter Freyberg to this role.
byclimatechange, which must two-stage process, with final Peter brings a wealth of operational pursue the twin objectives of both ownership transfer expected experience from his management limiting temperatures in line with toGlencore in H1 2019 ofour coal assets and will focus his thegoals of the Paris Agreement Non-core disposals during the attention on co-ordinating our goals andsupporting the United Nations yearincluded our Tahmoor coal of producing safely, productively Sustainable Development Goals, mine and our interest in the andsustainably.
Our goal remains including universal access to Mototolo platinum operation one of zero fatalities.
Both Hail Creek and HVO have We have also made progress on our Conviction to create value beensuccessfully integrated into post-2020 climate change strategy.
In 2018, we complemented ourportfolio and we have identified Following consultation with the ourportfolio with acquisitions some $185 million of managed investor signatories of the Climate andsomenon-core disposals annual cost savings margin Action 100 initiative, we have designed to create long-term improvements to be realised upon valuefor shareholders, a number completion of the restructure plans ofwhich were first announced at these assets.
Theseinclude: high-quality assets are expected toplay an important role within our coal portfolio in the coming years.
Record shareholder cash returns Reflecting the strength of our 2018 announced operating cashflow, we announced distributions andbuybacks $5.2 billion of distributions and buybacks in 2018, comprising a $ $0.20per share $2.84 billion base 5.2bn distribution in respect of 2017 cashflows, $0.32 billion of share trustpurchases and $2 billion ofshare buy-backs.
Minimising our impact onthe environment Consistent with the continued strong cash flow generation 5% seenin2018, we are again reduction in carbon recommending to shareholders emissions intensity a2019 base distribution of $0.20 by2020vs 2016 pershare $2.8 billion, payable intwo equal instalments in 2019.
6 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information This payment comprises a fixed Management changes $1billion pay-out in respect of andsuccession Strategic priorities Marketing activities and a variable 2018 has also been a year of change component of $1.8 billion, in the management of the Group, representing 35% of industrial notably with the retirement of two freecash, compared to our policy ofour longstanding Department minimum of 25%.
Heads, Telis Mistakidis in Copper andStuart Cutler in Ferroalloys, Near-term focus on deleveraging resulting in the most meaningful and shareholder returns implementation of our development Integration of sustainability The dislocation between our current and succession plans since our IPO.
throughout our business share price levels and the prospects, Telis has been succeeded strength and embedded optionality byNicoParaskevas and Stuart by in our business leads us to conclude JasonKluk and Ruan van Schalkwyk.
that it is difficult to find a better With PeterFreybergs appointment investment than buying back to therole of Head of Industrial ourown shares.
Mining Assets, Gary Nagle replaces Outside of our base distribution Peter asHead of Coal Assets, while policy, for the balance of our Japie Fullard succeeds Gary as Maintain a robust and equitycash flows, we currently Headof Ferroalloys assets.
flexible balance sheet envisage prioritising: We wish Telis and Stuart well in Buybacks funded by cash theirretirement.
I look forward generation toworking with our new team andcolleagues in developing our Net funding: focus on consistently business in the coming years and maintaining Readily Marketable nurturing the next generation Inventories RMI at levels below ofleadership at Glencore.
$20 billion Focus on cost control and Net debt: maintain in the Looking forward operational efficiencies $10billion$16 billion guidance We look ahead with confidence, range, while limiting Net debt remaining focused on creating Adjusted EBITDA to around 1x, sustainable long-term value for inthe currentuncertain allour shareholders.
 Reflecting this, and taking account of the illustrative annualised free cash that the business generates Our strategy for a atcurrent spot commodity prices, Ivan Glasenberg sustainable future we announced on 20 February 2019 Chief Executive Officer a new $2 billion buyback program, 28 February 2019 Page 16 which will run until the end of the year.
We will proactively look to top this up in August, or otherwise asmarket conditions support, including automatically from atargeted $1billion of non-core assetdisposals in2019, from arangeof candidate assets.
