STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Facing the future with confidence Air quality and congestion are high on the agenda and we remain resolute in our efforts to demonstrate that buses are the solution Our operating companies to these issues.
The potential impact of the Bus Services Act remains unclear and we continue to monitor developments in Manchester, the first area where there could be changes to the current model.
We believe that working with local authorities in a collaborative, mutually beneficial way is the best solution to deliver desired outcomes for passengers and taxpayers alike.
Our approach in regional bus is to focus on urban areas with growth potential.
We retain our strong customer focus and are proud to have achieved the highest ever passenger satisfaction score of 91% from Transport Focus, including the highest scoresfor punctuality and journey time.
We continue to use technology topromote bus use by making services simpler and more comfortable to use.
The roll out of contactless continues Ireland acrossour regional bus business, accounting for up to 30% of transactions at some of our operators.
Over 2,000 buses have been enabled, with Brighton and Go East Anglia also on track to provide contactless by the end of the year.
The market environment is presenting us with further consolidation and bolt-on acquisition opportunities.
We remain very selective about those which we pursue and are pleased to have acquired Tom Tappin Limited, a small sightseeing operation in Oxford, and East Yorkshire Motor Services EYMS, a larger, wellestablished operator of over 300 buses and coaches.
We are confident that these businesses will contribute positively to our results in the future.
As anticipated, our mileage in London for the year was down by 1% In London, buses are still the most popular means of public reflecting contract tenders.
In this environment, we have focused our efforts on quality, which has helped us to achieve strong transport, carrying 200 million more passenger journeys than all other Transport for London TfL services combined.
We are the Quality Incentive Contract income QICs, and on tight cost control with the development of lean engineering.
This has enabled our largest bus operator in the UK capital with just under a quarter of the market.
Passenger demand in London is decreasing as it is in London bus division to deliver an increased operating profit of In a challenging market environment, our businesses have demonstrated a resilient financial 45.6m 2017: 43.6m with a stable operating margin of 8.3%.
the rest of the country, with more people working from home and performance and delivered an operating profit which is higher than our initial expectations.
Budgetary pressure at TfL is resulting Looking forward, we support the Mayor of Londons aspiration to We are firmly of the view that this is a result of our clear and simple strategy, supported by in a reduction inmileage for operators in London, with TfLs increase the number of trips made on foot, by cycle and by public business plan suggesting a reduction of around 7.5% in mileage our devolved business model and an ethos which seeks to deliver for all of our stakeholders.
transport and believe that buses have a key role to play in over the comingthree years.
London is still an attractive place to run buses, and we believe that as London heads towards a population In regional bus, the industry backdrop for passenger volumes Protect and grow the core of nine million people, population growth in the suburbs will remains challenging with journeys across regional markets in Go-Ahead has been a leading provider of bus and rail services continue to stimulate demand.
England reducing by over 2%, driven largely by local authority topassengers across the UK for over 30 years.
Our core bus cuts, congestion and changes in consumer behaviour.
Our regional operations in London and the UK regions provide us with stable business, with its weighting towards urban areas in the south profits and cash flows, and our UK rail operations generate ofthe country, and with devolved management teams that have Doing the right thing for our Protect and grow the core additional cashflows and high returns on capital.
The first pillar theflexibility and agility to respond effectively to local market ofour strategy is to protect and grow these activities through customers has always been conditions, saw a slightly better performance with a decline astrong, local customer focus, efficient operations and with inlikefor like passenger volumes of 1.6%.
Within this overall acorepart of who we are and appropriate investment in the future.
performance, trends remained mixed across our various markets drives our thinking as we make Win new bus and rail contracts with growth insome areas offset by declines in others.
Our like for Bus like passenger revenues grew by 0.4% and with a continued focus improvements across thebusiness.
Operating profit, pre-exceptional items, in our bus division at on cost efficiencies, our pre-exceptional operating profit of 91.4m 2017: 90.7m was slightly higher than last year, with a 45.8m 2017: 47.1m wasonly slightly below last years level lower result in our regional bus business offset by an increased David Brown, withan operating margin of 11.9% remaining close to industry Develop for the future of transport Group Chief Executive performance in London.
10 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
com 11 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED During the financial year, we began working with logistics Win new bus and rail contracts partnersincluding the commencement of a pilot at our Crawley Our international expansion is a significant part of the second depot to manage deliveries in the area.
Elsewhere, our Hammock 1.2bn 250m 9,500 pillar of our strategy.
Our extensive experience in the UK positions IT consulting business uses existing retail and IT knowledge to us well in international markets.
Our bus contract in Singapore, provide technology solutions to local authorities and other which began operating in September 2016, has continued to customers and has been making good progress, winning two perform well.
We also invested in a 12% stake in Mobileeee, In Ireland, mobilisation of our first contract to operate bus a Frankfurt based, award winning start up toforge environmentally servicesin the outer Dublin area is progressing apace and friendly car sharing schemes.
operations will commence in September 2018.
Similar tothe We are developing Mobility as a Service MaaS in Brighton to Number Annualised PickMeUp structure of bus contracts in London and Singapore, this contract make public transport and not owning a car an easy, clear and will run for five years with a possible extension of two years.
ofannual international registered transparent choice for end-to-end journeys.
We also piloted the passenger revenue users During the financial year, we were pleased to have been awarded UKs first bus ticket system using iBeacons in Southampton Rail asecond bus contract in Ireland for services linking Dublin to journeys secured earlier in the year.
Operating profit in our rail division at 44.5m 2017: 59.9m commuter towns in Offaly, Laois, Kildare and Meath.
These routes will begin operating in early 2019, also on afive-year contract with declined by 25.7% compared to last year.
In July, we launched the Billion Journey Project, a business a possible two-year extension, and will bring the total number of Our London bus business will see a reduction in mileage accelerator programme to partner with scale-up businesses London Midland performed very well during the first six months routes in Ireland up to 30. looking to innovate and improve the experience of travel.
The for2018 19 resulting from TfL budget pressures and some ofthe year prior to the expiry of the franchise and we were very contractlosses towards the end of 2017 18.
The value of our programme, which will initially nurture 10 companies, offers disappointed that we were unsuccessful in our bid to retain the Mobilisation in Germany for the start of three rail contracts in technical assistance and mentorship from our team of transport  for tender in 2018 19 is markedly lower routes under the new West Midlands franchise.
2019is progressing according to plan and we were pleased to than has been the case in the preceding two years and there are experts and aims to support new businesses looking to change havebeen awarded a fourth contract to operate the E-Netz Allgu Southeastern experienced a year on year reduction in passengers and shape the future of transport by focusing on improving good opportunities to win work from competitors during the year.
This new contract will provide regional services and during the first half of the year, impacted by a shift in working passenger experiences.
important links between Munich and Lindau, within the German In rail, our focus is on working with our industry partners to patterns.
This led us to accelerate our efforts to deliver business federal states of Bavaria and Baden-Wrttemberg, on a 12 year deliveran improved service for passengers, particularly for efficiencies which have borne fruit and supported profitability.
Outlook franchise which is due to start in 2021. thosetravelling on services operated by our GTR franchise who During the second half of the year, passenger journeys and Whilst these are challenging times, we are convinced that such experienced severe disruption after the timetable change in May.
revenue growth showed an improvement, boosted by the In total, we have now secured seven contract wins outside the anenvironment can provide opportunities for agile, forward We remain hopeful of winning the new South Eastern franchise resumption of full services through London Bridgestation.
UKwhich are expected to have an annualised turnover of around looking businesses.
The provision of customer focused and and have submitted a deliverable and economically sensible bid.
250m once they are all operating.
We are actively pursuing other At GTR, prior to the introduction of the May timetable changes, efficient publictransport services has an important role to play opportunities in our existing and other targeted markets within We will continue to execute our international strategy with operational performance was steadily improving with higher inlocal communities as an enabler of social and economic activity aclear framework.
International work enriches our market thestart of operations in Dublin and continued mobilisation passenger satisfaction levels on our Thameslink service than at and it is also an answer to congestion and air quality issues.
We knowledge and expertise, and provides further opportunities for inGermany, and we also expect to submit bids for additional any point since 1999 according to the Spring 2018 National Rail are confident that our clear and focused strategy positions us well sharing of experiences and best practices across the Group.
The international contracts in our targeted markets.
Further progress Passenger Satisfaction NRPS survey.
This showed an 86% to address the challenges and capture the opportunities over the goal of generating 15% to 20% of Group profit from international will also be made on our various initiatives around developing for overallsatisfaction rate, an increase of 11 percentage points over long term.
operations by 2022 remains unchanged and we are on a good the future of transport.
The business ethics and values which have always been important For the Group overall, we expect to deliver a robust performance In May, in partnership with the industry, we began the introduction to us are becoming increasingly relevant.
The people we have in in 2018 19, taking into account the expiry of the London Midland of the largest timetable change in decades to provide new routes, our businesses, with our commitment to help them develop, along Develop for the future of transport franchise last year which contributed positively to the first six greater connectivity and increased peak frequency through central with our devolved management structure and forward thinking The third pillar of our strategy revolves around adapting to months of 2017 18.
Weexpect free cashflow generation to be London.
Due mainly to the sheer number of changes required, ethos, help us to keep one step ahead and our strong balance changes in the way people live their lives and how this impacts strong, resulting in afurther reduction in net debt excluding approvals for service alterations being delayed and sometimetable sheet provides us with the financial resources to capture their mobility needs.
We constantly strive to be more relevant to restricted railcash.
requests being amended, there was much less time than originally opportunities and weather short term turbulence.
customers tomorrow than we are today so that we can continue planned to prepare adequately for the new timetable.
We are very Looking forward, we remain confident that we are in a good tofulfil their evolving travel preferences.
A forward thinking Looking to 2018 19, in our regional bus business, we remain sorry for the severe disruption this caused some of our position to deliver long term value for all our stakeholders and approach is key to future proofing the business as we seek new focused on maintaining our leading passenger satisfaction scores, passengers and we are working very hard with our industry deliver our vision of a world where every journey is taken care of.
ways to apply skills, knowledge and assets to enable sustainable on the continued adoption of smart technology, and on capturing partners to restore service to levels that we expect to deliver and performance over the long term.
We are focused on ensuring that more benefits from the roll out of our Lean framework.
Market our customers rightfully expect from us.
we invest sufficiently to understand changing trends and are able conditions are expected to remain challenging, but we expect to capture opportunities through a process of researching, testing In July, we implemented a new timetable which focuses on operating profit to show a slight improvement on the level and trialling.
running as many peak services as possible.
I am pleased that achieved in 2017 18.
David Brown, thishas stabilised the service and is now providing a schedule In June, we launched the UKs largest on-demand bus service in Group Chief Executive onwhich passengers can better rely and plan around.
Passengers can summon buses via a continueto work hard to progressively implement the full mobile app to virtual bus stops nearby.
There has been a positive 5 September 2018 benefitsof the changes that had been planned for May by the initial response and we look forward to seeing how this develops nexttimetable change.
with a possible roll out to other areas in the future.
12 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
