Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Other information CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW The reduction in our cost of debt has been a success.
The refinancing of our corporate bond earlier this year reduced our cost of debt further to 3.2%.
Operational excellence also remains a focus and we have maintained an optimal level of 26% gross to net leakage.
The business is now well established and disciplined in its asset recycling, analysing each property for its future growth prospects.
We profitably sold 157m worth of assets.
These actions place us in a strong position for the growth trajectory we have embarked upon.
Strategic priority 3: Build on our experience Our reputation as a responsible and high-performing landlord underpins our strategy.
We have invested in operational improvements and our digital platform to deliver high-quality customer service, and to improve our customers lives.
Our commitment to health and safety remains the most important aspect of securing our future and licence to operate, and a critical Helen Gordon focus area for the Executive management team.
Chief Executive Delivering results Strong financial performance With the actions we have taken, I am pleased to report that the underlying financial performance of the business remains strong.
It is less than three years since I presented the strategy to transform Grainger into the UKs leading private rental provider, Adjusted earnings increased by 26% in the year to 94.0m providing shareholders with resilient and strong returns, and I am FY17: 74.4m.
Net rental income increased further by 8% to 43.8m pleased that the transformation of your Company is ahead of plan FY17: 40.4m.
We delivered strong sales performance from our with another strong set of financial results.
regulated tenancy portfolio and our remaining development activity.
The opportunity in the rental market remains vast and we continue We are focused on driving returns for shareholders, and over the to take actions aligned to our strategic priorities: investing in PRS year we delivered a total return of 6.1% FY17: 7.3%.
assets to increase net rental income, organisational improvements to simplify and focus the business, and operational enhancements Supported by our growth in net rental income, I am pleased to to build on our century of experience in the market.
announce the Board is recommending an 8% increase in our total dividend to 5.26p per share FY17: 4.86p per share, in line with our Our successful, disciplined approach to investment and operations policy to deliver sustainable, income backed growth and distribute alongside cost control is delivering strong results.
Investing in the right assets and places Strategic priority 1: Grow rents At the end of last year we presented our work on investable cities.
We have achieved our 850m investment target two years ahead of plan, acquiring some of the best PRS development opportunities, We have clear criteria for where we invest, in areas that have the whilst securing superior levels of return.
These investments will strongest current rental demand and the greatest rental growth increase our net rental income over the next two to three years, prospects.
This enables us to allocate internal resources effectively underpinning growth in our dividend.
This year saw the successful and has contributed to our investment success.
completion and letting of three important new PRS assets, Argo Apartments in London, which was 97% let in four months: phase 1 Our operations team supplement local market insight and sign off the of Clippers Quay in Greater Manchester, our largest PRS scheme: design of the assets prior to acquisition, whilst our development and and our first 104 family units in Berewood, Hampshire.
investment teams ensure that schemes can deliver shareholder value.
Strategic priority 2: Simplify and focus Our research and insight into local markets informs our capital We continue to streamline the business and its operations.
Cost allocation, in terms of our investments and our disposals as part controls remain robust.
We have retained a steady level of ofour asset recycling programme.
overheads following the 25% reduction of the previous two years.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 9 Strategic report CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED Delivering in partnership Best Practices Recommendations.
We also received recognition Graingers heritage as a good landlord has enabled it to forge through the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark GRESB partnerships with landowners in the public and private sectors where Graingers PRS fund, GRIP REIT, was awarded Sector andwith developers.
Leaderand Grainger took third overall among European listed residential peers.
We have successful partnerships with the Defence Infrastructure Organisation at Wellesley and the London Pensions Partnership at Investing in our people Pontoon Dock, and I am particularly pleased we were selected by Without the dedication, commitment, expertise, compassion the London Borough of Lewisham to deliver c. 300 private and andenthusiasm of our people, Grainger could not retain our social rental homes.
Nor would we have the confidence in ourfuture and our growth plans, were it not for those that make During the year, we brought two successful partnerships to an end: upthe organisation.
with Dorrington Investment plc and with the Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea.
The JV with Dorrington was part of our We recognise the importance of our people and of attracting and asset recycling strategy.
Our exit from this JV was amicable and retaining the best.
The Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea has experienced challenges following the tragedy of the fire at Grenfell Throughout the year we run our employee engagement Tower and Grainger supported the Borough providing them with programme.
This includes a comprehensive annual employee high-quality homes for the displaced families and bringing our survey, the Best Companies Index.
I am delighted that over 80% of partnership to an appropriate conclusion.
We have made strides across all areas of the business.
It is clear that colleagues are committed to the Company We look forward to replicating these partnerships where they bring vision, live our values, and come to work focused on delivering great access to land to support Graingers growth strategy.
Enhancing customer operations to secure our leading position Graingers success is a result of our ability to attract and retain Customer service is a focus area.
We have invested in training highly talented individuals.
We have made significant investment in andimproving processes to enable operational staff to deliver our development team with four senior hires, ensuring we have the better service.
right resource in place to deliver our PRS development pipeline.
We are seeing signs of the benefits of these investments, with lower Delivering great homes to rent voids and arrears, maintained customer retention, increased Graingers focus is on delivering private rental homes for the largest customer satisfaction and efficient levels of property operating costs.
number, and most diverse range of people.
We target investment at those earning local average incomes.
This ensures our homes are Enhancing operations through technology always in high demand and occupancy levels are high, providing We are investing in our digital platform to create a more efficient sustainable shareholder returns.
In turn, the commitment of our and scalable platform to support our growth plans and enable us to operational teams to deliver the best rental experience supports manage costs over this period of growth.
We launched our Project customer retention and the creation of long-term communities Connect to improve our operations, enhanced by technology aimed within our buildings.
at enabling scalable growth within the business and enhancing the rental experience for our customers, including a digital leasing Our ambition is to be the best PRS landlord in the UK, delivering journey.
We have recruited talented specialists in this area and our great homes to rent with great customer service.
We are well on our plans for our customers digital experience reinforce our vision for way, yet we recognise there is much still to do.
The outlook for the greater leadership in the sector.
business is positive as we deliver numerous developments in our pipeline, and our operational platform undergoes a step change in Recognition as a market leader delivery as a result of our investment in technology and our digital Our leading position in the UK PRS was acknowledged during the platform.
year with Asset Manager of the Year at the national RESI Awards, and we were a finalist in the Residential Property Company of the My thanks go to the Board and shareholders for their ongoing Year at the national EG Awards.
support but, most importantly, I thank the Grainger team for all their outstanding efforts.
Our leadership in sustainability and corporate social responsibility CSR was also recognised, with a Gold Award in EPRAs Sustainability Helen Gordon Chief Executive 13 November 2018 10 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Other information INVESTMENT CASE A compelling investment case, with strong fundamentals A disciplined approach Strong future National reach Presence across the country to investment and cash flows Regulated tenancy home sales are expected multiple channels to generate an average of 100m p. a.
Robust governance, in-house research to Local knowledge support forwarding-funding acquisitions, Local market knowledge provides direct development, development a competitive advantage 100m p. a. partnerships and acquiring existing assets Plus asset recycling opportunities Market leading operating platform Responsible business Unparalleled scale and expertise.
FTSE4Good Index listed, consistent top GRESB performer, with robust governance Fully integrated business model, framework and committed to upholding high encompassing origination, investment environmental, social and ethical standards and operations Vast market opportunity 4.7m PRS households growing to 7.2m by 2025 Maintained our inclusion in the Strong balance sheet SET TO GROW TO Capacity to deliver 1.2bn investment plan FTSE4Good 7.2m BY 2025 index for eighth A well-established consecutive network Scale and strong industry contacts year ensure access to the best investment opportunities in the market 4.7m HOUSEHOLDS Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 11 Strategic report CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED A YEAR DEC JAN FEB MAR OF GROWTH Acquisition Forward funding project Launch OCT NOV Gore Street Argo Manchester Apartments Acquisition Stabilised Investment value portfolio Tribe Portfolio Appointment 80m Manchester ArGo Director of PRS homes Business APARTMENTS Investment value 375 E16 Technology: Michael Robinson 26m PRS homes Acquisition Forward funding 192 project Selected partner Acquisition Eccy Village of Lewisham Forward funding Sheffield Borough Council project Besson Street Sustainability Gilders Yard London Nine Grainger Sale Investment value Birmingham Appointment Income-share employees Sold back interest Director of partnership 32m participated in the in 31 homes to Investment value Land and PRS homes LandAid SleepOut, Royal Borough of Development: raising 15,000 28m Kensington and 237 Mike Keaveney PRS homes towards ending PRS homes Chelsea to house youth those needing c. 300 156 homelessness accommodation after the Grenfell Tower fire Credit rating upgraded Graingers credit rating upgraded to Sustainability BB with positive Age UK London outlook, and delivered training Graingers secured to Grainger notes upgraded to employees BBBinvestment working on our grade regulated portfolio, on good practice in working Appointment with older tenants Director of Land: Paul McGowan 12 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Other information APR MAY JUN JUL AUG SEP Corporate bond Acquisition refinancing Forward funding Launch 350m senior project Berewood secured bond YMCA, Milton Graingers first BBBrating Awards Keynes PRS family 3.375% for EPRA housing Investment value 10 years Sustainability Appointment Reducing cost of Gold Award 63m National debt by 40bps PRS homes Acquisitions Extending debt GRESB GRIP Director: maturities from wins Sector Leader 261 Tom Henry 4.7 years to 6.5 and Grainger top years three amongst peers Government Sale - Exit JV Launch policy Sold our 50% New customer NPPF updated to interest in website for Clippers Staff positively support Walworth JV Fully let Argo Quay and initial engagement PRS and build-toFurther Group Apartments phases of digital survey rent simplification Sustainability leasing platform, 81.7% response BPF Futures first first output from rate site visit held at Graingers Connect Improved score Proceeds 5% Argo Apartments, business technology across all Above ERV showcasing 67m programme categories build-to-rent Grainger rated as to the next One to Watch c. 8% generation of with good levels gross yield on cost property Acquisition of engagement professionals Forward funding project 97% Via GRIP REIT Sustainability let in 4 months East Street As part of their Southampton design and technology coursework, year 9 Investment Value students of Customer service Gladesmore 27m workshops Community PRS homes Operations team School designed runs series of amenity space at 132 workshops Apex House - focusing on delivered as part customer service of Haringey Councils Tottenham Charter Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 13
