Annual Report 2018 Great Portland Estates 29 Statement from the Chief Executive We have had another very active year, successfully delivering developments and leasing well, whilst maintaining our capital discipline with profitable recycling and further returns of capital to shareholders.
We are well-positioned with a portfolio full of opportunity and an extensive development pipeline, along with exceptional financial capacity and a talented team ready to capitalise on opportunities as we unearth them.
Toby Courtauld Chief Executive We are pleased to report that another excellent operational With our low average office rent of 54.60 per sq ft, performance, including multiple leasing successes and reversionary potential of 12.1% and 24.1 million of rent profitable capital recycling, has delivered good financial results.
available at our committed development schemes, we can EPRA NAV per share rose by 5.8% in the year, whilst EPRA EPS look forward to further rental growth.
grew by 17.9% and ordinary dividends per share increased See portfolio management on pages 42 and 43 11.9% to 11.3 pence.
We had net assets of 2,367 million at 31 March 2018 and delivered diluted IFRS EPS of 18.2 pence.
Successful development completions and With the investment market remaining strong for prime threenew commitments, combined with an properties, we have continued to crystallise development extensive pipeline of opportunity surpluses and returned further capital to shareholders, whilst We successfully delivered three schemes totalling 350,800 still maintaining our financial strength.
sq ft since April 2017, which were 89.5% pre-let or pre-sold on completion, including 160 Old Street, EC1.
More recently, Market conditions have been broadly stable we have commenced three new developments, all near to Central Londons property markets have lacked clear Crossrail stations, which will provide 412,000 sq ft of Grade direction over the year and have tracked broadly sideways A predominantly office and retail space, including 221,300 with the weight of international capital, healthy occupier sq ft at our Hanover Square scheme which is already 26% demand and tight supply of new high quality office space pre-let.
We have made good progress in preparing our supporting the prime investment and occupational markets.
substantial pipeline of future development opportunities, Across our portfolio, we delivered 2.9% like-for-like property which extends to 1.3 million sq ft across 13 schemes.
valuation growth, including a strong performance from our See development management on pages 38 to 41 developments which were up 7.0%.
Looking ahead, given the ongoing political and macroCrystallising development surpluses and economic uncertainty, we expect Londons commercial disciplined capital allocation markets in the near term to remain generally supportive for our We were a net seller for the fifth year running with sales of activities, although we expect a softening in market rents and 329 million at a 5.4% premium to March 2017 book values, secondary yields.
Moreover, we continue to be positive on the including two prime, long-let completed development long-term outlook for London: as one of only a handful of truly schemes at 240 Blackfriars Road, SE1 and 30 Broadwick global cities, it has an enduring appeal for both businesses and Street, W1 which together crystallised a whole life surplus of investors.
Plus, the opening of Crossrail later this year will add 145 million, or 81% on capital employed.
With our disciplined to its attractiveness, providing a further significant boost to capital allocation and limited availability of attractively priced Londons public transport infrastructure.
acquisition opportunities, we made only one purchase in See our market on pages 31 to 35 the year for 49.6 million and recently returned a further 306 million to shareholders via a B share scheme, following Strong leasing performance ahead of ERV the 110 million special dividend paid earlier in the year.
andcapturing reversion If current investment market conditions persist, we expect We have had another outstanding leasing year securing tolikely remain a net seller in the year ahead.
31.1 million of annual rent, 2.6% above our valuers ERV.
See investment management on pages 36 and 37 Our 68 new lettings came from a diverse range of occupiers Selected awards and recognition in the year which included two major pre-lettings both on 15 year terms, together capturing 11.4 million of rent.
We have successfully trialled our new flex space offering generating a 35% premium to net effective ERVs on an initial 12,000 sq ft, and we are appraising a further circa 100,000 sq ft across the portfolio.
Our team also crystallised significant rental reversion across the investment portfolio, with 34 rent reviews settled securing 18.3 million at an average increase of 29.6% above the previous rent and beating ERV by 3.2%.
4 1 6 m il li o n Capital returned to shareholders Strategic Report Annual Review 30 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2018 Statement from the Chief Executive continued Exceptional financial strength and talentedteam Outlook Our financial position remains as strong as ever with our We are pleased to report good results for the year, driven pro forma loan to value ratio only 11.6% and cash and by the successful execution of our clear strategy: we have committed undrawn liquidity of 666 million, whilst our let more space across our high quality investment portfolio recent refinancing successes reduced our weighted average than ever before and delivered significant pre-lettings at our interest rate to a record low level of 2.3%.
Moreover, with developments, beating rental value estimates: we have taken strength in depth, our talented team is in great shape and advantage of heightened demand for prime assets, crystallising we were pleased to make twelve internal promotions during profits through selective selling, often at new benchmark the year.
We were also delighted that GPE was again ranked prices: we have maintained balance sheet discipline, returning first in the property sector, and fifth overall, in Management surplus equity totalling 416 million to shareholders, whilst Todays Britains Most Admired Companies, recognising preserving gearing at only 12%: we have committed to three the dedication and efforts of all our people.
new development schemes, all near Crossrail and already 11% pre-let: and we have delivered healthy earnings per share See our culture and people on pages 60 to 67 and NAVper share growth of 17.9% and 5.8% respectively.
As a result, wehave raised the final dividend by 14.1%.
Whilst we expect, and are planning for, continued economic uncertainty, we look to our future with confidence: although wecan expect a softening in market rents and some secondary asset yields, occupier demand remains healthy across our retail and office portfolio.
With Londons investment markets remaining competitive, we have no need to buy, preferring the relative returns on offer from investing in our portfolio.
It is full of opportunity, including 1.7 million sq ft of development potential, 0.4 million sq ft of which is now on site.
In addition, our low average rents provide us with plenty of reversion to capture and our talented team is ready to capitalise on our many opportunities for organic growth as we continue to broaden our offering to meet evolving occupier needs.
Either way, after five years of net sales, we have the financial strength to exploit any market weakness where we unearth it.
The GPE opportunity our portfolio Our 100% central London portfolio is rich with opportunity to deliver both near-term surpluses and long-term value creation.
Committed developments Long-dated Our committed developments nowrepresent 11% ofthe portfolio 301m 455m from 12% a year ago and consist 11.2% pre-let 3.2% net initial yield ofthree newly committed schemes.
Near-term value upside Crystallise surpluses See more on pages 38 and 41 The investment portfolio comprises: 11% 16% long-dated investment properties which we developed with average lease lengths of 11.2 years where weexpect to crystallise surpluses 70% West End over time through recycling: classic active portfolio 88% management investments on shorter 800m to 37% Crossrail station leases with significant repositioning 36% upside and reversionary potential tocapture: and our future development pipeline where the reversionary potential Development pipeline Active is already significant even before portfolio management redevelopment, giving us real 1,038m long-term value potential.
996m 14% reversionary 10% reversionary Long-term value upside Repositioning upside 1.
