STRATEGIC REPORT Chief executives review RESILIENCE AND GOOD PROGRESS We have made good progress on Key initiatives and we have a strong strategy to drive momentum.
GROUP REVENUE WAS: Greene King has shown its resilience and made good progress on key initiatives which drove an improvement in the momentum of the business during a year of unprecedented cost inflation, weak consumer confidence 2,176.7m and increased competition.
Snowy weather impacted trading in the second half of the year but our 10m VSQ customer investment helped to improve underlying Pub Company trading.
Pub Partners delivered another year of increased LFL net profit while Brewing & Brands grew OPERATING PROFIT BEFORE revenue by 7.4% in a declining beer market.
We have a strong strategy EXCEPTIONALAND inplace to continue driving momentum in the top line, to mitigate costs NONUNDERLYING ITEMS WAS: and to deliver value to our customers, our employees, our shareholders and our communities.
243.0m Performance summary Total revenue was down 1.8% to 2,176.7m as a result of the challenging 1,2, 3 market conditions and poor weather.
EBITDA was 486.6m, down 1,2 DIVIDEND IN LINE WITH 7.2% and operating margin decreased 1.5%pts to 17.1%, reflecting the LAST YEAR: net cost inflation seen in the year as well as the VSQ investment in Pub 1,2 Company.
Profit before tax, exceptional and non-underlying items was 243.0m, inline with market expectations.
33.2p Pub Company revenue was 1,767.7m, down 2.7% due to the tough trading conditions and the 4.4% decrease in the average number of pubs trading, while average weekly take AWT was up 1.6% to 19.6k.
Pub 1,2, 3 Company EBITDA was down 10.0% to 362.9m and operating profit 1,2 margin was down 1.8%pts to 15.2% due to the increased cost pressures, as well as the VSQ investment.
Adjusted measures exclude the impact of exceptional and non-underlying items asdetailed in note 5 of the financial statements.
The directors use a number of alternative performance measures APMs that areconsidered critical to aid the understanding of the groups performance.
APMs areexplained on page 128 of this annual report.
EBITDA represents earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and exceptional and non-underlying items and is calculated as operating profit before exceptional and non-underlying items adjusted for the depreciation and amortisation charge for the year.
8 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Pub Partners revenue was 193.9m, down 2.5% on last year, driven by Consumers are keeping a keen eye on costs and continue to expect more 1,2, 3 the4.7% decrease in average pubs trading.
EBITDA was down 1.7% for their money.
Other aspects of their behaviour are changing faster than 1,2, 3 to101.3m while average EBITDA per pub was up 3.1% to 88.9k, ever.
Spirit-based drinks and breakfast are growth areas for pubs, as are reflecting our continued estate optimisation.
event-driven customer occasions, both in terms of key calendar events and in terms of our customers own events.
Health and diet remain key Brewing & Brands achieved strong revenue growth, up 7.4% to 215.1m, trends and consumers also favour brands associated with local and fresh 1,2, 3 driven by increased sales from free trade and exports.
Quick service and convenience are also important to the consumer 1,2 down 0.6% to 36.0m and operating profit margin was down 1.2%pts and have driven technological innovation such as order and pay apps to14.3%, reflecting the change in product and channel mix.
andthe rise of delivery services.
Free cash flow before disposal proceeds was down 24.8% to 89.9m Competition for market share is intense, particularly in the food-led andour cash generated more than covers our debt service obligation, sector, with the overall number of restaurant outlets in the UK still on the core capex expenditure and dividend payments.
rise, up 16.7% over the last five years, and food-led pub numbers up 4.7%.
Total pub numbers reduced by 10.3% however, driven by a 16.9% reduction 1,2 Adjusted earnings per share was down 11.4% to 62.7p and the board in drink-led pub numbers since 2012 source: CGA and AlixPartners Market has recommended a dividend per share of 33.2p, in line with last year.
Demand for drink-led pubs is holding up though with LFL sales growth of 1.7% over the last 12 months versus The businesses generated a strong return on capital employed ROCE adecline of 0.4% in pub restaurants and a 0.1% decline in restaurants of8.5%, which remains comfortably above our weighted average cost source: Coffer Peach Business Tracker, April 2018. ofcapital WACC.
The cost environment remains challenging and, while we succeeded in mitigating 44m of the 60m gross inflation in the year, we expect there Trading environment to be further cost inflation of around 4550m in the new financial year, The current trading environment is still characterised by subdued driven by the National Living Wage, sugar tax, utility taxes and business consumer confidence, intense competition and rising costs.
Through the execution of our strategy outlined below we are targeting a return to LFL sales growth in the new financial year supported by Consumer confidence improved slightly since the lows of December 2017, additional cost mitigation of 3035m.
Through our planned cost savings but remains negative source: GfK and consumers expect to continue programme, we will seek to increase our agility and competitiveness and reducing leisure spend source: Deloitte Consumer Tracker Q1 2018. be more effective at capturing sales opportunities in our main markets.
The garden at The Didsbury, aChef & Brewer pub in Didsbury Annual report 2018 GREENE KING PLC 9 STRATEGIC REPORT Chief executives review continued People We spent over 3m in training and development in the year.
We also launched our new online training platform, available to all our 39,000 employees, enabling company-wide training on areas such as safety and compliance, as well as more reactive and targeted training programmes, 2,700 Apprentices Joined such as early stage inductions and social media training.
Around 150,000 courses have been completed on the platform so far.
We also launched our Apprenticeship Wellbeing Week to raise awareness about physical and mental health in the workplace and we launched networks for women and members of the LGBT community.
Our continued investment in training and development, together with our competitive employee benefits scheme, has led to improved engagement levels and a steady rate of turnover.
Our average length of service for pub general managers is 7.4 years and for kitchen managers it is 4.5 years.
Wewill seek to improve the future retention rate through the training initiatives detailed above, especially a quality induction programme, and greater engagement with our employees through digital HR and ongoing focus onour Winning Ways programme, which we launched last year.
The apprenticeship scheme has now supported over 10,000 apprentices with 92% of our pubs having benefited from the programme and 71% of our pubs with an apprentice currently in training.
The scheme continues to attract high levels of applicants and 2,700 apprentices joined the scheme this year.
We were pleased to win awards from the National Apprenticeship Service Top 100 Apprenticeship Employer, East of England Apprenticeship Awards Macro Employer of the Year, and the Training Journal Best Apprenticeship Programme in recognition of our investment in apprentices.
10 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Community Outlook Pubs are at the heart of communities across the country and are a force Over the first eight weeks of the new financial year LFL sales in Pub Company for good in those communities.
were up 2.2%, benefiting from better weather and strong sporting fixtures as well as the investments we made in the second half of the year on value, We are extremely proud of our national charity partnership with service and quality for our customers.
We are continuing to see strong Macmillan Cancer Support, which to date has raised over 4m with drink sales growth, achieving record Pub Company drink sales in May, and record fundraising results of over 1m over the last year.
we are starting to see the benefits from the World Cup, as more than half of consumers expect to watch an England game at the pub.
Pub Partners We ran eight Get into Hospitality programmes this year in association and Brewing & Brands are trading in line with expectations.
For the new with The Princes Trust and were able to celebrate one of our first financial year we expect 4550m cost inflation and we are targeting Princes Trust recruits going on to complete our apprenticeship 3035m cost savings and Pub Company LFL sales growth.
A further 20 Princes Trust recruits are currently enrolled onanapprenticeship with Greene King.
In addition, this was our fifth year donating to the Pub is the Hub Communities Fund, supporting rural pubs that want to diversify their Rooney Anand services for the benefit of their local communities.
Chief executive officer 27 June 2018 Annual report 2018 GREENE KING PLC 11
