Chief Executives report 2018 tested Greggs business model and demonstrated the benefits of our strategic investment programme Once weather conditions returned to normal 2018 was a year that tested the resilience of Greggs business these underlying strengths were revealed in a strong model and demonstrated the benefits of our strategic second-half performance that saw us recover all of investment programme.
the lost ground and deliver results for the year that exceeded our expectations.
At the same time, we The first half was significantly impacted by extreme weather but continued to make good progress with the remaining our multi-year investment in food-on-the-go products, customer elements of our business transformation programme, experience and new shop locations allowed us to maintain including the significant supply chain investment that will deliver increased efficiency and capacity for positive sales growth in relatively difficult market conditions.
further growth in shop numbers.
Financial performance Total sales grew 7.2 per cent to 1,029.3 million in 2018, the first time in its history that the business has generated turnover of more than a billion pounds in a year.
Within this, company-managed shop like-for-like sales defined on page 110 grew by 2.9 per cent.
Favourite Greggs snack: Our iconic sausage roll, of course!
Underlying operating profit, excluding property profits and exceptional items, grew by 9.1 per cent to 89.1 million 2017: 81.7 million.
Pre-tax profit including exceptional items grew by 14.8 per cent to 82.6 million.
Market background Economic conditions remained challenging in 2018.
Although inflationary pressures on consumers eased and they saw a return to growth in disposable incomes, confidence levels were low due to continued uncertainty regarding the economic outlook.
The general retail sector saw continued declines in high street footfall as traditional business models struggled to adapt to the new dynamics in customer behaviour, whilst dealing with continued rising costs, particularly relating to labour.
The weather had a significant impact on trading in 2018.
After a good start to the year the severe wintry conditions in early March hit sales badly and a more subdued trading period followed.
In June and July the prolonged heatwave also affected sales, with strong demand for cold drinks, but less for bakery items.
As soon as temperatures reverted to the seasonal norm, we saw a pick-up in sales growth, and this strengthened further through the fourth quarter.
G Gr re eg gg gs p s pllc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 18 8 12 Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts In contrast to the general retail environment, the Our strategy has four pillars: food-on-the-go sector overall continues to grow, 2.9% 1.
Great tasting, freshly prepared food Company-managed though it remains highly competitive.
We have worked Greggs products are differentiated by the way that shop like-for-like hard over the last five years to redevelop our shop we freshly prepare food each day in our shops and sales grew by estate in order to be less dependent on shopping by offering outstanding value for good quality, 2.9 per cent locations, and to refocus our product range on growth great tasting food-on-the-go.
categories and extended day-parts which have been key to our success.
These strategic initiatives have been Making good, freshly prepared food accessible underpinned by fast and friendly service, further driving to everyone is embedded in our core purpose as genuine consumer affection for the Greggs brand.
Our outstanding value meal deals set us apart from the competition and have increased Delivering our strategy in popularity as awareness of them grows.
Over Greggs draws on its heritage in fresh bakery the years we have developed a market-leading to compete successfully in the food-on-the-go reputation in long-established traditional bakery market.
Our purpose is to make good, freshly categories adapted to food-on-the-go.
Whilst these prepared food accessible to everyone with the products remain best sellers, we continue to build aim of becoming the customers favourite for a reputation in new areas that create more reasons food-on-the-go.
to visit Greggs, meeting food-on-the-go needs at all times of the day.
We are also committed to conducting our business in a responsible manner and, in doing so, having Breakfast a positive impact on peoples lives.
Breakfast-on-the-go continues to grow strongly and remains the fastest-growing part of our trading day.
In the five years since we launched our strategic We now offer a wide range of breakfast menu options plan to focus on the growing food-on-the-go market to cater for regular customers seeking variety each day, we have radically reshaped the business, making it and awareness is growing as we add lines such as fruit better balanced and more efficient whilst focusing and yoghurt to our breakfast meal deal.
New products it on those areas that will provide a platform for such as fresh porridge and breakfast boxes are also continued long-term growth in a rapidly changing showing good potential as they become available in retail environment.
We are now a significant way through our Hot drinks transformation programme, which is on plan and Led by coffee at breakfast, our reputation for quality, scheduled to complete in 2021.
This has required a value and service in this growth category continues significant level of capital investment and business to build.
We are focused on offering the best-selling change, but we have already seen resulting benefits coffee choices in the market at outstanding value, and these investments are positioning the business often combined with food purchases.
We have been to succeed over the long term.
When the programme successful in adding new flavours to coffee and in has completed, we will have the capacity to grow offering a reusable cup to help reduce levels of the estate to around 2,500 shops, as well as having packaging waste.
a materially more efficient and flexible platform and infrastructure.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 13 Chief Executives report continued Dietary choices Social media channels are playing a key role in our Growing consumer interest in food choices strategy to drive brand awareness, with the recent 1,953 and its impact on health and the environment campaign launching our vegan-friendly sausage roll Total number of is driving increased demand for dietary options in showing the scale of impact that can be achieved.
shops trading at the end of the year food-on-the-go.
Greggs has a key role to play in This launch built on a series of campaigns, building encouraging healthier food choices.
Our range of advertising awareness through 2018 and prompting options for customers is widening adding gluten-free reappraisal of the brand and increased frequency and vegan-friendly products alongside those in our of visits.
Combined with insight from our Greggs Balanced Choice range that offers fewer than 400 Rewards scheme, we have been able to assess the calories and good nutritionals.
Notable successes extent of new customer acquisition and repeat include our range of gluten-free soups, award-winning purchase patterns, informing our future plans for vegan-friendly Mexican bean wrap and, in early 2019, ranging and fulfilment.
In the year ahead we plan to the launch of our vegan-friendly sausage roll.
invest further in Greggs Rewards to broaden its user base, measure customer satisfaction and help us We have adopted a proactive approach, working better understand and meet customer needs.
closely with Public Health England, to reduce salt, fat and sugar in our products and to encourage Our shops greater consumption of vegetables as part of a Our shop estate has been transformed in recent balanced diet.
We remain one of the few food-onyears to create an attractive food-on-the-go the-go retailers to publish full calorie and nutritional experience with relevant products, extended trading information on all of the products we sell to help hours and seating, and a wide variety of location types customers make informed choices.
offering convenient access wherever our customers are.
Convenience is the key consideration when Hot food customers choose where to shop for food-on-the-go.
Hot food is also a key area of development for us, Being within easy reach for customers when they with increasing demand for quick meal solutions later need us is a prerequisite and we are working hard in the day when demand for sweet bakery items and to increase shop numbers in order to provide good cold sandwiches has passed its peak.
In 2018 we opened 149 new shops including are available in all shops and we are now beginning 62 franchise units and closed 50, growing the estate the roll-out of hot self-serve cabinets, making to 1,953 shops trading as at 29 December 2018. successful new product ranges available across the country.
These include fresh porridge, soups, potato We now have 262 franchised shops, predominantly wedges and chicken goujons.
in travel locations, and we extended our companymanaged estate into a number of high-profile 2.
Best customer experience transport hubs in the year.
These included Fast and friendly service is a key reason why Birmingham New Street Station, Glasgow Buchanan customers choose Greggs.
Great service is not Bus Station and East Midlands Airport.
In London we an easy thing to deliver under pressure and our opened in Westminster Underground, Cannon Street shop teams do an amazing job.
This year we have and London Bridge Stations, the latter of which has supported them with training to deliver The Greggs quickly become one of our busiest shops.
Way, our best-practice programme that aims to release more time to serve customers by simplifying Refurbishment of our shops continued at a relatively processes and increasing productivity.
Our investment modest level in 2018 thanks to the substantial in systems capability has also improved product investments made over the last five years to availability through better ordering and ranging.
transform legacy bakery shops to our food-on-thego format.
We completed 89 refurbishments and The use of technology to improve the customer franchise partners refurbished a further 11 units.
experience is developing rapidly and we have In the year ahead we expect to refurbish around begun trials to determine the best way forward for 60 shops, and this will then step back up to a level Greggs in new areas including click and collect of around 200 per year three years from now.
Early results have been promising and we intend further development and roll-out in We have a strong pipeline of new shop openings the year ahead.
for 2019 and expect to add at least 100 net new shops in the year, including around 50 with franchise Our marketing is beginning to play a more significant partners.
We will continue to focus on increasing role as we target infrequent and non-users who have our presence in travel, leisure and work-centred yet to recognise how much Greggs has changed in catchments.
At the end of 2018, 37 per cent of our recent years.
We have invested to strengthen our shop estate was located in these catchment types marketing capability, which has seen an improvement and we expect this proportion will continue to in all areas, beginning with customer insight and rise as we work towards our target of at least through to product packaging, shop point of sale 2,500 shops.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 14 Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts Greggs is a national brand with a local culture.
Our teams take enormous pride in their connection with, and support for, the local communities in which we operate.
First class support teams 2018 was a year of significant progress in our major Our investment programme to modernise our investment programme to support shop growth by processes and IT systems is now well advanced.
increasing logistics capacity and consolidating our In 2018 we enhanced processes for managing manufacturing operations.
Once complete, in 2021, product ranging and pricing as well as implementing this new supply chain platform will provide capacity the human resource and estate management for around 2,500 shops and deliver improvements to modules of our integrated SAP solution.
Preparations are now well advanced for the The significant elements of this programme delivered replacement of our payroll system in the first half in 2018 were: of 2019: this will leave the integration of our logistics Consolidation of doughnut base manufacturing at and manufacturing sites as the final element of the our Gosforth Park bakery in Newcastle upon Tyne.
programme, which should complete in 2021.
Transfer of pizza production to our Manchester site, and successful commissioning of a new roll With the end of our multi-year SAP deployment plant there.
programme in sight, our IT team is now turning its Closure of our bakery and distribution operations attention to the exciting opportunities that lie ahead as in Norwich.
we develop our digital capabilities to build new services Creation of a national facility for the production and a seamless customer experience across all channels.
of fresh cream products at our Leeds bakery.
Having a positive impact on peoples lives In the year ahead we aim to complete the Greggs has a long-standing tradition and reputation programme to consolidate manufacturing into our as a socially responsible business and as such we want Centres of Excellence and have also commenced our actions to have a positive impact on peoples lives.
work to build our new southern distribution centre at Customers are increasingly aware of the impact of Amesbury in Wiltshire.
This is expected to complete economic activity on society and the environment at the end of 2019 and will provide additional and are becoming more demanding when making support for our growth plans from 2020 onwards.
We at Greggs recognise that The final stage of the investment plan, expected to we must play our part and show leadership in areas commence in 2020, will be the conversion of our that really matter to our customers.
Birmingham site to become a dedicated distribution centre.
A further opportunity to increase efficiency We encourage healthier food-on-the-go choices in our logistics network has also been identified.
Customers are becoming increasingly aware of This two-year project will result in us building an the impact of diet on their health and wellbeing and automated frozen distribution facility at our Balliol we aim to help customers make good, well-informed distribution centre in order to reduce our reliance choices when consuming food-on-the-go.
We provide on third-party providers.
calorie and nutritional information for all of our products either on the shelf or through our website Once again, I must pay tribute to the commitment and mobile application, and are proud supporters of of our supply chain team who have managed such Public Health Englands One You campaign.
significant change whilst maintaining a high standard of service as we continue to grow shop numbers.
We aim to provide our customers with convenient It has not been easy but we are building a supply access to healthier choices in food, with ranges such network that we can be proud of, and which will as our Balanced Choice products offering options with enable the Greggs business to improve product fewer than 400 calories.
We also offer a number of quality and increase capacity to reach customers gluten-free products and, more recently, veganin more parts of the UK.
Our Mexican bean wrap was named Best Vegan Sandwich at the PETA Vegan Food Awards 2018.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 15 Chief Executives report continued We also fundraise for a number of other charities which our people and customers feel passionate about.
Reducing sugar is also a key objective we are fully We share our success with the community around us engaged with Public Health England and are on track Every day we distribute unsold fresh food to local to achieve a 20 per cent reduction across all our charities and collect change in our shops for the products by 2020.
Our carbonated drinks have almost Greggs Foundation, which has been established for all been reformulated to reduce sugar and we are over 30 years.
Each year we donate at least one per making good progress in sweet bakery, which is the cent of profits to the Greggs Foundation and this, next largest category to be targeted.
Whilst traditional along with support from our staff and partners, has bakery products remain popular, we are seeing good enabled the charity to invest 2.8 million in 2018 in growth in a wide range of products offering healthier a wide range of initiatives that improve the quality choices as customers seek out fewer calories, less of life in our local communities.
These included the sugar and vegetable fillings.
As a result of our award-winning Greggs Breakfast Club programme Pledge for Veg, made in partnership with the Food which, with support from 88 partners, now provides Foundation, we helped our customers to consume over six million free wholesome breakfasts each year over one million extra portions of veg in 2018. to children in over 500 primary schools.
The Greggs Foundation is proud to be Tackling We also fundraise for a number of other charities Health through the implementation of a national which our people and customers feel passionate programme in primary schools.
The initiative, in about, including BBC Children in Need, the Poppy partnership with Premiership Rugby, will encourage Appeal and the Disasters Emergency Committee 30,000 children from across the country many DEC. We are also proud supporters of the North of of whom attend one of the Greggs Foundations England Childrens Cancer Research charity and are Breakfast Clubs to make healthier food choices the main sponsor of its annual Childrens Cancer Run.
and to get active through playing tag rugby by To date, the run has raised over 30 million to fund the end of 2020. research into improving recovery rates.
We care where our products come from We aim to use energy efficiently and Customers are showing growing interest in the supply minimise waste chain impact of their buying choices.
All the tea, The Blue Planet effect has driven customer coffee, hot chocolate, orange juice, apple juice and awareness of the environmental impact of their bananas we sell are certified Fairtrade the premium consumption choices to a whole new level.
We are paid for our coffee over the last 13 years has enabled proud to support national environmental initiatives farmers to invest over 2.5 million into their farms including Surfers Against Sewages Autumn Beach and communities.
We source our ingredients from and River Clean Series for the third year running and sustainable sources and maintained a Tier Two are committed to doing our bit to protect the health standing in the Business Benchmark on Farm Animal of the planet.
Plastic has become a key focus and we Welfare for the third year running.
In our internal have responded by testing replacements for singlesupply chain the majority of our manufacturing sites use plastics in our shops.
Following successful trials have achieved AA standard on version seven of these will be rolled out across our entire estate during the BRC Global standard for food safety.
Once complete this will remove over 300 tonnes of plastic from our supply chain each year.
In 2018 Greggs became the first high-street company to invest in Shared Interest a social lender that has Coffee cups remain a target for further reduction and over 11,500 UK members with a collective investment improved recycling.
Our reusable cup, which offers of 40 million in share capital.
This money is pooled customers a 20 pence discount on any hot drink, is in order to offer loans and credit facilities to Fairtrade increasingly popular and we are working with industry producers who struggle to find finance elsewhere.
peers to develop sector-wide improvements in the way we manage coffee cup usage and disposal.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 16 Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts We hold the Carbon Trust Standard in recognition Outlook for 2019 of our work on carbon efficiencies and our There are significant uncertainties in the months Environmental Management System is certificated ahead, not least as the UK negotiates its exit terms to ISO 14001.
We continue to trial technologies from the European Union and the potential impact that could help to reduce our carbon footprint that a disorderly exit might have on supply chains, even further in the years ahead.
tariffs, exchange rates and consumer demand.
However, Greggs has started 2019 in great form, We are committed to creating a great place to work with company-managed shop like-for-like sales in Deeply embedded in the Greggs culture, and a the seven weeks to 16 February 2019 up 9.6 per cent, fundamental source of our enduring success as a and total sales up 14.1 per cent.
We have enjoyed brand, is the way our colleagues feel about working strong sales growth, particularly in January, helped for Greggs.
We have worked hard to preserve their in part by the publicity surrounding the launch of our loyalty and affection whilst making transformational vegan-friendly sausage roll.
We hope to continue changes to our business model in recent years.
benefiting from this strong momentum during the Our Employee Opinion Survey provides us with the first half of 2019 before facing stronger comparatives best insight to understand employee sentiment and later in the year.
Our engagement score for 2018 increased once more to 82 per cent.
2019 will be another significant year for investment We aim to make Greggs an even better place to work in our supply chain as we create the capacity and and are challenging ourselves against the criteria of platforms for further growth.
We have a strong the National Equality Standard.
We are committed financial position which we plan to use to invest in to supporting the development of all our colleagues, Greggs potential for further growth, whilst also notably our talented female colleagues, and in delivering good returns for shareholders.
2018 reported a gender pay gap of 18 per cent 2017: 22 per cent.
We have made good progress Roger Whiteside OBE with this in recent years and are currently ranked Chief Executive tenth in the FTSE 250 ranking for women on boards 7 March 2019 and in leadership.
We share ten per cent of our profits with employees and will be sharing a record 10.0 million with our people as a result of our performance in 2018.
Further details of all of our actions in these areas are described elsewhere in this annual report.
10m We will be sharing a record 10 million with our people due to our strong performance in 2018 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 17
