06 CHIEF EXECUTIVES Q&A AND REVIEW Q&A WITH OUR CEO Kenneth Alexander Q: How is the integration of Q: What surprised you in a positive Chief Executive Ladbrokes Coral progressing?
What was the 5 March 2019 biggest challenge?
A: We are delighted with the way the integration is proceeding.
Having completed A: On the plus side, we have been pleasantly major integrations in the past in the shape surprised by just how good the cultural t has of Sportingbet and bwin.
party, weve learnt been between the two sides of the business.
that the first six months are critical to making That has definitely made the whole integration them a success.
You need to identify the process much easier.
In terms of challenges, best people and ensure they are in the right there is never any shortage of those but one of positions, provide them with the tools they the most important was in creating a structure need to execute and then give the freedom to for the enlarged Group without distracting do just that.
from the day-to-day operations in what was a critically important World Cup year.
From that With Ladbrokes Coral we inherited a perspective it was a great success.
business that was in good shape with a quality management team and the initial Q: The US opportunity seems very stages of the integration could not have gone exciting.
How big an opportunity better operationally.
We are not complacent however and we A: In the medium to long term, it is huge.
remain focused on making a success of The US market has the potential to be the the migration and in particular the next largest regulated sports-betting market in the key hurdle which will be the migration of world and as I have said on many occasions, the Ladbrokes Coral businesses on to our our objective is to have a leading position in proprietary platform.
The structure we have created has put us in the ideal position to deliver on that ambition.
Q: Why did you decide a partnership with MGM was the best way to enter the market?
A: They really have everything we were looking for in a partner.
They are a world leading entertainment business, perhaps the most trusted name in gaming, with the highest quality brands and management and strong sports connectivity.
When you combine that with our technology and experience in successfully building online gaming businesses across multiple markets, it creates a formidable combination.
The 50:50 structure we have created perfectly aligns our interest and that of our mutual shareholders.
Q: How long will it take before we start to see the US market take-off?
A: Its going to be a three-to-five year journey before we see the majority of US states regulating sport-betting.
In the shorter term were expecting some of heavily populated North Eastern states such as New York, to regulate maybe the end of 2019 or into 2020.
GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2018 07 2018 WAS A STRONG YEAR WITH OUTSTANDING PERFORMANCE.
Of course warm words are not enough Q: Online growth has been Q: The industry has come under on their own.
We have backed up our particularly strong in 2018 what increasing scrutiny over the social aspirations with meaningful changes were the key drivers of that growth?
responsibility of its business model, which have included leading the industry is it doing enough to address A: It comes down to getting the fundamentals in agreeing a ban on pre-watershed concerns of regulators and the of our business right and giving customers advertising around sports in the UK, wider public?
Weve enhanced the product doubling our financial commitment offer with new features in our sports-betting A: I think its fair to say that the industry has toresearch, education and treatment and poker products and have expanded our made mistakes in the past and has been too measures into problem gambling and casino and gaming portfolio with a great raft slow to respond to calls for improvements.
creating a working environment where of new content.
We are absolutely clear that this has to change allofour people can thrive.
and we are committed to leading the industry Our trading operations are also crucial to the in driving up standards to ensure we make a Q: What do you enjoy most about success of our digital business.
We have built positive impact on society.
That is why over your role?
one of the best trading teams in the industry the past year we have launched a new CSR A: For all its challenges, this is a fantastic and they have been key to maintaining strategy which outlines our commitments to industry to work in and I rmly believe and improving our margins.
Of course the providing a safer gambling environment, be GVC is the best operator in the sector.
marketing of our product is also fundamental a responsible employer and contribute to the We provide great entertainment to millions to growth and again I think this is something communities in which we operate.
of customers around the world I wouldnt we are doing better than the competition.
Crucially, we believe in local execution of our strategy.
We operate in over 20 countries and our teams know the markets in which they operate inside-out.
Q: How important is it to own your A summary of our performance in 2018 is shown below: own technology?
1 2 Reported Proforma A: Its absolutely critical.
It really sets us apart from our competitors.
In some ways Constant 3 we underestimated what we had got with the Year ended 2018 2017 2018 2017 Change currency acquisition of bwin.
party and the proprietary 31December m m m m % % tech they had built.
We are still discovering Net gaming revenue NGR 2,979.5 815.9 3,571.43,288.199 the full extent of its capabilities even today.
Revenue 2,935.2 789.9 3,523.6 3,247.6 8 9 It many ways it makes us the masters of our own destiny by providing the ability to Gross profit 2,004.2 575.3 2,404.4 2,256.3 7 4 efficiently build scale, to quickly adapt to Underlying EBITDA 640.8 211.3 755.3 666.5 13 regulatory change or enter new markets and 5 Underlying operating profit 520.8 169.2 610.1 514.1 19 to deploy new product across multiple brands 5 Underlying profit beforetax 434.6 151.0 and territories.
Loss after tax 56.4 34.9 Q: Having completed the acquisition Diluted EPS p 12.2 11.6 of Ladbrokes Coral, are you looking at any other M&A targets?
Continuing adjusted 6 dilutedEPS p 76.3 43.6 A: We are always looking for opportunities Total Dividend per share p 32.0 29.8 that we think would deliver increased shareholder value.
2018 and 2017 reported results are audited and reect the acquisition of the Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Coral, over the past year we also acquired on 28 March 2018. a great business in Neds International 2.
The Groups proforma results are unaudited and presented as if the current Group, post the acquisition in Australia as well as a majority stake in ofLadbrokes Coral Group plc, had existed since 1 Jan 2017.
As such, it excludes the results of the Turkish Crystalbet based in the fully regulated market business which was discontinued during 2017 and the 360 shops that the Ladbrokes Coral Group plc was required to divest on the merger of Ladbrokes PLC and the Coral Group.
The results of Crystalbet and Neds of the Republic of Georgia.
It is these types of are included from the dates of acquisition 11 April 2018 and 28 November 2018 respectively and the results bolt-on acquisitions where we can add value, ofKalixa are excluded from the date of disposal 31 May 2017. build scale or enter a new market that are 3.
Growth on a constant currency basis is calculated by translating both current and prior year performance most attractive to us in the short term.
Stated pre separately disclosed items and shared based payments.
Stated pre separately disclosed items.
Adjusted for the impact of separately disclosed items, foreign exchange movements on financial indebtedness andgains on derivative financial instruments see note 25 in the year end financial statements.
08 CHIEF EXECUTIVES Q&A AND REVIEW CONTINUED CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW The Groups global footprint was further Online NGR was 19% ahead of last year 2018 WAS A enhanced by the announcement of a US with growth across all our main brands.
joint venture with MGM Resorts on 30 July, The legacy GVC brands continued the strong TRANSFORMATIONAL YEAR, and also the acquisitions of the Neds growth reported throughout 2016 and 2017 International online sports-betting driven by the ongoing turnaround of the bwin WITH THE GROUP BECOMING business in Australia and a controlling and partypoker brands.
Performance in interest in Crystalbet, one of Georgias the Ladbrokes Coral UK online brands was THE WORLDS LARGEST leading online sport-betting and gaming particularly pleasing: Coral.
The performance of both the to outperform the market while the growth ONLINE-LED SPORTSlegacy GVC and the acquired Ladbrokes rate in Ladbrokes.
Coral businesses was excellent with It is early days, but there is no doubt that a BETTING AND GAMING good momentum across all our major reinvigoration of the Ladbrokes brand provides business units.
a significant opportunity for the Group.
OPERATOR FOLLOWING The Group took market share in Australia, On a proforma basis Group NGR was 9% while the performance in Eurobet.
it was also THE ACQUISITION OF THE ahead of last year.
Before the impact of areal positive.
separately disclosed items, Group underlying UK Retail NGR was 3% down on a like-for-like LADBROKES CORAL GROUP EBITDA was 13% ahead and Group underlying basis and 5% on a total basis.
Like-for-like operating profit was up 19%.
On a reported OTC wagers were 6% down, in-line with long ON 28 MARCH 2018. basis, Group underlying profit beforetax was term trends, and like-for-like OTC NGR was 434.6m 2017: 151.0m, andafter charging 7% behind.
Like-for-like Machines NGR separately disclosed items of 434.2m was marginally ahead with growth accelerating 2017: 158.8m, Group loss after tax was in Q4 following the roll-out of new machines 56.4m 2017: 34.9m.
Adjusted diluted EPS cabinets to the Coral and Ladbrokes of 76.3p grew by 75%.
The Group will pay estates.
The UK Retail business faces its asecond interim dividend of 16p, taking the biggest challenge with the imminent cut in total 2018 dividend to 32p, an increase of B2 maximum stakes to 2 on 1 April 2019, 7% year-on-year.
Going forward, the Group which will result in a significant number of has committed to minimum annual dividend shop closures.
The estimated adverse Group growth of 10%.
Net debt at 31 December EBITDA impact of this change is expected to was 1,896.6m representing 2.5x net debt to be 135m in 2019, reducing to 120m within proforma underlying EBITDA.
After absorbing 2 years of implementation.
Detailed planning the expected EBITDA impact arising from the and robust mitigation strategies mean the cut in B2 stakes to 2 in April 2019, leverage transition to a smaller, right-sized and more is expected to increase to 3.0x in 2019, after sustainable estate can be achieved as which the Group expects to fide-lever by at smoothly as possible.
The UK Retail estate least 0.5x in each subsequent year.
remains a key contributor to UK online growth with customers able to sign-up in shop to Coral.
com through theCoral Connect and Ladbrokes Grid multi-channel offerings.
Our commitment to UK Retail is demonstrated by ongoing investment in new machines units, new Self Service Betting Terminals SSBTs and the EPOS2 shop till system, all of which help support the profitability of the business.
European Retail NGR was 16% ahead of last year driven by good volume growth, with OTC wagers 11% ahead.
Performance was strong across all the divisions with Eurobet Italy NGR 18% ahead, Ladbrokes Belgium NGR 15% ahead and Ladbrokes Republic of Ireland NGR 10% ahead.
GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2018 09 Online m Proforma NGR 1,915.1 19% 2017: 1,603.8 Integration Corporate activity The integration of the Ladbrokes Coral Group In addition to the purchase of Ladbrokes UK Retail m is progressing well, managed by a team Coral in 2018, the Group undertook Proforma NGR Revenue with a wealth of integration and platform a number of other acquisitions.
The integration plan Neds International was acquired in isunderpinned by three key principles: rstly, November for an initial consideration to ensure maximum efficiencies are achieved of 40m, strengthening our position in through both the delivery of cost savings and Australia, a fast growing market where through sharing best practice operations scale is increasingly important.
In April, the across the legacy GVC and the acquired Group completed the acquisition of 51% of Ladbrokes Coral businesses.
Secondly, the Crystalbet Group in Georgia for 36m 1,328.0 toensure ongoing growth in the business with an option to buy the remaining 49% isnot adversely impacted by any integration in 2021.
Post acquisition, the performance decisions, and nally, to minimise the impact of the Crystalbet business has been of the integration on both our customers exceptional, with GVC being able to -5% andour employees.
support a very strong local management team with additional product and support.
2017: 1,39.1 The Group announced that the Ladbrokes The Group also acquired two small Coral deal would deliver cost synergies of at financial trading businesses during the least 130m and capital expenditure synergies year, helping deliver greater scale to the of at least 30m, to be fully delivered by existing Intertrader business and broaden 2022.
Around a third of the synergies will the Groups nancials trading product be delivered in technology, with the majority European Retail m range.
These acquisitions demonstrate being realised when the Ladbrokes and Coral the Groups ability to identify acquisitions Proforma Underlying profit UK online businesses migrate from existing that are signicantly value-enhancing, and third party technology platforms onto the we see further opportunities for value-add GVC wholly owned technology platform.
bolt-on acquisitions in both new and New product development will be a priority existing regulated territories.
ahead of the migration, ensuring that growth in the businesses can continue unhindered.
Following the announcement of an agreement with Playtech plc, we now have the exibility 278.8 to migrate the UK platforms at an earlier date than 2021, and we have commenced.
US joint-venture 16% The repeal of the Professional and Amateur 2017: 240.9 Sports Protection Act PASPA by the US Supreme Court in May is potentially the biggest single development in sports-betting since online sports-betting in the UK became lawful over 20 years ago.
The Group has entered into a joint-venture with MGM Resorts Group m to offer online and retail sports-betting in Proforma Underlying EBITDA states as they regulate.
We believe the journey to the majority of US states being regulated will take between three and five years, and the immediate focus for the Group is ensuring The Groups proforma results are unaudited and presented as if the current Group, post the acquisition the structure for a successful business is of Ladbrokes Coral Group plc, had existed since implemented.
MGMs brand and market 1 Jan 2017.
As such, it excludes the results of the access, and GVCs technology and sportsTurkish business which was discontinued during 2017 betting experience is a powerful combination and the 360 shops that the Ladbrokes Coral Group 755.3 that will enable the joint venture to capitalise plc was required to divest on the merger of Ladbrokes PLC and the Coral Group.
The results of Crystalbet on this very significant opportunity and be a and Neds are included from the dates of acquisition leading player in this new market.
11 April 2018 and 28 November 2018 respectively and the results of Kalixa are excluded from the date 13% ofdisposal 31 May 2017.
2017: 666.5 10 CHIEF EXECUTIVES Q&A AND REVIEW CONTINUED KEY ENABLERS Technology Ownership of all elements of our technology platform is a significant competitive advantage.
Our technology platform is highly exible and enables us to release new products and features quickly and make rapid changes to the customer user-journey.
Our scalable platform has the capacity to manage major increases in volume at minimal incremental cost.
The technology platform serves the legacy GVC business very well and has been fundamental in enabling us to execute our operational delivery and grow the business.
The migration of both the Ladbrokes Coral UK online businesses and our US joint ventures online operations onto the GVC technology will bring these benets to the wider Group.
Read more about our technology platform on page 32.
Brands and Marketing The Group now operates 19 brands across multiple territories world-wide.
Our brands are well established with high levels of customer recognition, helping consolidate our leading positions in the markets in which we operate in.
In particular our multi-channel sports brands Eurobet, Ladbrokes, Coral drive faster online growth through cost effective customer recruitment in our retail estates.
2018 saw the launch of new brand campaigns for our main sports-betting online brands ahead of the World Cup.
These campaigns resonated well with customers and helped underpin the strong growth in these brands.
The enlarged Group now has powerful marketing capability at its disposal, including Return-on-Investment driven analysis and real-time Customer Relationship Management tools.
2018 saw the start of the sharing of best-of-both marketing execution between the legacy GVC and Ladbrokes Coral businesses, and a real opportunity lies with the full deployment of this capability across the Group as the businesses come together.
Read more about our brands and marketing on page 14.
Product The Group has continued to deliver a strong pipeline of new product and features, helping ensure that the integration of the Ladbrokes Coral business does not come at the expense of business-as-usual operations.
Our gaming offering contains the best of both in-house developed and third party content, helping deliver high levels of cross-sell from sports into gaming, while our leading live casino offering is evolving to focus on delivering a more market specic experience.
Sports developments included the expansion of our build-a-bet offering across brands and improved stream-and-bet capability.
The Groups ability to develop once and deploy multiple times will be further enhanced following the migration of the UK online businesses onto the Groups own technology platform.
Read more about our product development on pages 20 to 21.
People Throughout every major acquisition, we have added to the quality and depth of our people, and that has continued with the acquisition of the Ladbrokes Coral Group.
The enlarged Group has a management team with a depth and range of experience and capabilities that will enable the excellent operational performance ofthe business to continue, whilst ensuring the businesses are effectively integratedand our ability to engage in opportunities in new and existing markets isnot compromised.
As always, our people are key to our success.
Read more about our commitment to social responsibility on pages 46 to 47.
GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2018 11 WEVE GOT GREAT TECHNOLOGY AND HIGHLY TALENTED PEOPLE WITH UNRIVALLED EXPERIENCE.
Throughout 2018 the majority of states During the fourth quarter of 2018, the Regulation in Australia confirmed that they were Group made progress in understanding The Group operates across multiple territories implementing an online Point of Consumption the Greek tax authorities position on and therefore faces into a range of regulatory tax applied to sports-betting gross gaming potential tax for years subsequent to opportunities and headwinds.
This tax was effective from 1 July 2011, through the ongoing tax audit work 2017 in South Australia, 1 October 2018 in in respect of these years.
The Greek The biggest regulatory news in 2018 was the Queensland, and 1 January 2019 in Victoria, tax authorities have requested, and repeal of PASPA in the US, enabling individual New South Wales, ACT and Western Australia.
the Group has provided, a significant US states to fully regulate both online and The blended rate for the Group is 11.5%.
The nature of retail sports-betting for the first time.
The US Despite this headwind, Australia remains these enquiries from the tax authorities, sports-betting opportunity is significant, and an important, and profitable, territory for us, refreshed external tax advice received through our joint-venture with MGM Resorts where we expect to continue to outperform by the Group, and our observations of we believe that we are in a very good position the market.
the experience of other operators, have to capitalise.
helped the Group understand better the Late in 2018, the Brazilian Parliament The ban on foreign operators offering online approach being taken by the Greek tax authorised the Brazilian Government to sports-betting services in Switzerland authorities in relation to these years.
As a regulate both online and retail sports-betting, became effective on 1 January 2019. result, the Group has recognised a charge a process that is expected to take at least two Licences for online gaming operators will of 186.8m, representing the Groups years.
A regulated and sensibly taxed Brazilian require a partnership with a land-based best estimate of the liability for all years market represents another major opportunity casino, and are not expected to be issued from 2010 to 2017.
To date 20.3m has for the Group.
until the second half of the year at the earliest.
been paid by the Group in relation to years Therefore the Group has withdrawn its brands subsequent to 2011.
The Dutch Parliament approved new online from both the online sports-betting and online gambling regulation on 19 February 2019 gaming markets.
The statutory window in Greece for the tax thelaw will open up the Dutch online gambling authorities to conclude their audit work In January 2018, the Group announced that market to foreign operators subject to is generally six years from the end of the it had received a tax audit assessment for obtaining a local licence and paying a 29 per relevant tax year.
As such, both the timing 186.8m from the Greek Audit Centre for cent GGR tax.
The law permits online sportsand the conclusions of the tax audits for Large Enterprises in respect of 2010 and 2011. betting, casino and poker.
First licences under 2012 to 2017, and any associated tax In the Directors opinion, the assessment the new regulation are currently expected to payments, remains uncertain.
contained material errors, a view supported be awarded on 1 January 2021. by expert tax advice, and was out of all In Italy, the new Government implemented Also during the year, Spain reduced its online proportion to the size of the Groups Greek legislation that prohibits all forms of gambling tax rates from 25% to 20% of gross business at the time.
promotion of sports-betting and gaming.
gaming revenue and the Swedish regulatory The full restrictions come into place on process concluded with the Group being one An appeal has been led with the 1 July 2019, and while this will undoubtedly of the successful recipients of the new online Administrative Court of Appeal in Athens impact overall market growth, we sports-betting and gaming licences being and we expect our legal case regarding the expect to capture online market share, issued on 1 January 2019.
2010 11 tax years to be heard in the current by virtue of our 840-strong retail estate year.
The Directors remain highly confident offering a well-established and effective In the UK, the cut in maximum B2 stakes that the Appeal Court will also nd that the multi-channel solution.
to 2 will be implemented on 1 April 2019. assessment is out of all proportion to the size The business has planned extensively for this of the Groups Greek business at the time.
The direction of regulation on a global material change and we are confident that we scale is making the GVC business model In order to enable the Groups subsidiary to can smoothly transition to a smaller estate increasingly relevant.
Scale, international trade normally whilst the appeal process takes with a greater share of the market over a diversication and proprietary technology place, the Group has entered into a payment period of up to two years.
On the same date, are valuable assets as barriers to entry scheme with the Greek tax authority whereby Remote Gaming Duty, which is applicable in many markets increase.
The Group payments are held on account.
The Group toonline gaming gross gaming revenues, continues to leverage the benets of its continues to pay the monthly instalments for willincrease from 15% to 21%.
operating model, outgrowing the market the 2010 and 2011 assessment, and as at while absorbing regulatory headwinds and 31 December 2018, had paid 87.5m under exploiting regulatory opportunities.
Of this amount, 41.4m has been recorded as a receivable on the balance sheet and the remainder expensed through the income statement see below.
In the event of a successful appeal, recovery of the debtor will be through either a repayment or an ability to offset other tax liabilities.
12 CHIEF EXECUTIVES Q&A AND REVIEW CONTINUED OUR AMBITION IS TO BE THE SAFEST AND MOST TRUSTED OPERATOR IN THE WORLD.
Brexit In October 2018, we unveiled our new CSR The vast majority of consumers enjoy strategy Fair Play which comprises three the industrys products and services, The UK and Gibraltar are scheduled to principal pillars: Safer Gambling, Responsible but it is imperative that operators work leave the EU on 29 March 2019 and the Employer and Responsible Communities.
withregulators and governments to provide Group has identied a number of issues Under each of these pillars we have rolled-out a safe environment for all and one that arising from Brexit.
Firstly, for legal and a number of policies including: a new Groupencourages consumers to stay within regulatory reasons, the Group companies wide Code of Conduct: a new Diversity and aregulated arena.
providing our gambling offering to Inclusion D&I strategy, with a three-year customers in the EU need to be established At the end of 2018 we published the roadmap towards making us a more inclusive and licensed in an EU member state.
Groups first CSR Report which will be business: the relaunch of the Ladbrokes Secondly, under the regulations of some refreshed within the Groups forthcoming Coral Trust with major campaigns for The EU countries, the servers hosting our online 2018 Annual Report.
We are pleased to Bobby Moore Fund and Alzheimers Research gambling platform need to be located report that this increased focus on CSR UK: a strategic three-year partnership with in an EU member state.
initiatives has been recognised by two SportsAid and the establishment of a new of the leading Environmental, Social, In order to satisfy these requirements, GVC Community Fund launching in 2019, and Governance ESG indices.
the Group has implemented plans or, backed by an investment of 2m.
In September 2018 GVC was admitted where the timescale allows, has prepared Arguably our most important CSR strategic to the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, detailed plans that are ready to implement pillar is Safer Gambling.
We believe the key to while in January 2019 the Group joined that involve operating those parts of our establishing a safer environment for customers the FTSE4Good Index.
Both of these business which have customers in the to enjoy the services we provide isby working admissions followed extensive independent EU under Malta online gambling licenses, constructively with both national regulators, reviews of the Groups ESG policies and locating servers hosting our online including the UK Gambling Commission, and practices.
gambling platform in the Republic of and our industry peers.
Our online businesses will continue leading role in cross-industry bodies including Current trading and outlook to be headquartered in Gibraltar and these the Senet Group and the Remote Gaming plans will not have a significant impact on For the period 1 January 2019 to Association RGA, through which we agreed the number of our employees in Gibraltar.
24 February 2019: a pre-watershed whistle-to-whistle ban on Finally, the Group has made practical broadcast advertising around sport inthe UK, Trading in the period was strong.
contingency arrangements to help effective from August 2019.
Group NGR was 11% ahead of the same employees who live in Spain but work period last year.
Online NGR was 22% Through such dialogue, we have developed in Gibraltar should there be a significant ahead, European Retail 9% ahead and UK a comprehensive plan called Changing for increase in delays crossing Gibraltars Retail LFL NGR 2% behind.
This represents the Bettor, with the aim to lead the industry border with Spain after Brexit.
an excellent start to the year, and at this in minimising the potential for harm while early stage, the Board is confident of maximising our collective understanding of Safer Gambling and CSR delivering EBITDA and operating profit the issues associated with problem gambling.
The transformation of GVC over the The campaign is made-up of a number of key past three years into a global leader in commitments, each backed by substantive sports-betting and gaming, with over initiatives.
Highlights include: a five-year, Kenneth Alexander 25,000 employees, has brought with multi-million pound research project with Chief Executive it a commensurate expansion in the the Division on Addiction, a Harvard Medical 5 March 2019 requirements of the business to be a leader School teaching hospital: the roll-out of in the area of corporate social responsibility.
youth-focused education programmes with GamCare and EPIC Risk Management: the In order to provide the necessary oversight introduction of improved player protection and leadership we established a Board tools: a doubling of donations to organisations level Corporate Social Responsibility focused on research and education into Committee, chaired by Virginia McDowell.
problem gambling and its treatments: and We also appointed a Head of CSR, to improvements to our product design.
coordinate our approach with stakeholders across the business and a new Director ofResponsible Gambling to help us realise our ambition to be the safest and most trusted operator in the world.
GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2018
