Chief Executives Statement the full-year ordinary dividend to 18.03 pence per share, an increase Summary of Group Results of 3.0% on the prior year.
If approved, this will be paid on 31 August Group revenue of 1,135.1m was up 3.7%, with like-for-like LFL 2018 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on sales growth of 2.0%.
Group gross margin of 50.2% was 78 basis 27 July 2018.
We continue to target dividend coverage of around points lower than the prior year, predominantly due to the impact 2 times on average over time and once the impact of adverse FX has on the cost of imported goods as a result of the weaker pound been fully mitigated.
against the US dollar, partially offset by gross margin improvements in Autocentres.
Group operating costs before non-recurring items Our capital allocation priorities and debt target remain unchanged.
rose by 2.9% reflecting continued investments in our colleagues, our We are currently in the process of developing plans for the next online and offline infrastructure and also more convenient fulfilment phase of business growth and look forward to presenting these to solutions for customers.
The increase in cost of goods from the weaker pound against the Retail Operational Review US dollar amounted to c. 25m year-on-year, of which a significant proportion was mitigated in the year.
Underlying EBITDA was up Halfords Retail sales were up 4.1% to 977.2m.
LFL growth of 0.7% to 109.5m and Underlying EBIT was 74.6m, which compares 2.3% reflected Motoring LFL of 1.9% and Cycling LFL of 2.9%.
Our with 77.1m in the prior year.
Underlying Profit Before Tax was service-related sales grew by 14.2% as we continued to increase our 71.6m and Underlying Basic Earnings Per Share was 29.6 pence, service-led retail proposition, training our colleagues and introducing down 5.0% and 2.3% respectively.
Profit after tax for the year was new services across both motoring and cycling categories.
Within Motoring, Car Maintenance revenues increased by 3.7% on Cash generation remained robust, with Free Cash Flow of 41.5m.
a LFL basis, driven by growth in car parts and associated fitting Net Debt at the end of the year was broadly flat against the prior yearservices.
Nearly 42% of the bulbs, blades and batteries 3Bs sold end, despite planned follow-on M&A payments and the working capital were fitted to customers cars by our colleagues, which was up 175 impact of VAT payment timing.
Net debt:Underlying EBITDA at the basis points year-on-year.
This reflects the increasing relevance year end was 0.8 times on a rolling 12 month basis FY17: 0.8 times.
of our services proposition to the growing proportion of do-itfor-me customers.
The LFL growth also came from strong sales The Board has recommended a final ordinary dividend of 12.03 of workshop and hand-tools, which continued to benefit from the pence per share FY17: 11.68 pence which, if approved, would take strong credentials of our Halfords Advanced ranges.
In the reporting of financial information, the Directors have adopted various Alternative Performance Measures APMs.
These are denoted with an asterisk in this report.
Further detail on these APMs, including definitions, can be found in the glossary on page 151.
06 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 30 March 2018 25675 8 June 2018 10:59 AM Proof 10 Car Enhancement LFL revenues were -2.2%, principally reflecting FX mitigation the continued market decline in Sat Nav sales.
Despite this, we The impact of the weaker pound has played out as guided.
We gained share in Sat Navs year-on-year as others exited the market.
have now experienced a cumulative additional 40m of input costs Dash-cam sales grew strongly in the period, as we continued to compared to FY16.
Our plans to offset the impact through supplier invest in colleague training to support our market-leading fitting negotiations, operational efficiencies and pricing have worked well proposition.
Shortly after the year end we launched our own Halfords and we have now recovered over half of the gross impact.
At current branded range of dash-cams.
exchange rates we do not anticipate any further FX headwind in FY19 Travel Solutions LFL revenues increased 3.6%, driven by good or FY20 and we continue to anticipate fully recovering the impact growth in roof bars boxes, cycle carriers and camping equipment, over time - see outlook commentary on page 08. as we supported customers with their staycation journeys throughout the period.
The category also benefited from improved Autocentres Operational Review fitting capability, with colleagues receiving refreshed training to Total Autocentres revenues were up 0.8% and 0.2% on a LFL basis.
support an enhanced service proposition.
Child car seat sales were As previously guided, we took the decision to exit low-margin affiliate down year-on-year, as a result of annualising the legislative tailwind tyre business at the start of the year and instead focused on direct of last year.
tyre sales and on service, maintenance and repair work.
As a result Cycling sales improved by 2.9% on a LFL basis despite the of this decision, gross margin and EBIT have increased year-on-year.
unfavourable weather in the fourth quarter and not repeating the We opened 3 Autocentres in the year.
Online booking revenues grew volume-driving summer promotion of the previous year.
Whilst our 15% and contributed 28% of total Autocentre sales.
bike volumes declined year-on-year as expected, this was more As previously noted, we undertook an operational review of than offset by an increase in sales value.
Parts, Accessories and Autocentres during the year and identified that there are good Clothing PACs sales continued to grow, supported by improved opportunities for profit improvement by implementing better attachment rates.
systems and consistent application of best practice.
This includes Sales of electric bikes e-bikes were strong, reflecting the improving visibility and control in centres and improving the systems popularity of our new own-brand ranges launched in the year.
A proportion of our centres have good profit margins We also rolled out colleague training so that our trusted, expert and there is an opportunity to share the best practices in these colleagues were able to advise on the features and benefits for the high-performing centres with the rest of the estate.
Our cycle repair services and cycle to work business also to transform the operating model will take some time, but is well performed strongly.
underway and the early progress is encouraging as indicated by improved year-on-year profit, particularly in the second half.
Tredz and Cycle Republic continued to perform well and deliver good LFL sales growth.
Four new Cycle Republic stores were opened in the year, with one shortly after the year end, taking the total to 20 stores.
Last month we opened the Boardman Performance Centre, a state-of-the-art facility to enhance the Boardman brand and provide a destination for cycling enthusiasts.
Service-related Retail sales, which consist of the revenue generated from paid in-store fitting and repair services plus the associated product attached to the transaction, grew by 14.2%, with particularly good performances from our 3Bs fitting, dash cam fitting and cycle repair services.
This is a reflection of our continued focus in growing awareness of our services and enhancing the delivery of them through regular colleague training.
Retail online sales were up 6.0% on a like-for-like basis.
The importance of our store network and service overlay continued to be highlighted by the strength of click & collect, with around 85% of Halfords.
com online orders picked up in store.
This high proportion continues to differentiate us from other retailers.
Instead of cannibalising our bricks and mortar operation, online sales have driven store footfall: both our online and store sales were in growth for the year.
com 07 25675 8 June 2018 10:59 AM Proof 10 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW Chief Executives Statement The business has some key visible strengths: Summary of strategic progress over recent years The Group has made good progress in recent years.
A few of the key strong heritage and brand awareness: improvements are noted as follows: market leader in many of its categories: Continued investment in our colleagues.
We launched the Gears trained and engaged colleagues with a can do attitude: and, training programme in 2014 and this is now well-embedded in cash generative with a resilient financial position.
the Retail business and is integral to providing enhanced product There are also a few hidden gems, which Halfords has not yet knowledge to our customers and our ability to efficiently and leveraged to their full potential: effectively deliver our services.
Over 70% of Retail colleagues are now trained to Gear 2 level, up from 46% three years ago.
services businesses: a key differentiating factor, but many Improved colleague engagement.
This is evidenced by our people arent aware of what we can do: own internal surveys and also by the Sunday Times Best Big group-wide customer database: and, Companies To Work For in which Halfords came 9th in the year, established B2B business, across both our motoring and cycling up from 18th in 2015. specialisms.
We know our customers better than we did before.
A single customer view has been implemented across However, the world of retail is ever changing: customers are all of our Retail businesses and Autocentres, with a database becoming more demanding and new entrants continue to disrupt containing details of millions of customers.
We can now match the market.
This brings its own challenges but it also brings real 59% of transactions to customers in Retail, up from 3% in opportunities for those who can truly position themselves as November 2015.
The foundations are there to leverage this to be service-led specialists.
more relevant for our customers in the future.
In summary, Halfords is a good business with a great future.
By Solid foundations have been laid for the services business.
focusing more on our specialisms and our services, ensuring that These include building the comprehensive suite of services and we always provide great value to our customers and presenting training our colleagues to deliver them.
We now have over 70 a more seamless and inspirational omni-channel experience, we in-store services in the Retail business and service-related Retail have an exciting future of growth ahead of us.
I will provide further sales have grown by 46% over the last three years.
Investment in operational and financial detail on our plans in September 2018. colleague headsets across the estate has supported increased colleague knowledge and specialist support for customers.
Summary and Outlook Enhanced presence in the cycling market.
In recent years we We anticipate the motoring market will remain robust and we have launched Cycle Republic and acquired Tredz.
Through these continue to see good growth prospects for the cycling market over investments we can now service all segments of the cycling time.
Last year the cycling market was challenging, exacerbated market from a childs first bike to the enthusiast with multiple by poor weather in the fourth quarter.
We do not now expect to bikes.
see price rises in cycling this year, like we saw in the previous year.
A store refresh programme We now anticipate the remainder of FX mitigation to arise from an was launched in 2013 and updated in 2016, focused on the look improved pound US dollar exchange rate, which will be mostly in and feel of stores.
Around a third of stores have been refreshed FY20 due to the timing of our hedging programme.
We also plan to during this period.
accelerate investments in the current year in further developing our services proposition and in customer relationships and data.
In light Ongoing improvements to our infrastructure.
After a number of the above, we currently anticipate FY19 Profit Before Tax to be of years of under-investment, investments have been made broadly in line with FY18.
in a more resilient IT infrastructure, the embedding of a new delivery-to-store model in 2015, improvements towards a more On 22 May 2018, the Board announced the appointment of Keith agile approach to website development, the launch of a single Williams as Non-Executive Chairman with effect from 24 July 2018. view of stock and the implementation of the Dayforce colleague He will succeed Dennis Millard who will retire from the Board on that resource planning system.
Initial thoughts on joining Halfords I would like to thank all colleagues for the warm welcome they have given me and for their enthusiasm.
I am excited about Halfords I have been with Halfords for four months now.
During this time I have future and look forward to working with our colleagues and the Board been learning about the business and our markets, customers and to drive the next phase of growth.
competitors, visiting our facilities, meeting with colleagues and have also started to work with the team to identify opportunities for the Graham Stapleton next phase of growth.
Chief Executive Officer 22 May 2018 This is a business that has good foundations.
As set out above, there has been progress in previous years firstly in colleague development and customer service, and then latterly in becoming more customer-focused.
08 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 30 March 2018 25675 8 June 2018 10:59 AM Proof 10 25675 8 June 2018 10:59 AM Proof 10 25675 8 June 2018 10:59 AM Proof 10 STRATEGIC REPORT Our Marketplace 12 Our Business Model 14 Stakeholder Engagement 16 Our Strategy 18 Our Key Performance Indicators 20 Corporate Social Responsibility 24 Chief Financial Officers Report 34 Our Principal Risks And Uncertainties 40 25675 8 June 2018 10:59 AM Proof 10
