Strategic Report Chief Executives Strategic Review How were focusing on our renewed purpose Andrew Williams Group Chief Executive Revenue over 1bn Profit over 200m Dividend increase by 7% 39th consecutive year of 5% dividend growth FTSE 100 constituent since December 2017 8 safer | cleaner | healthier Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 r a e y d r o c e r r e h t o n A Strategic Report Significant milestones and our growth which contributes to a total dividend per strategy enhanced share of 14.68p for the full year 2017: 13.71p.
Halma made strong progress during the year This 7% increase in the total dividend per and achieved record revenue and profit for share is subject to shareholders approval at the fifteenth consecutive year, surpassing Halmas Annual General Meeting on 19 July 1 billion of revenue for the first time.
In 2018 and will be paid on 15 August 2018 to December 2017, Halma entered the FTSE 100 shareholders on the register on 13 July 2018. index reflecting both our outstanding track record of growth and exciting potential for Revenue growth in all major regions the future.
Our businesses have continued to invest inexpanding their presence in international We have a clear growth strategy, a markets, often collaborating with other sustainable financial model and a unique Halma companies or using Halmas growth organisational structure, which is customerhubs in China and India.
Our growth in both We have a clear growth focused and enables us to adapt quickly developed and developing regions reflects strategy, a sustainable to market changes.
During the year, the the global and sustainable nature of our Halma 4.0 growth strategy was launched, safety, health and environmental market financial model and a which will support new ways to grow our growth drivers.
business byembracing the opportunities unique organisational and challenges of digital technologies Revenue growth was strong in the Asia with greater connectivity.
At its centre is Pacificregion with an increase of 15% to structure, which is arevitalised commitment to make a major 175m 2017: 152m, including 14% organic customer focused positive impact in the world through our constant currency growth.
This included a renewed purpose of Growing a safer, cleaner, revenue increase of 20% from China to 82m and enables us to healthier future for everyone, every day.
2017: 68m, with 18% organic constant currency growth.
adapt quickly to Underpinning our continuing success is market changes.
the outstanding commitment, abilities and There were good rates of growth in the dedication of talented individuals in every UK, Mainland Europe and the USA of 12%, part of Halma.
I thank all of them for their 13% and8% respectively, all including contribution to not only delivering exceptional organic constant currency growth rates financial results but also for ensuring that of 8%9%.
The USA remained our largest Halma has a transformational impact on region with revenue of 374m 2017: 345m.
Revenue fromMainland Europe was 238m 2017:210m and from the UKwas173m Record revenue and profit with 2017:155m.
strongreturns Revenue increased by 12% to 1,076m Revenue from Other regions, which Revenue growth in all our sectors 2017:962m including 10% organic constant includesSouth America, Africa, Near currency growth and a 2% contribution from and Middle East grew strongly by 17% to 1 acquisitions.
Adjusted profit increased by 116m 2017: 99m, including 12% organic 10% to 213.7m 2017: 194m including 9% constantcurrency growth.
185m organic constant currency growth and a 1% contribution from acquisitions.
Currency rate Revenue and profit growth in all sectors 11% movements had a marginal impact on the The Process Safety sector performed in line translation of revenue and profit for the full with our expectations and maintained the Process Safety revenue year, with a positive impact in the first half, improved performance which started to emerge offset by a negative impact in the second half.
in the second half of the last financial year.
Returns remained at a high level.
Return Revenue was up by 11% to 185m 349m 1 2 on Sales of 19.9% 2017: 20.2% was within 2017:167m and profit rose by 8% to our target range of 18% 22%.
This was almost all 11% 1 Return on Total Invested Capital was 15.2% organic constant currency growth as there Infrastructure Safety revenue 2017: 15.3% and well above our estimated was minimal impact from currency movement Weighted Average Cost of Capital of 7.7%.
and no acquisitions during the year.
R&D spend Good cash generation and a strong balance increased by 6% to 6.3m 2017: 6.0m.
The sheet to support future investments Pipeline Management, Safety Interlocks and 284m Cash generation was good throughout Pressure Management segments performed theyear, which ended with a net debt of strongly with a more modest rate of growth 9% 220m 2017: 196m after spending 116m inGasSensors.
Medical revenue on current year acquisitions 2017: 10m, 22m on capital expenditure 2017: 24m, Steadily improving demand from the onshore 53m on dividends to shareholders 2017: energy market contributed to strong organic 50m and paying 41m of tax 2017: 33m.
constant currency growth from the USA.
259m There was also excellent progress in Asia Gearing at the year end net debt to EBITDA Pacific and Other regions.
There was solid was 0.87 times 2017: 0.86 times, which was progress in Mainland Europe and lower 18% below our targeted range of 12 times.
Environmental & Analysis revenue have sufficient headroom to support future investment in organic and acquisitive growth The Process Safety sector is continuing to in line with our strategic objectives.
invest in its products, markets and organisation to make it more resilient in responding to Final dividend to increase by 7% adverse changes in its largest end market, The Board is recommending a final oiland gas.
We expect it to make progress dividendof 8.97p per share 2017: 8.38p inthe year ahead.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 safer | cleaner | healthier 9 Strategic Report Chief Executives Strategic Review continued The Infrastructure Safety sector performed The Environmental & Analysis sector had an payment of up to US$2.0m 1.5m.
Revenue increased by 11% to 349m outstanding year, achieving strong underlying assets acquired were merged into SunTech 2017: 315m, including 8% organic constant growth and also benefitting from the within our Medical sector.
Profit grew by 13% to reorganisation completed in the prior year.
73.3m 2017: 65.1m including 10% organic In August 2017, we acquired Cardios, also constant currency growth.
Both revenue Revenue grew by 18% to 259m 2017: a blood pressure monitoring specialist, for and profit benefited by 2% from acquisitions 219m including organic constant currency R$50m 12.4m, with a potential payment and 1% from currency.
Return on Sales was growth of 15% and a 3% contribution from of up to R$5m 1.2m for further growth.
Profit increased by 32% to Based in So Paulo, Brazil, this is our first ever 13% to 20.4m 2017: 18.0m.
There were 55.0m 2017: 41.7m including organic acquisition in South America.
Cardios has strong performances in the Fire and People constant currency growth of 28%, a 6% joined the Medical sector.
Movement segments and solid progress in contribution from acquisitions and a 2% Security and Elevator Safety.
Return on In October 2017, we acquired Mini-Cam, Sales was 21.2% 2017: 19.0%.
R&D spend apipeline inspection business focused on Regionally, the highest rates of organic increased by 17% to 17.8m 2017: 15.1m.
We paid an initial consideration constant currency revenue growth were The Photonics, Water and Environmental of 64.9m and there is potential further in Asia Pacific and Other regions.
There &Monitoring segments all contributed payment of 23.1m based on future profit continues to be a gradual strengthening of strongly to this outstanding result.
Mini-Cam is based in the UK safety regulation for public and commercial and isnow part of the Environmental & infrastructure in developing regions, which There was strong organic constant currency Analysissector.
promises to support continued growth in revenue growth in Asia Pacific, the UK and the future.
There were good rates of organic the USA with solid growth from Mainland In November 2017, we acquired Setco, based constant currency growth in the UK and Europe.
The UK benefited from good demand near Barcelona, Spain for a consideration of Mainland Europe.
Despite demand trends from the water utilities.
Trading under the Microkey improving in the second half, there was a in demand from Other regions, which brand, this brings new telecommunications small organic constant currency decline represents around 5% of sector revenue.
capabilities to our Elevator Safety business, inthe USA.
Avire, which is partof the Infrastructure The Environmental & Analysis sector has good Safetysector.
Given this widespread growth, both momentum in its chosen market segments geographically and in each market segment, and is well placed to continue to make In December 2017, we acquired Argus the Infrastructure Safety sector is expected to progress this year.
Security and its UK distributor, Sterling, make continued progress in the coming year.
for a combined consideration of 20.8m Five acquisitions completed across 18.4m.
Argus is based in Trieste, Italy The Medical sector achieved consistent threesectors and manufactures fire detection solutions.
revenue growth throughout the year and Our core acquisition strategy is to find It will operate within ourInfrastructure improved its rate of profitability as the privately-owned businesses operating in Safetysector.
niches, which are aligned with our purpose of Growing a safer, cleaner, healthier future for Our sector-focused organisational Revenue increased by 9% to 284m everyone, every day.
We focus the majority model gives us the scalability we need to 2017:261m including 7% organic constant of our search efforts in our core, or closely continue toacquire small-to-medium sized currency growth and a 2% contribution adjacent, market niches although each businesses or even to acquire small groups of 2 from acquisitions.
Profit improved by 0.4% sector board has freedom to explore new companies.
Our portfolio structure enables us to 67.0m 2017: 66.7m including a 0.4% niches which might have the right product, to easily integrate new acquisitions as well as organic constant currency decline and 1% market and financial characteristics.
In most to merge or sell businesses should the longercontribution from acquisitions.
There was cases we acquire 100% of an entity, but we term market potential change adversely.
avery small negative impact from currency make minority investments to gain access This enables Halma to grow rapidly without on both revenue and profit.
Return on to potentially valuable intellectual property becoming more complex.
R&D spend if an outright purchase is not appropriate or had revenue of 398m from 39 operating increased by 4% to 11.8m 2017: 11.3m.
Every transaction is approved by the companies while today we have revenue The Ophthalmology, Patient Assessment, Group Chief Executive and Finance Director, of1,076m and 41 operating companies.
Diagnostic and Sensor segments all achieved with all deals of 10m or over requiring revenue growth with increased investment Halmaplc Board approval.
Halma 4.0 growth strategy launched and revenue mix reducing, as expected, andincreased digital investment therelative rate of profit growth.
Coming into the year, we had an improving The Halma 4.0 growth strategy provides a acquisition pipeline having built stronger, clear framework which helps our companies There was good organic constant currency sector-focused M&A search resources.
to face the diverse challenges and revenue growth in the USA, which is the Itwas pleasing to see this translate into five opportunities presented by the digital age.
There was solid acquisitions completed in the year and it is growth in the UK, Mainland Europe and Asia encouraging that we maintained a healthy It maintains a focus on growing our Core Pacific and strong growth in Other regions.
pipeline of opportunities as we entered business as the foundation of Halmas thenew financial year.
success for example, through new product The Medical sector is well positioned to make development and international expansion further progress in the coming year through In July 2017, we acquired blood pressure and, during the year, R&D spend increased sustained revenue growth and maintaining monitoring technology and product lines by12% to 56.5m 2017: 50.6m representing itsimproving profitability.
from Cas Medical Systems, Inc for an initial 5.2% of Group revenue 2017: 5.3%.
However, consideration of US$4.5m 3.4m, with a Halma 4.0 also adds two further growth potential performance-based contingent strategies, called Convergence and Edge.
10 safer | cleaner | healthier Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Convergence growth is achieved through Executive Board changes with Marc in the years ahead and welcome the creation of new digital solutions, often In order to leverage the benefit of stronger him to the Board.
with new business models, arising from the networking within Halma and to provide combination of capabilities or technologies greater visibility to the company boards Corporate responsibility and sustainability from more than one Halma company and of what is available to them, the Executive is at Halmas core or new partnerships outside the Group for Board was streamlined in December 2017.
Our primary market growth drivers mean example, using a safety-related technology The number of Sector Chief Executives that Halma companies operate in markets for a medical application.
SCEs was reduced from four to two.
Paul in which their products contribute positively Simmons became the SCE responsible for to the wider community.
These market Edge growth will come from creating our two Safety sectors and Adam Meyers characteristics and our commitment to health newbusiness opportunities via partnerships the SCE responsible for the Medical and and safety, the environment and people with external companies which have Environmental sectors.
I would like to thank development are reflected in the values held valuable capabilities which we do not wish Philippe Felten and Chuck Dubois for their by our employees and our operating culture.
to, or areunable to, acquire for example, contributions to Halmas success as members We review our responsibility and sustainability .
of the Executive Board over many years.
reporting in accordance with best practice.
Legislative changes, particularly concerning At the fulcrum of executing the Halma 4.0 In addition, we re-established the Divisional the environment and bribery and corruption, strategy are our Growth Enablers.
These Chief Executive DCE role.
The DCEs have provided an opportunity to review are the resources provided by the Group to chair each Halma operating company and and ensure that our procedures in these every company to help them to grow.
They have greater direct important areas are accessible, compliant include well-established components of interaction with the Halma Executive Board and firmly bedded within our business.
our growth strategy including M&A, Talent, than the previous Sector Vice President role International Expansion, Innovation and and therefore will be well positioned to bring A detailed report on Sustainability is on Finance & Risk.
Tothese, Halma 4.0 has the value of the Group to each business.
added Digital Growth Engines and Strategic Communications.
A summary of these is Finance Director succession Outlook shown on pages 6 and 7 of this report.
At the close of the AGM on 19 July 2018, Halma has completed another successful KevinThompson will retire from Halma after year, achieving record results while increasing As we have done successfully in the past, 30 years of service, including 20 years as strategic investment as part of an enhanced ourapproach is to make central investment Finance Director.
Kevin has made a huge growth strategy.
inhigh-quality resources for our companies contribution to Halmas development over to use according to their needs and ambition.
this long period, not least by ensuring that Halmas market and geographic diversity, the critical elements of our success, such as combined with the agility of our business In July 2017, we were delighted to welcome organic growth, free cash flow and a strong model, will be important assets as accelerating Inken Braunschmidt as our first Chief balance sheet have remained at the forefront technological and geopolitical change Innovation and Digital Officer and member of our growth strategy.
I would like to thank continues to impact individual regions and of the Executive Board.
Inken has already Kevin for his support to me and to the Board industries.
Trading since the last financial year been working very closely with our operating over this long period and wish him health end has been positive, with order intake ahead companies and is building a much stronger andhappiness in the future.
of the order intake last year and revenue this collaborative network across the Group and year.
We expect to continue to make progress with external expert partners to accelerate I am delighted that, after an extensive internal in the coming year.
the development of our innovation and digital and external recruitment process, the Board capabilities for Core, Convergence and Edge selected Halmas Group Financial Controller, growth.
We look forward to sharing success Marc Ronchetti, as Kevins successor.
Marc Andrew Williams stories from these new initiatives in the future.
will start as Halmas new Chief Financial Group Chief Executive Officer on 1 July 2018.
He has been completing an extensive handover process 1 See Highlights from Kevin and the transition has progressed 2 See note 1 to the Accounts smoothly.
I look forward to working closely Total Shareholder Return 10 years 1,000 800 600 400 200 0 Apr-08 Apr-09 Apr-10 Apr-11 Apr-12 Apr-13 Apr-14 Apr-15 Apr-16 Apr-17 Apr-18 Halma FTSE 100 FTSE 250 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 safer | cleaner | healthier 11 Strategic Report Gr owing a safer future We are tackling the global issue of people and transport safety as cities grow safer Safety in overcrowded cities The worlds urban population is increasing more rapidly than ever before with 4.2 billion people living in cities today.
According to research by the United Nations, this trend isset to continue with an estimated 6.7 billion people living in urban areas by 2050 68% ofthe global population.
Some of the worlds largest cities, termed megacities, exceed 10 million or more residents.
The UN expects the number of megacities worldwide to increase from 31 to 43 by 2030.
Seoul, South Korea is a megacity with a population density almost twice that of New York.
The wider Seoul metropolitan area is home to over 25 million residents half of the population.
The rapid increase in urban population has BEAs LZR system placed a significant strain on infrastructure, Installed across the KORAIL especially transportation networks.
While Metro network in Seoul, BEAs cities face multiple challenges in trying to laser scanner sensors are keep pace with an ever-increasing population, helping protect passengers.
the problem of overcrowding, liveability and Thousands of these compact people mobility has become the daily norm laser scanner sensors have been for many and a significant safety risk.
installed to secure the safety of the gap between the platform Halma is helping these urban areas better and the platform screen doors.
manage overcrowding and develop safety These sensors are preventing solutions to help protect people as they go people from becoming trapped about their daily lives.
or blocked between the platform and the door.
Together with other Halma companies, BEA ishelping to make the world asafer place for millions of people every day.
12 safer | cleaner | healthier Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report 4.
2b n Over half the planet live in densely populated urban environments where overcrowding is a safety risk 6 8% 43 Global population megacities UN predicts 43 megacities living in cities by 2050 ofmore than 10 million people by 2030 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 safer | cleaner | healthier 13 s e u s s i g i b e h t g n i l k c a t Strategic Report Gr owing a cleaner future We are addressing the global issue of air quality as pollution levels increase cleaner Improving air quality Air pollution is an invisible killer.
The World Health Organisation WHO estimates that nine out of ten people worldwide breathe polluted air, and seven million premature deaths each year can be linkedtoairpollution.
According to the 2018 Environmental Performance Index, air pollution is the biggest environmental threat to public health.
In December 2017, Beijing issued its first pollution red alert, closing schools, factories and construction sites for four days, and taking half of all private cars off the road.
During this period, the intensity of the smallest polluting particles known as PM 2.5was reported at around 40 times theWHOmaximum safe level.
Exposure to PM 2.5 in the polluted air can penetrate deep into lungs and the cardiovascular system, causing diseases including stroke, heart disease, lung cancer, Crowcons VOC Monitor chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases and Halma companies Crowcon, respiratory infections, including pneumonia.
PermaPure and Ocean Optics use advanced sensor technology Beijings red alert was a positive step in the to capture high-quality emission right direction.
But research suggests the measurements, including problem has a global dimension.
sulphur, ammonia and various NOx gases.
They share real-time Countries such as China and Mexico are data with their customers around taking measures to tackle and reduce air the world, which is used for pollution from particulate matter, including everything from pure emission committing to tougher regulations on monitoring and reporting to polluters and fines for law-breakers.
They are monitoring oxygen levels, toxic also investing in renewable energy, switching gas and flammable hazards, domestic fuel from coal to electricity, and and controlling exhaust gas legislating for cleaner vehicle standards.
14 safer | cleaner | healthier Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report s e u s s i g i b e h t g n i l k c a t 9 10 people worldwide breathe polluted air 7m Around 7 million people die every year from exposure to air pollution Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 safer | cleaner | healthier 15 Strategic Report Gr owing a healthier future We are taking on the global issue of preventable blindness as the global population lives longer healthier 39m 39 million people are blind worldwide half from treatable cataracts 16 safer | cleaner | healthier Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 s e u s s i g i b e h t g n i l k c a t Strategic Report Preventable blindness The number of blind people across the world is set to triple within the next four 115m decades, researchers at the Lancet Global Health predict.
A growing ageing population 115 million people will be is behind the rising numbers.
However blind worldwide by 2050 according to the World Health Organization, 80% of global blindness is reversible or preventable with early diagnosis.
Some of the highest rates of blindness and vision impairment are in South Asia and sub-Saharan Africa.
More than 39 million people are blind worldwide, half from treatable cataracts.
Thatfigure is expected to rise to more than115 million by 2050.
Blindness creates social dependency, reduces the workforce, shortens lives, and robs children of education.
In developing economies, it causes US$49 billion in lost productivity, annually.
Volks Pictor Plus Halma has been working closely with the ophthalmic community tocreate life-saving diagnostic and surgical technology for decades.
Volk and Keeler are leading manufacturers of ophthalmic imaging devices and lenses in theworld today their technology ishelping todiagnose and treatpreventable blindness.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 safer | cleaner | healthier 17
