Chief Executives review Strengthening the business today, to create an even stronger business tomorrow Taking a realistic view of the structural and cyclical challenges facing retail, and focusing on the assets and capabilities that will allow us to make the most of a wider set of global trends in the years ahead.
With the growth in online shopping and the thriving like never before, and many are also Significant change and increasing scale of the largest players in the significant tourist destinations.
Oftendriven by substantial opportunity market, it is more important than ever for a well educated workforce and strong transport The world in which we operate is going through brands to find ways to stand out from the links, these cities are already growing fast and a period of intense disruption, nowhere more crowded and increasingly expensive first page are setting themselves up for sustained success.
so than in retail, where structural changes and of Googles shop window.
The very best These trends have set us on a clear path.
the rise of online shopping continue to physical stores in prime locations are proving challenge many traditional businesses.
There Towards a focused portfolio of winning increasingly important for consumer brands flagship destinations and premium outlets in are also burdens on consumer income and cost to differentiate themselves.
While we will and around major European cities where Experiences attract people.
That might be a people and brands want to be.
We will only benefit as and when these ease, we recognise their impact today.
large-scale event that everyones talking own venues of the very highest quality, that about, or a beautifully Instagrammable meal we believe will be relevant and outperform in Even so, there are undoubtedly major trends with friends and family.
There is a high bar this rapidly changing environment.
both in the UK and globally which could have it needs to be genuinely new and exciting, as a far more positive effect on our business, if To deliver this, the three pillars of our YouTube sensation James Charles strategy are Capital efficiency: Optimised we take the necessary steps to take advantage demonstrated at Bullring in January 2019 of them.
In July, we highlighted the market portfolio: Operational excellence.
We have - attracting 77,000 registrations for just 250 made strong progress with all three of these themes that will shape our future, and VIP tickets.
When people are offered the outlined how our reshaped strategy will put during the year.
chance to experience something fantastic, us in the best position to deliver over the they will leap at the opportunity.
Further information on short, medium and longerterm.
While household finances are under pressure, Further information on there is a healthy proportion of cities in the UK, page 10.
Ireland, and across continental Europe that are Strategic pillars and 2019 priorit ies Capital efficiency Optimised portfolio Operational excellence Reducing debt Exiting retail parks Managing structural shift in retail Pursuing portfolio-wide disposals 6 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Chief Executive's review We continue to have considerable discretion over our capital expenditure and have deferred certain development projects, including Brent Cross, an important strategic project which remains one of Londons leading retail destinations.
In Croydon we are currently reviewing the scheme to ensure it responds to changing retailer requirements and is appropriate for the future.
In France, we are on site with extensions of our city flagship destinations at both Les 3 Fontaines in Cergy and Italie Deux in Paris.
These major schemes are also being considered through our City Quarters lens.
Our financial position is robust, and our debt maturity profile has been carefully managed to ensure that we are able to sustain even material changes in asset valuations.
Optimised portfolio We grew the Groups exposure to premium outlets, the fastest-growing retail format in Europe and go-to venues for global tourists.
These are crucial marketplaces for the worlds leading brands.
Throughout the year we again saw strong retail sales in this high growth sector, particularly from overseas visitors, with strong performances coming on the back 2018 performance Capital efficiency of extensions at Bicester Village, Oxfordshire 2018 was undoubtedly a tough year, We are intensely focused on making sure we and Batavia Stad, Amsterdam and an particularly in the UK.
Retailer failures run the business in a way that takes account of impressive uplift at Mallorca Fashion Outlet resulted in weaker market sentiment and the realities of the environment we are in and in the VIA portfolio.
Brands are continuing to pressure on values created a difficult reducing debt is our number one priority.
invest in this sector of the market where operating environment for the business and Proceeds from disposals are contributing brand loyalty is high.
Our European assets towards a reduction in leverage, with a debt performed more positively with a strong reduction of 95 million during 2018, Set against the backdrop of exceptionally low contribution again from premium outlets resulting in an LTV of 38%, versus our target retail real estate transaction volumes, we sold evidenced in our full-year numbers.
In 2018, we sold 570million of 570 million of assets.
The disposals were 7% execution of our strategy delivered a resilient properties and in2019 we have a disposal below book value and above market performance and gives confidence about the target of in excess of 500 million we are in expectations.
This provides further evidence of long-term strength of the business.
active discussions on transactions with a total the ongoing attraction of our destinations both value of over 900 million.
These transactions with shoppers and investors.
Our transaction are in the form of portfolio sales, joint activity made up around 15% of all UK shopping ventures and individual asset disposals from centre and retail park disposals in 2018.
The multiple sectors and territories.
This includes highlight was the 50% disposal of Highcross, The world in which a limited number of retail parks which we Leicester in November, when we welcomed remain committed to exiting over the medium we operate is going M&G Real Estate and its Asian client as our term.
Assuming that the disposal programme partner.
To attract a major international through a period of is successful, our net debt would be below investor, which is new to our joint venture intense disruption, 3billion by the end of 2019. line-up, is a real vote of confidence in our destinations and our operational excellence.
nowhere more so In the current market environment, and to than in retail, where give us greater flexibility for the future, we are As at 31 December 2018 48% of our portfolio is prioritising balance sheet strength over share outside the UK.
Our focus is on balancing the structural changes buybacks, so we have paused our 300 million benefits of diversification with that of scale in and the rise of online share buyback programme, having each individual market, and we take a repurchased 129 million of our shares last meticulous approach to the management of our shopping continue year.
A decision to restart the programme will portfolio to ensure each venue can deliver to challenge many be set against progress with disposals and sustained growth.
com 7 Chief Executives review continued A focus for 2019 and beyond will be decision to exit the Irish market provided the Online, which is now being rolled out across our reimagining the land around our flagship opportunity to create a more sophisticated UK flagship destinations, and becoming the first destinations for City Quarters, to curate and dining offer at Dundrum.
to trial voice enabled in-mall customer service.
build residential, leisure, conferencing, Because we are focused on delivering truly During the year, we saw an increase in retailer educational and cultural space.
These are dynamic destinations, and we strive to be the failures and CVA Company Voluntary viable development projects in their own brand partner of choice.
Arrangements in our UK portfolio.
Despite right but the primary purpose is to strengthen Further information on page 24. thisour venues have remained resilient, the destination status of our flagship assets by demonstrating their continued popularity.
creating vibrant neighbourhoods that maximise Occupancy remained high at 97.6% and the growth from Europes top flight cities.
We manage over 2,000 brand relationships tenantfailure is limited to 1.7% of group passing The long-term potential is really significant and inevitably, not every business we work rent.
with the ability to create 6,600 homes, 1,200 with will make it through the changes that are 2 hotel rooms, nearly 200,000m of workspace, happening in the market.
Over the past twelve While dealing with administrations and CVAs nine parks and exceptional public realm.
months, we have seen increased volatility as is complex and challenging, this rotation retail trends evolve.
It is clear that there is an Further information on page 31. allows our skilled teams to target exciting, excess supply of department store space and growing brands, which offer a unique high street fashion in terms of both the experience.
We work closely with new brands number of fascias and stores.
As a result, we Operational excellence in this space, offering them the support have taken clear and decisive action to limit Our flagship venues saw strong leasing demand necessary to succeed, for example by our exposure through proactively taking back providing expertise on innovative shop in 2018, particularly in the UK where we saw stores such as the House of Fraser at Highcross record leasing by volume on a year-on-year designs and fit outs.
This has led to some in Leicester and reducing the space let to stand out results over the past 12 months basis.
This demonstrates the appeal of our department stores, for example, Debenhams at destinations and provides us with confidence including Jo Malone and Arket.
This activity resulted in a more We continue to trial new ways of running and engaging brand mix across our portfolio and we We already know that this makes financial operating our venues with the objective of took bold decisions where needed - like the sense, with significant income uplifts, but it also delivering the best possible experience, and to complete reconfiguration of the former House results in an improved performance in our test new ways of engaging with shoppers, while of Fraser store at Highcross, Leicester, which destinations, as it allows us to bring in ensuring our retailer relationships remain as commenced over two years ago and helped differentiated brands for consumers.
Major initiatives included Shop drive performance.
In Ireland, Hamleys The job of creating vibrant spaces is never done: it requires constant attention and innovation.
White Christmas at Highcross, Leicester 8 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Chief Executive's review Festival of Light at Westquay, Southampton At the same time, we have focused on Britain, Ireland and continental Europe.
City Tomorrows opportunity categories where there is growing consumer Quarters will leverage our unrivalled 97 acre Retail has always been a dynamic sector and that demand such as aspirational fashion, direct to land bank to enhance our existing estate and is more true now than ever before.
In this consumer brands, fantastic regional food and maximise future value creation.
context we will continue to review and evolve beverage concepts and experiential pop-ups.
our strategy to ensure we can effectively respond We expect Ireland and continental Europe, New brands which are shaping our retailer to changing economic and market conditions which account for 48% of our portfolio, to line-up include Arket, & Other Stories, whilst targeting growth for shareholders.
In particular our Mercedes and vegan fast food operator, premium outlets, which have produced an Miami Burger, This has resulted in a better, We are not assuming that the storm in UK IRR of 24% over the last seven years, will more vibrant mix for our shoppers, provided a retail is over.
While UK retailer trading continue to produce industry beating returns.
more diverse income stream and clearly helps updates at the beginning of 2019 were better to offset lost income due to tenant failure.
than many had predicted, we are preparing In the right locations, there are millions of for further disruption and volatility.
Over the people who want to spend their time and The pursuit of the big day out is a growing next 12 months, we will continue to take the money in vibrant spaces as long as those reason many customers visit large flagship actions needed to respond to this challenge.
spaces are dynamic, interesting and appealing.
destinations, and now constitutes a quarter of The job of creating these spaces is never done: it all shopping visits.
That is why our strategy Based on the trends we are seeing, major requires constant evolution, innovation and focuses on the continued need for exceptional brands will continue to prioritise prime creativity.
Based on our track record and the events and experiences.
Great examples flagship space in destinations to showcase talent we have within our business, we are during the year included Shop & Rock at their full offer and deliver an immersive confident that we can continue to deliver Dundrum and the Yves Klein exhibition at experience, in a way which is impossible to do flagship destinations in neighbourhoods that Nicetoile.
We are evolving our management online.
This fits perfectly with our strategy of enable brands, cities, and our own business to capability to deliver this, to drive shopper focusing on flagship venues with growing thrive well into the future.
footfall, increase dwell time and improve consumer catchments.
catchment sales for our retailers.
For UK shoppers we expect to see a cautious David Atkins We continue to manage and control our costs, approach to spending, which will be more Chief Executive both operational and financial, and have an positive across our European markets.
Weare ongoing commitment to a leaner, more evolving our destinations.
Our ambition is far efficient cost base.
We have already secured broader than pure retail, and we have a savings of 5.7 million per annum towards unique opportunity to create vibrant, our 7 million per annum target.
mixed-use city neighbourhoods to meet the needs of some of the fastest-growing cities in www.
