ri ill Chief Executive Officer ar reae andnReport and Financial Statements 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW ANOTHER YEAR OF STRONG GROWTH I have never worked in a business as client focused as argreaves ansdown.
Welcome Market opportunity Our clients are at the heart I am proud to report another year where ast year, we outlined the significant eeryin e d we have delivered strong growth at structural growth opportunity that we I have never worked in a business as Hargreaves ansdown.
Our strategy have at Hargreaves ansdown.
Society client-focused as Hargreaves ansdown.
is built around excellent client service, has significant challenges in the UK, with We have a direct relationship with over 1 empowering people to save and invest a 1 billi s on avings gap, a greater need one million clients, and we are part of daily with confidence and 2018 saw significant for self-provision over a longer period life and routine for many of them.
This is progress with its ongoing delivery.
We as life expectancy has extended, and a a tremendous privilege and one that I am consciously invested in developing our complex set of government incentives determined we cherish and nurture.
proposition, platform, people and service and tax allowances to navigate.
People Our strategy is based on the delivery levels.
The benefit of this investment is need to take charge of their money and of excellent client service through our already coming through in our continued manage it over a longer period, and yet interactions with our clients and the growth in client numbers, net new savings and investments are becoming solutions that we offer on our platforms.
business, market share and profits, more complicated.
Clients need help and We want to be a household name, allowing us to reinstate the special they want solutions, not ust information.
knownas the best place for savers dividend this year for our shareholders.
They want to feel valued and supported by andinvestors in the UK.
A place where their chosen financial services providers, people are empowered to save and invest from whom they increasingly expect the with confidence.
same service levels as they get in other walks of life.
Our platform, combined with We interact with our clients in many our scale, knowledge, expertise and client different ways of their choosing.
We have focus, uniquely positions us to provide a market leading app and website, great thesolutions required and capitalise platform technology, a well-trained and onthis opportunity.
knowledgeable Helpdesk and a dedicated Operations team.
We set ourselves high standards and are clear that delivering excellent client service and high retention levels is at the core of our strategy.
We were particularly pleased to be rated by Which as the best platform for customer service, efficient administration, online functionality, online tools and guidance and information on investments as well 2 as the best platform overall Which, une2018.
Hargreaves LansdownReport and Financial Statements 2018 17 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW CONTINUED nein in r clien Simply Invest enables clients who are Our people Our analysis tells us that the key driver to starting out on their investment ourney Our people are crucial to our success and helping people to invest is building their to get UK market exposure through a are the backbone of our service offering.
We are passive fund which charges ust bps.
We have a talented and diverse population always looking to build on our range of Combined with our platform charge, this at Hargreaves ansdown and are investing solutions, make them appropriate for means that their all-in cost is less than proactively in their futures.
Our HR different groups of clients, and then use 50bps.
We provide upfront information team is delivering increased training and our scale to deliver value.
This approach and monthly educational tutorials to development to our colleagues, driving spans the whole spectrum from our these clients, aimed at improving their better engagement scores in our staff sophisticated investors to those ust investment knowledge and confidence.
Our Wealth 150 selection Over time, these clients can then choose also rolled out a management training has performed well for those clients who their own routes to invest across the programme to modernise and adapt in use it, providing insightful knowledge entire range of solutions that we offer.
ourmain service functions, delivering and research to support fund selection.
a15 productivity uplift on our Helpdesk In December 201, we launched our cash The list is up 5 over the past five years and a 25 uplift in our Operations marketplace, Active Savings, extending and, as the FCA noted during the year, department.
This enhanced productivity our service into this important asset class.
recommended fund lists drive value for means we can support our ongoing This solution gives clients access to a clients because they tend to have both growth whilst ensuring we have the wide range of banks savings products at better performance and lower asset timeto help our clients.
competitive rates within a couple of clicks.
manager fees, with an average discount It is revolutionary in the way it makes it so of 10-15bps negotiated by us for our r ecnly easy and efficient for people tomanage clients.
We have added new funds where Hargreaves ansdown has a deserved their cash savings alongside their we see client demand which is matched reputation for providing easy to use, safe investments in one place.
Clients do not and secure and always-on technology.
It favour UK investment at present, and In the current interest rate environment, is a competitive advantage to own and flows have been directed towards Global the appeal of cash as an asset class is operate our bespoke platform and 2018 funds.
We added the upiter Global Value relatively limited but we are using this time has been an extremely busy year.
We Equity Fund and were able to secure our to develop the proposition further and we have had an unprecedented period of clients an exclusive saving of 2bps off will add more banks, deposit periods and regulatory change to manage, with the the headline rate.
We have also reinvested tax wrappers as we move forward.
implementation of MiFID II and GDPR.
in price where we feel we need to remain We also chose to upgrade our security competitive, such as on overseas share login procedures to make them easier for nein in r ceiie adanae trading where we reduced foreign clients and more robust at a time of ever Our investment is targeted to maintain exchange transaction costs in May 2018. rising cyber threat.
These were three of and improve the client experience, which the largest code releases that we have relies upon constant development of At the less confident end of the investing ever done and involved all of our operating our offering supported by excellent spectrum, Portfolio Plus, which helps systems.
I am proud with how seamlessly service levels.
Through this we are able clients to get invested via a tailored range these developments have gone, because to provide clients with the knowledge of multi manager funds according to it demonstrates the quality of our to make decisions, the confidence their risk appetite, went past 1 billion in planning, our people and our commitment regardless of investment expertise and assets under administration this year.
to delivering exceptional service to clients the opportunity to save and invest easily This is an impressive achievement in ust at all times.
We stimulate and support three years since its launch, showing the all of this engagement and create a value to clients of an easy solution.
We lifelong relationship with our clients by have introduced an even simpler offering investing into our sources of competitive with the help of egal and General, called advantage, being our people, our Simply Invest.
ar reae andnReport and Financial Statements 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT We are focused on providing smarter, In 2018, we delivered record net new Our clients value the increasingly faster and more convenient digital business of.
billion and saw our AUA personalised communication, content experiences for clients as they use our grow to over 0 billion.
This increasing and guidance that we provide and we mobile and online platforms.
Service sie of client base powers our growth, continue to develop and focus our matters here too, and we use Net Ease as our clients transfer assets from other approach in response to developments Scores to understand how we can develop providers onto the platform and take in the digital market.
In February 2018, and drive numerous small operational advantage of their annual ISA and pension we rebranded our content and platform and technological changes to benefit allowances to invest more through us.
For to create a new, clean visual identity.
For example, putting the W8BEN example, 0 of our ISA clients made a provides a base for us to tailor our look, a mandatory tax form for overseas share new ISA contribution this year a four-year feel and tone of voice when we interact trading online, has led to an increase in the high with 2 of ISA investors using their with groups of clients and we constantly number of clients trading.
We have also maximum allowance.
As the charts below analyse digital processes to make them made changes to the transfer process demonstrate, our gross new business smarter, faster and more convenient.
In that means 5 of all clients initiating comes evenly from transfers and new one case, we noted that groups of clients transfers can experience the efficiency of money, and mostly from our existing client approaching retirement were struggling to a fully online process.
This is why client service and client find and understand the income from their benefit clients, but it reduces the numbers focus are so important.
We added the income tab of paper forms that we have to process.
to My Accounts and Dealing and the Net Ease Score moved from 0 to over 50.
We have also added significant new skills to our technology team with the Client retention levels are the ultimate opening of H Tech, our IT development udge of how good a ob we are doing for hub, in Warsaw, where we now have our clients.
These remained high in 2018 SM over 50 talented professionals focused at.
and our Net Promoter Score 5 on transforming and upgrading our NPS, although down on last ye is a r 2 technology capabilities.
Whilst it is still again very high for a financial services early, having seen first-hand the work firm at 50.. We can measure NPS at 1 thatthe team is doing, I am hugely various levels and have made encouraging encouraged by the potential for H Tech progress in targeted areas during the to contribute to our future scalability and year.
For example, Managing Income client proposition.
NPS grew from 1 to after the implementation of the income tab as mentioned above and our mobile app NPS r arein grew from 2 to 1 off the back of its One of the highlights of the year for 1.
New money 5 relaunch in February 201.
This matters me was reaching a million active clients 2.
Transfers as mobile is now the most popular way in November 201.
This was a huge for clients to interact with us and now milestone for us at Hargreaves ansdown.
accounts for of all logins, up from Over the whole year, we welcomed 50 last year.
1,000 new clients, 1 more than last year, with many of them transferring from other platforms due to the higher aainin n eal r clien 2 service levels that we offer.
By 0 une, We continue to campaign on behalf of we had reached nearly 1.1 million active our clients to protect their interests.
clients and have continued to take market For example, in March 2018 we won our share.
Over the past 12 months, the discount tax challenge with HMRC which direct platform market Assets Under should mean that 15 million is returned Administration AUA increased whilst to investors.
HMRC is appealing and we our AUA grew by 1, and our market are not likely to have the final decision 1 3 share rose by 1. to.
ofthe execution only stockbroking market 4 is also up, by 1. to 1.
New clients Hargreaves LansdownReport and Financial Statements 2018 19 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW CONTINUED Mind the Gap Aviva and Deloitte, September We have worked with HM Treasury on the Conclusion and outlook S ource Which Money, Best and Worse ongoing development of the new Lifetime I am proud to be leading a business Investment Platforms une ISA and a ban on cold calling to reduce the that has its clients at the heart of how it S ource Platforum UK DC Guide uly S ource Compeer imited O uarterly risk of pension fraud.
We are a market leader, looking Benchmarking Report uarter to give employees more control over their after the savings and investments of N et Promoter, NPS and the NPS-related workplace pensions and improve access nearly 1.1 million individuals: a huge emoticons are registered service marks and Net Promoter Score and Net Promoter Systems are to pensions for the self-employed.
responsibility at a time when people service marks of Bain Company Inc. Satmetrix need more help than ever.
We take this Systems, Inc. and Fred Reichheld.
FCA investment Platforms Market Study Brexit is on the horion and the prevailing The interim findings from the FCAs political and economic turbulence is Investment Platforms Market Study having an effect on investor confidence.
We However, we believe that continuing to welcome the proposed remedies which place our clients at the centre of what we are reflective of our own core values of do and establishing a lifelong relationship putting the client first, going the extra with them will enable us to continue to mile, making it easy, doing the right build share in a growing market.
Our thing and doing it better.
The FCA cited expertise and client service are rightly the need to make transfers easier and respected, and I believe the strength Hargreaves Lansdown is already at the and scale of our business means we forefront of this, chairing the industrys cancontinue to develop our offering working group.
We hope that the studys tothe benefit of all our stakeholders focus on switching will enable a faster inthefuture.
We also believe helping clients to compare I would like to thank our clients for their and contrast platform services and continued support and recommendation fees, and making it easier for them to and I would also like to recognise my switch between providers, will lead to colleagues for their hard work and healthier competition which in turn should commitment.
Not only have they promote greater engagement amongst continued to deliver the levels of client clients across the entire industry.
We service for which Hargreaves Lansdown look forward to working with the FCA is recognised in the face of significant onthisstudy.
increases in activity, but they have also delivered solutions to new regulatory requirements alongside continuing to Board changes improve and expand the services which We have seen a considerable year of will underpin our future growth.
transition at the plc board level, and I am pleased to welcome Deanna Oppenheimer as Chair, and Roger Perkin and Fiona Clutterbuck as independent Chris Hill Non-Executive Directors.
They bring with Chief Executive Officer them a wide variety of external experience and perspectives and I am looking forward 6 August 2018 to their contribution to our future success.
I am also grateful to Mike Evans and Christopher Barling, who have now left the Board but were a key part of our ourney for many years.
20 arrea e andnReport and Financial Statements 2018 DRAWDOWN: IVE FOUND THE RIGHT BALANCE BETWEEN SAVING AND HELPING MY SEVEN GRANDCHILDREN Mr Draper A friend recommended H to me, it my retirement and helping my seven offered me more control over my pension grandchildren.
All whilst not paying more including having an online account and tax than I need to.
Managing my income I found the information I received about independently gives me the flexibility I drawdown very helpful.
need to achieve that balance.
I have been using the Wealth 150 to Hargreaves Lansdown has been really help build a diversified portfolio of helpful.
There hasnt been a question investments from around the world.
theyve been unable to answer.
Its Im currently drawing a small amount of definitely proved to be worthwhile moving income from my pension.
Ive found the from my previous provider.
right balance between saving funds for For more information, please see the future, spending enough to enoy www.
co. uk pensions Hargreaves LansdownReport and Financial Statements 2018 21
