16 | Chief Executive Officers statement I m pleased to report the progress made in positioning the Group for the next stage of our journey and have set out ambitious plans for the future.
Im proud to lead the Hastings family and send my personal thanks to a great team of over 3,400 colleagues.
Toby van der Meer Chief Executive Officer Built for growth Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 17 Having taken over as Chief Executive We have already made some great Officer in March 2018, Im pleased to say strides over the last twelve months, Our vision that the role has been as enjoyable as I particularly in improving our digital hoped and expected.
Amongst a range of new year without its challenges, including a We have ambitious plans to become digital capabilities, we launched our competitive market backdrop and the best and biggest digital mobile app this year and we are one of adverse weather in the first half, insurance business which means the first insurance providers in the UK to however I am proud of how our teams leadership in digital and new go live with a full scale proposition, have performed through this technology, and significant growth in providing customers with another easy environment and the progress we have a much larger scale.
We will do this way to manage their insurance, as well as made on initiatives to drive Hastings through investing in all of our 4Cs keeping us low cost.
Making insurance forward to the next stage of its journey.
and have launched a strategic easy for our customers is a key focus and change programme designed to: there is more to come, particularly on our The Group has come a long way from digital agenda in future.
Enhance data, pricing and a small challenger to the much larger anti-fraud systems so we listed company we are today and I Fundamental to our success is our continue to select the best strongly believe that we remain well colleagues and culture, as framed by our customers and offer them positioned for the future.
One of my key personal a better price switching is set to continue and digital commitments is therefore to make sure Deliver the most complete channels, including price comparison that we continue to invest in and digital experience to make websites in particular, continue to grow develop our existing colleagues and things straightforward for at the expense of more traditional enhance talent and capability.
To our customers, and easier distribution models, all of which play support this, we are investing in more for our colleagues into our core strategy.
We also welcome training and career development, the ongoing regulatory changes creating more flexibility around working Use new technology to including plans to reform whiplash hours, and actively managing the transform claims handling claims and pricing practices.
Such diversity agenda, including ensuring the and offer better services changes will create new opportunities progression of women into senior roles.
whilst reducing claims costs for nimble, customer oriented players We are also doing more internally to Diversify by growing multicar, with the right business models.
have fun together, support our local home, bike and van and testing communities and charity causes, and new products.
We are however not standing still and investing in mental and physical we have now set out some fresh and wellbeing.
Overall Im very pleased that These ongoing initiatives will be ambitious plans for the future to ensure our colleague engagement scores were supported by investment in training the Group is well positioned to continue our highest ever in 2018 and it is an and career development, with an taking advantage of the changing market honour and privilege to lead such a increased focus on diversity.
Our vision is built on great team of over 3,400 colleagues.
continued commitment and can do specific initiatives and investments with attitude of our colleagues will ensure the aim of developing and strengthening Id like to finish by thanking Gary for his we continue to be built for growth and our existing capabilities, setting us up to support as our Chair, as well as Richard, take Hastings to the next level.
be the market leaders in pricing, who will be retiring as Chief Financial anti-fraud and digital, at significantly Officer, for everything he has done in larger scale.
This will continue to be taking us from a newly listed public underpinned by our focus on delivering company to where we are today.
strong returns for our shareholders, including for the many Colleagues who Toby van der Meer are shareholders, through the enhanced Chief Executive Officer dividend payout ratio of 65% to 75%.
We 27 February 2019 expect this strategy to deliver attractive and sustainable long term growth.
Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc
