14 We exceeded 1 billion of net fees for the first time, driven by our International businesses which grew 15%.
CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Andrew Martin, our new Chairman, was brought Our Chief Executive, Alistair Cox, discusses the onto the board by Alan in 2017 and brings a wealth Groups performance in 2018 and looks ahead to of experience to help us guide the business forward.
our areas of focus and development in the future, including our next five-year plan.
Turning to our performance, I am delighted by our progress through FY18.
How do you feel Hays performed in 2018?
we exceeded 1bn of net fees for the first time, driven A.
Before I talk about our performance, I would like to pay by our International businesses which grew 15%.
Overall, tribute to our Chairman Alan Thomson, who sadly passed our International profits grew 16% to 196.4m, setting away in July 2018.
Alan had been our Chairman since another new record level.
November 2010 and was deeply passionate about Hays, We delivered 243.4m of operating profit, slightly ahead helping many people in the organisation reach their full of market expectations, and our conversion rate improved potential.
He was instrumental in building a strong Board, by 50bps.
Cash performance was strong, and we ended one well-equipped to help me drive the business forward.
the year with 122.9m net cash, enabling the Board to I will greatly miss his guidance, wisdom and humour.
propose a second successive special dividend, of 5.0p per He was a man of integrity and humility, and the best share, on top of a core dividend which itself was up 18%.
tribute I can pay to Alan is to ensure his values endure in Hays culture.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 15 This year we moved to a four-division reporting structure, Q.
You have just successfully completed the five-year giving greater visibility of our Australia and New Zealand plan launched in 2013, growing profits by almost 100%, ANZ businesses previously within APAC, and Germany, and have set the Group another ambitious profit range our largest business, which we report separately for the for the five years to 2022.
Given you have such limited first time.
visibility on earnings, how do you ensure such targets are credible?
Germany grew 16% and we further reinforced our position A. I am very proud of the outcome of our 2013 strategic as the number one player in that market.
When we initially set out our goal to broadly double new offices and increased our headcount 13%.
I remain of profits by 2018, its fair to say most commentators were the view that Germany is the most exciting recruitment sceptical that a business with only 5-6 weeks of net fee market in the world today, driven by acute skills shortages visibility could deliver against such ambitious long-term and the structural opening up of that market to specialist plans.
Remember, we were still in the aftermath of the recruitment services.
global commodities collapse, uncertainty surrounding ANZ had a strong year, driving highly profitable growth at the Euro crisis was fresh in the memory and the Brexit roughly double the market rate no mean feat given we referendum was not yet on the agenda.
are faraway the market leader in that important market.
Despite all these major uncertainties, we still delivered Our RoW businesses were in many ways the stand-out 243.4m of operating profit in FY18, even in a year of performers, delivering an excellent year with profit up heavy investment.
I think that is testament to our deep 51%.
The investments we have made in these businesses operational capability in each of our 33 businesses and in recent years are now driving strong leverage and the granular detail which underpinned our planning.
real momentum in Asia, the Americas and Europe Every year since 2013, we have reported our key markets ex-Germany.
We continue to see structural growth of Australia and New Zealand, Germany, UK & Ireland in many countries via first-time outsourcing, which and Rest of World under a traffic light system against gives me great confidence for our future.
Not only did we deliver a Group Back in the UK, the market remained subdued but result in line with our original ambitions, but each of stable pending clarification of trading arrangements our four regions also delivered an outcome within their with the European Union post Brexit.
challenging backdrop, we delivered a good profit RoW delivered an excellent result, above the top-end of performance, up 13% in a difficult market.
The UK & Ireland, Turning to uses of our cash flow, my first priority is despite the material impact of the Brexit vote on the always to re-invest in the business and in 2018 we market, still came in within the targeted range.
made significant investments in people, property and In Germany, we delivered a profit towards the bottom-end infrastructure.
We grew headcount by 8% globally, of our 2013 plan range.
However, we took an important opened seven new offices and materially expanded strategic decision around 18 months ago to significantly 20 others.
We further enhanced our backand frontincrease investment in Germany, as we see the opportunity office systems around the world, ensuring we have to potentially double that business in the next five years.
the infrastructure and capacity to continue to grow Thats an exciting prospect, especially given we see in these supportive markets.
structural growth potential which extends well beyond However, given our highly cash-generative model, our 2022 plan.
Our investment clearly reduced near-term even after these significant investments, we ended profits, but I consider that a fair trade-off given the year with net cash of 122.9m.
Therefore, in line with our policy, I am delighted that we So having delivered on our promises in the original 2013 are able to propose increasing our core dividend by 18%, plan, we will follow the same course in our 2018 plan, and our second special dividend of 72.9m.
This takes which we presented to shareholders and analysts at our total dividends proposed and paid for FY18 to 128.4m, Investor Day in November 2017.
As with 2013, our aim is up 19% from 108.2m last year.
to balance profitable growth and investment.
Most of our markets are currently supportive.
Assuming this continues, with no significant downturns in our major markets over the plan period, and with excellent structural growth opportunities in many of our markets, it is our aim to broadly double our profits again over the five years to 2022.
In the UK, we have assumed a continued uncertain economic backdrop, with a Brexit transition period beyond March 2019 and a reasonably orderly exit from the European Union.
Our 2022 plan was presented at our Investor Day in London in November 2017.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 16 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED Since 2015, our Germany headcount is up over 50%, and we have opened nine new offices as we expand our footprint.
How would you characterise 2018 financial and The benefits of market leadership are crystal clear: Net Fee operating performance in the context of the 2022 plan?
witness the continued out-performance of our Diversification Australian business over many years.
We made a strong start, with net fees and profits slightly ahead of the required CAGR trajectory to hit the Replicating that position in Germany is important to 2022 plan.
It was always our intention to hit the ground us and we will not shy away from capitalising on the running, with significant initial investment meaning that enormous structural opportunities in this market.
profit drop-through rates in year one would be at the We now need strong execution to deliver on these 2005 lower end of where we aim to deliver throughout the plan.
investments, but the opportunities in Germany stretch well beyond 2022, and we will continue to Yet despite these investments, I am pleased we still invest accordingly.
delivered a 50bps improvement in Group conversion rate UK & Ireland 75% to 22.7%, one of the best conversion rates in the industry.
The rapid development of the IT industry around the International 25% Should macro conditions remain similar this year to last, world offers excellent opportunities.
Organisations are I am optimistic we will see further strong progress in FY19, struggling to find the skills they require across newer the second year of our plan.
technologies being developed such as data science, artificial intelligence or cyber security.
We have invested To reinforce growth, we have spent significant time to grow our IT businesses in many countries and this is a aligning our management teams around the world sector that I think will be exciting for a long time to come.
to the Group plan, as well as developing local plans.
2018 As a result, our IT specialism is now our largest globally, Needless to say, explaining the story of our potential at 21% of global net fees.
Given the dynamics of the has brought its own benefits internally, particularly as workforce in this industry, and the propensity for many colleagues see for themselves the career opportunities skilled professionals to work as freelancers or contractors, that will avail to them at Hays.
UK & Ireland 24% this also lends itself well to our strategy of building our International 76% Q.
Aside from financial performance, what were non-Perm businesses globally.
Again, we made great your strategic highlights in 2018?
progress in this area and non-Perm now represents c. 75% of our IT net fees in our largest markets.
Apart from the way our businesses embraced the 2022 plan, we also saw excellent progress with a Elsewhere, we continued to invest in new ideas to make number of our strategic initiatives around the world.
our business more effective and productive.
Our IT teams developed powerful and proprietary tools focused on Having entered the important USA market in the last business development and candidate management.
few years, the team there delivered impressive growth, We brought out new app-based platforms in areas with net fees up 28% and headcount up 21%.
All areas like Education, helping to link schools and teachers.
of the business did well, but we saw spectacular growth in newer specialisms.
We built on our collaborations with some of the worlds best organisations, designed to bring their cutting-edge For example, having opened our Construction specialism technologies and innovations to bear for the benefit of in 2014, we grew that by 80% in FY18, delivering $13m our clients and candidates.
Our partnership with Xing in in net fees.
We have the opportunity as the global leader Germany reached its one-year anniversary in August 2018, in C&P recruitment to build a huge US business, alongside and continues to go very well.
our IT, A&F and Life Sciences businesses there.
Together with our ground-breaking collaborations We continued to make significant investments in our with Seek in Australia and LinkedIn globally, and more German business.
Since 2015 our headcount is up over recently with Google as they launch Google Jobs, 50%, and we have opened nine new offices as we expand we are continually looking for ways to get the most our footprint.
We also put in place the infrastructure to accurate and up-to-date data in the industry, and use reinforce our market leadership in what is one of the it to Find & Engage with great candidates quicker and worlds most attractive markets.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 17 Our Investor Day included a detailed break-out session on our Germany growth strategy.
Last year also saw the introduction of significant new Q.
On technology, how do you manage the risk European legislation with GDPR.
Preparing our business of disruption from new entrants and platforms?
was a huge task, but one that our Legal and Operational A. Commentators have forecast the disintermediation teams coped with admirably.
This was the biggest of recruitment agencies for longer than Ive been in the change in data laws for a generation.
First it was via job boards, then social media platforms and online communities, and latterly However, with the right resources and processes in place, aggregators and peer-to-peer platforms.
our rigorous approach to GDPR can help to enhance our competitive position in the market.
However, to date, rather than be disrupted, the role of a specialist agency has actually been enhanced.
Finally, while I wouldnt call it a low-light, the uncertainty Thats because the heart of good recruitment is based of Brexit negotiations and associated political disruption in on the strength of the relationships formed with the UK makes this a continuing difficult market.
That said, clients and candidates and thats a very human thing.
I applaud the performance of our UK team, consolidating our market leadership and closely controlling costs.
So we see technology and human skills as working handin-hand to deliver the best outcome for our clients and Longer term, the UK remains a large and important candidates.
I call that the art and science of successful economy to us.
Should a sensible EU-exit deal be reached, recruitment, automating whatever we can to free up I am convinced we will be in a strong position to capitalise our expert consultants to do what they do best: advise.
on any pent-up demand once our clients feel confident again to start investing in their own businesses.
Consequently we invest heavily in technology to ensure our consultants have the best tools available to do their Q.
Has there been any change in your assessment job.
But we also invest heavily in our people, so they of the industry Megatrends?
have the right skills to become trusted advisors to A.
If anything, our enthusiasm for the structural attraction their clients and candidates, and become true experts of non-Perm and flexible working has grown.
The world in their chosen field.
of work is changing at a tremendous pace, and in tandem with major shifts in worker demographics and pension That has allowed us to focus our business on our own needs, the prospects for longer, plural careers are huge.
proprietary Find & Engage model, where our specialist consultants become highly successful at finding We are actively positioning Hays to be the trusted and nurturing skilled talent in their own niche market, partner and advisor to candidates throughout their knowing that they will then find the right role for working lives, helping them navigate between roles each of their candidates.
Having invested to create unrivalled access to these niche On the other side of the coin, we are also ideally placed candidate pools, we are well positioned to swiftly find to help our clients plan their own growth, and how the scarce talent that our clients need.
I think that is a real they might access resources needed to deliver that.
differentiator for us, based on the successful integration We can help them navigate the increasing complexity of human skills, technology and data.
That is hard to of workforces, ensuring they can tap into the talent replicate, and even harder for a machine alone to replace.
they need in a way that makes sense for them.
But clearly the risk of disruption remains, and we will stay vigilant.
This can be via permanent recruitment, utilising a temporary or contractor workforce or even structuring teams of skilled individuals around specific projects.
Technology is also changing how the recruitment process is delivered and we invest heavily to understand which of the many innovations continually being launched truly add value and seek to incorporate them into our own methodologies, to our clients and candidates benefit.
Above all, in a skill-short world, the competition for the best talent is huge and it is our job to help ensure our clients win in that game.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018 18 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED Above all, in a skill-short world the competition for talent is huge, and it is our job to ensure our clients win that race.
The term our people are our greatest asset Q.
What keeps you awake at night as a CEO?
is often used by companies.
The biggest risks to our business are geopolitical examples of what it means at Hays?
A disorderly exit of A. Hays is a business that has people at its heart, and the UK from the European Union would likely have a detrimental effect on business investment in the UK, we are hugely proud and protective of our culture.
We think its unique and it sets us apart in our industry.
as well as candidate confidence.
An upward spiral in trade tariffs across the globe would also be unhelpful.
I visited over 15 Hays countries last year, and in each office I visit, the same core values of client service, Political disruption anywhere brings uncertainty, integrity and passion for the job hold true.
Some of the awards received in FY18 include France being Hardly a day goes by without a news story on cyber ranked third in the top 500 workplaces nationally, and threats to businesses.
At Hays we take this threat Germany gaining an Employers Institute Top Employer extremely seriously and it occupies a central position award for a tenth consecutive year.
Glassdoor UK placed at Board level.
It is my job as CEO to be professionally us in the top 50 of all companies for the fourth year paranoid around the subject and do everything we running.
And at the Recruitment International awards, can to protect our candidate, client and employee data.
Australia won Best Large Recruiter To Work For.
It is a continual battle, but our IT, Legal and Operations We dont achieve these accolades without investment.
teams level of engagement gives me great comfort This year we launched the Hays International Leadership as CEO.
However, we can never be complacent.
Im delighted with the My main personal challenges are staying apace with initial results, and 90 of our senior leaders will attend innovation and industry developments to ensure we in its first two years.
remain highly relevant and the industry leader.
Im also Equally, our annual employee engagement survey, hugely passionate about the development of our people, which we present in our KPIs, measures satisfaction, their motivation and succession planning as this business sense of belonging and personal motivations.
This is based so heavily on the quality of our people.
Making achieved a record high level of participation of 86% sure we have the right internal talent for both today globally, and a high engagement score of 82%.
and for the future is a vital part of my job.
Key strengths identified from the feedback included Overall then, our core business is in excellent health and supportive line management, high levels of recognition, the outlook is positive.
Last year we helped more than commitment to development and clear career paths.
320,000 people find their next job, and over 30,000 That suggests to me that we are doing many things right clients find the talent they need to grow.
for our people, although there is always room to improve.
We view our role in helping people develop their careers and finding highly skilled workers as a core function in Last year we delivered 4,185 training days and Im proud society, and it is one we are very proud of.
to say that 3,370 colleagues were promoted.
A further 68 transferred internationally, reinforcing our culture Looking forward, I expect significant further technological while giving them exciting new opportunities globally.
changes and innovation, and plan to embrace these.
Ultimately, we want to keep the best talent within Change will continue to present us with opportunities, Hays, which is in the interest of our clients, candidates as well as creating risks or threats to our business model.
However, we have successfully navigated these in the past.
The business is in the best shape I have ever seen it, and we are wholly focused on positioning the Group to capitalise on long-term growth prospects.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2018
