Chief Executive Officers statement I am very pleased and excited to have joined Hikma as Chief Executive Officer.
It has truly been a fantastic year and I want to thank all of our employees for welcoming me so warmly into the Hikma family.
Since joining Hikma in February 2018, I have visitedmany of our sites worldwide and had the opportunity to speak with employees across the Group and meet with a number of our customers.
Having worked in the industry for many years, I have been very impressed with the quality of our facilities and operations and the talent and commitment of our people.
Building a stronger leadership team To enable stronger decision-making, execution and accountability I have made some changes to simplify our organisational structure.
These have included changes to the composition of the executive team, a redefinition of individual roles and responsibilities and the creation of new corporate functions.
Across the Group, we have made a number ofnew hires to support our leadership teams.
The expertise we have added has significantly strengthened our key functions, including our operations, commercial, R&D, business development, legal and compliance teams.
We will continue to bring in new talent and expertise where we need it.
Returning to growth I am very pleased with the performance of the Group this year.
Group revenue was $2.1 billion, operating profit was $371 million and core operating profit was $460 million.
Each of our three businesses achieved both revenue and, more importantly, profit growth.
The strong performance of our Injectables business in an environment where competition is intensifying, demonstrates the resilience of our portfolio and the scale and flexibility of our manufacturing facilities.
I am proud of our teams response to the market shortages of injectable pain management products in the US this year.
By inspiring and enabling our people to develop a portfolio Our investment in additional capacity and people to rapidly increase production of that meets the future needs of doctors and patients, we are critical medicines for hospitals demonstrated building a business that can deliver sustainable growth over our commitment to customers and patients as a high-quality, reliable supplier.
6 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 Strategic report | Chief Executive Officers statement During a challenging time for the US retail Build a portfolio that genericsindustry, our Generics business anticipates future delivered strong growth in revenue and health needs profitability this year, exceeding the expectations we set at the beginning of 2018.
New products that meet the evolving 2019 is off to a good start We drove strong demand for our differentiated needsofhealthcare professionals and and Im optimistic about portfolio and started to see the benefits of patients will deliver sustainable growth in the commercial and operational improvements competitive markets.
While our pipeline the year ahead.
We have we have initiated.
The 6-7% of revenue developed a new strategy, that we invest incore R&D each year needs Our Branded business also achieved good to deliver a higher return.
We will focus on which Im confident will deliver results in 2018, with steady growth in revenue increasing the number ofproducts in sustainable growth over the and profitability.
We continued to improve ourpipeline and on adding more differentiated patient access to important medicines across and specialised products.
Over the next five long term.
MENA, with new product launches and new years, I want our annual revenue from new licensing agreements.
In 2018, we began launches to increase to 10% of Group core 1 implementing a tiered approach across our revenue up from around 6% today.
18 MENA markets to prioritise our investments and resources inthemarkets that offer the Alongside our internal R&D programme, highest growthpotential.
wewillbuild on our long track record of successfully working with partners to add While our businesses performed strongly this innovative and differentiated products year, we have refined our strategy to ensure we through licensing and co-development can withstand increasing competitive pressure agreements.
A great example of this is the and are positioned to deliver future growth.
expansion of our partnership agreement We have identified three strategic priorities.
We are very pleased tobe building on our strong relationship to Deliver more from develop and commercialise generic versions a strong foundation ofGSKs Ellipta portfolio, adding to our pipeline of complex respiratory products.
Hikma has a solid foundation from which tobuild: a broad product portfolio, We continue to leverage our position as adifferentiated pipeline, strong commercial partner of choice in MENA to add new capabilities, high-quality manufacturing in-licensed products to our portfolio.
In 2018 facilities and an extensive network of global this included an agreement to license and partners.
We will leverage these strengths, distribute a portfolio of consumer healthcare maximising the value of our products through products from Omege Pharma Trading NV, a focus on commercial and operational an affiliate of Perrigo Company PLC.
We are excellence and a leancost base.
also using licensing as a strategy to add more complex products to our US portfolio.
In 2018 this included agreements with Hansoh Pharmaceutical Group Co. Ltd and Beijing Sciecure Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd. 1.
Percentage of core revenue from products launched in 2018 and the second half of 2017.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 7 Chief Executive Officers statement continued Inspire and enable across ourorganisation.
It gave us the ourglobal partners can trust.
This was our people opportunity to collectively discuss the reinforced by five US FDA inspections at future growth and direction of Hikma and ourmanufacturing plants in Cherry Hill, It is ultimately our people that willdeliverour wasinvaluable in connecting and motivating Columbus, Eatontown, Portugal and Germany strategy and achieve our ambitiousgrowth our global leaders.
this year: all of these inspections resulted in targets.
Fostering a culture where people can zerocritical observations.
thrive is a priority in order to retain our best In 2018, we launched our refreshed global people and to continue attracting new talent.
brand and transitioned all of our businesses Outlook under the Hikma name.
This is proving to The Group delivered a strong financial This is the second year that we have be a powerful tool in unifying our people performance in 2018 and we have started undertaken a global employee survey.
The behind a shared vision and purpose of putting 2019in a good position.
We still have work to do results pointed to several areas where weare high-quality medicines within reach of those to strengthen our basebusiness and develop doing well and also identified others where we who need them.
The brand is helping us be a pipeline that candeliver sustainable growth can improve.
Employee engagement was 69% more aligned and work better together, and over the long term.
However, the progress that in 2018, which wasa promising improvement articulates the value Hikma provides for we have made so far is considerable and I am over last year.
Continued improvement in the doctors and patients.
confident that we can build on this to deliver levels ofengagement and enablement across Hikmas next chapter of growth.
theGroup are a priority for all of Hikmas Maintaining  leadership team.
We want to make Hikma an Our business has a positive and important Quality has been a cornerstone of Hikma inspiring place to work and we are launching impact on peoples lives around the world, sinceits inception.
Our investment and several initiatives to achieve this.
soIwant to thank all of our employees, commitment to quality has always been an ourcustomers and our partners for helping important differentiator for us.
In 2018, our For the first time, we held a Global Leadership usto put better health within reach every teams wereable to supply critical medicines Conference in 2018, which broughttogether dayfor millions of people.
to hospitals when competitors were struggling 180 leaders from more than 20 countries tosupply, strengthening our reputation as amanufacturer that our customers and Sigurdur Olafsson Chief Executive Officer CEO Siggi Olafsson presenting to Hikmas management team at the Global Leadership Conference 8 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018
