10 Strategic report Chief Executives summary We have successfully expanded our product range into new proteins and categories such as fish, vegetarian, sous vide, food service and fresh convenience foods.
Philip Heffer Chief Executive Officer Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 11 Strategic objectives Our strategy continues to be to support our customers brands and their development in local markets, whilst achieving attractive and sustainable growth in shareholder value.
This clear and straightforward approach has generated growth over an extended period of time and with a strong reputation, well invested modern facilities and a robust balance sheet, the Group remains well positioned for continued success.
Hilton seeks to build long term customer and shareholder value by focusing on: Growing volumes and extending product ranges supplied and services provided toits existing customers: Optimising the use of its assets and investing in new technology and capacity expansion as required: Maintaining a vigilant focus on food safety and integrity and reducing unit costs, while improving product quality and service provision: and We consider our modern, very Business model Entering new territories and markets well-invested facilities to be a key factor The Hilton business model is proven and either with new customers or in in keeping unit packing costs as low as sustainable, whilst being relatively simple partnership with our existing customers.
Over the past fourteen years and straightforward.
We operate large we have invested continuously across scale, extensively automated and robotised We will continue to pursue measured all areas of our business, including the food processing and packing facilities for geographical expansion and range sourcing of raw materials, the design of major international retailers on a largely extension, whilst at the same time packaging materials, increased efficiency dedicated basis.
actively developing, enriching, deepening in processing and storage solutions and expanding the scope of our existing Raw materials are sourced, in conjunction and updating our IT infrastructure.
business partnerships, playing a full and with our retail partners, from a combination Group capital expenditure over the proactive role in supporting our customers of local sources and a wide international period2004-2018 has totalled 336m.
and the successful development of their base of proven suppliers.
We have successfully expanded We have facilities in six countries in processed, packed and delivered to the our product range into new proteins Europe, each run by a local management retailers distribution centres or stores.
and categories such as fish, vegetarian, team enhanced by specialist central Our plants are highly automated and sous vide, food service and fresh leadership, expertise, advice and support.
useadvanced robotics for the storage convenience foods.
These businesses operate under the terms ofraw materials and finished products.
of five to fifteen year long term supply Developing robotics technology has been agreements with our retailer partners, extended in recent years both in the either on a cost plus, packing rate or production environment and to the sorting volume based reward basis.
of finished products by retailer store order, These contractual arrangements, achieving material supply chain efficiencies combined with our customer dedication, for our customers.
serve to maximise achievable volume We seek to keep ourselves at the forefront throughput whilst minimising unit of the food packing industry, which helps packing costs thereby delivering value ensure our continued competitiveness.
We constantly look to drive efficiencies, In Australia and Portugal, together with always maintaining a pipeline of clear our retailer partners, facilities are operated identifiable cost reduction initiatives under joint venture companies who receive andan open minded approach designed to volume related management fees.
continually challenge the status quo.
Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018 12 Strategic report Chief Executives summary continued The Hilton business WE PARTNER WE PRODUCE WE SUPPLY model is proven and sustainable, whilst being relatively simple and UNITED KINGDOM STEAK ROAST DICED MINCE SOUS VIDE SAUSAGES BURGERS MEATBALLS straightforward.
IRELAND A total partnership approach WE SOURCE withcustomer and suppliers NETHERLANDS Raw materials sourced locally and internationally from proven suppliers STEAK ROAST DICED MINCE SOUS VIDE SAUSAGES CHOPS BACON GAMMON SCHNITZEL Processed and packed in large scale, DENMARK highly automated facilities using advanced robotics Delivered to retailers distribution SUPPLY CHAIN DEPOT SWEDEN HIGH VOLUME INSIGHT centres or direct to stores PROCESS & PACKING FACILITIES RETAIL PORTUGAL QUALITY ANIMAL WELFARE PACKS STEAK ROAST DICED MINCE SOUS VIDE CHOPS BELGIUM POLAND CONSUMER INSIGHT BESPOKE SOFTWARE HUNGARY COATED SALMON WHITE FISH PRAWNS PROCUREMENT CZECH REPUBLIC STORE ORDER TRADING COMPANY PICKING SLOVAKIA STRIPS NUGGETS DICED MINCE PULLED SAUSAGES BURGERS BALLS SCHNITZEL LATVIA ESTONIA LITHUANIA SANDWICHES WRAPS BAGUETTES BURGERS PIZZA GARLIC BREAD FOOD TO GO AUSTRALIA FULL TRACEABILITY Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018 OUR INSIGHT LEADING SOLUTIONS Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 13 WE PARTNER WE PRODUCE WE SUPPLY UNITED KINGDOM STEAK ROAST DICED MINCE SOUS VIDE SAUSAGES BURGERS MEATBALLS IRELAND WE SOURCE NETHERLANDS STEAK ROAST DICED MINCE SOUS VIDE SAUSAGES CHOPS BACON GAMMON SCHNITZEL DENMARK SUPPLY CHAIN DEPOT SWEDEN HIGH VOLUME INSIGHT PROCESS & PACKING FACILITIES RETAIL PORTUGAL QUALITY ANIMAL WELFARE PACKS STEAK ROAST DICED MINCE SOUS VIDE CHOPS BELGIUM POLAND CONSUMER INSIGHT BESPOKE SOFTWARE HUNGARY COATED SALMON WHITE FISH PRAWNS PROCUREMENT CZECH REPUBLIC STORE ORDER TRADING COMPANY PICKING SLOVAKIA STRIPS NUGGETS DICED MINCE PULLED SAUSAGES BURGERS BALLS SCHNITZEL LATVIA ESTONIA LITHUANIA SANDWICHES WRAPS BAGUETTES BURGERS PIZZA GARLIC BREAD FOOD TO GO AUSTRALIA FULL TRACEABILITY Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018 OUR INSIGHT LEADING SOLUTIONS 14 Strategic report Chief Executives summary continued As well as our ability to provide excellent Business model continued execution locally, we also have at our 1994 Under the long term supply agreements disposal a wide and deep expertise on a we have in place with our customers, First facility opened in Huntingdon, UK number of areas of specialism, such as the parameters of our revenue are clearly supplying Tesco engineering, food related IT applications, defined.
As well as income derived from category management support and market the supply of retail packed food products, 2000 intelligence.
We are able to apply these there are also provisions whereby our Hilton took over an existing facility in Zaandam, skills to a number of markets to support income can be increased or decreased Netherlands supplying Albert Heijn which also our customers where required, and to do subject to achievement of certain prehas stores in Belgium so in a cost-effective way.
agreed and pre-defined key performance measures and targets designed to Business development 2004 align ourobjectives with those of The Groups expansion is based on its New factories built in Drogheda, Ireland our customers.
established and proven track record, supplying Tesco Ireland and Vasteras, international reputation and experience We are a committed and loyal partner Swedensupplying ICA Gruppen and the recognised success of the close with a continuing record of delivering partnerships it has forged and maintained value through quality products with the 2006 with successful retail partners over many highest levels of food safety, traceability A new facility in Tychy, Poland which years.
We are an international business and integrity, whilst providing a range suppliesAhold and Tesco stores in four and operate production facilities in six ofservices which enable our customers Central European countries and Rimi stores countries across Europe and work with to evolve and improve their food supply inthreeBaltic countries joint venture partners in two further chain management.
Products from these facilities base comprises high quality retailers 2011 are sold in fourteen European countries and our in depth understanding of our A new Danish factory near Aarhus supplying and Australia.
customers needs, together with those Coop Danmark of their consumers, enables us to play an Progress in 2018 active role in managing their food supply 2013 Following the acquisition of Seachill last chains whilst providing agile solutions year we have successfully integrated the to supply chain challenges as they arise.
Joint venture formed with Woolworths business into the Group.
Seachill traded inAustralia managing facilities at Bunbury As our customers markets change and well during the year and secured new in Western Australia and a new facility in competition increases, we need to keep a business for shellfish and also coated Melbourne, Victoria which opened in 2015 constant focus on the challenges they face fishwhich will commence in early 2019. so we can put forward flexible solutions, 2016 together with continuing increases in We commenced production in Australia efficiency and cost competitiveness.
to support our customer from a satellite Launch of Hilton Food Solutions UK trading facility in Brisbane, Queensland.
business and supply to Ocado, UK This flexible approach and understanding The construction of our new facility is of our local markets remains one of our proceeding well and is now expected 2017 core strengths.
to open ahead of schedule in Q3 2019.
Joint venture company formed with Sonae The strength of our long term partnerships We restructured the joint venture with tomanage a factory in Santarem, Portugal with our retail customers has been a key Woolworths taking operational control of Acquisition of Seachill, a leading chilled driver of our growth since the Group was two facilities and signed 15 year long term UKbased fish processor formed and will continue to underpin the supply agreements.
Hiltons business model period Hilton will purchase the relevant Investment in Foods Connected which has proved successful across a range managesmarket intelligence data plant assets in 2020.
Work is proceeding of European countries and in Australia, well on the construction of a new facility in appropriately adapted in each case by 2018 New Zealand which is due to open in 2020. working in close collaboration with its Commenced production in Australia from There was agreement during the year to local customers to meet their specific asatellite facility in Brisbane, Queensland form a joint venture with Dalco, a Dutch requirements.
Our experience to date leading vegetarian product manufacturer.
Australian joint venture restructured taking continues to indicate that our business This transaction completed since the operational control of two facilities model, appropriately adapted, can be year end following competition authority successfully transferred to a number Agreement to invest in Dalco, a leading clearance.
2018 also saw the launch of ofnew countries.
Dutchvegetarian producer fresh convenience foods in Central Europe.
In 2018 over 70% of the Groups volumes were produced in countries outside the UK.
Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 15 Currency translation The wide geographical spread of the Group increases its resilience by minimising its reliance on any one individual economy.
This means that Hiltons results, asreported in Sterling, are sensitive to changes in the value of Sterling compared to the range of overseas currencies in which the Group trades.
During 2018, the average exchange rates for the Euro and Polish Zloty appreciated against Sterling by 1.0% and Danish Krone by 0.8% with the Swedish Krona and Australian Dollar depreciating against Sterling by 5.1% and5.9% respectively.
Performance overview 2018 saw a significant expansion of Hiltons operations thereby building a significantly bigger more diversified business.
Overall volume which includes the 50%share of the Australian and Portuguese joint venture activities increased by 13.5%.
The performance of our three operating segments isoutlined below.
Western Europe Adjusted operating profit of 51.5m 2017: 41.5m on turnover of 1,550.4m 2017: 1,265.7m This operating segment covers the Groups businesses in the UK, Ireland, Holland, Sweden, Denmark and Portugal.
Volume growth was 11.6% mainly driven by the UK including the first full year of Seachill, and Ireland although volumes were slightly lower in Holland, Sweden andDenmark.
Sales on a constant currency basis grew by 22.1% reflecting the higher volumes boosted by higher unit fish raw material pricing.
Operating margins were unchanged at 3.3% 2017: 3.3%.
Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018 16 Strategic report Chief Executives summary continued Central Europe Operating profit of 2.3m 2017:1.2m on turnover of89.6m 2017: 91.6m In Central Europe the Groups meat packing business, based at Tychy in Poland, supplies customers across Central Europe, from Hungary to the Baltics.
Volumes increased by 4.9% with constant currency sales up 8.2%.
Operating margins recovered to 2.6% 2017: 1.3% as the business continues itsperformance resurgence.
There was a limited launch of fresh convenience foods produced from a secondary facility including baguettes, sandwiches, wraps and garlic bread whilewe extend our facility in Tychy.
Central costs and other Adjusted net operating cost 5.1m 2017:4.4m on turnover of9.6m 2017: nil This segment includes the results of our operations in Australasia and our central costs.
In Australia the Group operates a joint venture with Woolworths, under which it earns a fifty per cent share of the agreed service fees charged by the joint venture company based on the volume of retail packed meat delivered to Woolworths stores produced by its plants in Bunbury, Western Australia and Melbourne, Victoria.
We took full operational control of these plants from July 2018 and also commenced production from a satellite facility in Brisbane.
Volume increased by 36.2% compared with last year.
We continue to construct a new facility inBrisbane which is now expected to openearlier in the third quarter of 2019 Site of New Zealand facility.
andadditionally we are building a new facility in New Zealand.
Our profit including service fee income and turnover after deducting operating costs during the yearwas 5.5m 2017: 2.8m.
Central costs were higher at 10.6m 2017:7.2m excluding exceptional one-offacquisition costs of 2.8m asweprogressively increase resources tomanage our growth successfully.
Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 17 The Board fully understands and Resourcing for growth: appreciates just how much our progress culture and people relies on the effort, personal commitment, Successful businesses are principally enthusiasm, enterprise and initiative of about having the right people in the our employees.
I would like to take this right positions at the right time working opportunity, on behalf of the Board, to together as one team, with local personally thank all of them both for their management teams empowered, dedicated efforts during 2018 and their encouraged and advised in specialist continuing commitment to the Groups areas enabling them tosupport their ongoing growth and development.
The Group benefits from each of its businesses being part Past and future trends of a larger organisation, which enables Over recent decades major retailers have them to share best practice solutions, progressively rationalised their supply base including equipment selection, IT solutions through large scale, centralised packing and ways of working along with the solutions capable of producing private label collaborative sharing of new learnings, packed fresh food products.
This achieves ideas and techniques.
lower costs with higher consistent food safety, food integrity, traceability and We are committed to providing an inclusive quality standards allowing supermarket working environment where everyone groups to focus on their core retail feels valued, respected and able to fulfil business whilst addressing consumers their potential.
We recognise that people continuing requirement for quality and from different backgrounds, countries value.
This trend towards increased use and experiences can bring benefits to of centralised packing solutions is likely to our business.
We fully recognise the continue albeit at different speeds across benefits of gender diversity and details the world representing potential future of the gender composition of our staff geographical expansion opportunities are set out in our Corporate and social for Hilton.
Consumer buying patterns are evolving The Group currently employs over with more fish and vegetarian proteins 4,700 employees across Europe and being eaten.
Our business model is largely of Seachill and investment in Dalco we are decentralised, with capable, largely well placed to grow our business across self-sufficient management teams running these proteins.
our businesses in each local country.
We consider this devolved structure to be Philip Heffer a critical success factor, achieving close Chief Executive working relationships with our customers, 26 March 2019 who benefit from personal, dedicated, flexible and rapid local support.
Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018
