22 Hochschild Mining PLC CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW WE ARE CONFIDENT OF OUR ENORMOUS POTENTIAL We believe that the only way to be successful is through sustainability, working in harmony with the environment and with the local communities where we operate.
Ignacio Bustamante It is not only our responsibility to excel Our operational results, however, were in our operations, but to guarantee the overshadowed by the two fatal accidents safety and wellbeing of our people.
We that claimed the lives of three workers.
527000 aim to ensure everyone goes home We have redoubled our efforts to GOLD EQUIVALENT OUNCES PRODUCED IN 2018 safe and that our people, suppliers, strengthen our safety culture through communities and shareholders our the implementation of the Safety Culture partners continue to share in future Transformation Plan and we will continue success.
We believe that the only way to to work tirelessly to ensure that we be successful is through sustainability, achieve our goal of zero fatalities.
working in harmony with the environment 17 new veins Operations and with the local communities where DISCOVERED AT INMACULADA IN 2018 Our operations produced a record we operate.
Our approach to business 526,650 gold equivalent ounces is underpinned by a desire to leave a 39.0 million silver equivalent ounces in sustainable legacy and acknowledging 2018 which represents a sixth year of that our purpose is to be a responsible output increases and improved on our and innovative mining company original target for the year of 514,000 gold committed to a better world.
equivalent ounces 38.0 million silver This year also contained operational equivalent ounces.
This was delivered at highlights for Hochschild, including a an all-in sustaining cost of $12.6 per silver material life-of-mine increase achieved equivalent ounce $931 per gold equivalent at the key lnmaculada deposit, further ounce which was also within positively substantial debt repayment, and the revised expectations.
Unsurprisingly, the generation of strong optionality in our lnmaculada mine played a key role with project and acquisition pipeline.
Taking its own contribution of just over a quarter these into account alongside another of a million gold equivalent ounces also record production performance, a record at $731 per gold equivalent continuing strong cost control, robust ounce.
However, we also delivered a cashflow generation and a record material increase at Pallancata up 22% environmental performance, I believe to 9.4 million silver equivalent ounces Hochschild is successfully delivering with production from the Pablo vein now on its long-term strategic goals.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Annual Report & Accounts 2018 23 Finally, despite a collapse in the Business Development Outlook Argentinian currency and the resulting The Companys growth strategy has been We expect attributable production government re-introduction of export augmented in 2018 by a series of business in 2019 to be 457,000 gold equivalent taxes, San Jose was a model of development initiatives which we believe ounces 37 million silver equivalent consistency, producing 13.3 million silver will create valuable optionality for the ounces assuming the average silver to equivalent ounces at a cost of $14.5 per Company.
The aim has been to maintain gold ratio of 81:1.
This figure now excludes silver equivalent ounce.
a balanced portfolio of advanced and Arcata and represents a further 2% early stage opportunities using a mix of increase on 2018 assuming a constant The Arcata mine started operations in greenfield drilling and project options gold to silver ratio of 74x and will be 1964 and has proved to be a resilient with the focus on stable jurisdictions in driven by: 242,000 gold equivalent ounces deposit with volatile historic production the Americas.
We have signed several from lnmaculada: a further increased often reinvigorated by brownfield agreements including exploration contribution of 10.2 million silver discoveries.
In recent years, the operation initiatives with Skeena Resources Ltd of equivalent ounces from Pallancata with has had to contend with a two-year delay Canada for their Snip mine, with Mirasol the Pablo vein in full production: and in exploration as well as increasingly Resources Ltd in Chile for their Indra and 7.5 million ounces from the dependable narrow and disseminated vein structures.
Agni projects, and with a private owner San Jose mine.
All in sustaining costs for It is a testament to the skill of the for the Condor deposit, which is located operations are expected at between operational and geological teams that close to Arcata in our Southern Peru $960 to $1,000 per gold equivalent ounce production has continued running until Cluster.
In addition to this dynamic $11.8 to $12.3 per silver equivalent ounce.
now with a series of cost efficiencies and greenfield strategy, we are also aiming to This forecast includes a $15 million new discoveries.
Indeed, in 2018 the mine optimise the ounces we already have in investment at lnmaculada to begin still managed to produce just over 4 million the portfolio at our Volcan, Azuca and development of the resources discovered silver equivalent ounces.
However, whilst Crespo projects with further brownfield in 2018 and the effect of removing the exploration during the year proved to be exploration and by applying the high cost Arcata operation.
encouraging, a significant fall in the silver knowledge we have gained through price does not support the operating The budget for brownfield exploration our innovation programme.
and capital costs needed to sustain has increased to approximately production and has led management to Financial position $27 million in 2019 with an additional take the difficult decision to place the Our balance sheet remains in a strong budget of $10 million being assigned to mine on care and maintenance.
The focus position with the repayment of our bonds greenfield drilling targets in Peru, Canada for management going forward remains in January 2018 and the refinancing of and Chile.
We will continue to assess optimising care and maintenance costs a portion of that debt at attractive early-stage acquisitions as well as whilst minimising inevitable job losses rates.
Furthermore, despite deteriorating advancing existing opportunities whilst and providing support to those affected precious metal prices in the second half also investing in our innovation by the decision.
However, there remains of the year, cashflow from operations programme to aid in the delivery of considerable optionality in the area remained robust with our net debt upside in our operations and projects.
This includes the position falling to $77.4 million 31 Although 2019 has started with a small Azuca project, the newly optioned December 2017: $102.8 million.
Overall, rise in precious metal prices, cost control Condor deposit and additional brownfield the Company repaid approximately will remain a top priority.
We look forward potential close to current operations $198 million in 2018. to further results from our comprehensive that could lead to a future restart of the Financial results brownfield drilling programme and, in processing plant or indeed the mine itself.
The average gold price received in recognition of the success achieved so Exploration 2018 was flat versus the previous year far, I am pleased to announce the Hochschilds brownfield exploration but this was offset by a 9% fall in the appointment of Oscar Garcia as Viceprogramme has started to gain real silver price received and therefore despite President of Brownfield Exploration.
We momentum with the highlight of 2018 record production once again, revenue remain confident that our recent history undoubtedly being the first campaign fell by a modest 3% to $704 million of operational success and low-cost at lnmaculada.
The Company has been 2017: $723 million.
The operational growth can be extended well into the drilling an area to the south east of the all-in sustaining cost of $12.6 per silver future.
Above all, we are committed to original Angela vein and has confirmed equivalent ounce 2017: $12.3 per ounce a strategy that we believe will achieve the presence of a considerable number was in line with positively revised our purpose to be a responsible and of structures, all in close proximity to the forecasts and reflected an increased innovative mining company committed current mine infrastructure.
In the year investment in brownfield exploration as to a better world.
as a whole, approximately 1.3 million well as one-off hydraulic backfill project gold equivalent ounces 95 million silver costs at San Jose, offset by a fall in unit Ignacio Bustamante equivalent ounces of inferred resources costs in Argentina due to the significant Chief Executive Officer have been added, a highly encouraging devaluation of the Peso.
This resulted 19 February 2019 result which confirms the strong potential in adjusted EBITDA of $268 million in this district and establishes a long life 2017: $301 million.
Finally, adjusted for the lnmaculada operation.
In 2019, earnings per share was lower at $0.05 the team will continue with campaigns per share 2017: $0.08 per share with scheduled to the north and west of the the elevated tax charge and foreign Angela vein.
We can also look forward to exchange loss resulting from the abovea Q2 Q3 start for an exciting set of drill mentioned devaluation offsetting the targets to the south of Pallancata at effects of the reduction in interest costs.
Cochaloma and Palco whilst at San Jose exploration will continue in the area surrounding the mine as well as further investigation of the Aguas Vivas deposit to the north west.
