HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 8 Chief Executives review Chief Executives review Progress in FY18 to increase the efficiency of our When we look back in operations: to develop our Heating, Our most exciting growth area in a few years time on Ventilation and Air Conditioning the short to medium term is North HVAC business: and to continue the America.
This years 20% increase our 2018 financial year, roll-out of LeakBot, which is looking in customers was split 50:50 I think we may see it very promising.
between organic growth and the as the year when we first tranche of customers acquired further step changed In France, we continue to enjoy with our largest ever acquisition strong relationships with our main - the policy book of Dominion HomeServes growth partners Veolia and Suez and remain Products and Services Inc DPS.
Our focused on business development Our North American team have business continued to opportunities that could unlock new been signing new partners at a perform well and the partnerships and opportunities for rate of two per week, and I would future growth.
We took our first step like to congratulate them for their strategic decisions we into HVAC installations in France in dedication and hard work in taking took will have a major December 2017, with the acquisition our North American business to influence on our longof Electrogaz.
In Spain, revenue growth in The UK is our most developed, our Membership business and cash generative business.
Our increased efficiency in Claims drove UK Membership base is stable at strong profit growth.
The current around 2.2m customers, and we partnership with Endesa draws continue to see opportunities to a close in the coming weeks.
to improve its size and value Discussions continue to define a through product development, future relationship, which could be marketing and selective policy a non-exclusive claims handling book acquisitions.
The UK team and service only arrangement.
This maintained high levels of customer would enable us to enter discussions service all year, including during with other energy companies.
adverse winter weather conditions, The net effect of not marketing thanks to improved facilities with Endesa is expected to have to serve customers online and no significant impact on adjusted redeploying an increasingly multioperating profit in Spain over the skilled workforce as the need arose.
next two years Looking forward, our priorities in the UK are to broaden our affinity Our partnership with Edison Energia partnerships in new areas such as in Italy continued to make progress, energy, with partnerships signed this with Edison marketing HomeServe year with E. ON and Octopus Energy: HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 9 Chief Executives review products as part of their strategy to Home Experts an online, on Home Experts gain market share in the domestic demand marketplace which For me, one of the most significant Italian energy supply market.
We matches younger, non insurance decisions we took this year was continue to develop opportunities to minded consumers with vetted to purchase the remaining 60% of expand our Membership model into and reviewed local tradespeople Checkatrade, to give us full control new markets, and will ensure that to carry out a range of household of that business.
As we develop our new entries are supported by large repairs and improvements Home Experts strategy, Checkatrade and committed utility partners.
brings a strong UK brand and a great HVAC a complete solution process for certifying reputable Positioning for future growth to the installation, repair, tradespeople.
Over time, we will I see it as crucial to my role as maintenance and financing combine this with the innovative founder and CEO of HomeServe to of heating, ventilation and air digital capabilities we have access position our business for the future conditioning to at Habitissimo, as well as as well as the present.
This year, Habitissimos ability to test different we continued to develop our five Smart Home developing and revenue models and to expand strategic priorities - our people, our distributing technology to enable effectively into new markets: they are home automation, including affinity partnerships, our local repair already present in Spain, France, Italy, LeakBot, smart thermostats and networks our digital capabilities Portugal, Brazil, Mexico, Argentina, connected boilers.
and the financial resources at our Chile and Columbia.
These capabilities create financial resources HomeServe can I am delighted to have been the opportunity to expand beyond add to the mix, we see enormous able to promote members of my our traditional Membership business potential to develop a scalable, management team to make the and to this end, we have created global Home Experts marketplace.
most of these new opportunities, four global business lines with the in particular Tom Rusin, who is now potential to expand our business Global CEO of our Membership model.
Tom has been instrumental to our recent success in North Membership our core America and will bring invaluable subscription-based home insight and energy to drive all of our assistance service covering Membership businesses forward.
He plumbing, heating, electrical, has a worthy successor John Kitzie locks, glazing, pest control and already in place in North America, technology, which we have rolled and will continue to be based in out successfully in the UK, North Norwalk, Connecticut.
America, France, Spain and Italy HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 10 Chief Executives review Chief Executives review continuedIn new geographies by Market insight HVAC and Smart Home exploring opportunities for joint My interest in Home Experts We also made progress in FY18 ventures with utility partners.
began with an analysis of our on defining our HVAC and Smart wider market, including not Home propositions.
Based upon the To further develop our Home only home repairs but also success of our boiler and furnace Experts proposition and scale our home improvements.
Our installation and repair business in Checkatrade business in the UK by core Membership subscription North America, we have started recruiting more tradespeople and business continues to appeal to to develop this business line in the attracting more consumers and around a third of addressable UK and France via the acquisitions internationally via Habitissimo households - homeowners of Help-Link and Electrogaz respectively.
HVAC is a highly who want to avoid unexpected fragmented market and one where To roll out our HVAC proposition costs and who value our reliable we see potential to grow our market in the UK, North America, France customer service when fixing share amongst a new group of high and Spain problems that occur around value Membership customers.
However there the Smart Home market, we will To progress Smart Home is great growth potential with engage in areas adjacent to our initiatives, including converting opportunities outside our other businesses, for example smart LeakBot test agreements to traditional base - amongst a thermostats and plumbing-related volume orders and signing further younger demographic, who are products.
I am delighted that our insurance partners.
less likely to buy an insuranceLeakBot smart water leak detector type product and more likely to is starting to gain traction, and we With significant initiatives underway look online for a tradesperson have developed a WiFi version to in all four business lines, we have when the need arises.
We can facilitate broader coverage.
Further made notable progress this year deploy our core capabilities to test agreements have been signed towards our vision of becoming the service these consumers and and the first sizeable volume orders worlds most trusted provider of offer a wider range of home agreed with partners in Denmark and home repairs and improvements.
improvements as well as repairs.
We have done so by remaining true to our purpose - to help people run Looking forward to FY19 their homes more easily - and to our We will remain true to our growth customer centric values.
Our priorities in delivering I hear heart-warming stories about our growth strategy are as follows, the lengths our people go to in delivering service to our customers Home repairs and improvements To continue to grow our core the Customer Stories featured in 400bn Membership businesses this years Annual Report give you a flavour of this.
It is this commitmentIn North America where we and enthusiasm above all which Membership expect to complete the second powers our business, and I would like 14bn tranche of DPS this autumn and to conclude by thanking everyone at through further organic and HomeServe for their hard work this acquisition opportunities year.
Membership: UK ONS surveyIn the UK, France and Spain Richard Harpin HomeServe estimate by continuing to develop Founder and Chief Executive Home Repairs improvement: our affinity partnerships and 22 May 2018 HomeServe estimate increasing the efficiency of our And... operations.
An opportunity in Habitissimos other territories HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 11 Chief Executives review I see it as crucial to my role as Founder and CEO of HomeServe to position our business for the future, as well as the present.
Richard Harpin Founder and Chief Executive
