32 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 33 Principal risks and uncertainties THE RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS Our approach to risk is adaptive.
We aim to The main steps in the process are set out below: protect what we have while responding to RISK DEPARTMENT: FACILITATE IDENTIFICATION & EVALUATION OF RISK opportunities to grow and create value.
OUR APPROACH TO RISK Divisional Management Executive Committee Board When we look at risks, we specifically consider the We have a higher appetite for risks that present effects they could have on our business model, our us with a clear opportunity for reward, and Assess Challenge risks, culture and our long-term strategic objectives.
These we actively seek out those that provide the Top-down risk profile agree appetite & are set out on pages 10 to 17, and we encourage you greatest opportunities.
risk assessment Identify Group risks mitigation plans to refer to them as you read this section.
We have some appetite for risks with a possible We consider both short and long-term risks within opportunity for reward.
With these risks, we a timeframe of up to three years, and we consider carefully balance our mitigation efforts with our DIVISIONAL financial risks as well as environmental, social and view of the possible rewards.
GROUP KEY RISK REGISTER RISK REGISTERS governance risks.
We have a very low appetite or tolerance for risks that only have negative consequences, particularly RISK APPETITE when they could adversely impact health & safety, Risk appetite describes the amount of risk we are our values, culture or business model.
We aim to willing to tolerate, accept or seek.
Our risk appetite DETERMINE eliminate these risks with our mitigation efforts.
Bottom-up Determine is determined by the nature of the risk and how that risk appetite PRINCIPAL RISKS risk assessment risk could affect us.
& mitigation plans Divisional Management Executive Committee Board RISK HEAT MAP To help visualise our principal risks, we have plotted them on the heat map below.
The individual risks are described in more detail on the following pages.
3 4 5 RISK DEPARTMENT: PROVIDE INDEPENDENT APPRAISAL & GUIDANCE 8 9 1 6 7 2 Divisional Management review their risks regularly, to The Board challenge and agree the Group key risks, appetites update their Divisional Risk Register.
They assess the and mitigation strategies twice yearly and use this information likelihood and impact each risk could have on the business to determine the Groups principal risks.
if not managed, identify what mitigations are in place The Group Risk Department facilitates the identification to establish how much risk remains and discuss future and evaluation of risks, providing independent appraisal and mitigation strategies, where appropriate.
They do this on both guidance across theGroup.
The principal risks are also taken into account in the Boards The Group Key Risk Register is formed of our most significant consideration of Long-Term Viability, as described in the Group risks from across the entire business and gives an overview of Viability Statement on page 38. how our risk profile is changing, how risks are being managed Likelihood currently and future mitigation plans for review.
Risk Risk movement in 2018 The Executive Committee then review the Group Key Risk Register to assess any changes to the Divisional risk profiles.
1 F ailure to maximise 5 Loss of key personnel Increased They also identify the risks that they are managing at a Group growth potential 6 Health and Safety Stayed the same level.
They then determine risk appetites and future mitigation 2 D eterioration of business plans for the Board to review.
7 Cyber security incident Decreased model and culture 8 Product design relevance 3 Changes in market conditions 9 Credit control failure 4 I nterruption to continuity of supply Impact Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report 34 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 35 Principal risks and uncertainties continued 2018 PRINCIPAL RISKS BREXIT RISKS The arrows alongside each risk show the year on year change In line with the way we manage risks within the business, we have not presented a separate principal risk relating to Brexit.
Brexit will impact a number of our existing risks, with the severity and timeframes varying significantly, depending on No-Deal or Deal scenarios.
FAILURE TO MAXIMISE THE GROWTH POTENTIAL OF THE BUSINESS The following table summarises some of the key risk areas impacted by a No-Deal Brexit: our worst case scenario.
It also shows which of our principal risks these elements are managed under, and gives examples of key mitigating actions.
Risk and impact Mitigating factors We see a significant potential for growth.
This brings both The opportunities and challenges related to growth are a opportunities and challenges.
major area of focus throughout the business, at all levels.
What are the No-Deal What this could What we are Managed within If we dont innovate, recognise and exploit our growth We continue to invest in our depot environment, people, Brexit risks mean to us doing about this principal risks opportunities in line with our business model and risk services, and systems, and our manufacturing and distribution appetite, or if we dont align structures and skills to meet the capabilities to equip them for growth.
Trade & Customs Risks challenges of growth, we wont get maximum benefit from our Growth activities are reviewed in the light of our risk appetite, growthpotential.
No longer inside the EU Tariffs could lead to higher prices Modelling the challenges and 1, 2, 3, 4 values, business model and culture.
Single Market Free Trade for product and raw materials opportunities across the supply Area sourced from EU chain Exit from the EU Customs Supply chain delays as goods Reviewing the way in which we Union sourced from outside the UK come obtain our products is the most through a new customs regime cost effective after Brexit No agreed regulatory 2.
DETERIORATION OF BUSINESS MODEL AND CULTURE co-operation Regulatory uncertainty as Obtaining preferred importer recognition of UK standards and exporter status to reduce potential regulations ceases across the EU customs delays Risk and impact Mitigating factors Increasing our stockholding of atOur future success depends on continuing to maintain our Our values, business model and culture are at the centre of risk products to secure continuity values, our unique business model and our locally-enabled, our activities and decision-making processes, and they are of supply during transition entrepreneurial culture see pages 14 to 15 and 18. led by the actions of the Board, Executive Committee and senior management.
Reviewing contracts to ensure If we lose sight of our values, model or culture we will not product supply remains successfully service the needs of the local small builder and The Board and Executive Committee regularly visit our sustainable after Brexit their customers, and our long-term profitability may suffer.
depots and factories, our logistics and support locations and hold events to reinforce the importance of our values, People & Immigration Risks model and culture.
No free movement between Possible shortage of migrant Evaluating our workforce 1, 4 the UK & EU labour for us composition both internally and externally with suppliers Labour shortages for our stakeholders, particularly in the Reviewing how we can help migrant supply chain workers to understand their rights 3.
CHANGES IN MARKET CONDITIONS and with working visa applications Our customers could also be affected Risk and impact Mitigating factors Strategy & Business Plan Risks We buy a significant proportion of raw materials and finished We have proven expertise in managing both selling prices and products in euros and US dollars.
If sterling weakens, our input costs.
This continues to be a main area of focus.
Consumer uncertainty This uncertainty may impact on Modelling the challenges and 1, 2, 3, 4 costs increase.
our sales and future strategic opportunities across the entire We have a good track record of dealing with changes in market Investor uncertainty growth decisions business, to ensure we optimise Our products are mostly sold to small builders and installed in conditions.
We monitor activity across our supply-chain and strategic plans given the various Currency and Stock Market owner-occupied and private and public sector rented housing, depots closely, using the good relationships we have to give us Increased costs due to currency scenarios volatility mainly in the repair, maintenance and improvement markets.
early warnings of changing conditions.
This enables us to take fluctuations If activity falls in these markets, it can affect our sales.
swift mitigating action, such as those discussed on the previous Political uncertainty page in relation to Brexit.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report 36 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 37 Principal risks and uncertainties continued The arrows alongside each risk show the year on year change 4.
INTERRUPTION TO CONTINUITY OF SUPPLY 7.
CYBER SECURITY INCIDENT Risk and impact Mitigating factors Risk and impact Mitigating factors Howdens is an in-stock business.
Our customers expect this, We build strong relationships with our suppliers, focused on integrity, We depend on a core set of critical IT systems which are We place focus on training our people about cyber security and rely on it.
fairness and respect, and which are worthwhile for all concerned.
fundamental to the day-to-day running of the business.
risks, as we recognise that these risks are not always technical These systems are at risk from increasingly sophisticated and awareness is our first point of control.
Any disruption to our relationship with key suppliers or Where appropriate we enter into long-term contracts to security threats.
interruption to manufacturing and distribution operations secure supply of key products, services and raw materials.
We employ complex technical IT security controls to protect could affect our ability to deliver the in-stock business model If we experienced a major security breach, this could result in a our information and our key systems.
We regularly engage Wherever possible we have multiple-sourcing strategies for and to service our customers needs.
If this happened, we key system being unavailable causing operational difficulties, external specialists to validate the effectiveness of our our key products, to reduce the effect of a supply failure.
could lose customers and sales.
and or sensitive data to be unavailable or compromised.
controls against industry best practice.
This could also lead to breach of customer data.
We have invested heavily in our manufacturing operations We have robust disaster recovery and business continuity and this investment gives us an enhanced disaster plans, and we test them regularly.
We adopt a continuous improvement approach to IT security We are also investing in new warehouse space to support and continue to invest in the security of our systems.
our distribution capabilities and equip them for growth.
Brexit uncertainty has also driven us to increase stock holding of at-risk products to help ensure the continuity of supply.
LOSS OF KEY PERSONNEL Risk and impact Mitigating factors Ensuring that we have products that meet the design, price Our dedicated product team regularly refresh our offerings to and quality needs of the small builder, and their customer, is a meet builders and end-users expectations for design, price, Risk and impact Mitigating factors key focus of the business model and is a critical element of our quality and availability.
future success and growth aspirations.
Kitchen technology and The skills, experience and performance of key members of our We use the Remuneration Committee to ensure that key team We work with external design and brand specialists and attend design do not stand still, and our products must reflect that.
management team make a major contribution to the success members are appropriately compensated for their contributions product design fairs to monitor likely future trends.
and incentivised to continue their careers with us.
If we do not support the builder with new products that their Our local depot staff have close relationships with their customers want, we could lose their loyalty, and sales could The loss of a key member of the Groups management team Work is ongoing to ensure that appropriate continuity and customers and end-users, and we actively gather feedback diminish.
could adversely affect the Groups operations.
succession plans are in place.
We will also continue to focus on from them about changes in trends.
leadership development and succession planning.
In 2018 our assessment of this risk has reduced, following We work with our suppliers, to develop new and improved improvements in the way we review market trends and products for the future, some of which are unique to Howdens.
collaborate across the business, to ensure we introduce the A number of new products were introduced during the year right kitchen ranges and new products.
across all product categories, and more are already planned for 2019.
HEALTH AND SAFETY 9. CREDIT CONTROL FAILURE Risk and impact Mitigating factors Howdens is about people and relationships.
We have over Since the beginning of our business, we have invested in safe 690 depots, 9,500 employees, hundreds of suppliers and ways of working.
We have developed dedicated health & safety Risk and impact Mitigating factors hundreds of thousands of customers.
teams and formalised systems that help us stay safe.
When a builder comes into one of our depots for the first We have an effective trade account policy used to agree terms Care for the health & safety of employees, customers, We monitor, review and update our practices to take account of time, we offer them a trade account, so they can complete with our customers and efficient debt collection processes, suppliers and everyone who comes into contact with changes in our environment or operations and in line with best the job before paying Howdens.
Many of our customers rely which we monitor closely and regularly.
Howdens is integral to our values and to our behaviour.
on our trade account facilities, as cash flow is often critical We have robust systems and tested business continuity plans.
If we dont ensure safe ways of working across the business, Most importantly, we make sure we keep talking about health to smallbusinesses.
this could compromise the safety and wellbeing of individuals & safety at every level of the business.
See page 48 for our We maintain good personal relationships with our customers, Failure to provide, or service these facilities could affect our and the reputation and viability of the business.
related KPI and discussion of our performance in recent years.
both at depot level and within the credit control department.
ability to continue to support our customers, and potentially our ability to collect debt.
This could have a direct impact on Our concentration of debt is limited, as our exposure is both our revenue and our working capital.
spread across 400,000 customer trade accounts.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report 38 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 39 Going Concern and Other Directors statements Viability statements In preparing the Group financial statements, Strategy and business model GOING CONCERN STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS International Accounting Standard 1 requires proven, successful business model RESPONSIBILITIES The Group meets its day-to-day working capital that directors: scope, and resources, for growing the depot requirements through cash generated from The Directors are responsible for preparing the network in line with announced plans operations.
If required, the Group also has access Annual Report, Directors Remuneration Report properly select and apply accounting policies: to an asset-backed lending facility of 140m which clear strategic direction and the financial statements in accordance with present information, including accounting policies, expires in December 2023. applicable law and regulations.
in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, Robust assessment of principal risks comparable and : The Groups forecasts and projections have been Company law requires the Directors to prepare the Directors role in the risk identification, stress-tested for reasonably possible adverse provide additional disclosures when compliance financial statements for each financial year.
Under management, and assessment process is variations in economic conditions and trading with the specific requirements in IFRSs is that law, the Directors are required to prepare outlined on pages 32 to 37, together with details performance.
The results of this testing show that insufficient to enable users to understand the Group financial statements in accordance with of the principal risks and mitigations the Group should be able to operate within the level impact of particular transactions, other events International Financial Reporting Standards the Directors are satisfied that they have carried of its current net cash balances and its committed and conditions on the entitys financial position IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and out a robust assessment of the Companys bank facility, and that it would not breach the and financial performance: and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have chosen to principal risks facility covenants.
prepare the parent company financial statements make an assessment of the Companys ability in accordance with United Kingdom Generally to continue as a going concern.
Assessment of Viability After making due enquiries the Directors have a Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom The Directors review of the Companys long-term reasonable expectation that the Company and Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate viability was mainly done with reference to the the Group have adequate resources to continue in company law, the Directors must not approve the accounting records that are sufficient to show and Companys annual strategic planning process, operational existence for the foreseeable future.
accounts unless they are satisfied that they give explain the Companys transactions and disclose which looks forward over a three-year period.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Company and of the profit or loss of the Company position of the Company and enable them to ensure The three-year plans were subjected to sensitivity for that period.
In preparing the parent company that the financial statements comply with the analysis which considered downside income, cash flow LONG TERM PROSPECTS financial statements, the Directors are required to: Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for and capital expenditure scenarios, modelled on the AND VIABILITY safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence biggest downturn in sales and margin that the Company select suitable accounting policies and then for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and Assessment of long-term prospects has ever experienced over a three year period.
apply them consistently: detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors have assessed the Companys longThe results of the sensitivity analysis showed that make judgements and accounting estimates term prospects, with particular reference to the The Directors are responsible for the maintenance the Company would remain profitable over the that are reasonable and prudent: factors below: and integrity of the corporate and financial three-year period, and would remain within the state whether applicable UK Accounting information included on the Companys website.
terms of its current lending facility.
These results Current position Standards have been followed subject to any Legislation in the United Kingdom governing did not include any mitigating actions that would history of profits, strong net profit margins material departures disclosed and explained in the preparation and dissemination of financial be open to the Company in the event that such a the financial statements: and debt-free.
Proven statements may differ from legislation in downturn was experienced.
ability to maintain strong cash balances whilst prepare the financial statements on the going otherjurisdictions.
also investing for growth and returning cash to concern basis unless it is inappropriate to The Directors consider that the reasonably shareholders.
140m lending facility available presume that the Company will continue likely foreseeable financial effects of any of the ifneeded inbusiness.
Companys principal risks, including the financial strong relationships with suppliers and effect of a no-deal Brexit including mitigating actions customers, built on trust which was modelled during the year and which the Directors also reviewed, are unlikely to be greater proven ability to flex the operating cost base in than those effects which were modelled in the a severe economic downturn downturn scenarios.
robust disaster recovery and business continuity framework Having taken into account the Companys current position, strategic plans and principal risks in their evaluation of the prospects of the business, the Directors concluded that they have a reasonable expectation that the Company will continue to operate and to meet its liabilities as they fall due during the three year period to December 2021.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report 40 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 41 Other Directors statements continued Sustainability Matters Other Statements of the Directors AUDIT INFORMATION AND AUDITOR Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts confirm that: 43 Introduction: Why sustainability matters to us so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and 44 2018 Sustainability statements of intent the Directors have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as Directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is 46 Our impact on our stakeholders aware of that information.
48 Our people The confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s418 of the Companies Act 2006.
52 Sustainable supply chain DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT 53 Sustainable product We confirm to the best of our knowledge: 54 Our environment the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group 56 Our communities and Company, and the undertakings including the consolidation taken as a whole: the Annual Report and Accounts includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group and Company and the undertakings including the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face: and the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups and Companys performance, business model and strategy.
This responsibility statement was approved by the Board of Directors and is signed on its behalf by: Andrew Livingston Mark Robson Chief Executive Officer Deputy Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer 27 February 2019 A Ad dd di it ti io on na al l in inf fo or rma mat ti io on n F Fi ina nan nc ci ial al s st tat ate em me en nt ts s G Go ov five er rn nan anc ce e S St tr ra at te egic gic r re ep po or rt t 42 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 43 Why sustainability matters to us For example, we place a great emphasis on looking SUSTAINABILITY IS PART after our people.
We invest in keeping them OF OUR CULTURE safe, developing their skills, and offering them When we talk about the Howdens culture, we rewarding careers and a great place to work.
We describe it as being worthwhile for all concerned do this because its the right thing to do, but it also and creating the conditions that allow everyone mitigates our Health & Safety and Loss of key to succeed.
These are the concepts that our personnel risks.
business is built on, and they all lead to sustainable behaviour.
Developing and maintaining sustainable supplier relationships mitigates the Interruption to THE BOARD LEADS OUR continuity of supply risk, and energy-efficient, safe, COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY tested and durable product mitigates our Product design relevance risk.
The importance of sustainable behaviour is recognised right through the business.
Part of the WHAT ARE THE MATERIAL AREAS Board agenda in 2018 involved re-emphasising our FOR US AND OUR STAKEHOLDERS?
commitment to Health & Safety and to Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility.
We present our The main body of this report is organised in five revised Group Statements of Intent on the following sections, reflecting the main areas of importance two pages.
to us and to our stakeholders: IT IS PART OF OUR BUSINESS MODEL People: keeping them safe, offering rewarding careers.
Our business model leads naturally to sustainable behaviour.
It is part of our competitive advantage.
Sustainable supply chain: sustainable sourcing, shared values throughout the supply chain, active Lowest cost production in our dedicated UK monitoring of suppliers.
factories leads naturally to trying to minimise waste and the use of energy and raw materials.
It Sustainable product: safe, traceable, energyis also one of the reasons why we have developed efficient and durable.
an award-winning efficient transport fleet that has shown clear leadership in carbon reduction.
Environment: reducing waste, responsible operations, lowering emissions.
Our mission statement aim of no-call-back quality means that we strive to produce and source product Communities: local community projects, our which is durable and safe.
nationwide work with Leonard Cheshire Disability.
Being trusted partners to both our suppliers and our OUR SUSTAINABILITY KPIS customers means that our relationships with them Our sustainability KPIs relate to safety, use of wood need to work for all parties over the long term.
from certified sources, recycling of waste and recycled packaging, and can be found on pages We have over 700 depots in the UK and Europe, and 48, 53 and 54. the relationships that those depots rely on to trade profitably mean that our success relies on us being a good neighbour in each of those communities.
IT MITIGATES OUR RISKS We discuss our principal risks on pages 32 to 37.
Sustainable behaviour helps us to address some of those risks.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
