Group Chief Executives review Helping our people be at their best is the critical enabler of our business strategy and fundamental to delivering our financial targets.
I am encouraged by our progress so far.
We are growing customer numbers and capturing market share in our scale markets and from our international network.
Our US business is short of where we want it to be, but is moving in the right direction.
Our investment in technology is making our business simpler, safer, and easier for our customers to use.
We have launched new products and made strategic hires in mainland China and Hong Kong that are materially improving our service to international clients.
We have also established our UK ring-fenced bank.
These were important factors in our 2018 financial John Flint Group Chief Executive performance.
Revenue growth in our four global businesses helped deliver higher Group reported and adjusted profit before tax.
Group return on In June 2018, I set out a plan to get HSBC growing tangible equity our headline measure was also again and to create value for shareholders.
While up significantly from 6.8% in 2017 to 8.6%.
This is this targets clear financial outcomes, it has our a good first step towards meeting our return on customers at its centre.
We want to bring more tangible equity target of more than 11% by 2020. of HSBC to more people and to serve them in the best possible way.
Engaging our people HSBC has a strong and proud culture.
We understand our role and our purpose, and that HSBC exists to serve others.
As Group Chief We want to bring more of HSBC to Executive, I have a responsibility to nurture and preserve those aspects of our culture that serve more people and to serve them in the us well.
I also recognise that I have a responsibility best possible way.
to improve aspects of our behaviours that may be impeding our performance.
In my first year in this role, I started a conversation The eight strategic priorities that I outlined throughout the bank about how we help our in June are the key to achieving these aims.
people be the best version of themselves.
This is We are seeking to connect more customers part of a broader ambition to create what we call to our international network and high-growth the healthiest human system in our industry.
We are working to improve our capital efficiency and to turn our US business around.
We are investing in technology and our digital capabilities to serve our customers better and stay competitive.
We are also taking steps to support our people more effectively and help them be at their best.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 7 Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Strategic Report | Group Chief Executives review There is more that we can do to create an Business performance environment that is sufficiently supportive, All four global businesses grew adjusted protective and engaging.
We need to have more revenue in 2018. open and honest conversations.
This is the least that our people should be able to expect.
If we Retail Banking and Wealth Management had cannot provide it, it hurts our ability to serve not a very good year.
Higher interest rates, rising just our customers, but all the stakeholder groups customer numbers, and growth of more than on whom our success depends.
It also impedes $20bn in our UK and Hong Kong mortgage book our ability to deliver our strategy and our targets.
all contributed to a strong rise in Retail Banking adjusted revenue.
Despite a good performance We have started by signalling to our people in the first three quarters of the year, Wealth that creating a safe and supportive working Management adjusted revenue fell slightly in environment is a strategic priority for the business.
2018 due to the effects of market volatility in Leaders are being encouraged to model the right the fourth quarter.
behaviours and provide direction on the type of behaviour we expect.
We are also opening Commercial Banking had an excellent 2018, conversations around issues like mental delivering double-digit adjusted revenue growth health, well-being, bullying and harassment.
on the back of an outstanding performance in Global Liquidity and Cash Management.
Credit We are making material changes to the and Lending generated adjusted revenue growth organisation that allow us to support our people from higher balances, despite lower margins from more effectively.
Our governance procedures increased competition.
Solid performances in Asia are being simplified and strengthened to reduce and Europe enabled Global Trade and Receivables complexity and make it easier for people to do their Finance to grow adjusted revenue despite an jobs.
We are also helping our people work more increasingly difficult environment for trade.
On learning and development, we have opened new HSBC University hubs around the Global Banking and Markets grew adjusted world and improved access to digital training.
revenue in spite of considerably reduced market activity in the fourth quarter.
Our market-leading transaction banking franchises generated strong increases in adjusted revenue, which exceeded the reduction in markets-related revenue from HSBC has a strong and proud culture.
We understand our role and our purpose, Global Private Banking returned to growth in 2018 and that HSBC exists to serve others.
on the back of new business won in Hong Kong.
Adjusted revenue from deposits also increased on the back of interest rate rises.
At an individual level, every person at HSBC Adjusted jaws was negative for 2018.
While is being encouraged to think about how we adjusted costs were broadly as we expected for create the healthiest human system in our the full year, adjusted revenue fell short due to industry, and to play an active role in doing so.
market weakness in the fourth quarter.
Positive We are regularly collecting feedback from our jaws remains an important discipline in delivering people and it is informing the action we are taking.
our financial targets and we remain committed to it in 2019.
The early signs are positive.
In 2018, 66% of our employees said they would recommend HSBC as a great place to work, up from 64% the previous year.
While this demonstrates an improvement in a relatively short space of time, it also shows that we have much further to go.
This work will continue into 2019 and beyond.
If we are successful, then we will materially improve all aspects of HSBCs performance, including delivery of our strategy.
8 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Group Chief Executives review Expected credit losses were slightly higher than We plan to achieve positive adjusted jaws in 2019 loan impairment charges in 2017, reflecting the and remain focused on achieving a return on uncertain economic outlook in the UK tangible equity of over 11% by 2020, while and heightened downside risks.
Our common equity tier 1 ratio of 14% was lower than at the same point in 2017, due mainly to adverse foreign exchange movements and the impact of higher lending.
Despite more challenging market conditions at John Flint Group Chief Executive the end of year and a weaker global economic 19 February 2019 outlook, we are committed to the targets we announced in June.
We returned a total of $2bn to shareholders through share buy-backs in 2018, reflecting our desire to neutralise the impact of scrip dividends over the medium term.
We remain committed to this policy, subject to regulatory approval.
Outlook We have made a good start to 2019.
Our Group revenue performance in January was ahead of our plan for the month and actual credit performance remained robust, albeit with some softening of credit performance in the UK.
We continue to prepare for the UKs departure from the EU in order to provide continuity for our customers in the UK and mainland Europe.
Our well-established universal bank in France gives us a major advantage in this regard.
Our immediate priority is to help our customers manage the present uncertainty.
Despite more challenging market conditions at the end of the year and a weaker global economic outlook, we are committed to the targets we announced in June.
We remain alert to the downside risks of the current economic environment, especially those relating to the UK economy, global trade tensions and the future path of interest rates.
We will be proactive in managing costs and investment to meet the risks to revenue growth where necessary, but we will not take short-term decisions that harm the long-term interests of the business.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 9 Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
