Chief Executives statement and Outlook With a strong balance sheet, tightly managed cost base and a strong presence in our chosen upstream equipment and service markets, Hunting remains well positioned to capture opportunities in the current market.
Jim Johnson Chief Executive 06 Hunting PLC | 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information i Underlying Reported Introduction 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 has seen the Group report monthly profitability $m $m $m $m throughout the year, as market stability within US onshore Revenue 911.4 724.9 911.4 724.9 completions led to a strong year-on-year increase in ii EBITDA 142.3 56.0 141.3 53.6 performance.
While the Group is still some way from Profit loss from reporting profitability across all of its international regions, operations 104.7 14.3 75.4 24.8 Huntings historic focus on the US market has allowed the Profit loss before tax 104.0 11.5 74.7 27.6 Company to return to both underlying and reported Profit loss for the year 82.0 10.5 85.7 28.6 profitability in the year.
On the back of this improved Diluted EPS cents 49.6 8.0 52.3 16.0 trading environment, we have recommenced dividend distributions.
Results for the year, as reported under IFRS, adjusted for amortisation of intangible assets recognised as part of a The performance of Hunting Titan in the year has clearly business combination and exceptional items.
Non-GAAP measure see pages 161 to 165. been the highlight for the Group, as demand for perforating systems, energetics and instruments have all i Underlying profit from operations increased in the year to exceeded managements expectations.
Reported profit from operations momentum in the first half of the year was exceptionally was $75.4m 2017 $ 24.8 m loss.
This has led to strong, as operators increased drilling operations on the i underlying diluted EPS improving from 8.0 cents per share back of higher average oil prices and lower operating in 2017 to 49.6 cents per share in 2018.
A key to the success of Hunting Titan has been its EPS was 52.3 cents 2017 16.0 cents loss.
strong and varied technology offering, which customers continue to embrace as the market seeks more costOutlook efficient and safe ways to extract oil and gas.
The Groups improved performance in 2018 and into early 2019, has been driven by US onshore-centric drilling Activity in the US onshore basins has also had a positive activity and investment, while the results of Huntings impact on the Groups US operating segment, as demand international businesses remain dependent on further for OCTG, accessories, downhole tools and other market improvement.
Given the ongoing commodity price equipment has led to the US returning to profitability.
and geopolitical volatility, the Board remains focused on During the year, some indications of a recovery in the US the agility and flexibility of the business to respond to offshore market were noted, as the oil majors announced market conditions.
Initiatives to further improve profitability new investment in deep water projects: however, at this and margins, and reduce losses, including in-sourcing of point, new activity remains patchy and is unlikely to gain production, facility rationalisation and inter-segment any firm traction until the WTI oil price stabilises at a manufacturing, will also continue in the year ahead.
modest premium to the current oil price.
The Company has a number of new products and A key achievement in the year is the use of the Groups technologies scheduled to launch in 2019, which will global manufacturing facilities to assist in meeting continue to broaden our market reach.
Further, with the customer demand for Hunting Titans products.
Ten commissioning of new, higher-efficiency manufacturing, facilities across the Group have manufactured Titan the potential for margin improvement in our key product products and components in the year, which enabled lines is anticipated: however, it is also conditional on activity Hunting to retain margin within the Group and increase levels improving.
The Board continues to review bolt-on utilisation at a number of facilities, which were historically acquisition opportunities, which, if concluded, will increase focused on offshore markets.
our presence in the wellbore and enhance our current product portfolio.
Any potential acquisitions would need to Elsewhere across the Group, all international businesses, complement our portfolio of onshore technologies as well except Europe, reported increased revenue and the as subsea completions within the oil and gas industry.
narrowing of losses as broad-based market stability, coupled with ongoing cost-containment initiatives, With a strong balance sheet, tightly managed cost base positively impacted performance.
and a strong presence in our chosen upstream equipment and service markets, Hunting remains well positioned to Group Results Summary capture opportunities in the current market, should the The following table sets out a summary of the Groups recovery across the industry continue.
Hunting reports a 26% increase in i revenue compared to the prior year.
Underlying EBITDA improved considerably as operations across Huntings US markets increased with activity levels, to record an increase in the year to $142.3m 2017 $56.0m.
Jim Johnson Chief Executive 28 February 2019 Hunting PLC | 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 07
