Chief Executives statement With a simplified Group structure, strong balance sheet and a solid core business focused on the UK, we are well positioned to deliver future growth and value creation.
Joe Hudson Chief Executive Officer 14 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Introduction I am pleased to report on the first full year results for the Group since my appointment as CEO in April 2018.
The market backdrop for our products was relatively supportive through the year, with building rates remaining robust and brick imports continuing to be drawn into a UK market where demand exceeded domestic supply capacity.
Against this backdrop, I am pleased to report that our results for the full year were in line with our expectations as set out in our July trading statement.
1 We delivered another year of revenue and Adjusted EBITDA and profit before taxation growth, driven principally by our clay brick business, which benefited from a combination of both price and volume growth.
We successfully commissioned our new 100 million soft mud brick factory during the year, at a time when the market needs additional capacity, and this contributed to volume growth in the second half.
In November, we announced the sale of Glen-Gery, our US brick manufacturing business, enabling us to focus on our core markets in the UK.
We remained strongly cash generative and the additional cash inows we saw from our surplus property sales and the disposal of Glen-Gery allowed us to continue to fide-leverage to the bottom end of our guided debt range.
We paid our first supplementary dividend to shareholders in 2018, which demonstrates our commitment to shareholder returns.
We had to make some tough decisions at the half year and announced an enhanced maintenance programme in our UK clay brick business.
This was essential to sustain the output of our plants following a prolonged period of strong demand and high utilisation, but also to maintain the range and quality of our products.
The programme ensures we take a more disciplined approach to plant outages, while investing more in maintenance.
The programme is continuing into 2019 as planned and we are pleased with the progress made to date.
Optimising our operational performance will be an important area of focus going forward as we seek to maintain our current market positioning and execute on our strategy.
We made good progress in some areas this year.
People are our most important asset, so I am delighted to see a further decline in lost time accidents.
There is more work to do here but I am pleased we are making progress.
Ibstock was also recently awarded an edie Energy Efficiency Award, reflecting some of the progress we have made in recent years with our environmental KPIs which are very important to us as a Group.
People Creating value for all of our stakeholders Shareholders Industry-leading margins Adjusted EBITDA growth bringing strong shareholder returns Employees Invest in our people and grow them in their careers Employees can become shareholders SAYE Customers and suppliers Customers first choice with differentiated offers Industry-leading customer service Communities Actively participate in the development of communities around us Manage our environmental footprint 1 Alternative performance measures are described in Note 3 to the financial statements.
Theres more on the value we create on pages 20 to 21.
15 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Chief Executives statement continued We announced in February that Kevin Sims will retire as Chief 1.
Driving sustainable performance Financial Officer in 2019, after more than 30 years with the Group.
We have high-quality people with significant expertise across Kevin played a vitally important role in Ibstocks successful listing on our business.
However, we believe that we will need to continually the London Stock Exchange in 2015 and in its continued success and develop new organisational capabilities and structures to ensure development.
Kevin will hand over to Chris McLeish who joins us we drive world-class performance in our operations.
To that end, from Tate and Lyle PLC in August 2019.
Kevin will work with Chris we have identified the following focus areas: to ensure an orderly succession and a smooth handover and will Health and safety our people are our most important asset, continue to be available to the Group until the year end.
I look protecting them is key to a safe and sustainable Group performance.
forward to welcoming Chris to the team later in the year and Operational excellence and continuous improvement our wish Kevin well for his retirement.
product quality and range has been the hallmark of our success.
I am also strengthening the broader executive management team Going forward we will invest more in world-class manufacturing at Ibstock.
We have recently recruited a new Group Marketing systems and processes to ensure our assets are optimised and Director with significant industry experience, who will ensure we maintained to ensure reliability and cost effectiveness.
take a more strategic approach to branding and marketing across the Sustainability already plays an important part in our business Group.
A new managing director for our clay brick business will join but we are in the process of setting more ambitious targets us later in the year, to assist with refocusing that business both which focus on our environmental footprint and social impact.
These new hires will also be key to Structure and capability We will look to simplify our organisation helping us deliver some of the commercial excellence initiatives which to ensure excellent service for our customers, best practice sharing will help us drive revenue growth in the coming years.
Additionally, and efficiencies across our businesses.
In addition, we will recruit we have developed the role of Continuous Improvement and new talent and capabilities from other industries to support our Sustainability Director, which will support our operational excellence existing teams and bring in new ideas and conventions.
Market led innovation Strategic update Ibstocks product range is unrivalled in terms of breadth and depth During the year, we completed a review of the Groups assets but as the market leader, we need to be at the forefront in innovation and as a result, announced in November that the Board had made to support the changing needs of the built environment and to the decision to dispose of Glen-Gery, the Groups US brick maximise value.
To achieve this, we will focus on: manufacturing operation.
The structure of the brick market in the US Optimising the supply chain our industry is very traditional is different from that of the UK, being more regional and fragmented, and we must develop more efficient systems and technologies and therefore returns were unlikely to be in line with our strategic to service our customers and the markets in which we operate.
The disposal has simplified the Group and focused it Commercial excellence we will strive to ensure we have the on its core UK market.
The net cash proceeds on disposal totalled right levels of differentiation, segmentation and pricing rigour 76 million, which contributed to significantly strengthening our to ensure we have the best value propositions for our customers balance sheet during the year.
Following the disposal of Glen-Gery, the Group now comprises two Innovation and product development Ibstock has a long core businesses, both with leading market positions in the UK, which history of innovation and we will continue to focus on developing provide an excellent base for further growth and development.
our products and building systems to provide solutions for our industry.
Ibstock Brick is the leading clay brick manufacturer in the UK, with an extensive product range of over 400 brick types, and 3.
Selective growth 19 manufacturing sites across the country, strategically located near We ended 2018 with a strong balance sheet and a net debt to to its extensive clay reserves.
Ibstock Kevington is the UKs largest Adjusted EBITDA ratio of 0.4x, leaving the Group well positioned brickwork special shape and masonry fabrication company with to invest to deliver long-term growth.
Following the disposal of 5 manufacturing sites.
Glen-Gery, the Group is now firmly focused on the UK, where it has Ibstock Concrete, comprising the Forticrete, Supreme Concrete opportunities to grow both organically and selectively by acquisition.
and Anderton Concrete brands, with strong positioning across Our approach to growth continues with the following priorities: building, fencing, roofing and rail markets.
Portfolio management our objective is to have a balanced These businesses provide a strong platform for growth and, looking portfolio of businesses with leading positions in their respective ahead, we have many opportunities for innovation and optimisation.
At this stage, we remain focused on businesses that service We have identified three broad areas of opportunity for the Group the building envelope for housing and commercial applications.
which we plan to put at the heart of our strategic development in the years ahead: 16 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Organic growth the allocation of capital to projects within our We are now focused on existing portfolio provides control and greater certainty for return.
The recent investment in our state-of-the-art 100 million brick optimising the performance Eclipse factory bears this out.
We will continue to evaluate similar projects in the future.
However, we have identified several smaller of our core business with enhancement projects which will increase capacity at some of our existing brick and concrete manufacturing plants.
These projects both operational and will increase efficiency, add incremental volumes and improve the asset performance over the mid-term.
commercial excellence M&A In addition, we will review acquisition opportunities, looking at both smaller bolt-on opportunities and larger initiatives being rolled out transformational M&A, where there is a clear strategic fit and opportunities for both revenue and cost synergies.
maintain a disciplined approach to reviewing any potential acquisition at this stage our focus is on assets that are UK based, with a strong strategic rationale and overlap with our existing businesses and routes to market are all key principles, as is financial discipline and we intend to take a conservative view on valuations.
Summary 2018 has been a very busy year for Ibstock.
Following our trading update in July, we have divested our US business, simplified the Group structure and refocused on the UK, where we have strong market positions in our two core businesses.
These changes provide us with a solid platform to deliver future growth and value creation over the medium term.
We are now focused on optimising the performance of our core business with both operational and commercial excellence initiatives being rolled out this year.
Our accelerated fide-leveraging during 2018 leaves us well positioned to invest to drive future growth.
We will maintain a disciplined approach to reviewing any potential acquisition at this stage our focus is on assets that are UK-based, with a strong strategic rationale and overlap with our existing businesses and routes to market as our key principles.
We will maintain financial discipline and intend to take a conservative view on valuations.
The ongoing uncertainty around the UKs withdrawal from the EU is unhelpful and a situation which we will have to monitor closely in the near term.
However, the business is well positioned and the fundamentals and market backdrop remain supportive in the medium term.
I look forward to working with the team here at Ibstock to deliver on our refreshed strategy as we look to deliver long-term value creation for all our stakeholders.
Joe Hudson Chief Executive Officer 4 March 2019 17 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
