12 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Chief Executives review An increasingly robust portfolio In 2018 IMI delivered a solid operating performance with growth in sales, earnings and margins when compared to 2017.
We enter 2019 with an even more robust portfolio of businesses, a healthy balance sheet and significant opportunities for future growth.
In IMI Precision Engineering, all of the divisions Overview verticals and regions showed further good It is pleasing to report the continuation of the progress in the year.
This was achieved despite progress achieved in the first half of 2018. tougher comparators and increased market Our strategic plan to drive sustainable long-term volatility, particularly in Industrial Automation, growth continues to make a real difference across through the latter part of 2018. all parts of the Group.
Our new product pipeline is developing well, our manufacturing operations Within IMI Hydronic Engineering where European have further improved and the new systems construction represents over 79% of the division, and processes being embedded throughout markets were marginally stronger than the the business are delivering gains in efficiency previous year.
Although less significant for the and competitiveness.
division overall, the North America and China construction markets also continued to grow.
Integration of Bimba Manufacturing Company Bimba While we have a broad international manufacturing The acquisition of Bimba for a total consideration footprint and less than 5% of sales in the UK, Mark Selway of 138m US$198m was completed on it would be remiss not to mention the potential Chief Executive 31 January 2018.
The transaction has increased impact of Brexit on the Groups operating our US revenues while extending IMI Precision performance.
Despite prevailing uncertainty, Engineerings presence in its core Industrial the Group has developed a number of Brexit Automation segment.
Good progress has been related contingency plans, including a programme made with the integration of Bimba into Precision of building long lead-time inventories to support Engineerings North American operations.
We have customers in the event of increased border also accelerated some of our plans for Bimba controls or delays in getting clearance to and to improve its operations and IT infrastructure from the UK.
While we hope that these increased in readiness for the opportunities for growth inventories will not be required, it is essential that and margin improvement.
we do as much as we can to minimise potential supply chain disruption and ensure our customer Trading environment delivery commitments are met.
Trading conditions across our three divisions continued to be mixed throughout 2018 with Results overview growth in IMI Precision Engineerings end markets offsetting declines in New Construction 2018 was another year of important progress for Fossil Power and Energy markets in IMI IMI.
A now well-established culture of continuous Critical Engineering.
improvement, both within our operations and in our product offering, further enhances our competitive For IMI Critical Engineering, the Petrochemical position, irrespective of the market environment.
market again produced some encouraging opportunities which reflect the divisions success Adjusted Group revenues were 9% higher at at extending its reach into a broader range of 1,907m 2017: 1,751m.
The improving outlook in some foreign exchange and the acquisition of Bimba, parts of the Oil & Gas sector again contrasted Group revenues on an organic basis were 5% with the challenging outlook for coal-fired higher when compared to the prior year.
segmental operating profit was 11% higher at 266m 2017: 241m.
Excluding the impact of adverse foreign exchange and Bimba, segmental Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 13 Strategic timeline 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Year 1: Year 2: Year 3: Year 4: Year 5: Ambition: The hard work Increased Benefits starting Nearly firing on Up to full Double begins investment to show all cylinders speed operating profits Supported by value enhancing acquisitions 1 Mark Selway on a tour at the India 1 2 manufacturing site opening ceremony.
2 Ribbon cutting at the Indian site opening ceremony l-r Massimo Grassi - Divisional Managing Director, Mark Selway - CEO, Andrew Taylor - Regional Managing Director APAC.
operating profits were 9% higher on an organic payment of the consideration for Bimba and Good strategic progress basis.
The Groups operating margin was resulted in a Net Debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio Our strategic plan to drive long-term sustainable 14.0% against 13.8% in 2017 and adjusted of 1.3x against 0.9x at the end of 2017. growth is making a real difference across all earnings per share were 12% higher at 73.2p parts of the Group.
Significantly improved We continue to be proactive in our efforts to 2017: 65.3p.
operational performance, new systems and manage the Groups pension liabilities and in processes that are helping us operate more Adjusted operating cash flow of 222m 2017: 2018 successfully completed the transfer of a efficiently and a new product pipeline all 218m followed a strong performance last year further 409m of liabilities to insurance partners.
continue to enhance our competitive position.
and reflected higher working capital to support This brings the total value of pension schemes growth in Precision Engineering and removed from our balance sheet over the last comparatively higher advanced payments two years to 838m.
The UK schemes remain received by Critical Engineering in 2017. in surplus and the overseas deficit remained Both debtor and inventory days showed modest constant at 80m in the year.
improvement while creditors reflected the impact of lower pre-payments in Critical Engineering.
Net Debt of 405m 2017: 265m reflected 14 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Chief Executives review 1 IMIs Board visits the Bimba University Park site in Illinois.
2 Lamp lighting at the Precision Engineerings new India manufacturing site opening.
3 The IMI Board receive a safety briefing ahead of a tour of IMI CCI RSM in California.
4 Mark Selway greets employees at the India site opening.
1 2 3 4 Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 15 Executive Committee Mark Selway Daniel Shook Roy Twite Massimo Grassi Phil Clifton Paul Roberts Geoff Tranfield John OShea Chief Executive Finance Director Divisional Managing Divisional Managing Divisional Managing Group Business Group Human Group Legal Director Director, IMI Critical Director, IMI Precision Director, IMI Hydronic Development Director Resources Director and Company Engineering Engineering Engineering Secretary Improving our operational New product pipeline I am very proud of what the team at IMI has performance For each division targeted New Product delivered and I would like to thank our employees During 2018 each of our divisions further Development initiatives remain a key focus.
for their hard work, commitment and passion.
We launched a significant number of new They have contributed significantly to the At the year-end the Groups average Lean score products during 2018 covering a range of progress we have made in recent years.
increased to 75% compared to 71% at the same applications.
All three divisions have ambitious I am confident that the solid foundations put point in 2017.
Scrap rates, on-time-delivery and plans to continue their focused product in place in recent years position the Group inventory management all improved and the development strategies in 2019 and beyond.
well for the future and I would like to wish all benefits were evident in the Groups results our employees around the world much success.
By increasingly combining New Product in the year.
Most importantly, this improved Development initiatives with Value Engineering performance provides an important foundation Outlook processes, we have continued to expand our for our increased competitiveness and In the first half of 2019 we expect organic addressable markets and are competing in responsiveness to customers.
revenues to be lower than the same period segments that were not previously accessible.
Positioning our businesses in 2018 due to the phasing of Critical Business development for growth Engineerings order book and slowing market Alongside our organic growth initiatives, targeted In the past four years much has been done demand in the Industrial Automation sector in acquisitions that meet our clearly defined and to simplify the way our businesses operate Precision Engineering.
Margins are expected disciplined criteria continue to represent a core and make them more efficient.
to be broadly similar, supported by our operational part of our strategy.
We seek opportunities that initiatives and an improved performance from We have invested heavily in new systems are culturally aligned and have the potential to Hydronic Engineering.
Results for the full year and processes which are essential if the Group deliver sustainable long-term profitable growth.
will also reflect the benefits of restructuring is to deliver long-term sustainable growth.
As was the case with the acquisition of Bimba and our normal second-half bias.
An increasing number of our businesses in January 2018, we aim to engage early with are upgrading their core IT systems to modern potential partners with the ambition of securing divisional platforms that automatically manage preferred buyer status ahead of any formal business processes to deliver consistent, process being started.
As a result, we have better visibility across the production process and we are able Our people to manage our day-to-day operations more cost This is my final IMI Chief Executives review.
and time effectively and make our product and Choosing to leave IMI has been a tough service offering more competitive.
decision, but the time is now right to hand Across all of our operations we have embedded over to a successor to continue the Groups disciplined and efficient processes, including development.
Roy will do a great job leading New Product Development and Value Engineering.
the business through its next phase of These consistent processes support our development and growth.
continuous improvement culture and help ensure that our investments ultimately deliver an earlier and greater return.
