Strategic Report CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS STATEMENT When the UKs Financial Conduct Authority FCA announced its consultation paper on proposed changes to the way our core products should be offered and marketed, in December 2016, it started a period that our corporate history will record as one dominated by regulatory change and uncertainty.
The regulatory situation facing the industry has been in a state of flux for the past 18 months, with the European Securities and Markets Authority ESMA effectively taking the baton from the FCA to consult on wide-ranging rulechanges at a pan-European level.
I have worked in this industry for 24years, and I fully support the objectives of regulators to improve client outcomes in the sector, and would welcome harmonisation of regulation across the EU.
My senior colleagues and I have spent a considerable amount of time with regulators during the past year, engaging with them on their proposals and sharing our evidence and insights.
We will continue to strive for constructive dialogue with regulators, and we welcome the relative certainty that ESMAs most recent announcement offers.
I still have some concerns about where the rules have ended up with regard to leverage limits, and the extent to which they PETER HETHERINGTON may create an unlevel playing field for retail trading products in the EU, as this may have unintended consequences.
I am delighted that the business The ESMA measures will come into force on 1 August 2018 for CFDs.
delivered record revenue, operating They will remain in place for a period of three months, and are binding for profit and earnings this year.
I am regulators across the EU.
During this three-month period, our expectation proud of the way our people have is that European National Conduct worked together, as they seek to ensure Authorities NCAs will examine the impact of these measures: ESMA will that we are well positioned to adapt to, consider whether the case is made for the measures to be applied for a further and benefit from, regulatory change.
three months, and NCAs will consider incorporating similar rules at a local We will continue with the investments level.
We expect this will see us move towards a clearer regulatory baseline we are making, to deliver long-term throughout the EU, and we welcome the sustainable growth and attractive clarity this will provide.
We are mindful that for regulation to be effective it shareholder returns.
needs to be robust and consistent.
10 IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder and Co. Info of potential conflicts of interest.
The I am confident that IG is well placed concerns identified were isolated in to deal with these new regulatory nature: we took steps quickly to address measures.
We have a number of potential the issues identified by the AMF, and mitigating actions, and one thing that this matter does not affect our strong sets us apart from other providers is business in France.
We will seek to build our sophisticated client base.
The new a stronger relationship with the AMF to regulatory measures apply to retail avoid any similar issues going forward.
Those clients who meet the strict legal criteria can become Our people have put in a huge elective professionals and trade without amount of time and effort preparing restriction.
We have implemented a for regulatory developments, both robust process to allow suitable clients to to ensure that our IT systems are apply to become elective professionals.
readied for the changes, and that our In this period of regulatory uncertainty, client-facing teams are fully trained the business has not stood still.
As so they can speak authoritatively and the leader in this industry, we are accurately in all their client interactions.
continually evolving and looking for new opportunities.
This leadership In addition, we have successfully distinguishes us from others, and I managed the implementation of MiFID am particularly proud of some of the II and GDPR both significant pieces strategic projects we have taken forward of EU regulation.
Given their scale this year.
We have made progress in and the challenging deadlines, we set building our multilateral trading facility up substantial programme teams to MTF, which will be based in the EU.
These teams The products offered on the exchange comprised individuals from across will not only appeal to existing clients, the business, providing the necessary but extend IGs reach into the onexpertise to tackle such broad and exchange leveraged retail market in diverse regulation.
Looking beyond Europe, weve the teamwork and planning that are key also made good progress with our US features of our success as a business.
OTC forex business, which will allow us to address the under-served US retail The response of IG employees to FX market.
We believe our brand, our the changes in our business, their commitment to delivering customer professionalism and endless effort service and our competitive pricing will during the many months of regulatory make IG an attractive option in the US.
uncertainty, have been both uplifting to witness and at the same time completely During this year, our technical expertise true to form.
At IG we employ the has also set us apart.
We continued very best people, and it is because of to roll out our new online trading them that this business is what it is.
platform globally, and we have built and launched a progressive web app I am pleased therefore that, against PWA.
This mobile web platform such a challenging regulatory backdrop, allows clients to trade seamlessly from we have again delivered record desktop to mobile devices, and removes revenue and profit.
I believe this is a the need to visit any third-party app real demonstration of the resilience store.
This is technology built and and character of our people, and driven by IG, to ensure we not only proof of their continual determination deliver what clients want today, but to deliver for this business.
anticipate future demand and trends.
We have a business that prides itself on good regulatory compliance.
It was therefore disappointing that our regulator in France, the Autorit des Marchs Peter Hetherington Financiers AMF, fined us 0.5m after it Chief Executive Officer discovered some shortcomings, during an audit conducted in 2014 - 2015, 24 July 2018 related to client warnings and disclosures IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 11 Strategic Report FY18 OVERVIEW EU.
The measures relating to the The Company delivered record revenue, appropriate audience, IG seeks to only accept clients who understand provision of contracts for difference operating profit and earnings in the its products and the risks involved.
CFDs to retail clients will come into 2018 financial year, driven by growth effect on 1 August 2018. across all regions and products, and IGs brand is synonymous with high levels has continued to make good strategic of client service, excellent technology The restrictions to be applied to CFDs are: and operational progress.
The Group is and strong risk management, all of which taking action to mitigate the potential Leverage limits on the opening of a contribute to the businesss competitive financial impact of regulatory change, position by a retail client from 30:1 to advantage.
IGs business model ensures and to position the business so that it will 2:1, which vary according to the that its interests as a business are aligned continue to deliver for its shareholders volatility of the underlying asset: with the interests of its clients, which and other stakeholders under a more 30:1 for major currency pairs sets it apart from most companies in the restrictive regulatory environment.
20:1 for non-major currency pairs, industry.
IGs focus on championing the gold and major equity indices Net trading revenue in the 2018 client provides the basis for long-lasting, financial year was 569.0 million, 16% high-value client relationships, and in 10:1 for commodities other than higher than the prior year.
Our clients the 2018 financial year 52% of revenue gold and non-major equity indices trade in markets where there are was generated by clients who have 5:1 for individual equities and other opportunities, and for a period during traded with IG for over three years.
The reference values the year cryptocurrencies provided business is well positioned to mitigate 2:1 for cryptocurrencies such opportunities.
The interest in the impact of regulatory change, and to cryptocurrencies has now waned, and we continue delivering sustainable growth A margin close-out rule on a perlook forward to facilitating client trading and attractive shareholder returns.
account basis in other interesting markets this year.
Negative balance protection on a Regulatory developments per-account basis Operating expenses excluding variable The Company, and the industry as a A restriction on the incentives offered remuneration were 254.2 million, 1% whole, has faced significant uncertainty to trade CFDs higher than in the prior year, and in line around the nature and extent of A standardised risk warning with prior guidance.
Total operating regulatory change in the UK and EU costs, including variable remuneration, since the Consultation Paper CP16 40 IG is supportive of the objectives of were up 5%.
Operating profit for the year issued by the Financial Conduct regulators to improve client outcomes in of 281.1 million was 32% higher than in Authority FCA in December 2016.
This the industry, and the Company supports the 2017 financial year, with the operating uncertainty was substantially removed ESMA in its efforts to enhance consumer profit margin increasing to 49.4%.
at the end of March 2018, when the protection and achieve harmonisation of European Securities and Markets regulation across the EU.
Basic earnings per share for the year Authority ESMA, announced measures, were 61.7 pence, 34% higher than the pursuant to its new product intervention IG believes that enforcing consistent prior year.
The Board is recommending powers under Article 40 of MiFIR, to close-out procedures, putting a negative a final dividend of 33.51 pence per address investor protection risks.
These balance protection per account, share, taking the full-year dividend measures apply only to retail clients.
restricting trading incentives such as to 43.2 pence per share, 34% higher bonus offers and issuing standardised than the 32.3 pence per share paid In accordance with MiFIR, ESMA can risk warnings would all improve client for 2017, in line with the previously introduce temporary intervention outcomes, if implemented appropriately stated intention to pay out, as ordinary measures on a three-monthly basis, and enforced effectively.
IG continues dividends, around 70% of earnings.
and before the end of the three months to believe, however, that the leverage ESMA will consider the need to extend restrictions are disproportionate and Leading the way the intervention measures for a further go beyond what is needed to protect IG started this industry over 40 years three months.
The FCA expects to consumers from poor outcomes ago by providing clients with the consult on whether to apply these associated with excessive leverage.
opportunity to gain exposure to the measures on a permanent basis.
The price of gold, and now offers clients Company is working on the basis that In IGs experience, when proportionate over 15,000 financial markets.
the temporary restrictions will become regulation has been applied consistently permanent in the UK and across the EU.
and appropriately, client outcomes have IG differentiates itself within the improved, and compliant providers have industry through its good conduct, The prohibition on the marketing, benefitted over the longer term.
The and the Company adheres to the distribution or sale of binary options to Company will continue to engage fully highest regulatory standards.
retail clients came into effect on 2 July with regulators, seeking to achieve the Leveraged derivative instruments 2018.
IG stopped offering its sprint binary best possible outcomes for current and are not appropriate for everyone: product to new retail clients in January future clients of this industry, and the through its focus on ensuring that its 2017, and has now ceased offering binary greatest long-term value for shareholders.
marketing and advertising targets an products to all retail clients in the UK and 12 IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder and Co. Info and card providers will soon introduce Championing the client on 30 June 2018 generated over 40% of the Companys UK and EU rules to ensure that these businesses At the beginning of the 2018 financial revenue in the preceding three months, only facilitate payments from and to year, the business refined its onboarding and the Group continues to expect clients in jurisdictions in which the of new clients through the application of this proportion to rise to 50%.
stringent  and an increase in the wealth hurdles.
During IG has a very clear target market.
The As a compliant provider of its services, the year, 39,179 new clients traded OTC Group operates through a number with a model of operating through local leveraged derivatives with IG for the first of regulated legal entities in different presence with local regulatory approvals, time.
The number of client first trades jurisdictions, each compliant with its and with its investment over many years is significantly lower than the number of local regulatory rules.
The Group allows in SEO, the Company does not expect clients who applied for an account.
There appropriate retail clients affected by the that the actions currently being taken, is huge demand for the OTC leveraged ESMA measures to apply to contract with if applied appropriately, will have any derivative product, but IG seeks to ensure other regulated Group entities based significant impact on its business.
that it only accepts appropriate clients in jurisdictions outside the UK and EU.
who understand the products and the Growth opportunities associated risk.
The rigorous processes As ESMAs product intervention measures the business employs to assess applicants, As outlined at its recent Capital Markets are focused on the CFD industry, they risk to ensure that they have sufficient Day, the Group believes that the macro creating an unlevel playing field by giving knowledge and experience as well as demographic and economic trends an advantage to other forms of leveraged sufficient wealth, reflects IGs belief that of increasing wealth and financial trading products that are offered to leveraged derivative products are not awareness, combined with a move retail clients, such as futures, turbos and suitable for the vast majority of individuals.
towards self-direction, will continue warrants.
IG is developing new OTC to fuel growth in its business.
IG also leveraged derivative products that are IG believes that it leads the way in the believes that the business will benefit compliant with regulations, which it industry in its approach to appropriatenessin the medium term from the macro believes will be attractive to retail clients.
testing and its commitment to adhering trend towards increasing regulation.
to the highest standards of Know Your IG has a long history of successful Customer KYC and  IG believes these changes represent a innovation, and is committed to offering requirements.
The Company believes significant opportunity in the medium the widest possible range of trading that, together with its culture of acting term, and that the firms likely to succeed opportunities to appropriate clients that in clients best interests and providing are those that are properly licensed, are fully compliant with regulations.
excellent client service, this results in a adhere to regulations and operate a sustainable business, with industry-leading business model that develops long-term Marketing landscape client tenure and client value metrics.
Businesses that rely The Group seeks to ensure that its on client churn will be harder to sustain.
IG has three categories of clients: retail, marketing and advertising targets an professional and institutional.
The Company The Group is taking action to position IG has historically categorised the vast utilises integrated multi-channel thebusiness to take advantage of majority of its clients as retail as a matter marketing, fuelled by technology, data, thisenvironment.
of course, IGs client base is different insight and optimisation, to deliver from most in the industry due to the results.
IG focuses on both paid and nonAs announced in July 2017, the Company Companys long-term focus on high-value paid marketing activity in its regulated is developing a multi-lateral trading and sophisticated clients.
Clients with a jurisdictions, with the investment in nonfacility MTF for the European market, high level of understanding, significant paid search engine optimisation SEO where IG believes there is a significant trading experience, large investment driving long-term competitive advantage.
opportunity in offering exchange traded portfolios or relevant experience products.
The on-exchange market in working in financial services may elect A number of large technology firms Europe is considerably larger than the to be categorised as professional.
are taking action on inappropriate OTC market, providing the Company advertising and marketing, and on with an opportunity to appeal to a In mid-November 2017, IG launched unlicensed operators in the industry.
wider client base, strengthen its brand an online process that allows clients These actions include introducing bans presence and potentially, over time, to request to be categorised as an on the advertising and marketing of expand the adjacent OTC market.
These requests cryptocurrencies and binary options, and plans to offer its own leveraged securities are assessed internally, and clients the requirement that firms advertising on its MTF.
These products are limitedwho meet the requirements are now and marketing CFDs can demonstrate risk by nature, making the offering categorised as professional.
To date, that they are appropriately licensed in suitable for less-experienced clients.
more than three-quarters of all requests those jurisdictions in which the services The launch of the MTF is planned for the by number have been rejected.
The Group also second half of the 2019 financial year.
who were categorised as professional expects that some of the large payment IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 13 Strategic Report FY18 OVERVIEW CONTINUED IG serves its clients through a strong The Company will continue with online presence, supported by local the investments that it is making to offices where the size of market, or local deliver future growth and to position regulatory requirements, demand it.
the business to benefit from the The company continually reviews new strong demand for its products.
geographic opportunities, and has identified potential in the US OTC forex As previously disclosed: market, where it believes the market is The Company believes that the currently underserved.
IG filed its licence reduction in historic revenue from application at the end of November theimplementation of the measures 2017 to establish a new subsidiary based announced by ESMA, taking into in Chicago, and has completed hiring account the expected proportion of for key roles.
The Company expects to revenue that will be generated from launch this business in the first half of clients categorised as professional, the 2019 financial year.
IG will continue would have been approximately 10%, to look to acquire licences to operate in assuming no benefit from further jurisdictions in emerging markets that mitigating action taken by the fit within the Groups risk appetite.
Company or its clients The Company expects that its revenue IG has applied to BaFIN, the German in the 2019 financial year will be lower regulator, to establish a subsidiary in than in 2018, reflecting the impact Dsseldorf as a response to the UKs ofthe regulatory changes in the UK decision to leave the EU.
This office and EU will combine the existing German sales Operating expenses excluding office with key management and control variable remuneration are expected positions, and will serve as a regional toincrease in the 2019 financial year, hub for the Groups well-established reflecting the Groups continued EU business.
The establishment of this investment in product and platform subsidiary will not have any impact development and additional on the Companys UK operations.
headcount in sales and client service.
Total operating costs operating Outlook expenses plus variable remuneration IG has delivered a sustainable business in 2019 are expected to be at a similar for more than 40 years by placing level to the 290.1 million total good client outcomes at the heart of operating costs in 2018, reflecting everything it does.
IG will continue to alower expected charge for lead the way in the industry, and the variableremuneration business is well positioned to mitigate The Company expects to return to the impact of regulatory change and to growth after the 2019 financial year continue to deliver sustainable growth and attractive shareholder returns.
The Board expects to maintain the 43.2pence per share annual dividend The Company is pleased that there is until the Groups earnings allow the now greater clarity around the nature Boardto resume progressive dividends.
and extent of regulatory change in the UK and EU affecting the CFD industry.
The measures relating to the provision of CFDs to retail clients in the UK and EU will come into effect on 1 August 2018.
14 IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018
