OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT BUILDING GROWTH MOMENTUM Our gains in tobacco, combined with the excellent progress we made in Next Generation Products, have put us in a strong position to deliver accelerated growth.
ALISON COOPER Chief Executive This year we have built strong momentum in NGP, while SUBSTANTIAL NGP GROWTH AMBITIONS generating robust returns in tobacco and I am delighted with We view NGP as a significant additive growth opportunity for our achievements.
Imperial, due to the size of our global cigarette market share.
In tobacco we have focused on our Growth Brands and priority We have substantial NGP growth ambitions and this is reflected markets, building on the success of our additional investments in our management incentives to deliver compound annual over the last two years.
revenue growth of 35-150 per cent over the three years from 2017.
This equates to a range of NGP revenues by 2020 of between We have also stepped up investment in NGP.
We significantly 250 million and 1.5 billion.
expanded our presence in vapour with a number of new product and market launches and exited the year with growing sales of The momentum we generated with blu in 2018 resulted in an our pioneering blu brand.
annualised exit run-rate of around 300 million of net revenue and we expect to exit next year with our NGP business beginning Tobacco growth, combined with rapidly increasing sales of to add to Group profit.
blu, improved our financial results with net revenue increasing two per cent and adjusted earnings per share up by five per cent.
GROWING SALES OF BLU These are pleasing results and the actions we have taken have Our portfolio is focused on blu, which celebrates its tenth anniversary set us up for accelerated growth in the years ahead, which makes in 2019, and our current growth model is built around the 4Bs blu it an incredibly exciting time to be leading the business.
adoption model: Believe, Buy, Buy Again and Belong.
In enhancing our focus on NGP, we are supporting smokers to Our aim is to transition adult smokers through all four elements switch to less harmful alternatives to cigarettes.
of the model, converting them to blu in the process.
Once smokers belong to the blu community we keep interacting with them in This is aligned to our purpose: to create something better for the order to minimise their potential to revert to tobacco.
This sits at the heart of our strategy and has explained in more detail on page 5. been embraced by our people around the world.
The strong growth in sales of my blu, with an increasing rate of We want smokers to choose alternative products with lower pod repurchase, reflects the positive response from smokers, health risks.
We encourage them to make that change by vapers and retailers in a growing number of markets.
providing an outstanding vaping experience, endorsed by a trusted brand in blu and underpinned by leading-edge science.
We started the year in four markets and are now in nine, plus duty free and travel retail.
Our my blu geographic footprint now But we also understand that many smokers will decide to covers the USA, UK, Italy, France, Germany, Russia, Japan, continue to smoke and so we also focus on creating something Austria and Canada, with further market launches to come.
better for them by providing an evolving portfolio of tobacco products that offer the highest quality smoking experience.
Aligned with our blu adoption model, we have a number of exciting brand building and awareness activities planned to support growth in 2019, which will add around 100 million to our investments in the first half.
com 7 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT continued INNOVATION TRANSFORMING PORTFOLIO We substantially enhanced our capabilities early in the year with the acquisition of the UK NGP innovation business Nerudia.
OUR NGP The exciting work we are doing on innovation is transforming PORTFOLIO our portfolio, ensuring we are able to provide smokers with a Our NGP portfolio is wide range of high quality products.
built around our This includes tobacco-free snus, recently launched in Sweden, and a high quality heated tobacco product called Pulze, which pioneering vapour will be launched in 2019. brand, blu.
Vapour A regular drumbeat of innovations such as these is essential for products do not accelerating smoker conversion rates, building brand loyalty and ensuring smokers stay in the NGP category.
contain tobacco and therefore NGP SUCCESS DRIVING REPORTING CHANGE Our focus on NGP and the growth opportunity this provides represent a less across all our markets means that our current segmental harmful alternative descriptors of Growth and Returns are no longer applicable.
As a result, our segmental reporting for our tobacco and NGP businesses for the year ending 30 September 2019 will be changed to: Europe, Americas and Africa, Asia & Australasia.
These three regions will include all tobacco and NGP sales in their respective geographies, reflecting the new way we run the business.
At the same time, blu will be reclassified as a Growth Brand, reinforcing our global ambitions for the brand, and all NGP HEATED TOBACCO revenue and profit, currently reported in Growth Markets, will be included within the countries and segments where the sales As the name implies, heated tobacco products heat occur.
We will also separately disclose our NGP revenue.
aportion or rod of tobacco.
This releases nicotine and other tobacco emissions at substantially lower levels OXFORD CANNABINOID TECHNOLOGIES than cigarettes.
We continue to explore other avenues of growth and in June We have developed an outstanding product in Pulze, announced that we had taken an equity stake in Oxford which we look forward to launching in 2019.
Cannabinoid Technologies OCT. TOBACCO-FREE SNUS OCT is a biopharmaceutical company focused on researching, developing, and licensing cannabinoid-based compounds and We have a strong position in snus, an oral therapies.
OCTs activities are licensed for operation by the tobacco product with a long history of use in UK Home Office.
We believe cannabinoid products have significant growth potential.
This year we launched a tobacco-free version of our Skruf Our investment enables us to support OCTs important research brand in Sweden and initial consumer feedback has been while building a deeper understanding of the cannabis market.
GROWTH BRANDS UP AND GAINS IN PRIORITY MARKETS While driving NGP growth we have also concentrated on our tobacco performance.
This is fundamental to our success as tobacco will remain an integral part of our business for many years to come and generates the funds to invest in the business.
We focus on the performance of our Growth Brands and priority markets.
Our Market Repeatable Model provides a structured framework for driving quality tobacco growth and is consistently applied across our footprint.
The way the model works is explained on page 5.
Tobacco highlights included excellent results from our Growth Brands, which continued to outperform the market with volume, share and net revenue growth.
Growth and Specialist Brands now account for 67 per cent of the Groups tobacco net revenue, four per cent higher than last year.
In Growth Markets, we achieved share gains in all of our priority markets except for the USA, although our share trajectory continued to improve and our fourth quarter share was up year-on-year.
In Returns Markets, we grew share in the UK and delivered strong financial results in Australia and Germany.
8 Imperial Brands PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 8 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS VAPOUR During the year we expanded the blu franchise with three exciting new launches: myblu, myblu Intense and blu ACE.
myblu is a pod format that delivers an exceptional vaping experience.
Smokers and vapers appreciate the devices ergonomic design and rapid charging time.
myblu Intense is a nicotine salt product that more closely replicates the experience and satisfaction of smoking a cigarette.
Intense is part of a broad range of different nicotine levels offered by blu, including a nicotine-free variant.
blu ACE is an open system product and the most powerful device in our portfolio.
It is aimed at smokers and vapers who want to tailor their vaping experience yet retain the look and feel of a minimalist design with intuitive controls.
Flavours are a key aspect of the vaping experience and play an important role in converting smokers to vapour and keeping them in the category.
Both myblu and blu ACE provide smokers with a wide range of flavours in multiple nicotine strengths, including nicotine-free offerings.
com 9 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT continued DISCIPLINED COST AND CASH MANAGEMENT ACCELERATING GROWTH TO CREATE VALUE Maximising cost and cash opportunities is a core element of our This has been a year of building growth momentum, one in strategy, enabling us to improve efficiencies and release funds which we made further gains in tobacco and significantly for investment.
expanded our NGP presence, and our success has put us in a strong position for delivering accelerated growth.
We continued to make good progress with our two cost optimisation programmes, realising total savings of 110 million We have an outstanding NGP portfolio and in creating something in the year through a range of initiatives that are further better for the worlds smokers, we are encouraging them to reducing complexity and enhancing the way we operate.
transition to less harmful alternatives to cigarettes.
The first programme is now complete and is delivering Given our relatively small global cigarette market share, annual savings of 300 million.
The second programme will NGP represents an additive financial opportunity for Imperial deliver a further 300 million of savings a year from our and will deliver a substantial amount of our future revenue and 2020 financial year.
We use our substantial cash flows to create returns for Tobacco will continue to play a material role in our business shareholders, pay down debt and reinvest in the business.
with further low single digit revenue growth, high margins and strong cash flows supporting investment in growth and Our commitment to capital discipline underpins our focus shareholder returns.
on cash generation and the effective management of our working capital.
Our talented people continue to support the strategy with tremendous energy and I would like to thank them all for their Cash conversion remained strong at 97 per cent and we hard work and support.
grew the dividend per share by 10 per cent for the tenth consecutive year.
We have the strategy, assets and capabilities for accelerating growth in NGP and generating further significant returns from ACTIVE CAPITAL ALLOCATION our tobacco business.
As we sharpened our focus on the brands, products and markets that are essential to our long-term success, we have identified assets that are less central to our growth ambitions.
We aim to exit or divest these assets to create further value for our shareholders and in the process, expect to generate proceeds ALISON COOPER of up to 2 billion within the next 12-18 months.
Chief Executive This programme is on track and progressing well.
During the year, we realised 281 million from the sale of a portfolio of other tobacco products in the USA and a further 9.99 per cent of Logista.
10 Imperial Brands PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 10 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018
