CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW UNDERLYING STRENGTH DELIVERING LONG-TERM VALUE STEFAN A UNIQUE AND SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS MODEL Inchcape has a unique business model: we are the only BOMHARD independent automotive Distributor and Retailer with Chief global scale.
Executive The heart of our business, and our core set of competencies, is in automotive Distribution, that is the management of the post-factory value chain for our vehicle manufacturer or OEM original equipment manufacturer partners.
The Distribution model allows us to capture a greater portion of the value chain and drive higher margins and returns.
We have long-standing strategic Distribution partnerships, providing end-to-end routes-to-market for some of the worlds leading and most recognisable vehicle manufacturers: our portfolio of these brands is diverse and includes premium, volume and commercial OEMs, which gives us a balanced segmental representation across our operations.
Once more it is my pleasure to write to you at the end Within that value chain we also operate as a Retailer, of a year that has delivered strategic progress in many giving us true insight into our customers and allowing markets, despite some external pressures.
We have us to develop world-class customer experience grown our business, adding several new contracts solutions that are globally scalable.
In fact, through to our portfolio, and placing greater emphasis on the full-spectrum Distribution value chain Inchcape Distribution as the core of our business model: we have manages business partner and customer touchpoints further leveraged our scale on costs: and we have made from vehicle product planning right through to servicing good progress in improving our digital capability and customers cars.
execution of the Inchcape customer experience.
Our business model and segmental split are shown in In many ways the financial results of 2018 validate more detail on pages 8-9. our strategic intent to focus our growth on Distribution.
Our influence and control of the full value chain in OUR STRATEGY TO DRIVE GROWTH Distribution markets ensured we were able to mitigate Inchcapes Ignite strategy is the powertrain that moves market challenges, returning a very positive full year our business forward and underpins our ambition to drive performance in the Asia region.
Ignite was created to drive operational to face significant pressures in some of our Retail markets excellence across our markets: to consolidate select in particular Australia and the UK where performance parts of our fragmented industry: to continually innovate was impacted by factors including a market slowdown to take advantage of our scale andexpertise: and to and a reduced demand for diesel, leading to a resilient ensure a long-term future for the Company.
We have progressed many strategic objectives during the year and have Through Ignites first four objectives our organic growth actions in place to improve our Retail operations in 2019. drivers we build a stronger, more sustainable business, as well as the trust of our OEM partners and customers.
I would like to outline why despite facing periodic These are our two key operational stakeholders and the challenges I believe that Inchcape has the fundamental focal points of our vision to become the worlds most strength to succeed, to continue to grow and to deliver trusted automotive Distributor and Retailer.
returns on investment for our shareholders over the longterm.
Inchcape operates in markets that are subject to changing trends and conditions, and it is through Ignite A full review of how our markets performed in 2018 can that we strive to maximise the profit opportunity against be found on pages 20-26 in the Operating Review.
You can read more about the strategic objectives and our progress this year on pages 12-13.
2 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS is to keep pace and anticipate wherever possible to A PLATFORM FOR CONSOLIDATION maintain astrong competitive edge, both now and in Ignites fifth objective focuses on entry into and the yearsahead.
consolidation of small to medium-sized markets with high growth potential where we can optimise our unique You can read more about our view of the changing competitive advantage to establish market-leading automotive industry and our responses on page 11. positions for our OEM partners.
The key to this strategy, LONG-TERM VALUE CREATION and one of the successes of the past year, is in The combination of our business model, our strategy establishing regional platforms for growth, using an initial and our capability comprises Inchcapes core strength market presence in a given region as a springboard to and provides the basis of our proposition for multi-layered further consolidation opportunities.
In 2018 we used this growth: through operations with a weighting towards approach to consolidate BMW Groups Baltic operations higher margin Distribution contracts: through a balanced where we were awarded the Distribution contract for exposure to mature and high-growth potential markets: Lithuania, in addition to our existing agreements in Latvia through scale leveraged to build efficiencies across our and Estonia, which we began to operate at the start of global operations: through sensible deployment of cash this year.
This approach benefits our partners, as well as generated through the operations: and through our Inchcape, as we can leverage our scale across the positive response to the evolving automotive industry.
region, adding value through one efficient operation.
Inchcape is structured to maximise the opportunities for Significantly, in March we extended our Latin American earnings and delivering cash returns for our shareholders platform with a scale acquisition in Costa Rica and and I believe wholeheartedly that the business will Panama.
We acquired Grupo Rudelman and with it continue its long track record of delivering growth.
the Distribution contract for Suzuki and a number of emergent Chinese brands.
We have now significantly OUTLOOK increased our exposure in the Americas, through both I believe Inchcape has a strong and sustainable business long-standing and newer partnerships, in the high-growth model which provides an excellent long-term investment potential markets that we see as fundamental to our proposition.
This year has reaffirmed that our Ignite continuing consolidation of the industry.
strategy is taking Inchcape in the right direction: it has It is important to add that while we have capitalised on demonstrated the growth opportunity in Distribution, a strong set of opportunities recently, we have a has enabled us to improve our operations and has disciplined approach to our allocation of capital.
We enhanced our global footprint.
Our diversified and have the firepower to invest and a rich pipeline from  portfolio will continue to be an which to select the very best opportunities to develop, engine for growth over the long term.
but we do so in a way that is consistent with our strategy We also remain focused on ensuring the best possible of long-term, sustainable growth.
performance of our Retail businesses against the market BUILDING STRUCTURAL AND PEOPLE headwinds we continue to face.
We believe that we have CAPABILITY exited 2018 with a stronger Retail strategy and are starting to see benefits from operational improvements Of course, none of the progress we have made over the that are being implemented.
past year would have been possible without the expertise and dedication of our people.
One of Inchcapes Looking nearer term, excluding an expected AUDJPY greatest strengths is its talent which we nurture and transactional currency headwind we expect our develop, promoting people to senior positions from within performance in 2019 to remain resilient, in line with the Company, and mining the deep specialist continued market trends already seen towards the knowledge base of our existing employees.
We have continued to invest in the skills we need as our Overall, as the automotive industry continues to evolve industry evolves, managing succession and ensuring and with Inchcapes foundational strengths and stability long-term viability, and we recognise that the sustainable in the face of change, I am confident that we will business of the future must bring new talent in from capitalise on the opportunities ahead.
I believe that the outside to extend Inchcapes capabilities where we see combination of our dedicated people, the Ignite strategy agap.
In particular, we have expanded our digital teams and a sustainable business model means that Inchcape both at Group and market level, where they are playing is positioned well to respond to market dynamics.
a leading role in the continued optimisation of our Retail footprint and customer experience.
On behalf of the Executive Team, I would like to take this opportunity to thank our talented people across the business for their dedication to making our vision a reality.
As we build and improve our people capability, so we evolve our systems and structural capabilities.
Stefan Bomhard The potential for technological advancement in our Chief Executive industry should not be underestimated and our aim Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 3
