Strategic Report Group Chief Executives Review Stephen A. Carter Group Chief Executive Combination and Creation 12 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements In Business Intelligence, we reorganised and restructured It has been another busy the business to be closer to its customer markets and focused on subscriptions, introducing fresh leadership and significant period for and investing significantly in products and platforms.
This delivered a turnaround from negative growth as low as -8.5% back to consistent positive underlying growth.
I am pleased to In Knowledge & Networking, we progressively focused the business, moving it away from its roots as a volume report that 2018 marked conference producer to concentrate on building major events brands that repeat each year and are the convening the fifth consecutive year place for an industry.
We invested in new leadership and in strengthening our digital infrastructure, offering more of positive performance.
services to more customers with particular focus on TMT, Life Sciences and Finance.
The success of GAP and Informas transformation over this period gave us the confidence and capabilities to bring the UBM portfolio into the Group in 2018.
Like Informa, this is a business that had been on a similar journey of focus and investment, with Measured change and improvement a highly complementary footprint and reach in Asia that we had This time 12 months ago, the Informa Group had just not had previously.
It is also a business based on the skills, energy come to the end of the 2014-2017 Growth Acceleration Plan.
and commitment of its people, operating in a range of attractive, specialist customer markets, where knowledge, information and GAP was a four-year programme of measured change, the ability to connect and transact are valued.
improvement and investment in the business, designed to return all parts of the Group to growth, to focus and build Through combination, we are creating a Group with operating positions in markets where we saw the greatest future potential, scale, international reach and deep industry specialisation and to simultaneously build the platforms and capabilities for within these markets, capable of delivering consistent growth Informas long-term growth and development.
and sustainable, long-term financial performance.
It enabled us to make significant individual progress in each The offer for UBM was approved by Shareholders in April 2018 of our then Operating Divisions: and completed on 18 June 2018, shortly followed by the detail of our implementation plan for the combination, the Accelerated In Global Exhibitions, we significantly expanded, both Integration Plan.
organically and through a series of targeted acquisitions, taking a small business concentrated in the Middle East I would like to thank Shareholders for their strong support to become the leading exhibitions operator globally, for this development, the Informa Board for its ongoing with significant international scale and reach in attractive guidance and stewardship, and all colleagues for the efforts business-to-business customer markets.
and contributions made during this period.
In Academic Publishing, we progressively invested and refocused the business.
This included consolidating our Thanks also go to colleagues from the UBM leadership team, Books business into a single, global operation and building with whom we worked closely and collaboratively to plan and a digital platform that is delivering market and customer transition the business into the Group, and a warm welcome benefits.
In Journals, we invested significantly in Open to the new Board Directors and colleagues who have joined Access, organically and through the addition of Dove Informa through this process.
Medical Press, building capacity and capabilities in a fast-growing segment of the market.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 13 Strategic Report Group Chief Executives Review continued Group consistency and delivery In 2018, the first year after the completion of GAP, we delivered further consistent and positive financial performance, underlining the capacity and capabilities now within the Group.
At a Group level, business growth and addition lifted revenues to just over 2.3bn, up nearly 35% on a reported basis.
Underlying revenue growth, a key focus of improvement under GAP, continued to rise, from 3.4% in 2017 to 3.7% in 2018.
Adjusted operating profit grew by nearly 35% to just over 730m on a reported The success of GAP and basis and by 2.3% on an underlying basis.
Informas transformation Group adjusted operating margins remained steady and strong at 30.9%.
Free cash flow, which continues to be an important over this period gave metric for the Group, advanced to just over 500m from 400m in 2017, underlining the strength of cash flow generation and scale across the enlarged Group, which provides flexibility us the confidence and for future targeted expansion, reinvestment for growth and progressive Shareholder returns.
capabilities to bring the Positive growth in each Division UBM portfolio into the Following the investment in products, platforms and capabilities under GAP, each of Informas Operating Divisions delivered Group in 2018. further growth in 2018.
In our Academic Publishing Division Taylor & Francis, underlying growth improved to 2.2% from 2.0% the prior year, with revenues of over 530m and adjusted operating profit of nearly 200m.
This included robust renewal rates and a consistent performance from our subscription-based scholarly journals business, good growth in our expanding Open Access journals business, and a strong performance from our Books business following our GAP investments in production, marketing, and the digitisation and discoverability of our Books content.
Taylor & Francis remains focused on growing and maintaining the quality of its specialist content, launching new formats and developing new digital platforms and data products that provide its customers scholarly researchers, universities and research institutions with flexibility, value and benefits.
In Business Intelligence, following its restructuring and positioning through GAP, the priority has been to convert its investment in products and platforms into improved new business momentum.
Having returned to growth for the first time in six years in 2016 and made a further step forward in performance in 2017, the business improved again in 2018, posting underlying revenue growth of 2.6% and total revenues of 385m.
14 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements In June 2018, four colleagues from around the world were invited to London to interview Stephen Carter for a film that would be part of the internal launch of the enlarged Group.
It was an opportunity to ask about the reasons for the combination, find out more about what to expect and get to know the Groups leadership a little better.
Looking back on the day, Eva van fide Pol from the Amsterdam office recounted: Meeting up with Stephen, Kathryn, Ryan and Woolly was a great experience.
I loved meeting my colleagues from around the globe and getting a sense of the worldwide character of the business.
For Kathryn Frankson from Minneapolis, my trip to London is still fresh in my mind!
An unexpected takeaway but a benefit of working for a global company was realising just how similar our challenges and opportunities are, wherever in the world you work.
Woolly Ko, who travelled from Hong Kong for the interview, reflected that it gave me a clear sense of what our shared values are and what it means For Woolly, working in the Asia marketing and to combine the two businesses.
communications team, weve seen changes in brand architecture, an expansion of roles and changes of Looking back at how the business has developed operating structure in some businesses.
Plus, some since the interview, Ryan Fell, who works on financial teams have started to move into the same office, reporting in London, explained: Working with the such as in Singapore and Shanghai, giving us the finance systems used by the business, we are seeing chance to join each other face to face.
a lot of change related to the Accelerated Integration Plan, with various projects to streamline our finance systems.
There is lots of extra work but some new Looking at what lies ahead in 2019, Woolly shared: and exciting challenges as well!
Right now, Im working towards enhancing the marketing capabilities and skills of our Asia marketers by delivering training programmes and coaching sessions, mainly in China and Hong Kong.
Ifeel like the business is encouraging more of us to share knowledge and skills.
In terms of feeling part of a larger business, Ryan commented that as I work with old and new colleagues on establishing universal process and routines, Ill identify more and more with Informa.
And for Kathryn, there are exciting times ahead.
Imvery much looking forward to Kathryn added: Im currently leading marketing more face time and deeper relationships with new efforts for the Catersource Conference & Tradeshow colleagues in 2019.
Igenuinely feel like the year and Ive been able to partner with several Informa ahead brings more fresh energy, which in my mind teams to great success.
We look to employ an equates to even more effective marketing engaging, human-centred brand approach and have activations!
plenty of opportunities to grow our audience through new and modern content, social and digital channels.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 15 Colleagues on the combination Strategic Report Group Chief Executives Review continued Now firmly back in growth, we are using the AIP to focus on the markets where our Intelligence businesses have the strongest positions and best opportunities for growth, in the same way GAP brought market focus to Global Exhibitions and Knowledge & Networking.
This is leading to some portfolio management as we look to divest businesses for which there may be a better owner and put greater focus on areas such as Pharma and Consumer Retail Banking.
The Global Exhibitions Division became the largest part of the Informa Group by revenue by the end of GAP, as a result of a deliberate and targeted programme to expand our position in the attractive and fast-growing exhibitions market.
This particularly focused on building scale in the US, the single largest market for exhibitions, and deepening our presence in specialist customer communities.
The Division is now focused around branded, content-driven 2018 was another strong year for the Division, which generated events in attractive and international markets that provide revenues of 575m and underlying growth of 6.7%, meeting our professional communities with opportunities to connect, target for above-market growth while expanding as a business.
This Division has particularly developed and scaled from the These events are increasingly supported by digital contentaddition of the UBM portfolio, which has brought 275exhibitions, based forums and marketing services, and there are many around 2,500 colleagues, new capabilities and positions in opportunities to expand what we offer to customers in these several new specialist markets to its existing portfolios.
Most specifically, it has given us a much greater exposure to The UBM business became part of Informa from 15 June 2018 and the growing Asian region and a particularly strong presence in so Group financials reflect the businesss contribution for just over Greater China, adding an exciting new dimension and growth six months, with revenues of 610m.
Looking across the whole of opportunity for the future.
the year, UBM performed as expected, delivering underlying revenue growth for 2018 of 2.8%, up from 1.4% in 2017.
For the leadership team and all colleagues within the Division, it has been a huge effort to remain focused on performance and Again, this performance is an encouraging one, indicating the customers while simultaneously combining with UBM teams.
continued focus of the management team and colleagues on business as usual during the combination period.
As detailed elsewhere, our teams have also moved quickly to identify synergies and commercial opportunities that put us Combination and the AIP in a good position to grow and further develop in new areas One of the benefits of our expansion under GAP and the and markets in 2019. addition of businesses such as Penton Information Services is the experience and capabilities it has given us in integrating Following a programme of simplification and investment in portfolios, brands and teams.
technology and customer experience through GAP, Knowledge & Networking returned to full-year growth in 2017.
In June 2018, we introduced the Accelerated Integration Plan as the way in which our combination with UBMs portfolio This momentum continued in 2018, with a further improvement and brands would be delivered.
in underlying growth to 2.3% and revenues of 260m, thanks to strong performances from major brands in our three priority As described on pages 10 and 11, the AIP is a one-year programme markets: Life Sciences, Finance and TMT.
with six aspects designed to integrate UBM promptly and effectively, minimise disruption and maintain operational focus, while creating an enlarged Company that can make full use of its increased international reach and depth in industry markets.
16 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Customer-focused markets and brands Informa enters Encouragingly, the AIP is running ahead of schedule, which has allowed us to make a number of important changes to DJSI World Index the way the Informa Group goes to market in 2019.
Under GAP, one of the areas in which Informa sought to strengthen its capabilities was in sustainability.
Having One of the shifts we made across our businesses through GAP created the role of Head of Sustainability and appointed was to focus increasingly around end customer markets.
At this BenWielgus, the teams priority has been to understand moment in the Groups evolution, we are seizing the opportunity how sustainability could be a competitive differentiator to further adapt our Group operating model.
In Technology, for Informa and to improve the impact we have on our the breadth and scale of businesses we now have enable us key communities and partners.
to create a standalone, customer market-focused Division: Informa Tech.
To measure our progress, we set a Group KPI of continuing to participate in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index DJSI This unites all our Tech product brands, whether focused on and to enhance our position and score.
The DJSI is one of exhibitions, events, information, media or marketing services, the broadest measures of a companys performance on allowing us to offer customers an array of business-to-business social, governance and environmental factors and provides services through a single channel.
useful guidance on areas of future improvement.
As shown on page 8, this means the Informa Group will be In 2017, Informa was named an Industry Mover on structured into five Operating Divisions for 2019.
We have also account of strong improvement in our absolute score.
taken this opportunity to refresh our divisional brands, aligning In 2018, further improvements in areas including health them more closely with the Informa brand with Informa Markets and safety practices, information security, environmental formerly Global Exhibitions, Informa Connect formerly management and the responsibility of our content led Knowledge & Networking and Informa Intelligence formerly to Informas inclusion in the headline DJSI World and Business Intelligence sitting alongside Informa Tech.
European Indices for the first time, having scored in the top 10% of companies worldwide.
Our Academic Publishing Division currently goes to market as Taylor & Francis.
This remains unchanged due to the value and Chairman Derek Mapp commented: Sustainability is importance its distinct customer base places on the history and about building a strong and responsible business for the reputation of individual publishing brands such as Routledge, long term, and Im proud of the journey Informa has taken CRC Press and Dove Medical Press.
The Division has launched in this regard.
Entering the DJSI is a great achievement and its own brand review to see how this brand architecture could gives us plenty to build on in future years.
In the same way our exhibitions and events Divisions became more concentrated around priority markets through GAP, we are increasing the focus of our information and content businesses on markets where we have the strongest brands and best long-term growth prospects.
Our Progressive Portfolio Management programme led to the sale of the UBM Life Sciences media brands portfolio in January 2019, and we announced in November 2018 a review of IGM and the Agribusiness portfolio within Business Intelligence.
Another area of specific focus under the AIP is our Fashion GAP, a three-year plan to return the Fashion events portfolio within Informa Markets to growth.
This began with the appointment of Mark Temple-Smith to lead the turnaround, and the business has been quickly refocused on customers, rebuilding and strengthening industry relationships, revitalising brands and marketing, and improving the show experience.
The Group has committed to invest around 10m INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 17 Strategic Report Group Chief Executives Review continued Talent and opportunities As businesses combine and the structure of the Group evolves, this has led to a series of leadership appointments including the creation of a new Group Chief Operating Officer COO position.
Patrick Martell, previously Business Intelligence CEO, has taken on this role to examine ways Group operations can be simplified to make the most of our increased scale, whether through platforms and systems, procurement or shared service operations.
Increased scale has also led to the creation of the dedicated roles of Director of Group HR and Chief Information Officer, and the appointments of Eleanor Phillips and Simon Hollins respectively.
T he great strength of the Informa Group is that we all work in the detail and the specialism across multiple customer markets.
under this programme, and while it will take time to reap the full I am also delighted that Lara Boro has been appointed as CEO for benefits, we are encouraged by the early response internally and the new Informa Intelligence Division and Gary Nugent as CEO from customers.
for the new Informa Tech Division.
Both come from within the Group, having worked closely with Patrick on the GAP programme This investment is self-funded through the AIPs Operating within the then larger Business Intelligence Division.
Synergies programme and the cost savings we are creating by removing duplication and leveraging scale.
Our initial target was Combination, colleagues and culture 60m and this has since been increased to 75m of annualised At a commercial level, the Informa Group enters 2019 as a single savings by the end of 2021, with 50m being delivered in 2019. business with teams operating to single budgets and starting to go to market in a unified way.
The pursuit of revenue opportunities created through our increased depth in customer markets is underway.
This includes Much of the practical and  work necessary to cross marketing customer lists and cross promoting brands to combine UBMs portfolios into Informa is also advanced.
Beyond longer-term projects around geo-cloning events, sponsorship, this, and equally important to the success of the combination, is data and digital services.
In the latter area, we have created a the way in which each of us working within the Group feels part of dedicated team to focus on developing initiatives and aligning one Company.
Informa is a people business, and the businesss success is in large part driven by the expertise of teams and individuals, partnering with customers and participating in the life of the Company.
18 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Nearly 2,000 colleagues also contributed to an assessment The immediate focus in 2019 is to complete the AIP, consolidate of business culture and values during the second half of 2018, our positions and maintain progressive improvements in our providing rich insight into what each of us believes matters in operating performance.
This will create the foundations for the workplace and what engages and motivates in each area.
Informas future performance, growth and scale.
This work is informing a brand and Values project to establish The Group remains alive to geopolitical and economic trends a set of shared values and principles we can take forward in the markets around us.
At a macro level, we continue to track discussions around the UKs exit from the EU and, while as a combined Group on completing the AIP in mid 2019. not complacent, we feel comfortable there are no material risks for the Group from this.
The great strength of the Informa Group is that we all work in the detail and the specialism across multiple customer markets.
The great strength of the Informa Group is that we all work in Consolidation, performance and growth the detail and the specialism across multiple customer markets, Informa is a distinctly different business today, compared with with a focus on subject areas that are international, growing, and when GAP launched in 2014. where knowledge, information, data, connections, the ability to transact, trade and network are prized.
Some examples of these The Group has a new scale in terms of the reach of our can be found on page 22 and 23.
This breadth and specialism international footprint, the breadth of specialist markets provide balance to the Group portfolio and build a level of and customer communities we serve, the number and resilience into our performance.
strength of our brands and the range of our business-tobusiness information services.
It is this specialist focus, combined with the passion and energy of colleagues around the world, that makes me as excited about The benefits and capabilities provide by GAP, the consistent the potential and future of Informa today as I was when and improving performance of our businesses and the addition Ibecame Chief Executive in 2013.
There is much work to be done of the UBM portfolio in 2018 have enabled us to evolve and to capture the opportunities available to all of us, and Ifirmly adapt, moving closer to our customers and creating new growth believe Informas best days lie ahead.
This gives us confidence that in 2019 and the coming years, we can continue to deliver consistent, sustainable Thanks again to Shareholders for their support in 2018, and growth, creating attractive returns for Shareholders, and the to each of the 11,000 colleagues within the Group who care ability to invest and provide further opportunities and benefits and contribute to this business every day.
Stephen A. Carter Group Chief Executive WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 19
