Chief Executive Officers statement Moving forward, our primary focus is toachieve commercial success in the US growth market and leverage our established leadership position.
We believe Indivior is appropriately positioned to make progress toward meeting patient needs in addiction and its co-occurring disorders.
Developing and fortifying the In the face of these immediate business: While broader mergers challenges, however, we made and acquisition activity, other progress against the strategic than early stage asset licensing, priorities set for the Group by is currently on hold, Indivior used the Board and the Executive aportion of its cash balance to Committee, with the understanding voluntarily prepay $235 million of that building upon them positions outstanding term loan principal to Indiviorto generate long-term significantly improve the overall shareholder value: financial flexibility and the resilience of the Group.
Building the resilience of our franchise: Positioned the business Emerging from a turbulent 2018, we Shaun Thaxter to deliver new net revenue from believe Indivior is positioned for Chief Executive Officer SUBLOCADE and PERSERIS in continued progress toward meeting the US while seeking to maintain patient needs in addiction and 2018 marks one of the most cash flow from SUBOXONE Films schizophrenia.
Neither our Vision nor challenging periods for our business share of the US buprenorphine our strategy for realizing our Vision at Indivior.
The well-understood risk medication-assisted treatment has changed.
With this in mind, let us of generic buprenorphine naloxone market: with generic manufacturer consider progress made against these sublingual film competition in our film entry in the US, in February strategic priorities and the intended largest market created additional 2019, launched an authorized path forward: material uncertainty in an already generic version of SUBOXONE competitive environment.
Our innovative growth products development, and the slower than Developing our innovative pipeline: SUBLOCADE moderate-toexpected launch trajectory of Launched SUBLOCADE in the US severe opioid use disorder SUBLOCADE, is reflected in our and established a new specialty lower net revenue -8% and adjusted Our long-term growth and infrastructure: achieved marketing net income, which was essentially profitability will largely be driven approval of PERSERIS for the unchanged compared with 2017. by SUBLOCADE.
With this pioneering treatment of schizophrenia by US technology, our goal is to produce FDA and made it available in 2018: 2018 net revenue by geography better patient outcomes and help identified and licensed early stage drive a paradigm shift in the large pre-clinical pipeline assets that and growing market for the treatment have the potential to address the of OUD in the US.
SUBLOCADE unmet needs of patients across delivers consistent buprenorphine substance use disorders SUD.
plasma levels over the treatment Expanding global treatment: period resulting in an occupancy of $1,005m Achieved marketing approval of greater than 70% of the mu opioid SUBLOCADE by Health Canada and receptors.
SUBLOCADE may also successfully submitted regulatory be a useful alternative for patients filings for SUBLOCADE in Australia, that have difficulty adhering to a New Zealand, and Europe: achieved daily medication treatment.
The marketing approval for SUBOXONE U. S. FDA and others have indicated United States 79% Sublingual Tablets in China.
that sustained-release injectable Rest of World 21% depots of buprenorphine can provide 12 www.
com Strategic report effective treatment of OUD that may SUBLOCADE, togrow.
As such, our immediate goal be less subject to misuse, abuse is supported by the positive is to educate HCPs, patients and or accidental exposure compared anecdotal feedback we continue to caregivers on the characteristics of with self-administered formulations receive from patients and HCPs.
PERSERIS and ensure there are no suchas transmucosal tablets significant barriers to access.
PERSERIS schizophrenia SUBOXONE Film Following the July 2018 marketing Early in the SUBLOCADE launch, approval by the US FDA, PERSERIS has Despite continued competition from werecognized that we had launched in the US for the treatment manufacturers of generic SUBOXONE underestimated the level of of schizophrenia in adults.
PERSERIS Tablets and the marketimpact of reimbursement complexity for this leverages our proprietary ATRIGEL Dr. Reddys Laboratories Ltd. s DRL new treatment option in the addiction delivery system to provide sustained initial generic buprenorphine disease space.
This complexity, plasma levels of risperidone still naloxone sublingual film launch, coupled with the length of the the most prescribed anti-psychotic we maintainedcash flow from prescription journey time to treat medicine inthe US over the SUBOXONE Films share of the and slower than anticipated HCP trial monthly dosing interval after US buprenorphine medicationand treatment adoption, resulted in subcutaneous administration.
Clinical assisted treatment market BMAT net revenues coming in below our trials of PERSERIS were designed for and a leading position in the US with expectations for 2018.
We worked the product to be initiated with no an average market share of 53% tirelessly throughout the year to loading doses with the potential for 2017: 57%.
identify and break down obstacles improved compliance inherent in for SUBLOCADE patients and HCPs LAI technologies.
In February 2019, upon confirmation and saw steady improvement in of the launch of generic payer approval rates and treatment With PERSERIS, we offer a long-acting buprenorphine naloxone dispense rates.
Although initially treatment for schizophrenia which we sublingual film products, Indivior frustrating, the new specialty believe also creates an opportunity launched an authorized generic infrastructure we have established to serve patients in a well-aligned of SUBOXONE Film.
forSUBLOCADE is a competitive adjacency that provides Indivior advantage that we anticipate realizing diversification in its portfolio.
Maintaining our disciplined in the coming years as familiarity of capital allocation the expected benefits of this new The US demand for LAIs is projected In 2018, we continued to maintain treatment paradigm grows among to continue at strong double-digit a sufficient level of cash to fortify patients and HCPs alike.
rates and this remains an Indivior against additional generic underpenetrated segment in manufacturer competition and legal Our primary focus moving forward the fast-growing market for proceedings and ended the year isto leverage our established anti-psychotics.
While we are a with cash of $924 million.
We also leadership position in OUD treatment new market entrant to this disease voluntarily prepaid $235 million of to help drive commercial success space category, in contrast with our outstanding loan principal during in the US growth market.
Over the initial experience with SUBLOCADE, theyear to bring our outstanding medium to long-term, we expect where we had to establish much of debt level below $250 million.
recognition of the potential benefits the specialty infrastructure, LAIs are offered by LAI technologies, such as frequently used in the anti-psychotic While it is easy to live Our Guiding Principles our Guiding Principles Focus on patient needs Seek the wisdom during the good times, to drive decisions of the team it is a true test to remain committed Believe that peoples Care enough actions are well to these principles when to coach intended times are difficult.
I am Demonstrate particularly proud of See it, own it, honesty and integrity make it happen our patient-focused at alltimes culture which continues 1.
Nikolaj Kune, Joshua D Lee, Opioid addiction: long-acting formulations for a long-term disorder www.
com to inspire allthat we do.
Published Online February 18, 2019 http: dx.
Opioid Use Disorder: Developing Depot Buprenorphine Products for Treatment Guidance for Industry prepared by the Division of Anesthesia, Analgesia, and Addiction Products in the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research at the Food and Drug Administration Published February 2019 https: www.
Indivior Annual Report 2018 13 Chief Executive Officers statement continued 2018 Year at-a-glance Strategic Progress priorities in 2018 Launched SUBLOCADE in Q1 and contributed net revenue of $12 million in Building the FY2018 resilience of Established new specialty infrastructure for SUBLOCADE: achieved 83% payer our franchise coverage: key performance indicators KPIs showed steady improvement through FY 2018 Positioned the business to deliver new net revenue from SUBLOCADE and PERSERIS while maintaining leading BMAT share and cash flow from SUBOXONE Film, despite continued competition from manufacturers of generic SUBOXONE Tablets average market share was 53% 2017: 57% Expanded treatment capacity to a record number of physicians and other qualified treatment providers in the US, ending the year at approximately 61,500 HCPs a 27% increase Continued progress on Health Economics and Outcomes Research HEOR Developing and Lifecycle Evidence Generation & Optimization LEGO studies supporting our innovative SUBLOCADE: findings expected to be shared in key publications and conferences pipeline throughout FY 2019 Received approval of PERSERIS from the US FDA for treatment of adults with schizophrenia in the US: treatment made available late November 2018 Realized a $37 million gain in FY 2018 from the exclusive out-licensing of patents related to nasal naloxone Identified and licensed early stage pre-clinical pipeline assets that have the potential to address theunmet needs of patients across SUD Achieved SUBLOCADE market approval in Canada Expanding Successful SUBLOCADE filings in Australia, Israel, New Zealand, and Europe global Received approval for SUBOXONE Sublingual tablets by the Chinese National treatment Medical Products Administration NMPA for the treatment of OUD and announced an agreement to divest the rights to SUBOXONE Tablets in China Maintained SUBOXONE Tablets leading share of BMAT market in Europe, Indiviors largest market outside the US Broader mergers and acquisition activity, other than early stage licensing, Developing is currently on hold and fortifying Voluntarily prepaid $235 million bringing the term loan principal to $243 million the business Exited 2018 with a cash balance of $924 million: in order to maintain a strong cash balance to fund the commercial success of SUBLOCADE and PERSERIS while remaining within our debt covenants Undertook initiatives to reduce operating expenses, including headcount reductions, research and development R&D reprioritization and other committed savings Prepared to launch an authorized generic version of SUBOXONE Film in the US as part of contingency planning 14 www.
com Strategic report These preparations will assist Asserting Indiviors Conclusion Indivior, even with market entry of intellectual property One of the great characteristics of generic film products, to fund the Indivior continues to assert its Indivior is that we always make the best commercial success of SUBLOCADE of circumstances, however challenging, intellectual property rights protecting and PERSERIS and remain within our SUBOXONE Film.
We continue to including those precipitated by events debt covenants.
Our commitment await the outcome of the appeal of the non-infringement judgments to making progress toward our Vision, Streamlining the organization together with the decisive actions we related to US Patent Nos.
8,603,514 We have streamlined Indiviors and 8,017,150, which will be heard in have taken, will help ensure we remain organization in response to astrong and durable company.
H1 2019, as well as ongoing litigation anticipated near-term revenue against DRL, Alvogen, and Teva in the pressures that are expected to We have put in place the District of New Jersey, and against arise with the launch of generic Actavis in the District of Delaware, foundational elements for alternatives to SUBOXONE Film profitable growth.
The most asserting the more recent Orange in the US.
We were very thoughtful Book-listed patents, including US important driver is SUBLOCADE, in the choices we made to ensure but with the launch of PERSERIS Patent No.
Please refer to that we maintained the capabilities page 26 for further information on for the treatment of schizophrenia necessary to support the commercial we aregaining diversification legal proceedings.
success of SUBLOCADE and PERSERIS.
and additional potential Partially with savings achieved from revenue growth.
Given our year-end cash position of asubstantially reduced cost base, we $924 million and the savings achieved We have streamlined the were able to make PERSERIS available as a result of our organizational organization to respond to in the US and begin to advance realignment, Indivior is positioned pressures we face with generic toward our goal of diversifying to withstand the material and rapid filmcompetition in the US market.
market share loss that our SUBOXONE The result is a significantly reduced Film is likely to experience now that cost base that we can leverage The streamlining actions we generic film manufacturers have as expected net revenue growth undertook impacted Indiviors global entered the market.
We will also seek fromSUBLOCADE and PERSERIS workforce.
While there is no good way redress anddamages from any atmaterializes.
In February 2019, we to implement changes such as these, risk launch, following success in any launched an authorized generic we were able to move through the outstanding cases.
version of SUBOXONE Film in process as sensitively and efficiently the US to capture share of the as could be expected.
I am extremely Our patient-focused culture genericsegment.
proud of the professionalism Delivering on patient needs Our US market remains strong, and dignity demonstrated by our continues to inspire us at Indivior.
withgood growth expected, and colleagues who were impacted by Weare encouraged that around weare maintaining our strong these actions and departed from the world OUD is being increasingly patient advocacy toexpand OUD the business.
While it is easy to live recognized as a treatable medical treatment accessglobally.
our Guiding Principles during the disease, and not a moral failing.
Our good times, it is a true test to remain collective passion to help patients Patient needs continue to inspire committed to these principles when suffering from stigmatized and us at Indivior.
This remains the times are difficult.
socially marginalized diseases will core of everything we do, along be a key strength as we work to bring with ensuring we drive Indiviors Strengthening our PERSERIS to adult patients.
long-term success ethically commitment to compliance andresponsibly.
In 2018, we sustained our long-term In 2018, we were able to support a commitment to compliance.
We series of regulatory and legislative Of course, none of our progress orthe were pleased to welcome Cindy treatment we offer patients would be developments in the US intended Cetani tothe newly created Executive toimprove treatment access for possible without the hard work of our Committee leadership position employees.
The passion and dedication patients and allow HCPs to care for of Chief Integrity and Compliance more patients when they decide to they demonstrate each day is truly Officer.
Cindy brings more than 30 inspirational.
I would like to take this seek help.
We expect to see ongoing years ofexperience in driving a expansion in the OUD treatment opportunity to thank all my colleagues culture oflearning and integrity, and for their unwavering commitment to market as awareness, attention, and compliance program vision.
Cindy addiction disease normalization our Vision and to our patients.
joins us from Novartis, where she grows, and more patients are able to held roles of increasing responsibility access treatment.
Yours sincerely, over the past 15 years and was most recently Head of Compliance Shaun Thaxter Operations, Group Integrity Chief Executive Officer and Compliance.
