Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report | Chief Executives strategic review 09 Chief Executives strategic review A year of building momentum In 2018, we started to capitalise on the strong platform for future growth built across our business During the course of the year, we delivered consistent profitable revenue growth, supported by our diversified growth portfolio, through a combination of our robust foundation of established L-band services and our new, higher growth broadband GX services, revenues for which grew by around 85%, particularly in the In-flight Connectivity IFC segment in Aviation.
This growth was delivered in spite of an intensifying competitive environment in the mid-market in Maritime which, given the relative weighting of Maritime in our revenue base, continues to be an important driver of investor sentiment and, consequently, our share price.
Our revenue growth of 5% for the year was again supported by a focus on operational leverage through a carefully controlled cost base, with EBITDA growing by 4%, and an infrastructure capital investment programme that is expected to meaningfully moderate from the start of the next decade.
These factors will help us to drive free cash flow growth, in line with our revenue growth, over the medium to long-term.
Further operational progress made across our Business Units We made further progress in leveraging our networks across each of our Business Units in 2018, evidenced by our delivery against a number of strategic proof points: RUPERT PEARCE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER In Maritime, there were further market share gains in the fast-growing, high value VSAT segment, with our installed base of vessels using our new Fleet Xpress product more than doubling during the year.
In the mid-market we continue to work hard to ensure that as many as possible of our FleetBroadband customers migrate to VSAT with Fleet Xpress, This customer migration had an impact on 5.3% FleetBroadband revenues in 2018 In Government, we made continued progress Increase in revenue in building our long-term contracted revenue base and in diversifying our business by geography, by customer, by product and by service.
Our US Government business again exceeded expectations, driven by further product enhancements and as a result of our burgeoning customer relationships $251m Global Xpress revenue 10 Strategic Report | Chief Executives strategic review Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Chief Executives strategic review continued Aviation was a key growth driver, delivering Continued development of The development of our Global Xpress over 40% revenue growth during the year.
our future technology roadmap broadband satellite network is taking place Our installed base of aircraft which will use Inmarsats technology leadership position over three phases, as we go from design and our services for IFC more than doubled, has been built over a period of 40 years initial infrastructure investment, to market of which over 100 aircraft have now entered through our ability to maintain and develop capture, and then into long-term growth.
commercial service, using GX Aviation to our global networks as differentiated During the first phase, from 2010 to 2017, provide passenger connectivity services.
offerings with capabilities that keep us the first four GX satellites were designed, built, We also signed a landmark agreement with highly competitive in a dynamic market launched and deployed, creating the worlds Panasonic Avionics which, over the medium environment.
We continued to develop first seamless global high throughput satellite to long-term, is expected to be a gamethis position in 2018. constellation, within-orbit redundancy.
changing agreement for both businesses In L-band, in collaboration with our in this fast-growing sector.
Combined, our The second phase, completed last year, focused manufacturing partner, we made further GX and EAN Aviation IFC services now have on global commercial service introduction of progress in our preparation for the launch around 1,580 aircraft under contract, as well an array of different GX services into each of and entry into commercial service of the as an additional 450 aircraft for which either our key target markets maritime, government, first two satellites in our Inmarsat-6 fleet at existing customers have an option to install aviation and enterprise and initial revenue the start of the next decade, timed to launch further aircraft or where new customers have generation.
In 2018, GX-generated airtime as the first two satellites in our Inmarsat-4 committed to GX hardware with third party and related revenue was over $250m, up 85% fleet approach the end of their design lives.
Our Core Aviation business also from 2017, highlighting the value and growth The transition from our Inmarsat-4 fleet to delivered another strong performance, that GX already is delivering for our business.
our new Inmarsat-6 fleet in the 2021-22 supported by product enhancements and We remain on track to achieve our target of time frame will not only materially extend the upgrades, as well as increased customer an annual run rate of $500m of GX revenues life expectancy of our legacy L-band services usage by the end of 2020, five years after global but will also deliver a significant network commercial service introduction.
Our Enterprise business performed well capacity and service capability upgrade to to optimise the revenue generation of our support both the launch of new and differentiated In this second phase, we also started to prepare legacy products, growth from which is being L-band services as well as future revenue and for the future development of the GX network, constrained by expanding cellular network demand growth, as we continue to support to meet burgeoning customer demand and to coverage.
However, the major long-term our customers connectivity requirements.
continue to build market share in our chosen growth opportunity for Enterprise is in those markets, with follow-on capacity designed With this development of our core L-band Industrial Internet of Things IIoT sectors and procured with a fifth GX satellite and two network, we expect to leap-frog the competitive where satellite services have a material Ka-band secondary payloads on our first two offerings that are due to arrive in the coming role to play, with 2018 being a year in which Inmarsat-6 satellites.
Importantly, each of years, but which we believe will offer lower we achieved important traction in the these follow-on GX capabilities is targeted levels of service performance compared to development of managed service offerings, and regional in coverage, focused on areas the inherent capabilities of our Inmarsat-6 with several trials and proof-of-concept of greatest customer demand and brings satellites.
This puts us in a position to deliver projects completed, ensuring that we are significant capacity and capability augmentation, the fastest, highest capacity, most agile and confident of scaling this business in 2019 at much lower cost per bit compared to the best-value services to the lowest cost and first phase of the GX network creation.
These performances helped to drive smallest form factor terminals by the start of consistent top line and bottom line growth the next decade.
This will help us to maintain By the end of 2018, we had started the third in 2018, reflecting the strength of our a solid platform for the continued relevance phase in our GX network strategy, as we now diversified growth portfolio, with a solid of L-band services over the medium and look to further augment our GX network foundation of a specialisation in satellite long term.
through new, agile, lower cost technologies.
mobility services, market incumbency, In the coming years, this next generation 2018 also saw us finalise our long-term differentiated capabilities and GX programme will ensure we have the pace, technology roadmap in the fast-growing technology leadership.
agility and continuous innovation to ensure area of mobile broadband.
This is particularly we can react to market demand or new important for the future prospects of the competitive pressures in much shorter time business, given the significant expected periods and in a highly efficient manner, growth in demand from our customers for adopting disruptive new technologies on a broadband connectivity services on the move.
Our solid operational progress supported the Group in delivering revenue growth of over 5% for the year Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report | Chief Executives strategic review 11 rolling basis to deliver very high relative returns This landmark agreement is clear evidence Landmark on investment through low cost procurements of Inmarsat delivering on its strategy and it and high satellite fill factors.
With a lower strengthens our conviction that, building collaboration absolute cost and much higher capacity that upon the success of the global GX network, can be deployed with exceptional precision, aviation will be a significant growth driver agreement these satellites will ensure that we can of our overall business.
meaningfully moderate our annual with Panasonic We look forward to working closely with infrastructure capex while still meeting rapid Panasonic as we develop our relationship growth in customer bandwidth demand.
During the year, we entered a strategic with them and accelerate our respective Ultimately, this will enable us to be a leader collaboration agreement with Panasonic innovation roadmaps.
This will ensure in usable cost per bit delivered into space.
Avionics Corporation Panasonic in that we continue to provide airlines and Commercial Aviation, for an initial ten-year 2018 saw us make good progress in developing passengers with the worlds leading period.
The agreement combines our this next generation of GX, with initial scoping IFC experience.
complementary market leading services and design work completed.
Discussions to offer broadband in-flight connectivity continue with a number of potential IFC paired with high-value solutions manufacturing partners about delivering and services to customers in commercial this technology, and we will provide more aviation.
The agreement enables airlines, details about our plans in this area in 2019. aircraft manufacturers and passengers to benefit from the combined expertise  of two companies that have been at the portfolio ensures we remain forefront of technology and innovation well positioned for the future for nearly four decades.
Supported by this technology leadership position, as well as our solid foundation of incumbency and differentiated capabilities, Inmarsat continues to manage a diverse growth portfolio of businesses and products that are, in aggregate, expected to deliver growth, with the portfolio mix expected to continue to evolve as individual markets fluctuate over the medium term.
This diversified growth portfolio, with a focused set of attractive end markets that offer scale and growth potential, and where we lead with sustainable differentiation, will remain a key strength for Inmarsat going forward.
Consequently, we aim to continue delivering consistent growth in Maritime, Government, Aviation and Enterprise from our long-established L-band services, with higher growth to come from the delivery of new GX services to customers in these markets.
Furthermore, we expect to generate significant growth from our delivery of broadband services to the fast-growing and substantial IFC segment in commercial aviation.
Our progress in each of these areas was evidenced by our performance in 2018, as this report sets out in detail later on in the individual business unit updates.
Ian Dawkins, SVP Global Network Operations at PAC and CEO of ITC Global, and Phil Balaam, President, Inmarsat Aviation celebrate the collaboration agreement 12 Strategic Report | Chief Executives strategic review Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Chief Executives strategic review continued We also have a number of incremental growth Based on our future delivery against these Our revenue growth opportunities available over the medium strategic objectives, we remain confident to long term.
These include delivering major in the growth outlook for Inmarsat, based was again supported by strategic projects for Government customers, on the positive market outlook in mobile growing dedicated regional businesses in satellite communications and our a focus on operational hitherto untapped geographies, leveraging strong position within it.
leverage through a our digital services capabilities and increasing Building on the strong operational momentum our presence in IIoT.
achieved in recent years, evidenced by carefully controlled Our growth profile remains supported our market share gains in different segments by our established market presence, our across our Business Units in 2018, our priorities cost base and an differentiated capabilities, our technology are to deliver further revenue growth from infrastructure capital leadership, our specialisation in delivering material new GX revenue streams.
Our L-band satellite mobility services and our business will remain resilient over the medium investment programme market-leading distribution channel.
to long-term, given its differentiated characteristics, with future growth expected that is expected to to be generated from the emergence of new A consistent and clear market opportunities and next generation strategic direction meaningfully moderate safety services across our chosen end markets.
Inmarsat therefore remains well positioned from the start of the to access the significant market opportunity We continue to target mid-single digit created by continued growth in the use of percentage revenue growth on average next decade data at sea, in the air and across remote areas.
over the next five years, from 2018 to 2022, This will be supported by a consistent, with EBITDA and free cash flow generation and unchanged, strategic ambition to be an expected to steadily improve as a result of enabler for the connected world, more details the combined impact of this growing revenue of which can be found on the following pages.
base, an improved revenue mix, tightly Anywhere in the world, Inmarsat connects managed overhead costs, completion of customers to a better future, and our strategy the I-6 satellite programme and the impact continues to be based on the following priorities: of new technologies.
These last two elements will drive a meaningful moderation in our Capturing the maximum number annual infrastructure capex from the start of high speed broadband platforms of the next decade.
Positioning our L-band services for Finally, I would like to thank our employees new growth for their on-going hard work and efforts Establishing our digital platform to drive the business forward, as well as our and business partners, customers, shareholders and other major stakeholders for their continued Creating a high-performance support during 2018. organisation and Transforming our operating environment RUPERT PEARCE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 18 March 2019 Excluding Ligado Networks
