STRATEGIC REPORT continued Ian Taylor Chief Executive Officer CEO REVIEW Headlines direction across the advised platform sector grew from 463 billion Following a good performance in September 2017 to 540 billion 2017, by many measures the year September 2018. to 30 September 2018 was again our most successful so far.
There was also some evidence that technology costs continued to rise Gross inflows of 5.96 billion were across the sector and that, in some 12% higher than last year and the cases, the conversion from one system highest they have ever been.
to another created much that was At 4.09 billion, net inflows were also disruptive for advisers and clients alike.
12% higher than last year and also the highest they have ever been.
We ended the year with 166,000 Our activity clients 10% and funds under This year, in particular, was one in direction FUD, of 33.11 billion which we made strides forward both 19%.
as a service to our clients and as an This means that we are pleased to asset for our shareholders.
report that profit after tax increased As far as our clients were concerned, by 10% to 32.9 million.
we continued to provide an expanding As a fairer reflection of year on year range of functionality and a consistently progress, removing those expenses excellent level of service.
On the incurred exceptionally as part of the operational side for example, listing of the Company on the LSE in supporting the requirements of MiFID early March, and detailed in the II and of GDPR demonstrated how Chief Financial Officers Review CFOR, Transact continues to provide mission leads to an adjusted profit after tax of critical functionality to Mrs Miggins 35.5 million an increase of 15%.
During the course of the year we won awards from: Money Observer The market background Retirement Income Awards The UK investment platform industry Best Flexi Access Drawdown : continued to flourish.
Many platforms Financial Adviser Service Awards saw further substantial uplifts in new 5 Star Investment Provider : business, although reported inflows Platforum Best Adviser Platform for many had started to soften Over 10bn : Professional Adviser towards the end of our financial year.
Best Platform for Advisers, Platforum estimates that funds under AUA above 15bn : Professional 4 INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 Paraplanner Best Platform : and The outlook Professional Paraplanner Best Many commentators currently opine Overall Service Existing Business.
that the global economic, political Transact was also rated the best and stock market outlooks are adviser platform in adviser surveys run challenging.
There is little to hand by CoreData and Investment Trends.
In April we made adjustments to some But, we would observe that using of our prices.
This perpetuated our a platform is not an investment established record of sharing some of decision, it is an administration our profits with our customers when decision.
Whilst platforms are not circumstances permit.
We do this when immune to stock market movements, we are comfortable that doing so will they are somewhat insulated from have no negative impact on service the more extreme client reactions to levels.
We call this responsible pricing those movements.
And, of course, and it means that the best service in all of the compelling arguments for the platform market continues to be moving from old world administration even better value.
to new world administration remain firmly in place.
As far as shareholders were concerned, the flotation in March was, obviously, So, we will, as ever, continue to drive a very significant event in the history organic growth and to provide the of the company.
The Chairmans best adviser platform in the UK.
statement touches upon this topic in the opening pages of this report.
But, I would add that the fact that we Ian Taylor are listed will not distract us from the Chief Executive Officer core values and operating principles 12 December 2018 that made us so successful in the preceding eighteen years.
I am also pleased that, by virtue of the flotation, we are now in a position whereby we are able to make all staff shareholders in the business.
This is being done and there is more on this in the Directors Remuneration Report.
INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 5
