Strategic Report | Chief Executive Officers review CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW Ever Better, Ever Stronger Intertek with Total Quality Assurance.
Andr Lacroix Chief Executive Officer Intertek is going from strength to by 90%.
This progress, combined with REVENUE strength, making consistent progress disciplined capital allocation, has delivered on strategy and performance.
We are a strong ROIC of 22.7% between 2015 1.2% 4.7% benefitting from higher demand from and 2018. our customers for global Total Quality The strength of our results demonstrates ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT Assurance solutions in our Products, the attractive growth opportunities in our Trade and Resources divisions.
industry, Interteks high-quality earnings 3.0% 6.9% In 2018 we have seen broad-based model and the effectiveness of our 5x5 revenue growth acceleration with 3.7% differentiated strategy for growth.
ADJUSTED OPERATING MARGIN organic revenue growth at constant rates We are on a good-to-great journey and we with continuing robust performance firmly believe in continuous improvement 30bps 40bps in our Products division and performance to take Intertek to greater heights.
Said improvement in Trade and Resources.
differently, our Ever Better operational The recent acquisitions in high-margin ADJUSTED EPS discipline is what makes Intertek Ever and high-growth areas performed well.
3.5% 7.7% The Group has delivered a strong margin The world of our clients is getting more and free cash flow in 2018, with a diluted and more complex and companies are EPS growth of 7.7% at constant currency, WORKING CAPITAL increasing their focus on risk, which being 1.6x faster than revenue, and a creates ever bigger growth opportunities strong cash conversion of 126%.
In line 20.7 % for Intertek given our unique TQA value with our new dividend policy that targets proposition that offers systemic end-toa payout ratio of circa 50%, and fuelled end ATIC services.
by our high-margin and strongly ADJUSTED FREE CASH FLOW cash-generative earnings model, Leveraging the ever bigger growth we have announced a full year dividend 3.9% opportunities ahead with our Ever Better of 99.1p, an increase of 39.0%.
operational discipline in everything we do, we are confident in our ability to deliver We have made continuous progress since DIVIDEND sustained progress moving forward.
2015, capitalising on our strengths and implementing our 5x5 differentiated Building on our strengths, we see 39.0% strategy for growth.
opportunities to make continuous Read more about our financial progress to deliver sustainable shareholder We are offering our clients a superior performance on page 60 value creation with our differentiated customer service with our unique ATIC service offering fuelled by marginvalue proposition and we have grown our accretive innovations: our customerrevenues and operating profit respectively centric approach to sales management: by 34% and 49% between 2014 and our operational excellence discipline: our 2018 enabling us to deliver an operating systemic margin and cash management: margin of 17.2%, a progression of 170bps our end-to-end sustainability agenda and during the period.
Further, we have our deep engagement activities inside continued our working capital intensity the organisation.
and our free cash flow has increased Actual rates Constant rates 14 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report OUR TQA VALUE PROPOSITION our 5x5 growth strategy positioning us as the worlds only global provider of RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT truly integrated, end-to-end Assurance, Testing, Inspection and Certification ATIC services: RAW MATERIALS CONSUMER our focus on innovation to accelerate SOURCING MANAGEMENT growth as we help our clients resolve the increased complexities of their operations by taking a systemic risk-based approach to Quality Assurance : how our Ever Better continuous improvement approach is making Intertek Ever Stronger with our Intertek Total Quality Assurance expertise, delivered consistently Ever Better operational discipline: and with precision, pace and passion, how this is creating sustainable value enabling our customers to for our shareholders.
EVER BIGGER OPPORTUNITIES First, lets remind ourselves of the sheer scale of the market in which we operate.
COMPONENT The global quality assurance market is DISTRIBUTION AND SUPPLIERS considered to be worth approximately RETAIL CHANNELS US$250 billion.
Of this, we estimate that only 20 per cent is currently outsourced.
That means there is an exciting opportunity to capture a share of the US$200 billion that is currently managed in-house.
TRANSPORTATION MANUFACTURING The global trading landscape has changed considerably over the last 50 years, We are confident that Intertek will We operate a decentralised operating with the proportion of international trade continue to lead the industry through culture putting the customer first with rising from around 25 per cent in the our Ever Better operational discipline strong values that have been built 1960s to almost 60 per cent of global approach, to make the company step-by-step, and these values guide our GDP today.
This major structural Ever Stronger.
behaviours every single day underpinning change has fundamentally altered how a high energy culture that connects every companies operate.
Everyone inside the organisation is No longer do companies solely produce passionate about what we have already Our values are inspirational to all of us locally for local customers.
Instead, achieved, and we are now focused on and enable us to make the right decisions corporations have embraced the value making Intertek Ever Better, as we believe to drive sustainable growth for All.
of opportunities provided by low-cost this is the way for Intertek to become sourcing from across the world, enabling Our Values are: Ever Stronger.
them to remain focused on their own we are a global family that values core competencies.
We are driven by a powerful and diversity: meaningful purpose to bring Quality and While this has been beneficial, it has also we always do the right thing with Safety to life in a way that makes the world brought about a significant increase in precision, pace and passion: a better and safer place for everybody.
complexity for corporations in every we trust each other and have fun industry, working with multi-tiered supply This is important to all our people, as winning together: chains that expose them to increasing having a meaningful and positive impact levels of risk and uncertainty.
we own and shape our future: and on existing and future generations and the future state of society is an enormous we create sustainable growth for All.
At the same time, the rise of consumer-led source of energy and a critical driver demand in emerging markets, and the I will cover a range of areas in this years of engagement.
growth of e-commerce and other review, including: channels, have radically transformed Intertek has a rich history having led the our views on how Quality Assurance is sourcing and distribution chains too.
And, industry for more than 130 years and evolving, creating ever bigger growth with consumers seeking greater variety, having contributed to the greater good opportunities for Intertek: better quality and faster delivery, risk has of society by raising quality and safety standards across all industries.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 15 Strategic Report | Chief Executive Officers review CEO'S REVIEW continued been heightened at every point of the Our people are at the heart of our value chain, from R&D, raw materials strategy.
They deliver against our key sourcing, component supply, priority of delivering superior customer manufacturing, transportation, service by living our values and Our focus is on making distribution and retail to the point where customer-centric culture every day.
further progress on all a product enters the consumers hands.
A highly important factor in achieving this fronts, with an Ever Better The positive news for Intertek is that this is our unique, decentralised organisational approach to what we do, phenomenon is driving demand from structure with our people located in our corporations in all industries across the 1,000 laboratories across the world.
every day, to make us world for quality assurance that is Ever Stronger.
We ensure that our people are close to our systemic.
Having gained this insight some customers, driving innovation from the years ago, we are still the only global Intertek delivers a unique, systemic frontline to ensure the solutions we provide company that is truly leveraging this end-to-end approach to risk management, are exactly what our customers and their world-shift in the need for Testing, delivering TQA solutions across quality customers need.
This ensures that taking Inspection and Certification TIC alone, and safety processes, including assuring an innovative approach is embedded as to the additional demand for end-to-end the training and performance of people.
an intrinsic part of our value proposition, Assurance A that only our ATIC value Today, systemic end-to-end ATIC which is truly exciting for our future.
solutions are becoming increasingly The role of environmental, social and essential for companies everywhere as This is a vital step forward and Intertek corporate governance ESG in our own they seek to control risk at every point of has redefined the industry from TIC to business is a fundamental aspect of this.
While TIC provides quality and It is core to everything we do, as is our drivers underpinning our business, safety controls in high-risk areas of a ability to help our customers deliver combined with the growing complexity corporations activities, Intertek Total against their own sustainability priorities.
facing our customers, together form Quality Assurance additionally delivers Critically, it matters to our people, it the basis of what is a truly exciting an end-to-end assessment of its clients matters to our customers and of course, opportunity to deliver margin-accretive quality and safety processes.
In this way, it matters to their end-consumers.
revenue growth based on GDP organic we help organisations address the growth over the midto long-term.
complexity of what it takes to move As a purpose-led company, sustainability towards a zero-failure rate in their is core to our business, enabling us to And the pace of change will continue to operations.
TQA is becoming missiondeliver value for all our stakeholders.
Developments such as artificial critical for our customers, and every intelligence AI, the internet of things INTERTEK TQA SUPERIOR SERVICE conversation with them again reinforces IoT, blockchain, the sharing economy, Interteks business model offers systemic the need for ATIC solutions.
autonomous and electric vehicles, the ATIC solutions across the three divisions growing middle classes, ageing So we see the market opportunity to be of Products, Trade and Resources, populations and much more are all forcing even greater than the US$250 billion, with each benefitting from its own set of companies to adapt.
Risk will grow at the driven by new risks emerging from ever structural growth drivers.
These range same accelerating rate.
Intertek is from the expansion of supply chains in pole position to attract a substantial within the Products division, to the Growth in new products drives quality share of the increasing TQA activity in increased focus on traceability in Trade risks.
For example, analysis of trends over which companies will need to invest and growth in alternative energy more than 20 years in the US shows that during the years ahead.
Our focus on the within Resources.
there is a 90 per cent correlation between highest levels of customer service and the number of new vehicles launched and Moreover, no business today is immune our global network of more than 1,000 the number of vehicles recalled.
The same to the increasing complexity of the laboratories and offices and over 44,000 is happening in other industries in every operating environment in which we all people in more than 100 countries will country across the world, the rising rate work.
Its driven by the expansion of enable us to meet their needs and help of hacking is the main driving force behind global trading relationships and supply them thrive in an increasingly complex increased data breaches.
And safety chains, demand for higher quality and world, no matter the continuing pace concerns in the food industry are also choice, increasingly vocal consumers on of change.
growing fast, from allergic reactions social media and growing regulatory caused by unlisted ingredients to SEIZING THE OPPORTUNITIES demands.
One of the most important deliberate food sabotage.
To capture this exciting growth drivers is a greater focus on sustainability, opportunity, in 2015 we launched our championed by a confident and techTo add further to forces like these, the good-to-great 5x5 strategy see page 2. savvy millennial generation.
relentless pressure on businesses to Its purpose is to move the centre of launch new products and services to meet Structural changes in sourcing and gravity of the Group towards burgeoning demand is causing many distribution mean that global the attractive growth and margin areas organisations to launch new product lines organisations require expert assistance in the quality assurance market and without adequate operating systems or to navigate these challenges across their deliver sustainable growth for All.
checks and balances in place.
New and entire supply chain operations.
16 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 2 3 4 5 6 7 Strategic Report Our global network of sustainability experts helps customers achieve their sustainability goals.
Read more on page 22 innovative products require new and We are constantly harnessing our THE SEVEN-STEP ATIC innovative TQA solutions.
customer insights and data to drive innovative solutions.
INNOVATION PROCESS This is one area where our focus on innovation really counts identifying new THRIVING THROUGH INNOVATION requirements and creating solutions, Intertek, always the pioneer, has led the 1 often before our customers are aware of industry with our TQA value proposition.
Now, increasing corporate complexity INSIGHT great new ideas is presenting opportunities for us to Our unique, end-to-end, systemic approach accelerate our growth by delivering to quality assurance, delivered through our ATIC services to our customers our global laboratory network, is helping with innovative solutions for today corporations to mitigate these and many and tomorrow.
What can you do other causes of risk.
Our constant focus on with these ideas?
IDEATE innovation to address existing and future Intertek has a proven track record of using risks is at the heart of our ability to insight and innovation to anticipate the mitigate new risks on the horizon.
growing needs of our clients, and this approach forms the bedrock of our LEADING CUSTOMER INSIGHTS entrepreneurial culture.
So important, that The real fuel for innovation is insight during 2018 we have appointed a Chief deeply understanding what our customers How will it work?
EVALUATE ATIC Innovation Officer and are running need and want to drive our new ATIC a company-wide focus on innovation for solutions.
Its to develop this insight that the whole of 2019 and beyond.
we are such avid users of data, with the ability to access world-class customer Our considered and focused approach to intelligence site-by-site from anywhere innovation uses a three-tiered method, How can you across our global network.
working alongside our internal seven-step DEVELOP make it happen?
ATIC innovation process, which helps us We are obsessed with understanding our to accelerate our growth.
customers needs and how we can deliver Ever Better solutions to meet their First, in what we call our Core focus, developing requirements.
To achieve this, we seek to build on the strengths of our Prove your ideas we carry out 7,000 customer interviews existing products and services, ever work in the real every single month.
Every day, I and all improving them for our existing markets PILOT world members of our senior management team and customers.
Secondly, we aim to receive an email containing real-time develop new products and services for customer feedback from around the rapid-growth, high-margin markets that world.
And we actively use this feedback are Adjacent to those we already serve.
to continuously improve the services Thirdly, we aim to create Breakthrough Lets make this we deliver.
products and services that enable us to SCALE-UP happen!
create new attractive markets and target I am also determined that at a senior level emerging customer needs.
we gain first-hand understanding of our customers and our people who most Across all three areas, we work closely regularly interact with them.
This is why with our customers, often face-to-face, Continually I spend around 50% of my time in the to scope and develop new solutions that evolve and markets where we operate, meeting our better serve their needs.
Let me provide KAIZEN improve your idea customers and our TQA experts, and the some examples.
other 50% participating in performance Recent developments to our Core offering reviews to maximise our knowledge include innovations in our Resources and understanding.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 17 Strategic Report | Chief Executive Officers review CEO'S REVIEW continued As supply chains and distribution channels First, to grow those scale businesses, become increasingly complex, driving such as Softlines, Hardlines and employee operational excellence is Electrical, where we are already market becoming increasingly challenging for leaders.
The scale involved means any organisations.
During the year, we made a increase in penetration is a powerful key acquisition Alchemy in the emerging driver of profitability.
area of People Assurance, enabling us to Read more on our Alchemy Next comes a set of businesses from leverage our existing Assurance expertise acquisition on page 45 which we see our fastest growth and global scale to close critical skills-gaps emerging in the next few years, through training, engagement and cultural sector.
In one, we have brought together including Business and People reinforcement among clients frontline technologies including 3D laser scanning Assurance, Food, Connected World and employees across the world.
See details and non-destructive testing to create Sustainability.
Intertek DeepView 3D, a new solution Third, in all corporations there will be that radically reduces the time and costs We are truly excited about the potential businesses where there is room for involved in inspecting safety-critical of People Assurance as a high-quality improvement.
Due to the current phase equipment in the offshore industries.
service with scalable solutions that can be of the Resources cycle, our Industry See page 51 for details.
rolled out across many different industries Services operations are focused on and geographies.
Another innovation from the Core is Intertek PipeAware, our unique pipeline Our M&A focus is targeted tightly on So, innovating to help our customers quality verification solution, which offers companies with attractive growth and reduce risk by managing complexity more pipeline owners and operators traceability margin prospects, strong IP and market easily is at the heart of our growth plans, and easy access to the inspection, testing positions and a highly cash-generative enabling us to pursue our strategy of and material data needed to make business model.
Since 2015, shifting the Companys centre of gravity informed decisions that ensure pipelines acquisitions have added more than to high-growth, high-margin markets.
300 million to Interteks annual Over the last three years, this has involved revenues and given us ownership of massive growth in excess of 100 per cent Extending our TQA reach, Interteks Voice several sector-leading innovations that in the Assurance side of our business, of the Customer leverages our customers we are now bringing to a wider market.
from 10 per cent of our total revenue in consumer feedback to create holistic 2015 to 16 per cent of revenue in 2018. product assurance plans, addressing We underpin our approach to portfolio This is where we have delivered the safety, quality and perception concerns management with our highly disciplined majority of our organic growth the with actionable insights.
and systemic approach to performance touchstone by which we measure management, targeting leading and As a purpose-led company, sustainability our progress.
It addresses a range is core to our business, enabling us to of key financial metrics, from revenue We have also seen our Products division deliver value for all stakeholders.
It is growth, margin and customer profitability grow as a proportion of our business because of this that one of the Adjacent to capital allocation and investments in overall, to a point where today it is innovations we launched during the year growth.
Our operational metrics include responsible for generating some 60 per was our sustainability service offerings, particularly powerful leading indicators, cent of our revenues and around 75 per under one Sustainability brand, where our like marketing leads, customer retention cent of our profits.
It is one of the global network of experts help our and customer acquisitions.
fundamental strengths of the Group.
We not only provide valuable insight into companies EVER BETTER OPERATIONAL But our core strength is, and always will current sustainability needs, we also DISCIPLINE be, the way in which our people combine identify emerging trends, enabling our Across every area of the business, we are passion and innovation with customer customers to move towards a circular on a journey of constant improvement.
commitment to create a single unbeatable economy model, reducing any negative We have made consistent progress in asset.
This is a vital element of our social and environmental impacts and 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018 across our entrepreneurial, customer-centric culture, mitigating reputational risk.
product and service offering, sales, cash and we do everything we can to nurture it and margin management and in our across the organisation.
As IoT transforms the world in which we operational excellence.
live, in the area of product network ACCRETIVE PORTFOLIO security, our Intertek Connected World Our good-to-great journey driven by our MANAGEMENT proposition addresses the emerging 5x5 growth strategy is on track but we Our 5x5 strategy focusing Interteks security risks and performance challenges are not stopping there.
centre of gravity on high-margin, of todays sophisticated networks high-return sectors drives our marginWith plenty in reserve, our focus is on throughout the product life cycle.
accretive approach to portfolio continuously improving and making Additionally, our cybersecurity services management, guiding where we invest further progress on all fronts, leveraging address growing cyberthreats as part of for growth.
We categorise these areas the tremendous growth opportunities our systemic approach to risk mitigation.
as four key strategic priorities: across our divisions with an Ever Better See page 47 for more details.
approach to what we do, every day, to 18 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report make us Ever Stronger: our differentiated strategic progress having delivered service-offering with margin-accretive sustainable shareholder value and having INNOVATING ACROSS innovations: a customer-centric approach established a leading position at the OUR BUSINESS to sales with our unique ATIC offering : forefront of the worlds growing market continuous progress in operational for systemic, end-to-end TQA services.
Read more about how we are excellence, value creation opportunity The growth prospects ahead are truly supporting our customers with our in margin and cash management, an exciting and the increased focus of innovative ATIC solutions.
innovative approach to sustainability corporations on risks to deliver sustainable and an exciting growth agenda for all performance is creating ever bigger of our colleagues.
growth opportunities for our TQA services.
Becoming an Ever Better, Ever Stronger Our 5x5 strategic goals represent the business is only possible through pillars underpinning our priorities as we continuous improvement and innovation move forward in our industry.
across every facet of the business.
It is this mentality which unites everyone at Our core purpose of bringing Quality and Intertek towards achieving the common Safety to life will be achieved through goal of making the world a better and our fully engaged employees whose safer place.
We have made good progress entrepreneurial spirit is able to flourish.
along this path and the future is even We will provide a superior ATIC customer more exciting, as we leverage growth service by harnessing our global laboratory opportunities to enable our clients to network, effectively enabling our power ahead with total peace of mind.
innovators and technicians to become a A HIGH-QUALITY EARNINGS MODEL global network of subject matter experts.
PRODUCTS That brings me to the very core of what Read more on page 44 Delivering margin-accretive revenue makes us so successful our high-margin, growth will enable us to maintain our strongly cash-generative earnings model, outstanding record of delivering strong based on the delivery of our unique TQA returns for our shareholders.
Our ability to profitably deliver ATIC services to customers Our strong cash conversion from operating in the structurally attractive operations and systemic working capital Products, Trade and Resources economic management, underpinned by the Groups sectors is based on our capital-light highly cash-generative earnings model business model and entrepreneurial will deliver strong returns.
culture, which enable us to respond Through our accretive, disciplined capital quickly to new growth opportunities.
allocation policy, we will continue to seek To maximise returns, we continue to out and secure acquisition targets that invest in margin-accretive innovation as are providing breakthroughs in areas we have discussed, which is driving GDP that interest our customers, which we organic revenue growth across the Group can scale up to offer through our in real terms.
As a result, our adjusted global operations.
TRADE operating margin and free cash flow are Read more on page 48 The growth prospects ahead for all both growing substantially, while working stakeholders are highly energising and we capital as a percentage of revenue is are truly excited about our good-to-great reducing.
Particularly pleasing is our journey ahead.
adjusted return on invested capital where our progress is excellent.
We are confident that Intertek will continue to lead the industry with our We will invest in organic growth and unique TQA services.
acquire businesses with strong growth and margin prospects.
At the same time, We are committed to delivering we will continue our policy of making sustainable value creation with our index-leading shareholder returns Ever Better operational discipline making and focus on delivering a balance the company Ever Stronger.
sheet with the flexibility we need to meet our ambitions.
AN EVER STRONGER INTERTEK I am pleased that after three years on our RESOURCES good-to-great journey, we are on track Andr Lacroix Read more on page 50 both in terms of performance and Chief Executive Officer Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 19
