Strategic report Chief Executives review intu has again delivered a resilient operational performance which demonstrates how our centres differentiate themselves as winning destinations 2018 has been an eventful and Plans to reduce debt to assets ratio challenging year for intu.
Our debt to assets ratio at 31 December 2018 was 53 per cent, exceeding the The UK economy has struggled Boards target maximum of 50 per cent.
through a third year of pre-Brexit political uncertainty.
Specific to intu, we had to We propose to take the following steps overcome the disruption from two public to lower the Groups debt to assets ratio company offers, neither of which, for over time to back below 50 per cent and reasons outside our control, ultimately lower the share price discount: concluded.
retaining for the time being the cash I would like to thank the executive team generated by our activities rather than and all intu staff for their outstandingly distributing it as dividend, commencing resolute and determined performance with no final dividend for 2018 2017 through these events which coincided final dividend: 9.4 pence.
In 2018 we with significant industry challenges.
paid dividends of 188 million based intus strengths on an annual dividend per share of In terms of UK economic data most 14.0 pence.
Retaining the dividend will leading owner, manager and relevant to intu, non-food retail sales were enable us to continue to invest in our developer of prime regional essentially static year-on-year, but online winning destinations shopping centres with eight of sales continued to grow so physical sales through further disposals and part the UKs top-20 and three of shrank.
In fact, in-store non-food retail disposals in due course in both the UK Spains top-10 sales in the UK have shown a year-on-year and Spain.
Following 171 million of consistently invested in centres with reduction every month for the last two disposals in 2018, we will continue to over 1 billion invested over the last years.
Retailer costs, by contrast, have recycle capital from individual assets.
four years not declined, not least as a result of the We consider substantial sales in the resilient operating performance significant burden of the UKs property UK as challenging until a political with occupancy at 97 per cent and tax known as business rates.
resolution on the Brexit issue is 400 million customer visits per year achieved and not in shareholders Retailer failures therefore picked up interest while market sentiment clear 2019 objectives to return the substantially, impacting our net rental towards UK retail property is so debt to asset ratio to below 50 per income by an estimated 1.9 per cent.
In Spain we have received a cent and focus on winning Increasingly negative investor sentiment number of unsolicited offers which we destinations towards retail property fed through to a are evaluating 13.3 per cent fall in the valuations of our Read more about winning destinations UK assets.
Resilient 2018 operating performance on pages 26 and 27 Despite negative external factors, intu In the face of this adversity, shareholders demonstrated considerable resilience in have seen the share price decline to a its operating performance through a level representing for intu a virtually challenging period, evidence of the unprecedented discount to NAV per share underlying quality of the intu business.
diluted, adjusted of over 60 per cent.
This includes ownership of eight of the 6 intu properties plc Annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information UKs top-20 centres, which amount to Focus on winning destinations The first two objectives are to 69 per cent of our property assets With the structural changes going on in be measured by a number of key by value, and three of the top-10 centres our industry, we regard it as increasingly performance indicators, similar in Spain.
important that intu focuses on centres to those currently reported.
which rank as winning destinations where intu has reported a 0.6 per cent increase customers love to come and retailers In terms of the third objective, making in like-for-like net rental income despite want to be.
smart use of capital, the events of 2018 the retailer failures referred to above, have impacted our views on capital stable occupancy around 97 per cent, Alongside the best retail, food, allocation, especially as a result of the and 248 new leases signed 2017: 217 at beverage and leisure, we intend to add discount to NAV per share diluted, 6 per cent above previous rents.
Lettings further mixed-use attractions to these adjusted widening to an unprecedented included an attractive mix of new and centres in the form of improved public 64 per cent between the reported NAV established names, significantly space with more frequent experiences, per share diluted, adjusted of 312 pence refreshing the centres, among them residential space, hotels and other uses and the share price of 113 pence as at Abercrombie & Fitch, Uniqlo, Bershka such as state-of-the-art office and 31 December 2018. and Monki, with the likes of Next, Primark, co-working space.
Zara and River Island all upsizing.
Expressed another way, the year-end Our retailers regularly confirm to us the share price reflects a 29 per cent discount As we operate in many of the top UK importance of flagship physical stores in to gross assets of 9.2 billion.
The implied retail destinations where retailers want to centres such as ours for their overall offer initial yield on our assets to a shareholder maintain their best stores, like-for-like net to consumers, with around 85 per cent of at this share price is currently 7.03 per cent rental income performance was robust all transactions estimated to still touch a rather than the published net initial yield despite recent administrations and CVAs.
Our target is that every store in our topped-up according to the year-end The administrations and CVAs in the year centres should rank in the retailers top property valuations of 4.98 per cent.
relate to around 6 per cent of our passing quintile of UK stores ideally as many rent, but the majority of these 72 per as possible in their top-20 stores.
Financial strength cent have had minimal impact with the We have cash and available facilities retailer keeping their stores open on the Continuing investment programme of 548 million.
Net external debt was existing rent or with a small reduction.
We and our tenants have continued to largely unchanged at 4,867 million invest in our centres in 2018.
We invested and we have refinanced or entered new Underlying earnings per share reduced 201 million which included completing facilities of over 500 million in 2018 from 15.0p to 14.4p mainly as a result the transformational extension of illustrating that debt markets continue to of the income impact from disposals.
intu Watford that promotes Watford to a be supportive of our highest quality retail top-20 UK retail destination and handing property.
We consider the structure of Fall in property valuations over units to be fitted out at our exciting our borrowings, predominantly using After two years of essentially unchanged leisure extension at intu Lakeside which flexible asset specific non-recourse valuations for our UK centres, 2018 is 93 per cent pre-let and due to open in arrangements, to be appropriate for saw investor sentiment turn against spring 2019.
Our tenants invested around our concentrated portfolio.
a further 161 million 144 million introducing their latest shopfits and These facilities have significant covenant We reported a 6.2 per cent fall in property 17 million on maintenance expenditure.
For example, a further fall of values in the six months to 30 June 2018 10 per cent in capital values would create and a further 3.0 per cent in the quarter Our pipeline over the next three years a covenant shortfall of only 1 million.
to 30 September 2018, with the full year of 428 million includes 82 million on reduction in our assets amounting to the regeneration of intu Broadmarsh The table below shows the covenant 13.3 per cent.
Net initial yield topped-up which will be anchored by The Light shortfalls on our non-recourse debt that climbed over the year from 4.36 per cent cinema, the transformation and could be remedied from our available to 4.98 per cent and was the primary expansion of Barton Square at intu facilities for further falls in capital values: factor driving NAV per share diluted, Trafford Centre, introducing Primark to Total adjusted down in the year from the centre, and the creation of the new Reduction reduction in 411 pence to 312 pence.
generation 255,000 sq m shopping resort in capital capital Implied values from values from Group intu Costa del Sol, near Mlaga in Spain.
31 December 31 December Covenant debt to By way of illustration of the impact on intu, 2018 2017 shortfall assets ratio a further 10 per cent fall in valuations, 2019 objectives 10% 22% 1m 59% amounting to approximately a further We have set three strategic objectives 15% 26% 4m 62% 920 million reduction and 22 per cent for 2019: 20% 31% 43m 66% overall since the beginning of 2018, would 25% 35% 123m 71% reduce NAV per share diluted, adjusted delivering strong underlying individual to around 243 pence from 312 pence and centre performance David Fischel EPRA NNNAV per share to around adapting fast to a changing retail Chief Executive 202 pence from 271 pence.
environment making smart use of capital intu properties plc Annual report 2018 7
