Strategic Report Chief Executives Report ITV has delivered a strong operational performance in 2018 with very good on-screen and online viewing and good growth in ITV Studios.
Carolyn McCall Chief Executive The economic and political environment has rarely been less certain but weare delivering in the areas of the business which are under our control and building an increasingly resilient business for the future.
ITV has delivered a strong operational the strategy.
Reflecting these strong cash performance in 2018, with very good flows and the Boards confidence in the on-screen and online viewing and good business, it has proposed a dividend of 8p, growth in ITV Studios.
up 3%, as weve already committed to.
We are very focused on executing our Broadcast & Online delivered 1% growth strategy to create a stronger, structurally in total advertising, with strong growth in sound business, building on this good VOD, up 36% more than offsetting the operating performance.
The economic and decline in spot revenues.
Our Direct to political environment has rarely been less Consumer revenues have grown 25% certain but we are delivering in the areas and are a growth opportunity albeit from of the business which are under our control.
In total, Broadcast & Online We will report progress in each area of the revenues were up 1% with adjusted EBITA Horse Racing continued to perform well strategy.
We have a solid balance sheet down 7% to 555 million.
on ITV main channel and ITV4, attracting and good access to liquidity which gives valuable male audiences.
us the flexibility and capacity to invest to ITV Studios delivered 6% growth in total strengthen the business, and deliver revenue with organic revenues up 4% and returns to shareholders.
our portfolio of acquisitions continuing to perform well.
The UK was broadly flat 2018 Financial highlights while international revenues continue to Total revenues were up 3%, driven by 5% grow with the growth in the rest of world growth in our non-advertising revenues but more than offsetting the decline in ITV profits were down primarily as a result of America which was impacted by the timing the higher programme budget with the of deliveries.
International revenues now Football World Cup.
Our cash generation make up 56% of our total studios revenues, remains strong at 88% and our leverage up 2 percentage points on last year.
Total is 1.1x net debt to adjusted EBITDA which adjusted EBITA was 255 million up 5% at a provides good flexibility as we implement 15% margin rmly within our target range.
8 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Chief Executives Report More than TV ITVs vision is to be... More than TV.
The pre-eminent integrated producer broadcaster for viewers 1 Reposition ITV and brands in the UK Data analytics as a modern and and technology Strengthen digital brand Integrated producer A world-class creative force in broadcaster global content production A scaled and leading Direct to Consumer business with strong consumer relationships 2 3 A lean and agile organisation Grow Create capable of perpetual change UK and global Direct to production consumer A future facing, modern and digital brand that is relevant and valuable to all viewers and brands A sustainable, cash generative and Lean and agile growing business delivering value organisation for shareholders Read more about our strategy on page 24 Our vision and strategy Against this backdrop ITVs viewing In 2018 we launched our new strategy and performance was very strong.
Our total vision in response to the changes we are viewing was up, with total linear viewing seeing within the media market.
up 2% as well as significant growth in Hub viewing, up 32%: we continue to be There is no doubt that the pace of change the home of quality mass commercial is rapid and our strategy will continue to audiences with 98% of audiences over evolve but our priorities are clear.
5million, and our share of viewing up for the third year running.
There has been a lot of commentary about changes in viewer behaviours.
Viewers in 16 to 34s are clearly watching TV differently the UK watch 192 minutes of TV per day.
but deliver them content that they want This is down 5% on the previous year, and they watch it Love Island is not the only Queer Eye is produced by ITV America understandable given the profusion of example of this.
ITV main channels volume for Netflix and achieved critical acclaim content and the choice of how people of 16 to 34s viewing was up 2% year on year in 2018, winning three Emmys.
Over 70% of all viewing and ITV Family volume was down only 2% remains live despite this.
TV and specically ITV remains the only place to get a scaled, quality young audience.
And of course, we are driving significant young audiences on the ITV Hub.
Total registered users have grown again and 79% of all 16 to 34s in the UK are registered on the ITV Hub.
Simulcast requests are showing strong growth up 34%, as viewers and particularly young viewers use devices to watch TV.
Our average monthly active users across all demographics have increased 64% following compulsory registration on connected TVs in 2018 meaning we are reaching our users more often which is very important from an advertisers perspective.
9 Strategic Report Chief Executives Report continued So, there is clearly a great deal of change in viewing and advertising trends which we keep under constant focus.
Our strategy is designed to address the challenges and the opportunities that they present.
Integrated producer broadcaster IPB Our plans for the IPB have five key components and I will briefly illustrate how we are doing against each of them and our priorities for 2019.
Much of what we have done so far is building the foundations for what we will deliver in 2019.
We have clear measures of success in our KPIs and we are on track to deliver the targets and strategic ambitions which we set out.
A highlight for 2018 has been our viewing performance with a strong performance right across the schedule from Daytime, to our dramas, sport and big entertainment programmes.
And its this great schedule and the continuous improvement in the ITV Hub which has driven the strong online metrics in terms of viewing, users and revenue.
Repositioning ITV and driving lightviewers The first part of our IPB strategy and Timewasters produced by Big Talk Despite 2018 being affected by economic investment is to reposition ITV, drive more Productions, part of ITV Studios UK, was and political uncertainty, we increased our light viewers and increase reach.
As we recommissioned for a second series in total advertising revenue after two years of have highlighted before, ITV has a brand 2018 following success on ITV2 in 2017. decline with VOD revenues offsetting the perception challenge people love our Timewasters will return to our screens decline in spot revenues.
This is because content but dont necessarily associate in2019.
ITVs overall proposition remains strong.
ITVgives immediate reach and scale that The Chase produced by Potato, part cannot be achieved anywhere else.
It also We started developing this last year and of ITV Studios UK, for ITV main channel provides a safe, trusted and transparent in January we evolved the ITV and ITV Hub maintained its status as one of ITVs best environment in which to advertise and brands, giving them a more modern and ever gameshows delivering its highest ever generates the highest return on investment creative position.
We have a new brand annual average in 2018 of 3.3 million.
identity for the main channel including idents and on-screen presentation.
We are The make up of TV advertisers is changing now developing consistent off-air marketing as new categories and markets are being across multiple media channels which has disrupted by insurgent brands.
Some helped to successfully launch a range of key categories are growing rapidly.
Telecoms, shows in 2019 such as Cleaning Up, Man Hunt Entertainment and Leisure and the and Vera helping our share of viewing and Government are spending more.
The key volume of viewing to grow so far this year.
standout are the online brands which And there is more relevant communication grew their spend by 10%.
to come in 2019 around our drama launches and of course the Rugby World Cup.
However, the well publicised issues with the high street, retail and FMCG companies Although early, we are already seeing an have put their budgets under pressure and improvement in brand consideration for they are spending less and have generally light viewers up nine percentage points in reduced spend across all media.
10 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Chief Executives Report 2.
Technology to support data We are just at the start of the process and and distribution of the Hub and advertising proposition are now increasingly collecting data across The second component of our IPB Our third area of investment in the IPB is our linear viewing, online viewing and every investment is the ITV Hub which has shown technology capabilities and platforms.
We touchpoint we have with users.
We are very strong growth in viewing and revenues have already strengthened our skills in key beginning to unify it by matching this in 2018 with a continuous improvement in areas and will continue to do so through 2019. across datasets and then enriching it with content, experience and distribution.
We We are innovating and developing our core third party data and automated tagging have delivered seamless live streaming at technology.
In 2019, we will increasingly generated by AI algorithms.
All the while large scale with adverts inserted, and we invest in technology and platforms to protecting the privacy of our users, as well have enhanced the boxset experience, deliver the specic priorities of our as the security, quality and consistency of introduced next episode sign posting, strategy: including enhancing and evolving our data.
implemented cross platform resume and our underlying Online Video Platform for trialled recommendations on iOS.
the Hub: the launch of SVOD: developing 5.
Advertising capabilities a programmatic AdTech platform and the We have restructured our commercial team, In 2019 we will continue to enhance the use of technology to automate built a new client strategy team and invested viewer experience and start to really operational processes.
in our creative partnerships team to provide bridge the gap between ourselves and original, engaging and brand dening others in the market.
Data capabilities marketing campaigns and build deeper see us roll out a newly designed ITV Hub Technology will also enable our focus on partnerships with our advertisers.
which will create personalised experiences data.
We have signicantly strengthened The John Lewis Christmas piano ad for all our 28million registered users our data capabilities and have established campaign or Suzuki featuring Take That with programme recommendations and a centre of data excellence covering the full are great examples.
prompts for new series, develop features range of data and insight.
This includes data that drive engagement such as video science, analytics and research, so we can Delivering scaled addressable advertising promos and resume play across all understand, predict and affect behaviours around our premium VOD is a priority.
platforms and make the experience across all ITV touchpoints viewing, the We have made good progress in 2018. consistent across all devices.
Hub, advertisers and direct to consumer.
We have signicantly increased our addressable advertising inventory.
At the end of 2017 only around 10% of our VOD inventory was addressable and today it is around 75%.
However, this is currently a very manual process.
We are very focused on creating an ad tech solution in 2019 to create a fully automated and data driven system and we are having positive discussions with third parties about how we deliver this in the most efficient way.
This will deliver the best of both worlds for advertisers mass simultaneous reach on our linear channels and more tailor made and addressable targeting at scale on the ITV Hub.
ITV Studios Our second major strategic focus is Studios.
Our aim here is to be a leading creative force in global content.
ITV Studios is now a scaled business delivering good growth at a stable margin and our plan for organic growth requires only modest investment over the next three years.
The Voice UK returned in January 2018 with new judge, Olly Murs.
The series Demand for great content has never been averaged 0.9 million viewers aged 16-34, stronger so this continues to be a real with an average audience share for the growth opportunity.
And we are well on demographic of 33%.
track to deliver the targets we set out with good revenue growth at a 15% margin and a 5% increase in total production hours.
11 Strategic Report Chief Executives Report continued Weve seen good growth in our all key genres with particularly strong growth in scripted.
The business is predominantly unscripted in terms of scale but scripted, especially driven by demand from the OTT platforms, is likely to be an area of higher growth over the medium term.
We are seeing increasing demand from OTT platforms internationally for original long-form content and secondary rights.
In2018 we produced and jointly commissioned a number of scripted and unscripted programmes with OTT platforms including Queer Eye for Netflix and in 2019, we have an original commission, Cowboy Bebop, forNetflix.
A key strength of ITV Studios is its large portfolio of successful formats that return and travel which we are strengthening each year, for example in 2018 with The Voice Direct to Consumer Britains Brightest Family produced by Gameface Productions, part of ITV Studios Senior from Talpa and Britains Brightest Our third area of future growth is all about UK, was new to ITV in 2018 with Anne Family from the UK.
And increasingly we the consumer and we have now created Hegerty, star of The Chase and Im a are also producing them locally, therefore adirect to consumer business.
We are making Celebrity... Get Me Out of Here!, as host.
capturing the full margin, including good progress our revenues were up 25% TheVoice and Love Island in seven countries, to 81 million and we now have 8.5m paying with Love Island also being produced in the relationships which are up 27% on last year.
This has been driven by good growth in Our most recent tranche of research shows As we look to 2019, we are clear on our our competition portal, live events such that four million households are likely or priorities.
Key to our success is attracting as NinjaWarrior Aqua Park and our pay very likely to subscribe to a or another and retaining great talent.
We will invest in per view boxing events.
SVOD service in the next three months.
building our creative talent collaborating Despite the number of streaming services, with innovative and entrepreneurial creatives Our existing SVOD and pay propositions there is a clear gap for quality British with minimal risks and attractive returns as ITVHub, BritBox in the US and Canada, content and desire for British content is we have successfully done historically.
and Cirkus in the Nordics, Germany, high, with research showing that 43% of all Austria and Switzerland are performing online homes are interested in subscribing We are also very focused on maximising the well and demonstrate our ability to to a new SVOD service which features British value of our formats and IP internationally.
content and this increases to over 50% in There are exciting opportunities to licence Netflix homes.
our brands and library content and drive We are in the concluding phase of talks with value through merchandising using our the BBC to establish a strategic partnership Our SVOD team is in place and we are significant capabilities across our network to bring BritBox, our exciting new SVOD working round the clock to launch later this of labels and our global relationships.
We have agreed a joint vision for the provide an unrivalled collection ofBritish service and we are now working on a formal We see good opportunities for European boxsets and original series all inone place.
BBC and ITV anticipate that scripted content, with strong demand from other partners will be added to BritBox and broadcasters and OTT platforms for local SVOD is an important part of our strategy both will speak to regulators and the wider content with global appeal.
We have and we see it as a real opportunity in the UK.
ITVs net strengthened our portfolio in this area with The UK Pay TV market is worth 6.3billion, investment in BritBox UK will be up to our acquisitions of Tetra and Cattleya in with a further 1.3 billion generated by OTT 25million in 2019, rising to around 2017, both of which are set to have another subscription.
And ITV has less than 1% of the 40million in 2020 and expected to decline strong year in 2019. total pay TV market.
We will be disciplined and ensure at pace, up 20% to 12 million households we deliver a return on this investment that We have a strong pipeline of new and and more households are taking multiple creates value for shareholders.
returning shows and we have already secured subscriptions those 12 million households 100 million more revenue than this time last now have 17million OTT subscriptions.
year which gives us the confidence that we will deliver good revenue growth again in 2019.
12 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Chief Executives Report Investments and cost savings Network to improve diversity at ITV.
BAME that any restrictions are proportionate.
We In order to ensure that ITV has a strong representation is an area of focus going are fully engaged in this process and believe and sustainable future, we have set out forward, particularly at senior level.
that there is a strong, evidence based, case our essential 40 million investment for alternatives to apre-9pm ban.
programme for 2019 which catches us up I enjoy meeting our people across ITV in ontechnology, data, capability and user our Manchester and Leeds operations, in our The Company continues to keep the experience.
As previously announced, this regional news rooms across the UK and, of potential implications of Brexit under will increase to 60 million by 2021.
These course, our studios across the world and review.
Workstreams are in place across will partly be offset by 15 million of cost listening to their views.
That is something the business to identify, manage and savings which will be delivered in 2019, Iwill continue to do going forward.
mitigate the impact across advertising, increasing to a run rate of 35-40 million broadcast licensing, tax, data, copyright and by2021.
Themost significant risk is the likely In 2018 the Government announced the impact on thewider advertising market.
Colleagues Second Chapter in its Obesity strategy.
I want ITV to be an open and inclusive place As part of that there will be a consultation Outlook to work at all times.
We have a number of on the possibility of introducing a 9pm We are very clear on what we need to do strong, active networks which Peter has watershed on TV advertising of HFSS and it requires a relentless focus on delivery already described.
We are working with products and similar protection for children of our strategy, More than TV.
these networks and with others in the viewing adverts online.
The government industry such as the Creative Diversity has committed to explore options to ensure We have started the year with good on-screen and online viewing.
Economic and political uncertainty continues to impact the demand for advertising as we expected, with total advertising forecast to be down 3% to 4% over the first four months.
The first half of the year will also be impacted by tough advertising comparatives particularly in June against the World Cup last year, the investments we are making and the timing of ITV Studios deliveries being weighted to the second half.
We have a solid balance sheet which enables us to make the right decisions to build a future facing and robust business and deliver returns to shareholders.
We remain very focused on delivering in the areas we can control and actively mitigating factors outside the Companys control.
A dening attribute of ITV is its talent whether thats on-screen or off-screen, inthe many areas that support our fantastic programmes from advertising to technology, production to finance, marketing to Direct to Consumer.
2018 has been a particularly busy year Cleaning Up starring Sheridan Smith launched on ITV in January 2019 with over and Iwould like to say a huge thank you six million viewers.
It is their drive and love forwhat they do that will ensure our Emmerdale Experiences from our future success.
Direct to Consumer business offers fans the opportunity to visit the Emmerdale Carolyn McCall Village and enjoy the studio experience.
Chief Executive 13 Strategic Report Investor Proposition ITV has a clear strategy More than TV which is already making significant progress in growing and strengthening ITVcreatively and commercially.
A strong platform Unique market Highly cash fordelivery position generative ITV is an increasingly global and As an IPB, ITV is in a unique position to We believe that with our More than diversied business and no longer create and own world-class content, TV strategy we will continue to be reliant on UK advertising, with more broadcast it on one of the biggest ahighly cash generative business and than half of ITV total revenue coming marketing platforms in the UK and our disciplined approach to cash, costs from non-advertising.
distribute it globally through its and capital gives us a solid balance international network.
sheet and enables us to continue to However, the market is clearly invest across the business in line with changing and we have developed The current market uncertainty our strategic priorities.
avision and strategy More than TV impacts the advertising market and to build upon ITVs unique and winning ITV is sensitive to this.
However, combination of creativity and our on-screen and online viewing commercial strength.
We have clear performance is strong and we Attractive investment priorities and initiatives which we continue to deliver unrivalled audience believe will deliver growth and scale and reach and creative marketing opportunities strengthen ITV to ensure that it is solutions for advertisers as well as well positioned to address the more targeted demographics on the opportunities and challenges of ITV Hub.
With trusted and engaging We have highlighted a number of acompetitive media landscape.
brands ITV is well positioned to create investment opportunities across the Wewill strengthen our high margin value by developing and nurturing business, to strengthen and grow integrated producer broadcaster IPB, direct relationships with our viewers, the business.
A key part of this continue to grow our stable margin where people want to spend money on investment is in data, analytics and Studios business and create a new a range of content and experiences.
technology which we will embed right scaled and profitable Direct to across the business to help drive our Consumer business.
ITV Studios is a strong and scaled strategy.
These investments will partly international production business, be funded by cost savings as we become We have delivered a good operational creating, owning and managing rights a more lean and agile organisation.
performance in 2018, despite the and we will continue to grow in key current economic and political creative markets, driving value from uncertainty, which means we are the strong demand for quality content.
executing the strategy from a position Compelling of strength.
This is the next exciting chapter in ITVs story.
We will compete where shareholder returns we can win domestically where we intend to lead in broadcasting and on demand, and globally as a world-class Reflecting the Boards confidence Studios business.
inthe business and the strategy as wellas the continued strong cash generation, the Board has committed to pay at least an 8.0p dividend per year over the period of investment in 2018 and 2019.
Over the medium term the Board expects the dividend will grow broadly in line with earnings.
52% 88% 8.0p of total revenue is from profit to cash conversion full year dividend proposed non-advertising revenue 2017: 91% by the Board 2017: 7.8p streams 2017: 51% 14 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
