CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW 2018: CONSISTENT SEQUENTIAL QUARTERLY IMPROVEMENT We have done much to position our business to meet the growing needs of our customers in the rapidly developing market of co-working and flexible working and to be well positioned to benefit from clear structural growth drivers.
Consequently, a better indication For IWG, 2018 was in many ways a year of significant change and consistent improvement.
Responding to a tough start to the of the performance of the ongoing business is provided by the year, the actions we took during 2018 ensured our performance revenues generated by our open centres.
On this basis, revenue improved continuously as the months passed, enabling us to increased 13.3%, at constant currency, to 2,483.1m end the year with record sales and enhanced like-for-like results.
Encouragingly, we witnessed the same trend of improving growth, rising steadily through the year from 9.0% ATTRACTIVE INVESTMENT RETURNS in the first quarter to 18.5% constant currency growth in the The improvement in our performance throughout the year fourth quarter with all regions contributing.
has helped to deliver a strong post-tax cash return on net INVESTING IN OUR GLOBAL PLATFORM investment that exceeds the Groups cost of capital.
The post-tax cash return on net growth investment from locations To support the ongoing development of the business and opened on or before 31 December 2013 was 20.6% strengthen our global operating platform we selectively 2017: 19.3%.
Moving the maturity profile of the estate invested in overheads, particularly in our partnering and forward one year to all those locations opened on or before enterprise account activities.
This investment was made within 31 December 2014, the post-tax cash return was 19.8% the strong cost control framework maintained by the Group.
Our post-tax returns are calculated after We also incurred significant costs in respect of the various deducting all net maintenance capital expenditure incurred in approaches for the Group.
Overall, overheads increased the year.
During 2018, as expected, we invested more in net 10% at constant currency from 237.6m to 253.7m.
maintenance capital expenditure to take the opportunity to Notwithstanding the increase in overheads, we maintained refresh some of our existing locations, particularly in the UK.
our industry leading overhead efficiency with overheads as a percentage of revenue down 10bp to 10.0% 2017: 10.1%.
SEQUENTIALLY IMPROVING FINANCIAL After the investment in overheads, together with the start-up PERFORMANCE costs from new centres added during the year and the closure Group revenue increased 9.7% at constant currency to of 118 locations, operating profit declined 8% at constant 2,535.4m.
This performance has been achieved through a currency to 154.1m 2017: 163.2m.
An outcome in line with consistent improvement through the course of the year.
quarter constant currency year-on-year revenue growth was Our growth programme accelerated in 2018 with net growth 6.7%, rising to 7.1% for the half year and to 8.1% for the capital expenditure of 332.0m.
This investment reflects a record nine months to 30 September.
Year-on-year revenue growth level of organic growth and a significant investment in locations achieved in the fourth quarter was 14.3%.
These Group due to open in 2019 resulting from a strong growth pipeline, numbers also include the impact from closures, which has been especially in our Spaces format.
In total we added 299 locations, significant in 2018, with 118 closures, as we continued to only nine of which were acquired, and 6.8m sq.
22 IWG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GROUP INCOME STATEMENT % Change % Change constant actual m 2018 2017 currency currency Revenue 2,535.4 2,352.3 9.7% 7.8% Gross profit centre contribution 409.2 401.6 3% 2% Overheads 253.7 237.6 10% 7% 1 Operating profit 154.1 163.2 8 % 6 % Profit before tax 138.7 149.4 7 % Taxation 33.0 35.4 Profit after tax 105.7 114.0 7 % EBITDA 389.9 376.2 4% 4% 1.
Including joint ventures The Group generated a gross profit of 409.2m 2017: 401.6m, an increase of 3% at constant currency.
This performance is after a significant investment in the new 2018 openings and the impact of closures.
Excluding these factors, the gross profit on the pre-2018 business increased by 17% from 394.6m to 460.0m.
New 18 also includes any costs incurred in 2018 for centres which will open in 2019 We generated 447.4m of EBITDA from the pre-2018 estate, up THE MARKET IN 2018 19%.
Group EBITDA increased 4% at constant currency to Much of this success was due to the strengthened management 389.9m 2017: 376.2m.
These metrics are a good indication team we built during the year, which played a vital role in of the cash generation capability of our business model.
With a helping us drive our improved performance.
I would like to positive working capital inflow of 166.4m and after the record my thanks to everybody involved for their overhead investment noted above, we generated cash of invaluable contribution.
Overall, this was a year of responding positively to challenging We generated cash flow of 259.2m 2017: 215.5m after conditions.
I am particularly pleased with the way in which the increased maintenance capital expenditure, taxation and business successfully addressed some powerful economic finance costs, but before investment in growth capital headwinds in many of the countries where IWG operates.
expenditure, dividends of 53.7m and 40.2m on buying One of the most telling examples was that of Brazil, where back shares.
After the significant investment in these items, recessionary forces continued to impact the country during the Group net debt increased from an opening position of year.
We completely restructured our business there, increasing 296.4m to 460.8m at 31 December 2018.
This represents its size significantly.
Tangible improvements in performance a net debt to EBITDA leverage ratio of 1.2x, thereby continuing were already visible by the end of 2018, and our Brazilian our prudent approach to the Groups capital structure.
At business appears set for a profitable 2019.
We carried out 31 December 2018, we had approximately 140m of freehold similarly successful actions in other countries, continuously property on the balance sheet.
aiming to make decisions that improve our profitability across the Group as we move forward.
23 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW CONTINUED We opened 299 new locations during 2018, 290 of which were THE FORCES ACCELERATING OUR organic openings.
These locations added approximately 6.8m DEVELOPMENT sq.
ft. taking the Groups total space globally to 57.3m sq.
ft. as I am particularly struck that a number of forces that might at 31 December 2018.
Another important focus area was the normally be regarded as barriers to business success have roll-out of our Spaces format.
During 2018 we accelerated counter-intuitively acted as growth accelerators for IWG, our roll-out of the Spaces format with the addition of 103 resulting in the addition of almost 300 locations to our network locations, which represented approximately 56% of the space in 2018. added.
The investment in our Spaces format during 2018 First and foremost, our performance during 2018 demonstrates represented approximately two-thirds of the Group net growth how the uncertainty brought about by economic challenges can capital expenditure.
be a positive force for the Group.
It causes individuals and During 2018, we invested 332.0m of net growth capital businesses alike to value even more highly the benefits of expenditure.
This investment included expenditure on locations flexible workspace allowing companies of all sizes to respond opened before 2018 and to be opened in 2019 of 91.6m, rapidly and decisively to fast-changing conditions.
higher than previous years, primarily reflecting the strong In a similar vein, the new lease accounting standard, IFRS 16, pipeline with which we have entered 2019, most notably in which came into force on 1 January 2019 is already driving our Spaces brand.
significant increases in demand for our services from We finished 2018 strongly, with 95 additions in the fourth enterprises.
IFRS 16s requirement for organisations to quarter.
This momentum has continued, and we have a good recognise assets and liabilities for all leases does not extend to pipeline of new openings already for 2019.
At the end of those with a duration of 12 months or less.
We believe that this February 2019, we had visibility on 2019 net growth capital will focus organisations attention on the commitment of expenditure of approximately 200m, representing material capital investment in long-term leases when property approximately 190 locations and 5.2m sq.
is not their core competence.
A CONTINUING GROWTH STORY In addition, as global market leader, we are even finding that During 2018, we increased our emphasis on partnering.
Being competitor activity is helping our business.
In particular, we able to clearly demonstrate the benefits of customer loyalty has continue to benefit from the marketing and communications contributed to the number of parties signing up to partner with activities of our smaller rivals as they further raise awareness of us, which increased significantly during 2018 to create a very the benefits of co-working and taking a flexible approach to strong forward pipeline.
This helped interest in and demand for co-working rise during the year, and we received record levels Much of this success was also due to the efforts of our growing of enquiries as a direct result.
franchise team, which is set to accelerate our growth further during 2019 as franchising becomes an increasingly important This is far from the only benefit of a competitive market element of our growth strategy.
In 2018 we signed agreements environment.
Competition also forces us to continuously covering the development of 49 locations, taking the total for improve, constantly sharpening our performance across many the Group as at 31 December 2018 to 135 committed locations.
aspects of what we have to offer.
This is how we ensure our We also saw a strong increase in the number of co-owned industry-leading position in areas such as app development, locations across the world as we received unprecedented levels digital interaction with our customers, improving reporting and of interest and commitment from property owners.
During the other tools for enterprise accounts, as we continue to deliver an year, some 33% of our growth was through partnering.
ever more flexible and easier-to-use customer experience.
Our 2018 focus was not just about opening new centres.
We DEVELOPING THE NETWORK also developed our multi-brand strategy which offers a portfolio We reaccelerated the growth of our network and 2018 was a of brands to suit every work style and price point.
Our multirecord year for organic growth.
Increasing the depth and brand portfolio provides unparalleled choice and delivers a breadth of our geographic scope, and addressing different global consistency to provide quality customer experience styles of working and price points, is a major differentiator for across all our brands.
IWG by providing a competitive advantage as well as building further resilience into the business.
We continued to maintain a sharp focus on our investment decision-making process during 2018 and we are seeing the tangible benefit of this discipline in recent years in the development profile of our newer yeargroup cohorts.
24 IWG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS To support our goal of providing our customers with a quality BUILDING OUR BRANDS experience to ensure they have a great day at work, we have Our brand strategy is an important element of our commitment continued to innovate our platform.
We strengthened our to profitable growth.
We recognise that not all our customers industry-leading and highly scalable digital platform to give want exactly the same flexible workspace solutions.
This is even customers an even better experience and access to higher true of different departments within the same organisation.
Our levels of service which they can self-serve.
We launched an multi-brand offer addresses this issue, and during the year we account help desk and provided more centralised call handling.
expanded brands, including No18 and HQ.
We also saw strong We continued to train and develop our people, simultaneously growth in our Regus brand, with 175 new centres, and 103 new providing our customer-facing employees with the 24 7 global locations for our extremely popular Spaces co-working format.
support they need to drive customer retention by focusing SOLID OPERATING PLATFORM exclusively on meeting customer needs.
Critically, all our brands are based on the same solid and highly IMPROVING PERFORMANCE AT CENTRE LEVEL efficient operating platform across more than 110 countries, I am very confident that our centres will continue to perform ensuring that our full range of services is available around the well throughout 2019, as we continue to grow and improve.
Indeed, our highly trained and skilled people working in With more than three decades experience under our belt of tandem with ever-improving digital capabilities are driving running centres profitably, our focus will be on improving the faster and more accurate response to client needs.
performance of all those centres in our network, regardless of This is the bedrock of our business and the primary focus their age.
Where necessary, we will continue to rationalise our for our strategy of continuous improvement across all our network as a means of optimising its performance.
It is also at the heart of our highly efficient operating we are focused on enhancing the profitability of our UK model and tight focus on capital discipline, which enables us business through important investments in both talent and to centralise processes from across our network, drive new network performance.
efficiencies from our scale and ensure that our future growth One of the most powerful ways of achieving this is through is increasingly profitable.
As the world in which we operate This is what is making our ambition to be the most efficient becomes more competitive, they will be an increasingly operator become a reality, enabling our customers to find with important source of advantage by further engaging our clients.
us the best possible quality at the best possible price.
During 2018, we therefore made significant investments in training and reviewed compensation across the organisation.
I am EXPANDING SERVICE PORTFOLIO delighted by their performance during the year and believe there Increasingly, our operating platform is also supporting the is even more to come in 2019 and beyond.
I am also very proud fast-growing universe of ancillary services we offer alongside of their great work to meet the needs of our clients and their office space, which now represents approximately 29% of commitment to supporting the communities where we operate.
I believe that this proportion will continue to rise as we form increasingly close relationships with enterprise ENTERPRISE ACCOUNTS clients seeking a partner capable of delivering an ever-wider We grew our enterprise accounts team during the year, along range of services.
with upgrading our national networks and product offering to meet the growing demand from enterprises.
This is enabling us One area of particular growth during 2018 was our industryto build strategic relationships both nationally and globally.
leading workplace-recovery service, available in more than 1,000 towns and cities worldwide, which grew by almost 50% The opportunity is huge.
As we reported in our 2018 interim during the year.
results, our largest strategic corporate client uses 100 centres in 32 countries.
Many others are using 10 or more centres, both During 2019, we aim to continue introducing further new nationally and in multiple countries.
We believe there are many services to meet the needs of the 2.5m-plus users and members opportunities to develop other relationships of similar scale of our virtual and physical spaces and services across the world.
25 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW CONTINUED PERFORMANCE BY REGION Looking to our financial performance in more detail, mature revenue increased by 4.6% during the year at constant currency, with sequential improvements in each quarter through the year, culminating in an 8.2% year-on-year improvement in the fourth quarter.
This sustained improvement throughout the period was primarily driven by improvements in the Americas and EMEA, which had a particularly strong second half.
Centres open on or before 31 December 2016 6.8% at actual rates for the year.
These growth rates reflect a AMERICAS very strong second half performance with growth accelerating Revenue from open centres increased 12.8% at constant in Q4.
With the improvement in revenue performance, the currency to breach the billion-mark with 1,030.1m.
Total mature gross margin increased from 21.5% to 24.3%.
Mature revenue including closed centres in the Americas increased occupancy increased from 76.6% to 77.0%.
9.8% at constant currency to 1,048.5m up 6.5% at actual rates.
Mature revenue in the region increased 6.6% at constant Reflective of such a diverse region, individual country currency to 961.7m up 3.4% at actual rates, with good performances varied but, overall, the better performance was sequential improvements during the year.
This resulted in a driven by continental Europe.
France had a very strong second strong finish to the year with 8.4% growth in mature revenue half as it benefited from, and grew into, the new inventory at constant currency in the fourth quarter.
Italy and Germany both had better second half performances and Switzerland improved its Average mature occupancy for the region was 75.7% performance as we moved through the year.
Russia is now 2017: 74.3% and there was a good recovery in the gross responding to the actions taken and this helped its second half margin which increased significantly from 17.4% to 21.6%.
There were, however, some more challenging The US, our largest market, continued to build on the first half markets amongst some of the Nordic countries and in parts of performance, with further sequential quarterly improvements the Middle East and Africa.
to finish the year strongly with double-digit constant currency We added 148 new locations in EMEA, including 28 Spaces.
29% revenue growth to generate 883.7m of total revenue and a of these locations were achieved via various partnering deals.
This overall performance in the US At 31 December 2018 we had 1,013 locations across EMEA.
was underpinned by an improving high single digit mature revenue growth.
Our Canadian business started the year where ASIA PACIFIC it finished 2017 with strong double-digit growth in its mature Overall, our Asia Pacific region reported a solid performance.
revenue, ending the year with approximately 17% year-on-year Revenue from all the open centres increased 13.3% at constant mature revenue growth in Q4.
For the total business growth currency to 404.6m.
Total revenue in the region increased exceeded 20% in Q4 and profitability more than doubled.
Our 10.3% at constant currency to 412.2m up 7.6% at actual business in Latin America continued to face challenges, rates and revenue performance was stronger in the second particularly in the larger markets of Brazil and Mexico.
In Brazil, half of the year.
In the Mature business, revenue increased our largest market, we restructured our business by 4.5% at constant currency up 1.9% at actual rates, with a repositioning our estate and re-energised our in-country good Q4 performance of 5.8% growth to finish the year.
We are now starting to see early tangible signs There were good performances from several of the larger of these actions in our Brazilian performance.
Japan had a very strong year with We added 59 new locations during the year, taking the total to double-digit growth across the year in mature revenues.
Almost a Kong came back strongly in 2018 and also delivered doublequarter of these new locations were through partnering deals of digit growth.
The Philippines too reported good revenue growth, various types.
The focus of growth continued to be the US with especially in the first half.
China, after a better start, saw growth the opening of 34 new locations, which increased the total to slow in the second half and the same occurred in Australia, 1,014. while India and Singapore both remained challenged.
EMEA Mature occupancy increased from 71.3% to 72.8% and the Our EMEA business has had a strong year overall.
Revenue from gross margin improved from 19.8% to 20.7%.
all open centres increased 20.7% at constant currency to We added 65 new centres into Asia Pacific, over 46% of these 617.9m.
Total revenue increased 17.1% at constant currency through partnering.
There were 23 Spaces among the new to 630.8m up 16.7% at actual rates.
Mature revenue in the locations, as we roll out this format globally.
As at region increased 7.2% at constant currency to 527.1m up 31 December 2018 we had 683 centres in the region.
26 IWG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UK We delivered record organic growth in 2018 Our UK business has faced challenges which has affected its and invested in the building blocks for 2019 financial performance.
We are focused on reversing this situation.
We are taking actions to stimulate long-term and through our actions we continue to profitable growth through a programme of significant deliver an ever more streamlined and repositioning and investment, both in terms of estate and scalable business model.
We remain optimistic about the UK market, a view reinforced by the performance of the centres that we have added during 2017 and 2018.
We are now seeing initial evidence that these actions are now manifesting themselves in locations we added during 2017 and 2018, across our range of improved performance.
In markets where we have Revenue from all the open centres increased 5.2% to 425.6m.
faced challenges, we have taken decisive action to bring our Total revenue including closed centres was broadly unchanged performance back on track with selective closures, refurbishing at 439.0m 2017: 440.0m.
Revenue from the Mature locations we wish to retain, adding exciting new locations to the business in the UK declined 3.5% to 376.5m.
This reflects an network and investing in the customer service skills of our improvement in the second half, with revenue increasing 2.8% people.
We are starting to see the benefits of these initiatives.
There are however global macro-economic and geo-political uncertainties in various parts of the world, which makes it In addition to adding new inventory into the UK market, sensible to develop the business with some caution.
We refurbishing those where we want to retain a presence and continue to invest in and develop our partnering activities selective closures in order to move back to the desired which will allow us to deliver more growth with less capital performance levels, we have taken the opportunity to invest in intensity on our balance sheet.
our people and their training.
In the near term this investment has increased our cost base in the UK ahead of the initial We remain very confident in our industry and its structural revenue recovery.
The resultant increased reduction in gross growth drivers and the strength of our position in the industry profit has reduced the mature margin from 19.3% to 13.1%.
with a growing, profitable and cash generative proven business These were, however, the right actions to have taken.
The Board remains confident in our prospects for the occupancy reduced from 71.6% to 68.8%.
year ahead and the trading outlook for 2019 remains in line with managements expectations.
We added 27 new locations in the UK, including 15 new Spaces locations.
Over 40% of the new locations were via partnering agreements.
In addition to adding high quality new centres into MARK DIXON our UK business we have been actively repositioning the CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER existing estate by increased selective investment and, where appropriate, closing locations.
We had 326 locations in the UK 6 March 2018 at 31 December 2018.
OUTLOOK We have done much to position our business to meet the growing needs of our customers in the rapidly developing market of co-working and flexible working and to be well positioned to benefit from clear structural growth drivers.
We delivered record organic growth in 2018 and invested in the building blocks for 2019 and through our actions we continue to deliver an ever more streamlined and scalable business model.
We will continue to invest in our business model and, in a disciplined manner, further invest in our network scale and our multi-brand strategy in the years ahead.
Our investment in developing our partnering capabilities will be a key enabler of the way that we want to deliver this growth.
As well as having a strong pipeline of IWG-owned locations for 2019, we are seeing increasing momentum in our partnering approach with counterparties wanting to operate our brands across a wide geographic spectrum.
We remain focused on profitable growth, delivering attractive returns and monetising our leading global network.
To achieve this, we will have a strong focus on margin improvement and a continuation of our drive for greater efficiency, from good cost discipline and the scale benefits deriving from our global platform.
With the continued investment in the building blocks of our business and with the momentum generated through the year, we have had a strong start to 2019.
The positive trends in global sales activity have strengthened the order book.
