12 Strategic Report Priority 1 Further enhance our differentiated food offer stores so that customers can shop quickly and conveniently.
We are taking a disciplined Our strategic focus is to help our customers approach to investing in stores, focusing on to live well for less, putting quality first and areas which matter most to customers.
We have been reducing cost from our endto-end supply chain, working collaboratively with our suppliers to buy better for less.
Slow Cook range has become the market Food has been the core of our This has enabled us to invest a further leader since its launch two years ago.
150 million in the price of 930 essential items business since 1869 and our The growth of these new food innovations so customers can be confident that they are customers trust in the quality shows customers trust both our high quality getting great prices as well as great quality.
More people standards and our commitment to using the are shopping with us than ever We are proposing to change the way we best ingredients while offering low prices.
operate in stores and online.
Improved before and our share of customer We are using space innovatively in our larger systems are making us faster and more transactions has increased.
supermarkets by partnering, often exclusively, efficient with a simpler store management with premium brands such as Godiva Belgian structure that will empower colleagues and Our strategic focus is to help our customers chocolates, available in 500 stores, and improve service.
to live well for less, putting quality first Patisserie Valerie, whose gateaux and pastries and investing in our ranges.
This year Convenience and Groceries Online continue are popular with customers.
Customers can we improved 128 food ranges, covering to be strong drivers of growth, with sales up buy the cakes over the counter in 31 stores, 60 per cent of our food sales.
nearly eight per cent and nearly seven per cent or order ahead for collection in an additional respectively.
Around 70 per cent of sales We are particularly strong in ranges where 13 stores.
We work with selected concession through our convenience channel have been we offer customers quality and convenience partners to maximise our use of space and improved by ranging and merchandising as well as great value, such as Taste the help make Sainsburys an attractive retail activity.
Sales through Convenience stores Difference, Deliciously FreeFrom and On the destination.
We have 59 Sushi Gourmet and stand at around 2.7 billion.
The strong trend towards gourmet quality Sushi Daily counters, as well as two Crussh fresh now offers Same Day delivery to 40 per cent ready meals led us to launch our Supper Club food and juice bars.
Across our supermarket of the UK population out of 102 stores and range in February and our restaurant quality estate we are improving the layouts of our Our strategy in action Improving the way we work Innovative partnerships We are proposing to change Our great quality own-brand food the way we operate in stores ranges, combined with carefully and online.
Improved systems selected food brands, gives make us faster and more customers more choice.
We sell efficient and a simpler store Godiva Belgian chocolates in 500 management structure will stores and online.
empower colleagues and improve service.
9.20 44 Proposed market-leading stores sell Patisserie Valerie rate of pay cakes, including Click & Collect Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Strategic Report J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 13 Product quality Availability Sales growth We know customers value quality when Offering our customers the products they Customers are choosing to shop across deciding where to shop and it is therefore want ensures they have a good shopping channels and are using Convenience important for us to be ranked strongly experience.
This makes availability very and Online more frequently, leading to a in relation to the quality perception of important.
We measure availability daily decline in supermarket sales.
It is therefore our brand.
and have a minimum standard we expect important that we invest strategically so to achieve.
that we can serve our customers whenever, Definition: Our rank is based on a sample however and wherever they want.
of approximately 1,000 consumers who Definition: Minimum standards have rated the product quality of Sainsburys, been exceeded.
Definition: Year-on-year growth of total Tesco, Morrisons and Asda.
sales, including VAT, excluding fuel.
2016 17 2017 18 2015 16 2016 17 2017 18 Supermarkets Supermarkets Supermarkets % st st st 2015 16 1.6 1 1 1 Convenience Convenience 2016 17 1.8 Price perception 2017 18 0.5 Our new pricing strategy of regular Online Online lower prices reassures customers that Convenience % they can always get a good price, on and off promotion.
2015 16 9.3 Definition: See above Customer service 2016 17 6.5 2015 16 2016 17 2017 18 Our colleagues make the difference by 2017 18 7.5 delivering great customer service.
We th th th monitor this every fortnight with a Mystery 4 4 4 Shopper programme which measures the Online % service level of the three main components Sales growth Food 2015 16 8.8 of the customer shopping experience.
Food is our core business and growing our Definition: Minimum standards have been 2016 17 8.2 General Merchandising and Clothing and exceeded in all three of the main components Financial Services businesses is an important 2017 18 6.8 of the customer shopping experience.
We know that our customers value greater choice and that 2016 17 2017 18 there is a firm correlation between increased Supermarkets Supermarkets loyalty and spend across our whole offer when customers buy into these categories.
Gold Gold Definition: Year-on-year growth of total Convenience Convenience sales, including VAT.
Gold Gold Food % 2015 16 0.5 2016 17 0.5 2017 18 2.0 our Chop Chop one hour delivery service Our colleagues continue to deliver excellent operates from seven stores in central London.
customer service and we have won Online grocery orders can also be collected The Grocer Gold Awards for Service and from over 100 stores.
A new picking system, Availability for the past five years.
We are handsets and software have driven a proposing to invest 100 million to award 15 per cent improvement in pick-rate and store colleagues a market-leading rate of we are achieving delivery punctuality of pay of 9.20 from September 2018, along 97 per cent.
Our popular Groceries Online with revised terms and conditions which app now accounts for around 20 per cent will ensure consistency and fairness in of food orders.
We recognise that a small minority of colleagues will be adversely impacted Our acquisition of Nectar allows us to explore by these proposals and have committed innovative new ways to reward customer to additional payments for a period of loyalty and supports our strategy of knowing 18 months for all those affected.
our customers better than anyone else.
We were pleased to welcome our Nectar colleagues to the Group in February.
