08 Strategic Report Our colleagues deliver outstanding service to our customers every day and through their hard work and Q&A commitment we were awarded The Grocer Gold Awards for Service and Availability for the fifth consecutive year.
Group Chief Executive Officer, Mike Coupe, Mike Coupe sums up a year of change and strategic Group Chief Executive Officer progress at Sainsburys.
2017 18 highlights 589m 31,735m Underlying profit Group sales inc VAT before tax 540m 113m Cost savings over Reduction in net debt three years to 2017 18 Combining with Asda would bring together the three successful and trusted retail brands of Sainsburys, Argos and Asda.
Together, we would create a retail business with over 2,800 stores, 330,000 colleagues and more than 47 million transactions each week.
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Strategic Report J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 09 in price, quality and the technology to create How would you sum up years final dividend is 7.1 pence per share, more flexible ways to shop.
The combined bringing the full-year dividend to 10.2 pence the past year?
business would be more dynamic, more per share.
It has been a year of positive change adaptable, more resilient and an even greater and innovation in our business.
We have What is happening with contributor to the UK economy.
consolidated our position of being an Sainsburys Bank?
attractive retail destination, offering Creating a structurally stronger business Sainsburys Bank grew profits, primarily customers a wide variety of products and would be good news for shareholders too.
reflecting the full consolidation of Argos services whenever and wherever they want.
We expect to generate net synergies of at Financial Services during the year.
While least 500 million, post reinvestment in our Food remains at the heart of our business we anticipate further trading growth in the customer offer, with double digit earnings per and our focus is on giving customers a clearly year ahead, we expect unsecured lending share accretion and low double digit return differentiated offer, wide choice, improved margins to reduce further in a competitive on invested capital, by the second full-year quality and great value.
In addition, we market and have decided to take a cautious post completion.
are working on the biggest retail change approach to unsecured lending.
Combined programme we have ever undertaken, with new accounting standards and interest Combining with Asda would bring together transforming the way we work in our stores.
payments on the external capital we raised the three successful and trusted retail brands We propose to meet the challenges of a in November, we expect bank profits to of Sainsburys, Argos and Asda.
Together constantly changing, competitive retail reduce significantly next year.
we would create a retail business with over environment by simplifying our structures 2,800 stores, 330,000 colleagues and more and operations and investing more in Why are you optimistic?
than 47 million transactions each week.
technology to make us more efficient and Our values underpin everything we do, Having worked at Asda for eight years and at to improve service to our customers.
differentiate us from our competitors and Sainsburys for over 13 years I understand the make strong commercial sense.
Im proud culture and the businesses well and believe We have continued to integrate Argos that 78 per cent of colleagues believe that they are the best possible fit.
Combining the in to our business and have accelerated the decisions we make are in line with two will create real value for shareholders, is our programme to open Argos stores in Sainsburys values.
a great deal for customers and suppliers and Sainsburys supermarkets.
They are popular will create more opportunities for colleagues.
with our customers, perform well and we We have the right strategy in place, an expect to open around 90 more in 2018 19 experienced leadership team and talented, Are you pleased with the bringing the total to around 280 by end dedicated colleagues who are focused performance of the Group?
Argos is a key part of the In a challenging retail market, Group sales Group and the rapid, successful roll-out of Our colleagues deliver outstanding service were 31,735 million, up nine per cent on Argos stores in Sainsburys supermarkets to our customers every day and through last year.
Group like-for-like sales were up is a great example of how teams their hard work and commitment we were 1.3 per cent.
We saw a strong performance are working together brilliantly awarded The Grocer Gold Awards for Service from our Food business, with transactions across the business to deliver and Availability for the fifth consecutive year.
growing ahead of the market and increased for customers.
Our acquisition We are proposing to invest 100 million to margins, driven by improved quality and of the Nectar loyalty card award store colleagues a market-leading innovative ranges.
Our Convenience and scheme supports our strategy rate of pay from September, along with Groceries Online channels were also strong of knowing our customers revised terms and conditions which will drivers of growth, with sales increases better than anyone else and ensure consistency and fairness in contracts.
of nearly eight per cent and nearly I was pleased to welcome We recognise that a small minority of seven per cent respectively.
our Nectar colleagues to the colleagues will be adversely impacted by Group in February.
Looking Our General Merchandise and Clothing these proposals and have committed to to the future, I believe business, now combined with Argos, is additional payments for a period of 18 months that the combination of performing ahead of the market.
Tu clothing for all those affected.
Our industry-leading Sainsburys and Asda will is nearly a 1 billion revenue business and pay award follows three consecutive years of create a great deal for can now be ordered from the Argos website giving eligible store colleagues a four per cent customers, colleagues, for home delivery or to collect from over pay increase in recognition of their hard work suppliers and 1,000 Argos stores and collection points and dedication.
This brings the total increase shareholders and I am across the UK.
in the base rate to 30 per cent over the past truly excited about four years.
the opportunities I am pleased that underlying profit before ahead and what tax has grown to 589 million, driven by our Why does it make sense to we can achieve focus on simplifying our business, driving combine Sainsburys with Asda?
We have I have been working in the retail industry exceeded our 500 million, three-year cost for over 30 years and the industry is saving target by 40 million and we will changing faster than ever customers deliver at least 500 million of cost savings have more choice and are shopping around over the next three years to 2020 21.
I believe this is a have also reduced net debt by 113 million transformational opportunity to create a to 1.4 billion and we are targeting a further dynamic new UK retail player, designed to 100 million reduction in net debt in the be more competitive and to give customers Mike Coupe coming year.
We have strong cash generation more of what they want now and in the Group Chief Executive Officer with free cash flow of 432 million.
It will give us the scale to invest more with our affordable dividend policy, this 10 Strategic Report J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 Proposed combination of J Sainsbury plc and Asda Group Limited The Combined Business will create a dynamic new player in UK retail with an outstanding breadth of products, delivered through multiple channels.
Enhanced scale and a strengthened balance sheet will deliver a great deal for customers, colleagues, suppliers and shareholders of both businesses.
The retail sector is going through significant and rapid change, as customer shopping habits continue to evolve.
This has led to increased competition across grocery, general merchandise and clothing, as customers seek ever greater value, choice and convenience.
Key facts Best possible fit 51bn Revenues 2,800 Stores Shared colleague Highly complementary Sharing technology 47m culture and values store locations and sizes and developments Weekly transactions 330,000 Colleagues A great deal for everyone For the UK economy For shareholders For colleagues 1 One of the largest employers 500m net synergies Opportunities in larger, more and taxpayers resilient Group Double digit earnings per 2 share growth Security for pension holders For suppliers Stronger balance sheet Opportunities for growth and streamlined supply chains For customers Aim to reduce the price of everyday items by around ten per cent Develop differentiated product ranges 1 Post price reinvestment.
2 By second full year post completion.
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Strategic Report J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 11 Combining Sainsburys and Asda will enable both businesses to sharpen and strengthen their existing customer propositions.
Walmart will be a long-term shareholder and partner and will leverage its global scale and investment to support the Combined This is a transformational opportunity to create Business.
Upon completion, two Walmart representatives will join a new player in UK retail, which will be more the Board of the Combined Business as Non-Executive Directors.
competitive and give customers more of what they want now and in the future.
It will create a The Combined Business will be chaired by the Sainsburys Chairman and led by the Sainsburys CEO and CFO.
Asda will continue to be business that is more dynamic, more adaptable, run from Leeds with its own CEO, who will join the Group Operating more resilient and an even bigger contributor to Board of the Combined Business.
Having worked at Asda before Sainsburys, I understand the culture and the The Combined Business would be run by the best leaders from businesses well and believe they are the best both businesses, supported by highly capable Sainsburys and possible fit.
This will create a great deal for Asda colleagues.
customers, colleagues, suppliers and shareholders and I am excited about the opportunities ahead andwhat wecan achieve together.
Mike Coupe Group Chief Executive Officer Highly complementary geographic coverage Combining Sainsburys strength in London, the Midlands, the South of England and Northern Ireland with Asdas strength in the North of England, Scotland and Wales.
1 1 Sainsburys Asda Scotland Northern Ireland North Midlands Wales East London South Areas of strong Sainsburys coverage Areas of strong Asda coverage 1 S trong coverage analysis based on Kantar data.
