J ames F isher and S ons plc A nnual R eport and A ccounts 2018 Chief Executives review Nick Henry, Chief Executive Of cer Deliver progressive long-term growth in Deliver progressive dividend growth underlying earnings per share 2018 89.5 2018 31.6 28.7 2017 78.7 2017 2016 26.2 2016 76.3 2015 23.8 2015 68.5 2014 2014 22.0 74.0 Underlying earnings per share p Total annual dividend per share p Underlying diluted earnings per share has grown over the The Groups dividend policy is progressive by reference to last ten years by a compound rate of 10%.
underlying growth and dividend cover.
Dividends have grown by a compound rate of 9% over the last ten years and every year in each of the last 24 years.
Carrying out our marine service operations to a high degree of safety Principal corporate objectives and integrity is the Groups top priority and the first agenda item Our goal is to deliver sustainable long-term growth in underlying on every business board meeting.
The safety performance of our earnings per share and progressive dividend growth.
In the last ten operations at sea has continued to be at an industry leading level.
years, underlying earnings per share and dividends have grown The Groups lost time incident frequency LTIF, which measures the by compound annual rates of 10% and 9% respectively.
In 2018 number of lost time incidents per million working hours, reduced to underlying earnings per share grew by 14% 2017: 7% and the total 0.04 2017: 0.1. annual dividend per share grew by 10% 2017: 10%.
Progress against the Groups strategy page 9 is measured by Strategic progress reference to financial and nonfinancial key performance indicators During the year the Group has extended its presence in, and the set out on page 21.
Revenue was 13% higher in the year ended range of services provided to, the offshore wind industry.
In June 31December 2018 at 561.5m with increases across all four we completed the contract, worth in excess of 30m, to provide divisions.
After adjusting revenue for the effect of changes in an integrated package of marine support services to the Galloper currency and businesses acquired, organic revenue growth was windfarm, and work has commenced on marine support services for 12%, which was due to good growth in renewables, ship-to-ship other offshore windfarms being constructed in the UK.
services and some recovery in the oil and gas sector.
Underlying Our long-term strategic aim has been to position the Group to operating margins increased 20 basis points to 11.0% 2017: provide an integrated package of maintenance and inspection 10.8%.
services to the offshore wind industry.
In October, three contracts The Groups cash conversion, which measures the proportion of were signed with London Array, which was until recently the largest underlying operating pro t that is turned into operating cash, was in the world with 175 turbines and 630 mega-watt output.
The 157% 2017: 57% re ecting the reversal of the working capital contracts are for topside maintenance, subsea services, including invested in the last two years to assemble and deliver two submarine inspection of the substation and all wind turbine generators, and high rescue vessels to the Indian navy.
The Groups post-tax return on voltage and cable maintenance and inspection services.
This involves capital employed, which is our key indicator of shareholder value, EDS, the specialist high voltage engineering services company which increased to 12.2% 2017: 12.0%.
was acquired in December 2017 and has a market-leading capability in high voltage offshore installation, cable monitoring and repairs.
4 J ames F isher and S ons plc A nnual R eport and A ccounts 2018 In June we were awarded a 10 - year integrated marine services contract to supply offshore terminal support services for the UK operations of an international energy company.
Supporting the safe and ef cient of oading operations at an offshore terminal on The London Array wind farm is located in the Outer Thames the east coast of England, the activities include assisting in the safe Estuary midway between the Kent and Essex coastlines, arrival, connection, and departure of around 110 third party tankers more than 12 miles from each shore.
Following a successful each year, and specialist diving services and buoy maintenance.
tender process for operations and maintenance contracts, The Group is the global leader in the design and operation of James Fisher Marine Services JFMS has secured three submarine rescue systems.
Services are currently run for the contracts on the 175 turbine, 630 MW windfarm.
UK NATO, Singapore and Australian navies.
In 2018, our business, JFMS has been awarded five year contracts to provide JFD, delivered two of our third generation, free-swimming submarine topside balance of plant services, subsea services including rescue vessels to the Indian navy under a contract worth 193m and inspection of the substation and all wind turbine generators in 2020 we will commence a 25-year service agreement to manage and high voltage HV managemen t services.
the rescue service and maintain the vessels.
EDS, acquired by James Fisher in December 2017, JFD is also an industry leader in the design and delivery of high will manage London Arrays HV network, including the quality diving equipment to the military and commercial diving associated offshore transmission owner assets, on a roundmarkets.
In 2018 our Cobra bailout rebreather for the commercial the-clock basis through its Belfast-based control centre.
This increases safety standards and is becoming the standard for the industry, and recently won the subsea industry award for Innovation in Safety.
Our Stealth Clearance Diver In November, and under at times challenging weather conditions, Life Support Equipment CDLSE rebreather, currently deployed JFD partnered with the Royal Australian Navy to conduct the by 11 navies with over 600 sets in use, was upgraded to enable annual Black Carillon exercise which tests Australias submarine the control system to rapidly respond to changes in the life support rescue system in a series of scenarios designed to replicate a system and to signi cantly increase dive duration time from six real-life submarine rescue emergency.
Importantly, the exercises to eight hours.
These rebreathers are used primarily for mine demonstrated the world-class capability of the fully-integrated countermeasures explosive ordnance disposal and represent a new system that JFD provides to the Australian Government which benchmark in underwater life support technology, increasing levels includes a submarine rescue vehicle, a  of diver safety, equipment reliability, maintainability, operational chamber and a hyperbaric equipment suite to ensure that capability and mission versatility.
submariners receive the best possible medical treatment once they Our nuclear decommissioning business, JF Nuclear, has been are back on the waters surface.
investing in a brand new range of radiation protection instruments We invested further in our submarine rescue services in Australia that are designed to be robust, reliable and easy to use and provide with the acquisition of Cowan which is based near Newcastle accurate and actionable data.
These new products which monitor in New South Wales.
This designs and manufactures lifesaving site contamination and give clearances where appropriate, are recompression and hyperbaric chambers.
supported with comprehensive through-life support.
5 SS TRA TRA TEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPOR T T J ames F isher and S ons plc A nnual R eport and A ccounts 2018 Chief Executives r eview c ontinued The strategy for our Tankships division continues to be to provide Marine Support revenue was 18% higher driven by strong capacity to match the demands from our customers for distribution organic growth from across all the sectors in which the division contracts around the UK, Irish and north European coasts.
In addition, EDS was acquired in December 2017 which mature and cash generative business.
In 2018 some of this strong provides high voltage services to the offshore wind industry in the cash generation was used to refresh the age pro le of the eet.
Two installation, monitoring and repairs of cables.
vessels were acquired in 2018 for 10.6m.
The Dee Fisher, named Revenue from offshore renewables increased by over 30%.
The after the Aberdeenshire river and the Corrib Fisher, named after the first half of the year saw the completion of the two-year Galloper River Corrib which ows into Galway Bay, are both classi ed as IMO Windfarm project 27 miles off the coast of Suffolk, UK.
In the 2 chemical tankers designed to carry clean petroleum products and second half of the year work commenced on the East Anglia One certain chemicals.
wind farm construction which will continue into 2020.
In Offshore Oil, our arti cial lift business, which provides mechanical Our renewables business has established itself as the leading and electrical services for oil production, had a strong year with integrated marine services provider to the offshore wind sector revenue well ahead of 2017.
The degree of market recovery in the and the award of three five-year contracts for London Array were other businesses was mixed.
Our Norwegian business, ScanT ech AS, our first signi cant maintenance awards.
bene ted from an improvement in the rig maintenance market but Ship-to-ship transfer operations around the world continued to well testing remained at.
perform well with further growth in the number of operations in Since the year end, the Group acquired Martek Holdings Limited Brazil and the commencement of operations in Chile.
The order Martek for an initial consideration of 9m.
Martek, which is book for diving and pipeline maintenance contracts in the Middle headquartered in the UK with an of ce in Singapore, provides a East and Africa grew signi cantly but was offset by government range of innovative safety and calibration systems and products contracts in South Africa being delayed or cancelled.
to the marine sector and aligns with the similar businesses in the Mass ow excavation services completed 36 projects around the Group.
After establishing our Subtech business in country, the globe in 2018, of which around one third were in the offshore Group acquired a 60% interest in Murjan, a Saudi Arabian based wind sector.
Improved market conditions in the oil and gas sector, company, which provides near-shore marine services, for an initial which has been slow since the oil and gas down-turn at the end consideration of 4.1m.
of 2014 were evidenced by five projects completed in the Gulf of The Groups senior leadership team held their annual meeting in Mexico in the second half of 2018.
September to discuss strategic plans for their businesses and for the Specialist Technical 2018 2017 Group over the medium-term.
Our senior team was strengthened in Marine Support during the year from a combination of internal Revenue m 159.6 149.6 promotion and external recruitment.
Succession planning is one Underlying operating pro t m 20.9 18.8 of the key challenges identi ed by the Board and delegated to the Executive Directors to manage.
The Group continues to have a good Underlying operating margin 13.0% 12.6% track record of retaining key management post acquisition and plans Return on capital employed 18.5% 18.5% are in place for business leaders who may retire in the next two to three years.
Revenue in Specialist Technical was 7% higher in 2018 and underlying operating pro t 11% higher with underlying operating Divisional performance margins 40 basis points higher at 13%.
The on schedule assembly and delivery of two submarine rescue vessels during Marine Support 2018 2017 the year supported another strong year for the division.
We were pleased to announce a further submarine rescue vessel order in Revenue m 279.7 236.3 October worth 30m for the South Korean navy due for delivery Underlying operating pro t m 29.0 25.3 in 2021.
Underlying operating margin 10.4% 10.7% Return on capital employed 17.3% 16.5% 6 J ames F isher and S ons plc A nnual R eport and A ccounts 2018 Offshore Oil 2018 2017 Revenue m 61.5 56.4 Underlying operating pro t m 5.1 3.6 Underlying operating margin 8.3% 6.4% Return on capital employed 4.3% 3.0% Offshore Oil increased revenue 9% and underlying operating pro t grew 42% mainly due to market share gains in RMSpumptools, our arti cial lift completion technology business, where demand for its products, increased its revenue by nearly half.
The rest of the division saw improved pro tability in Norway, partly due to cost reductions in prior years and increased higher margin rental activity.
Well testing services were similar to 2017 and the division invested 6.4m for new business, mainly The SEAL Carrier Swimmer Delivery Vehicles are unique focused on opportunities in the Middle East.
defence products manufactured by JFD in Sweden.
Tankships 2018 2017 An eight person SEAL Carrier Swimmer Delivery Vehicle has applications including the delivery of a six person Revenue m 60.7 57.0 combat team, as a harbour patrol vessel, a raid response anti-piracy craft and a host platform for autonomous Underlying operating pro t m 9.9 8.8 underwater vehicles.
Underlying operating margin 16.3% 15.4% SEAL Carrier Swimmer Delivery Vehicles operate in three Return on capital employed 37.8% 34.2% modes: surface, semi-submerged and submerged.
They can transit at speeds of up to 30 knots on the surface Tankships produced another strong year with revenue up 7% and before switching to submerged mode for covert final underlying operating pro t up 13%.
to be strong throughout 2018 and the division had one additional vessel from July compared to the prior year.
Improved vessel During 2018 JFD won and commenced a contract to supply operating ef ciencies and additional capacity in the second half six SEAL Carriers worth approximately 20m.
helped to increase underlying operating pro t to 9.9m 2017: 8.8m.
Two second hand vessels were acquired for a total of 10.6m as part of the eet renewal strategy leaving three further vessels The division won its first signi cant order for six swimmer delivery vessels in March 201 8.
It commenced a mid-life upgrade to be refreshed over the next few years.
The divisions operating cash ow in the year was 14.9m 2017: 12.5m which more of the submarine rescue equipment for the Singapore navy supporting our long-term contract to operate its submarine than funded its capital expenditure of 13.2m 2017: 2.4m.
Our nuclear decommissioning business continued to develop its range of radiation protection instruments.
It showed a steadily improving order book as an increasing number of decommissioning projects were released for tender compared to 2017.
7 SS TRA TRA TEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPOR T T
