John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2018 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW I am pleased to report that in 2018 we maintained our track record of strong results.
Our NAV per share including dividends paid grew by 18.2% and, since our IPO in early 2015, has grown by 15.8% compound per annum.
In March 2018, we launched a 1 for 3 Rights Issue raising Outlook for our markets 210.5 million, net of costs.
The purpose of the Rights Issue The overall outlook for private investment into new public was to enable the Group to take advantage of a higher number infrastructure markets remains strong even if political and of the opportunities available to it, consistent with the Boards regulatory landscapes mean that some of the best opportunities intention to increase the scale of the business over the will not necessarily come from our existing markets or sectors.
We are taking advantage of our flexible investment model to focus on new countries and sectors and in so doing reduce our In the Rights Issue prospectus, the Directors stated their belief, exposure to local public policy uncertainty.
subject to the specific investment commitments entered into with the proceeds of the Rights Issue and the timing thereof, As we have said before, our view is that, while the need for new that the Rights Issue should be accretive to NAV per share infrastructure is affected by many factors and trends including adjusted accordingly within two years, compared to the position GDP, the biggest driver comes from a combination of population without it.
Our NAV per share performance for the year ended growth, urbanisation and climate change.
Other contributory 31 December 2018 is consistent with this statement.
factors include governmental policy towards regulation and investment, the demand for energy and the availability of capital, The Rights Issue has given us the expanded capital base we both private and public sector.
And a trend common to all these needed to continue our international growth.
In addition, the factors is a strong push for new infrastructure to be sustainable, management reorganisation around our three core regions not just from an environmental and financial perspective, but North America, Asia Pacific and Europe has allowed us to also in terms of future resilience.
continue to scale up our business model through a transfer of responsibility for value creation to each regional team, while These factors and trends apply to each of the infrastructure all the time retaining reinforced oversight at Group level for sectors in which we invest: investment and divestment decisions and risk management.
transport and transport-related infrastructure, such as roads, The financial highlights of the year included: tunnels, bridges and rail assets including rolling stock : Strong value creation: NAV per share of 323p per share environmental infrastructure, such as renewable energy at 31 December 2018, a 15.0% increase since 31 December including wind and solar, biomass, water treatment and 2017 281p per share as adjusted for the Rights Issue : waste management: and 18.2% increase in NAV per share, including dividends social infrastructure, such as schools, hospitals, university paid in 2018: accommodation, stadiums, social housing and justice and other public sector buildings.
New investment commitments of 302.0 million 2017 382.9 million : The need for new infrastructure is evident in many parts of the world, both because existing infrastructure is not keeping pace Realisations of 296.1 million from the sale of three with the changes brought about by the above trends, but also investments 2017 289.0 million : because the infrastructure market as a whole has historically Profit before tax of 296.6 million compared to seen under-investment.
Infrastructure matters to people and 126.0 million in 2017: businesses everywhere.
Cash yield from investment portfolio of 33.8 million Coupled with the pressures on public sector finances, this 2017 40.2 million : and background provides a strong incentive for the growing use of PPPs for greenfield infrastructure.
As well as access to private Final dividend of 7.7p per share, giving a total 2018 capital, PPPs enable governmental and other public sector dividend of 9.5p per share, an increase of 6.5% from 2017. bodies to benefit from fixed price arrangements which transfer very significant risks to the private sector, especially design, construction and operational delivery risks.
06 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Pipeline of investment opportunities at 31 December 2018 2.4 billion In each of the three regions where we currently operate, our Asia Pacific: we remain very active in the Australian PPP teams benefit from a healthy pipeline of future opportunities.
We expect to be working on a number of PPP For the first time, our pipeline also includes a small number of projects in 2019 which should reach financial close in 2020. opportunities in Latin America and we are also looking at some The longer term pipeline also looks promising, particularly potential projects in South East Asia.
in the transportation sector, driven by the significant growth predicted in the populations of both Melbourne and Sydney.
Many of these opportunities arise through our strong In renewable energy, we have continued to benefit from the relationships with international partners, including construction impetus given to the market by the Federal Renewable companies, rolling stock manufacturers and renewable energy Energy Target and we made several investments in 2018 in developers.
These partners see the benefits of working with both wind and solar farms.
John Laing because of our track record, our credentials, our construction heritage and, in particular, our ability to devote Europe: three of the 10 shortlisted PPP positions are for experienced asset management resource to projects, especially potential investments in Europe.
The market for new where not everything is going according to plan.
On several infrastructure projects is currently subdued especially in occasions, we have invested alongside the same international some of the larger countries, including the UK.
Even if the partner in more than one project across different jurisdictions need for new investment is clear, it will probably take some and in different sectors this is an endorsement of the strength time for a new sizeable pipeline to develop.
we are currently bidding for road projects in the Netherlands and for the Silvertown Tunnel project in the UK, a planned We entered 2019 with a strong pipeline of 1,543 million of additional crossing under the Thames near London City PPP opportunities looking out three years as well as nearer Airport.
Our European team is also looking at opportunities term renewable energy opportunities of 830 million.
Within in Poland, where we have invested successfully in the past, the PPP pipeline, we have positions in 10 shortlisted PPP and in Israel, which has an active pipeline of transport and consortiums, representing a total potential investment of renewable energy projects.
The latter would be a new approximately 320 million.
country for us: as part of our assessment of Israeli opportunities, we have taken a decision not to invest in any North America: seven of the 10 shortlisted PPP positions projects located in disputed territory.
are for potential investments in North America.
We have maintained strong momentum following our breakthrough Our pipeline also includes two potential projects in Colombia, year in the US in 2017 and invested further in 2018 in PPP which has recently joined the OECD, and where there is a projects in Massachusetts and Michigan as well as in five substantial PPP programme, particularly in the transportation solar farms in North Carolina.
In the US, public sector sector.
We are looking at these opportunities in conjunction with procurement for greenfield infrastructure, including PPP, partners we have worked with before and we are confident that takes place predominantly at state or city, rather than a secondary market for operational infrastructure assets in federal, level.
Consistent with the above drivers of population Colombia will develop in the coming years.
growth and urbanisation, all the states containing major metropolitan areas have some form of PPP-enabling We also continually assess other infrastructure asset classes legislation.
State policy is also a key driver for the US that might fit our business model.
Among the most promising renewable energy market.
A majority of states have adopted is broadband, as governments in both Europe and North renewable energy targets and, in addition, many states America seek to make high speed networks accessible to maintain a commitment to the Paris Climate Accord.
07 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2018 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW CONTINUED Business model Our asset management activities focus on management and reduction of project risks, especially during the construction Our business model has two key areas of activity: phase, together with enhancement of project cash flows.
The Primary Investment: we source, originate, bid for and win latter involves identifying and implementing value enhancement greenfield infrastructure projects, typically as part of a initiatives that can increase future cash flows to project investors consortium in the case of PPP projects.
Our Primary compared to the cash flows originally forecast at the start of the Investment portfolio comprises interests in infrastructure project.
We look at a wide range of such value enhancements, projects which are in the construction phase.
Once the for example: projects reach the end of construction and move into the Optimisation of SPV management costs and project insurance operational phase, the investments become part of our premiums through bulk purchasing or efficiency gains: Secondary Investment portfolio.
Optimisation of major maintenance and asset renewal costs Asset Management: we actively manage our own Primary over the life of an infrastructure project: and and Secondary Investment portfolios and provide investment advice and asset management services, including to John Maximisation of working capital efficiency within projects.
Laing Environmental Assets Group JLEN, through John Opportunities for value enhancements may arise at any time Laing Capital Management Limited JLCM, which is during a projects life and may vary significantly from one regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
We aim to invest in new greenfield infrastructure projects which, post-construction, produce long-term predictable cash flows Objectives and outcomes that meet our rate of return targets.
The projects we invest in Consistent with our purpose, which is to create value for all are held within Special Purpose Vehicles SPVs which we stakeholders, our strategy focuses on NAV per share growth and often in conjunction with other investors fund with equity, dividends as key measures for shareholders: and which are structured so that providers of third party debt finance have no contractual recourse to equity investors beyond In 2018, our NAV per share grew by 15.0% from 281p per their commitment.
share at 31 December 2017 adjusted for the Rights Issue to 323p per share at 31 December 2018, or 18.2% if we add The principal value creation mechanism inherent in our back the dividends paid in 2018. business model is the difference between the hold-to-maturity Internal Rate of Return IRR at the financial close of a We are proposing total dividends of 9.5p per share for 2018 greenfield investment and the discount rate applied to that compared to 8.92p per share for 2017 adjusted for the investment once the underlying project has reached the Rights Issue.
This represents growth of 6.5% over 2017. operational stage.
Although we have in recent years experienced To deliver our strategy, we have set ourselves the two core pressure on hold-to-maturity IRRs as our Primary Investment objectives below, while maintaining the discipline and analysis teams bid for new greenfield projects, this has typically been required to mitigate and manage the delivery, revenue and accompanied by a reduction in secondary discount rates.
operational risks associated with investments in greenfield This has allowed the Group to maintain attractive yield shifts infrastructure projects: which drive one of the principal measures applied to the Groups investments, namely the annualised rate of return.
growth in primary investment volumes new investment capital committed to greenfield infrastructure projects over The value of investments in our Primary Investment portfolio the medium term: and should grow progressively with a reasonable degree of predictability as the underlying assets move through the management and enhancement of our investment portfolio, construction phase and their risk correspondingly reduces.
with a clear focus on active management during construction, Once the projects reach the operational stage, investments accompanied by realisations of investments which, combined move from our Primary to our Secondary Investment portfolio with our corporate banking facilities and operational cash where they can be held to maturity or sold to secondary market flows, enable us to finance new investment commitments.
investors, who are targeting a lower rate of return consistent Growth in primary investment volumes over the medium term with the reduction in risk.
We continue to see strong demand for operational infrastructure assets, as evidenced by the number We operate in a broad market for new infrastructure with a of infrastructure funds recently raised by international investors.
strong pipeline of future opportunities.
Through the strong partner relationships referred to earlier, we enter into consortiums to bid for PPP projects, sometimes following a competitive selection process.
Once part of a consortium, we compete with other shortlisted consortiums to bid for and win PPP projects in accordance with public procurement timetables.
In renewable energy, through negotiations with developers, we compete with other investors to secure greenfield projects.
Total commitment to new investments in 2018 302.0 million 08 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Throughout the year, we maintained a disciplined approach We are proud of the fact that many of the projects we invest in, to making new investments.
Using detailed financial analysis or have invested in, have a positive environmental, economic or and investment appraisal processes, we assess the specific social impact.
These include: renewable energy projects which risk profiles for each prospective investment with the aim of help to reduce CO emissions: waste processing plants which 2 optimising risk-adjusted returns and securing only those new divert waste away from landfill: and electric rolling stock and investments which are likely to meet the investment appetites light rail systems which improve mobility, and help to reduce of secondary market investors when the underlying assets inner city congestion and pollution.
And of course we are very become operational.
proud of our prison investments in Auckland and under construction in New South Wales which incentivise the operator Our resources are concentrated on countries or geographical to reduce recidivism.
More information is set out in the regions carefully selected against five key criteria: Corporate Responsibility section.
a stable political, legal, regulatory and taxation framework: At 31 December 2018, our portfolio comprised investments in 48 infrastructure projects plus our shareholding in JLEN a commitment to the development of privately-financed 31 December 2017 41 projects plus shareholding in JLEN.
infrastructure: Our year end portfolio value, including the shareholding in JLEN, the ability to form relationships with strong supply chain was 1,560.2 million 31 December 2017 1,193.8 million.
partners, preferably those we have worked with before: The portfolio value increased by 342.1 million as a result of cash invested in projects, offset by proceeds from realisations the likelihood of target financial returns, on a risk-adjusted and cash yield received from project companies.
Fair value basis, being realised: and movements of 354.2 million, or 29.4% of the cash rebased the existence of a market for operational investments or a portfolio value, increased the portfolio value to 1,560.2 million strong expectation that such a market will develop.
This growth is analysed further in the Portfolio Valuation section.
Our total commitment to new investments in 2018 was 302.0 million, made up of 247.5 million in renewable energy The portfolio valuation represents our assessment of the fair and 54.5 million in PPP assets.
This was ahead of our guidance value of investments in projects on a discounted cash flow basis of approximately 250 million.
Our international growth assuming that forecast cash flows from investments are received continued with all our investment commitments being made until maturity, other than shares in JLEN which are held at outside the UK: market value.
MBTA Automated Fare Collection System in Boston US The shape of our portfolio has evolved over the last few years: 17.5 million In percentage terms, our European assets have reduced as A16 road Netherlands 21.7 million the underlying projects have reached the operational stage and our investments have been realised: I-75 road in Michigan US 15.3 million As part of this, we have reduced the percentage of our Five solar farms in North Carolina US 72.2 million portfolio attributable to UK investments, to 24% at Sunraysia & Finley solar farms Australia 100.0 million 31 December 2018 from 58% at 31 December 2014: Granville & Cherry Tree wind farms Australia 75.3 million.
Correspondingly, we have increased our investment in the North American and Asia Pacific regions: Management and enhancement of our investment portfolio In particular, we have successfully transitioned, from our For John Laing, being an active investor means not only first renewable energy investments in relatively small UK participating actively in consortiums at the bidding stage, but windfarms, to investing in utility-scale wind and solar farms also being actively involved in a project during its construction in the US and Australia: phase in order to protect the value of our investment and provide advice and or assistance when delays occur or problems arise.
Investments in wind and solar farms made up 42% of our portfolio valuation at 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 We regularly apply our active management skills when issues 31%.
We believe these larger renewable energy assets are arise.
Wherever we operate, we believe our investing, contracting attractive to infrastructure investors and we have already and banking partners appreciate and value the investment agreed our first major disposal in the US see below : experience and active management we provide.
We continue to make good use of this expertise to monitor and guide our As the result of this increased investment in renewable investments through construction while protecting investment energy assets the revenue of which varies according to base cases and, where appropriate, seeking to find additional energy yield, as well as realisations of PPP investments in value.
In the Asset Management section of this report, we 2018, the percentage of our portfolio attributable to provide more detail on some of the situations where our active availability-based projects fell to 49% at 31 December 2018 management approach has been most relevant.
While this percentage is hard to predict with precision going forward partly because it depends on procurement timetables beyond our control, we want to maintain a significant percentage of availabilitybased investments in the portfolio for the foreseeable future.
09 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2018 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW CONTINUED Overall, as set out in the Portfolio Valuation section, our UK withdrawal from the European Union investment portfolio, including our increased renewable energy In assessing the risks facing our business, we have considered portfolio, is well-diversified in terms of geography, currency, the implications of the manner in which the UK could withdraw revenue type and sector.
from the European Union Brexit.
We believe our business model to be robust enough to weather any potential short-term During the year, we completed realisations totalling 296.1 million disruption which might arise.
from the sale of three PPP investments.
This was ahead of our guidance for 2018 of approximately 250 million.
In late Sterlings net weakness in 2018 against the other currencies we December 2018, we also agreed the sales of our shareholdings invest in contributed 9.7 million to the fair value movement for in both the Rocksprings wind farm in Texas and the Sterling the year 2017 11.0 million adverse.
We continue to monitor wind farm in New Mexico.
Once completed, these will represent the impact of foreign exchange movements on our portfolio, our first disposals of investments in the US.
We are actively recognising that if Sterling were to strengthen during 2019 as a considering a number of other realisations.
result of Brexit or otherwise this would reduce the Sterling value of our investments denominated in overseas currencies.
The cash yield in 2018 was 33.8 million 2017 40.2 million, a yield of 5.2% 2017 7.4% on the average Secondary Funding Investment portfolio.
Cash yield represents cash receipts in the In July 2018, the Groups corporate banking facilities were form of dividends, interest and shareholder loan repayments increased to 650 million.
The new facilities comprise 500 million from project companies and listed investments.
of five-year committed revolving credit banking and associated External asset management ancillary facilities which expire in July 2023, and 150 million of 18 month committed revolving credit facilities which were In August 2018, a consortium comprising funds managed by initially due to expire in January 2020, but have since been Dalmore Capital Limited and Equitix Investment Management extended to January 2021.
Limited made a cash offer to buy the share capital of John Laing Infrastructure Fund Limited JLIF.
This offer was subsequently The Groups banking facilities enable us to issue letters of credit recommended by JLIFs Board and completed in October 2018. and or put up cash collateral to back investment commitments.
Shortly afterwards, the consortium gave 12 months notice to We finance our new investments through a combination of cash terminate the Investment Advisory Agreement IAA between flow from existing assets, our corporate banking facilities and JLIF now renamed Jura Infrastructure Limited Jura and realisations of investments in operational projects.
While we are disappointed to lose the net fee income from this agreement, it is important to note that it makes a relatively Organisation and staff small contribution to our profits compared to the fair value Our staff numbers were 169 at 31 December 2018 compared to movement from our investing activities.
We now have 44% of staff located outside the UK 31 December 2017 39%, consistent with our We remain committed to our IAA with JLEN.
JLCM not only advises and provides management services to JLENs portfolio, increasing internationalisation.
We have a diverse workforce comprising around 25 nationalities.
but also sources new investments on its behalf.
During the year, JLEN successfully undertook secondary equity issues and made As set out in the Chairmans statement, we have appointed several acquisitions.
Luciana Germinario as Chief Financial Officer designate with effect from 25 April 2019.
This follows the decision of Patrick Fee income from external Assets under Management AuM was OD Bourke, Group Finance Director, to retire following the AGM 18.2 million for 2018, up from 16.7 million in 2017.
Patrick has been a crucial member of the team above, this fee income will reduce from mid-October 2019 and has been instrumental in our successful IPO in 2015 and onwards, together with certain related costs.
our move to a more internationally focused business.
I have Profit before tax thoroughly enjoyed working with him and we will be sorry to see him retire.
The Board and I are very pleased to welcome Luciana Our profit before tax was 296.6 million in 2018, compared to to the team.
Her previous international, financial and investment 126.0 million in 2017.
Profit before tax is primarily driven by the experience will be an excellent addition to John Laings executive fair value movement on our investment portfolio.
I am looking forward to working with her as we continue to was principally due to: grow the business.
the gain on disposal of our remaining 15% interest in Intercity Express Programme IEP Phase 1 and a consequential impact on the valuation of our investment in IEP Phase 2 : and a more favourable impact from power price forecasts and foreign exchange movements, offset by a one-off Guaranteed Minimum Pension GMP equalisation charge.
10 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Since the beginning of 2018, the Primary Investment and Asset Management teams in each of our three main geographical regions have been reporting to single regional heads, each of whom in turn reports to me.
This reorganisation has enabled the teams to focus more effectively on growth and value creation across all stages of the investment and asset management cycle in their individual regions.
At the same time, oversight has been reinforced at Group level in respect of investment, divestment and capital allocation decisions.
In October 2018, we initiated an internal project to prepare the business for the next phase in its growth.
Under the headings Principles, People and Performance we have launched a number of workstreams which focus not just on how to sustain financial growth, but also on how to improve employee engagement and diversity while maintaining a background of strong values and corporate responsibility.
We are also taking this opportunity to refresh our values.
We depend on high quality individuals and experienced teams across our business.
Once again, they have been instrumental in making projects happen, whether in Adelaide, Amsterdam, Sydney, Denver or Brisbane.
I would like to thank each and every one of our employees for their contribution to our success this year.
Current trading and guidance Our total investment pipeline at 31 December 2018 was 2,373 million and included 1,543 million of PPP opportunities looking out three years as well as nearer term renewable energy opportunities of 830 million.
Within this pipeline, there were 10 shortlisted PPP positions with an investment opportunity of approximately 320 million.
These do not include any late entry investment opportunities which may arise.
Our aim is to keep growing investment commitments in line with the medium to long term nature of our business.
Consistent with this, we are extending the timeframe for both investment commitments and realisations to a three-year period.
Accordingly, our guidance is for investment commitments of approximately 1.0 billion over the three year period 2019 2021, with realisations expected to be broadly in line with investment commitments.
We continue to have confidence in our business model and its ability to respond to a changing environment, both political and macroeconomic, and we look forward to the future.
Olivier Brousse CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 11 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview
