Chief Executives statement Q&A with Robert MacLeod JM refreshed its strategy over the last 12 months.
What has In refreshing our strategy, we have identified the areas stayed the same and what has changed?
where our technology will drive growth.
Linked to this, we have also dialled up our efforts to operate more effectively across the The core of our strategy is largely unchanged: applying our group.
These programmes will help us realise benefits across the science to solve our customers complex and challenging whole group, enabling us to run the business more effectively problems.
In refreshing it, we have sharpened its focus and and making us more agile and responsive to our customers.
set out clear plans that will deliver sustained growth and value The enthusiasm and contribution of JMs people are central creation for shareholders.
across all aspects of our strategy, so no change there.
But we are Our strategy stems from our vision for a cleaner, healthier placing much more emphasis on helping them connect their world.
So, we are investing in areas where our inspiring science contribution to our goals, on developing their capabilities and enhances life: through cleaner air, improving peoples health on developing the right culture: one that encourages us all to and by conserving our planets critical natural resources.
These work together safely, sustainably, ethically and with respect for are areas that will help us continue to build a sustainable each other.
business and accelerate our growth.
Today our science is world class and we will continue to invest in our science and technology to ensure that we maintain and enhance our world class capabilities.
By applying it to the complex problems faced by our customers, we sustain leading positions in markets that are growing, driven by technology and therefore attract high margins.
This is the source of the attractive return profile we generate in our business.
Robert MacLeod Chief Executive 9 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Would you say youve delivered operational performance in Building on your last point, one cant escape headlines about 2017 18 in line with your plans for the group?
air quality, vehicle emissions and how electric cars are the future.
This clearly has implications for Johnson Matthey so Yes, we absolutely have.
It has been a good year where we have can you explain your strategic priorities in this context?
achieved our short term objectives and have made significant progress in building the platform that enables us to execute our When it comes to air quality, JM is part of the solution.
We are strategy through 2018 19 and beyond.
working with our customers to meet the ever tighter emissions We started the year by reorganising into four new sectors: legislation as legislators push to improve air quality in cities.
Clean Air, Efficient Natural Resources, Health and New Markets.
In Europe, we have developed products that enable emissions These are aligned to the global challenges we tackle.
Having from diesel cars to be the same as those from petrol cars and, developed the long term strategies for each of our sectors, we of course, that are lower than ever before.
have moved swiftly into execution mode and are making good We have been working alongside customers in the early progress.
automotive supply chain for almost 50 years and are a trusted We also have made significant strides forward on our partner on technology.
So as their markets and products are groupwide enablers.
We have accelerated the roll out of a global changing, we are expanding our portfolio with technologies procurement function which is well on track to deliver around to reduce and eliminate emissions that span the full range of 60 million of savings over the next three years.
initiated our Commercial Excellence programme and progressed In our Clean Air Sector, our technology leadership, our upgrade of IT systems.
In addition, we have realised cost investments and focus on efficiency mean we have secured savings from our group restructuring programme.
significant market share gains in Europe.
These will deliver Numbers wise, we have delivered sales and underlying growth in the short to medium term, even as consumers operating profit in line with our expectations at the start of preferences move away from diesel powered cars.
At the same the year, and I am especially pleased with our disciplined time, we are actioning our strategic plans that will drive strong management of working capital.
Together, this demonstrates growth in the medium to longer term in Asia when the tighter the sound running and management of the business.
emissions legislation comes into force in India and China.
If I look across our four sectors, once again Clean Air had Our progress in developing our Battery Materials business a strong year.
We improved the quality of our Efficient Natural this year has been tremendous.
This is JM science at its best.
Resources business and in Health we are better positioned as we We have harnessed the full JM science and technology arsenal optimise our manufacturing footprint and continue to progress and our expert people across the whole company.
In doing so, our substantial active pharmaceutical ingredient API pipeline.
we have moved rapidly this year to become a technology leader.
The further development of our next generation battery Our class leading material, which we call eLNO, is delighting material was a highlight this year and I am really excited our customers in qualification tests and we announced our about the speed of progress we are making and the plans plans to significantly ramp up our investment to commercialise we have to commercialise this product.
eLNO is not a product for todays market which focuses on hybrid vehicles: it is designed to enable large scale adoption of pure battery electric vehicles with greater range and lifetime.
Our strategic plans are timed to deliver the very best performing technology to our customers as the market moves into high growth.
10 Clear strategy and plans for growth: delivery underway and on track What investments are required in these areas, and across Our culture and values must also drive the right behaviours JM as a whole, to support your future growth?
when it comes to health and safety: it is a major priority for us and our performance this year was unchanged.
I am determined Investment in our science and technology across all of JM, that we must do better.
I cant emphasise enough how good we are at translating our world class science expertise into solutions across the group and through our sectors.
It is how we Now that your Sustainability 2017 programme has come to differentiate ourselves in our markets, and our refreshed a close, have you put anything else in its place?
strategy is providing us with increased focus and discipline in Yes, we have.
We have much to contribute to a more investing our R&D spend into areas of higher potential future sustainable future.
One such area is in our Health Sector where we are Sustainability 2017 engaged our people and transformed investing in our pipeline of new generic API products.
It laid the foundations for our In addition to investments in battery materials manufacturing, new brand and our vision: our refreshed business strategy has we are making important investments in Efficient Natural stemmed from these.
Resources facilities and have major capacity expansions in And now we have put in place our new sustainable business Poland and China for Clean Air.
framework which, through its six challenging goals, continues We also continue to invest in strengthening the core of our sustainability commitment but is more outward looking JM to simplify the way we do things, bring consistency to towards our customers, communities and supply chains.
common processes and generate savings which we can reinvest It drives sustainable business practices for internal and in the business.
external stakeholders, throughout JMs value chain.
It also Our investments will enable us to capture growth in our includes an important ambition: to make JM a truly diverse markets and ensure we run our business as safely and effectively and inclusive organisation.
And underpinning all this is the investment we are making in our people.
th JM celebrated its 200 anniversary in 2017.
With the celebrations now drawn to a close, what would you call out Can you tell us more about your people and the JM culture?
Great people are the force behind JM and so it is really important Reaching 200 is a rare achievement for a company and we we get this right.
Our employee survey, which we ran in were determined to recognise and engage our people and look November 2016, gave us a valuable steer on how well we are to the future.
In May 2017 we launched our new brand doing and over the last year we have done a lot of work in inspiring science, enhancing life which encapsulates what we response to what we heard from our people.
There were a lot do best and the positive impact we have on the world.
It is of positives, but they also said they wanted to be clearer about already helping us build a stronger presence in our markets, our strategy so we are spending time not only to help them connect with our customers and attract and retain great people.
understand it, but to provide a clear line of sight between our th th Then on 19th July, the 200 day of our 200 year, everyone strategy and their individual goals, helping them connect their in JM around the world joined together for our global celebration contribution directly to JMs achievements and vision.
At the during which we followed the sun, from Melbourne, Australia same time, we are creating a more consistent approach across to San Diego, USA, with a broadcast live to staff for 24 hours.
all areas relating to talent.
There is more for us to do, but we It was a really amazing day.
We closed events with our JM200 Awards which recognised Beyond putting the right processes in place, we are doing the incredible work and contribution of our people.
We a lot to make sure we have the right culture.
Alongside our announced our winners at a ceremony held at the Royal strategy refresh we have also refreshed our company values.
Institution in London, which made for a memorable and fitting Thats not a decision we took lightly.
But in doing so we now end to our anniversary year.
have a stronger set of values, and the behaviours that put them into action, that are true to our vision, will guide us to act ethically and support us in delivering our strategy.
11 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Finally, your thoughts on 2018 19 and beyond?
Outlook for the year ending 31st March 2019 In July, at our AGM we will say goodbye to Tim Stevenson, our Chairman of seven years.
It has been a huge privilege and We expect growth in operating performance at constant pleasure for me to work with Tim during that time, including rates to be in line with our medium term guidance of mid over the last four years in my role as Chief Executive.
Id like to to high single digit growth.
offer him my personal thanks, and extend those of everyone We expect the second half performance to be associated with JM, for all that he has done for the company.
stronger mainly reflecting our normal seasonality.
We will miss him and wish him the all very best for the future.
At current foreign exchange rates, :$ 1.354, We welcome Patrick Thomas as our new Chairman who : 1.143, :RMB 8.62, translational foreign exchange brings a wealth of experience which I know will be extremely movements for the year ending 31st March 2019 are valuable to JM at this stage in its development.
I am really looking expected to adversely impact sales and underlying forward to working with Patrick to take the business forward.
operating profit by 41 million and 6 million respectively.
Our key priorities for 2018 19 are to deliver in line with our strategic plans for each of our sectors, continue to develop Pages 65 to 69 for the outlook for our four sectors our technology and meet the milestones for our groupwide enabler programmes, as outlined on page 8.
And we must focus our people: embedding our values to create a safer and ethical culture, acting on what they have said through our survey and ensuring everyone understands how they contribute to Johnson Mattheys success.
So, 2018 19 should see us continue to build our stronger business platform for the future.
JM is a great company with Robert MacLeod strong opportunities for growth and a strategy that I am Chief Executive confident we will deliver.
In doing so we will achieve our potential as a business, make our mark and leave the world a cleaner, healthier place.
