10 STRATEGIC REPORT Chief Executives review STRENGTH IN OUR STRATEGY DEAR FELLOW SHAREHOLDER As set out in the Chairmans Statement, I This was exacerbated by the prospect will be stepping down as CEO of Jupiter on of rising long-term interest rates and the 1 March 2019, making this my final letter to uncertainty of the impact of Brexit on the shareholders after leading the company British economy and UK equities.
I would like to take this first nine months of the year, higher interest opportunity to thank you for the support rates also had an impact on investor you have shown during my time at the sentiment towards fixed income products.
I am confident that Jupiter will In the five years to 2017, the Jupiter Dynamic continue to go from strength to strength Bond Fund contributed net inflows of as a truly active, client-centric fund 8.7bn, but 2018 saw a reversal of some management business.
of the inflows we had recorded the 2018 was not an easy year for Jupiter as year before.
we faced outflows from a key strategy We have continued to invest in our and declining market valuations.
As a investment capabilities to ensure we are We have continued to consequence, assets under management meeting our clients evolving needs.
The went down from their record high, ending invest in our investment last 12 months have seen the launch of six the year at 42.7bn.
This was put into capabilities to ensure we new funds which added to our capabilities particularly sharp relief having experienced in alternatives and further built out our are meeting our clients such a strong 2017 as a business.
With market volatility continuing during income strategy has seen early traction the year, it was encouraging to see that and we are confident it will become an our strategy of diversification underpinned increasingly important part of the product solid business performance for the period.
mix as the franchise matures.
Most pleasing is that we delivered strong Our commitment to delivering fund performance for our clients during outperformance relies upon our active the year with 77% of our mutual fund approach to investing.
Jupiter fund assets under management outperforming managers are independent thinkers, the median over three years.
As reported they are given the freedom to follow their throughout the year we saw net outflows, convictions when seeking to identify and primarily in our fixed income strategy invest in strong sustainable businesses.
Gross sales We believe that effective stewardship is a remained strong as we saw client demand key part of achieving the best risk-adjusted for active asset management continue.
Our investment It was also a tough year for asset managers teams and governance specialists work in general, who faced a challenging together to integrate stewardship into environment as market sentiment towards our investment approach, ensuring that the sector experienced a significant shift.
we understand how governance and Headwinds such as rising compliance sustainability themes can influence longand regulatory costs negatively affected term performance.
A key part of our fund the industry.
managers governance process is based on engaging with the companies we invest into in a meaningful and impactful way.
Each year, we hold more than 1,000 company meetings.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 11 PROGRESS ON OUR DEAR FELLOW SHAREHOLDER STRATEGY Our fund managers also exercise We have already realised the benefits of a Six new funds launched in the last their responsibilities as stewards of more streamlined approach to accessing 12 months clients money, not just through active first class investment research for the Further build-out of our multi-asset engagement with management and the benefit of our clients.
and alternatives capabilities Board throughout the year, but at investee The establishment of a Luxembourg-based New office in The Netherlands companies AGMs as well.
management company, which will manage opened In line with our strategy to diversify the activities of Jupiters European offices, Head of Country hired to develop by product, client and geography, we will allow us to continue to look after our our presence in Latin America and continued to strengthen our distribution European clients without any disruption US offshore capabilities to support Jupiters growth in post-Brexit, despite the political and Expansion of our footprint in the international markets.
We opened a new economic uncertainty that it may bring.
Middle East and Africa office in The Netherlands and appointed As a people business, identifying and We have maintained our strong an experienced country head to help retaining talented people is of paramount balance sheet and capital us establish the Jupiter brand amongst importance.
So I am especially proud of distribution policy Dutch investors.
We also made a senior the good progress that has been made hire to develop our presence in the Latin in delivering impactful leadership and American and US offshore markets.
Further, development programmes as well as we appointed an adviser to expand our attractive and competitive staff benefits footprint in the Middle East and Africa to underpin our commitment to our across all sales channels.
I have always diverse and talented colleagues.
believed diversification builds resilience and, while we remain a leader in the UK All of this investment has been possible mutual fund market, it is equally pleasing because we have maintained a strong to see that non-UK markets represent balance sheet allied with a commitment an increasing share of our total assets: to financial discipline that has also helped Europe, for instance, now accounts for 18% deliver the capital returns you expect of our total assets under management, up from us.
Our robust capital position means from just 8% in 2013. that 90% of underlying earnings will be returned to shareholders through a total From a client perspective, we have dividend of 28.5p.
been expanding into the retail channel in our European and Asian markets.
As I prepare to hand over the reins to my We also have a promising institutional successor, I would like to say it has been business, which provides opportunities a privilege to work at Jupiter alongside so to expand our client base in the UK and many talented colleagues.
I leave Jupiter in good health and I wish my Elsewhere, there was good progress successor, our shareholders, clients and made on the delivery of key operational colleagues every success for the future.
projects such as the implementation of a single investment platform, MiFID II and MAARTEN SLENDEBROEK our preparations for the embedding of Chief Executive Officer the Senior Managers Certification Regime throughout the business.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
