IMAGE REMOVED chief executive officers statement 16 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018 I am pleased to say that we have made good progress in the second year of our five year plan and have delivered on all our key strategic milestones for the year.
It is now two years since we set out our plan to affordable prices and improved merchandising.
This past transform Kingfisher and become the leading home year has seen the launch of the first unique ranges that improvement company.
have been designed and developed by Kingfishers own teams and Im pleased to say that they are being well We explained that our purpose is to make home received by customers.
For example, the new Imandra improvement accessible for everyone, and that we will bathroom furniture range is based on a modular and do this by basing everything we do on the reality of our adjustable concept so products can work with any layout.
customers lives watching how people live, listening to We know that, across Europe, lack of storage space in them, and understanding the needs they have when they the bathroom is a common problem.
To help address this, are seeking to improve their home and especially the features of our new range include slim cabinets that can challenges they face.
be fitted from floor to ceiling, even behind doors, drawers I am pleased to say that we have made good progress in that are deep enough to store towels and shallow basins the second year of our five year plan.
The past year has with recessed waste pipes which allow space for a full seen a major step-up in the level of our transformation extra drawer.
Customer reaction has been very positive activity.
The teams have worked hard to deliver on each with sales of the new bathroom furniture ranges up by of the three strategic pillars that make up the ONE 50% in France, 36% in Poland and by 100% in the UK.
Kingfisher plan: creating a unified, unique and leading Margins are also better, whilst we are making these offer, driving our digital capability, and optimising our solutions very affordable.
It has not been easy, and we Later in the year we started to roll-out a new range have faced some challenges, including some business of Magnusson hand tools.
Magnusson was originally an disruption.
But I am delighted to say that we have own-brand range at our Brico Dpt business in France.
delivered on all our key strategic milestones for We improved it, adding extra features that would make the year, for the second year running.
the range as attractive to the professional tradesperson In 2017 18 we increased the amount of unique and as the home improver.
Tough, reliable and durable, this unified product ranges from 4% to 23%, exceeding our flagship new range includes everything from hammers target for the year, with new ranges in categories such and screwdrivers to spirit levels and steel tape measures as bathrooms, hand tools and sealants.
The customer and is now being rolled out across the business, at very benefits of these new ranges include higher quality competitive prices.
products based on in-depth customer research, www.
com 17 CEO statement continued We have also made good progress with our digital plans.
In France, the ONE Kingfisher plan is starting to The backbone of this has been the development of a re-energise our businesses there and address our new IT platform which has been rolled out in B&Q and under-performance.
To make home improvement Castorama France in the past year.
We are entering affordable for everyone, we have invested some of the the final year of the IT platform roll-out.
buying gains from our unified offer process into better prices for customers.
Our customer proposition has been With customers increasingly browsing and shopping further improved by launching some of the new ranges in across multiple platforms Im also pleased that our France first, such as the new bathroom products.
Around ecommerce plans are developing well.
Group digital sales a third of our ranges in France have now been unified, with have grown from 4% of total sales to 6% and although a positive reaction from customers.
this still represents a relatively low base our digital plans We are integrating sustainability into everything we do should improve this further.
A new Group mobile platform at Kingfisher and in January 2018 we launched our new has been built and launched at B&Q, with one-hour Click & sustainability plan.
This includes four customer-focused Collect now available in all B&Q stores.
A new mobile app goals, with ambitious targets such as helping our customers has also been launched at B&Q with faster speeds and an improved check-out facility.
This is driving increased cut energy and water use by 50% through the products average transaction values.
At Castorama France a new and services we offer see more on page 30. website was launched in January of this year.
As with the It is important for me to talk about our people, as it is the B&Q site, it features better search functions, improved dedication of the 78,000 colleagues who work across navigation and simpler check-out.
Early reaction from Kingfisher that is making our transformation possible.
Our people are really starting to work as ONE, with new Customers are also increasingly looking for ideas and processes and ways of working, supported by new tools inspiration online for their home improvement projects, and training.
During the year we launched our new Home so we have developed a new bathroom planning tool, Improvement Academy which is designed to help our with more digital services to come soon, supported store colleagues provide the best possible advice and by our Digital Hub in London.
We also launched a new real-time employee engagement platform involving The third transformational pillar is operational efficiency all colleagues for the first time.
Our engagement score where we are targeting 100 million of savings by 2021. this year was 78 out of 100 see more on page 28.
So far, we have delivered a cumulative total of 58 million of efficiencies, driven mainly by our Goods Not For Resale When a business is undergoing major change it can be programme in areas such as security and media buying.
difficult for our teams, but they have again done a great job this year, and I would like to personally thank them Our performance in the year reflected some disruption for all their enthusiasm, engagement and commitment.
to our business as we cleared old ranges and introduced the new ones at the same time as rolling out a new IT In the UK, the outlook remains uncertain with softer sales platform.
This significant level of change led to some in Q4 across both our businesses.
For consumers, the stock availability problems which affected like-for-like uncertainty surrounding the Brexit negotiations is an extra sales by around 1.5%.
However, we understand the causes factor.
In France, the backdrop is encouraging yet volatile, of this disruption and are taking action to address them.
with better macro-economic data recently, though it is early days.
In Poland, the market remains supportive, During the year we have also improved our governance though stricter Sunday trading conditions came into processes with the appointment of a new Chief force in March and may have some impact.
Transformation Officer, supported by transformation directors in each of our businesses.
To better manage Next year will see another step up in the implementation of the roll-out of our new product ranges we have also our plan but I remain confident in our ability to deliver the smoothed the phasing of these launches to reduce five year transformation and the benefits that it will bring the risk of disruption.
to our customers, our colleagues and our shareholders.
Vronique Laury Chief Executive Officer 18 Kingfisher plc Annual Report 2017 2018
