Strategic Report Chief Executives strategic review A STABLE PLATFORM FOR FUTURE PROGRESS This years performance has been underpinned by our leading market positions.
We have delivered increased profits and our order books are at record levels.
With changing market conditions, it is important we remain fit and healthy for future growth.
We have therefore launched the Future Proofing Kier programme which is focused on improving our ways of working.
We have market-leading positions supported by Record order book specialist capabilities, enabling us to deliver for our clients.
10.2bn It is anticipated that our decision to How would you summarise the 2017: 8.9bn stabilise investment in the Property Groups performance in 2018?
andResidential businesses and the Overall it was a good year for Kier and I am FutureProofing Kier programme will pleased with our underlying performance.
significantly reduce net debt over the This performance is particularly noteworthy nexttwo to three years.
given the challenges that the contracting Following the acquisition of McNicholas in sector has had to address during the year.
July 2017, we have successfully completed We have made progress on our key financial the integration of that business, making us and non-financial targets and areon track to one of the largest providers of services in deliver on our Vision 2020goals.
We utilities with specialisms in the energy and 1,2 increased profit by 10%, delivering full-year Revenue power, telecoms and water sectors.
underlying operating profit of 160m in line We have also performed well against our with ourexpectations and market Vision 2020 non-financial targets covering consensus.
We also maintained ourmarket- 4.5bn safety, customer experience, employee leading positions in the infrastructure 2017: 4.3bn engagement and retention, and services andbuildings markets, and our sustainability.
These targets are intrinsically top-three position in theaffordable housing linked to our strategic priorities and and maintenancemarket.
business model, creating value for our With greater investor attention on debt customers and other stakeholders.
following the demise of Carillion, our net debt position remains under focus.
Net debt increased in the year, as expected, following the acquisition of McNicholas inJuly 2017.
Group and share of joint ventures.
See note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.
14 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements OUR CLIENTS PRIMARY OBJECTIVES ARE TO SERVICE THEIR END-USERS AND WE NEED TO SUPPORT THAT GOAL Turning to safety, which is at the heart How will the new Future Proofing What is your balance sheet strategy?
ofour licence to operate and remains a Kier programme help to drive Our debt position remains a key area of priority for clients when procuring work, efficiency across the Group?
focus for us and our investors.
Historically Iam delighted to say that our safety we have used our asset-backed debt Following the launch in June of Future performance in 2018 was encouraging.
strategy to fund our Property and Proofing Kier, our efficiency and Weachieved an accident incidence rate Residential activities.
We have now taken streamlining programme, we are currently AIR of 96, which is UK-leading for the action to accelerate the reduction of our focused on improving our productivity, Group as a whole and reflected a 26% net debt position and stabilise the Groups removing duplication of processes and improvement on the previous year.
investment in our Property and Residential non-value activities, and disposing of I am pleased with our overall performance divisions through the use of joint ventures non-core operations.
It is anticipated that for the year.
Our current average net the actions taken during FY19 will deliver debt position of 375m is backed by annual profit and cash flow improvements Can you explain the rationale assets at a cost of 500m, which provides of 10% of profit from operations, c. 20m forthe move to the three significant cover for our net debt position.
from July 2019, with targeted proceeds of marketpositions?
30m-50m from the disposal of non-core The average net debt figure for this year businesses.
This programme will help the The transition to the three market positions increased on the previous year as a result Group achieve its target of year-end net of Infrastructure Services, Buildings, and of the acquisition of McNicholas and the cash and average net debt of 250m for Developments & Housing, reflects the reduced Construction revenues over the FY21.
The programme activity undertaken increasing demand in these markets winter due to bad weather, which have in the current financial year will be cash fromcustomers as well as our since returned to levels in line with our and earnings neutral and I expect the .
I believe our efforts to reduce programme to deliver material net debt will yield results, and these will In adopting this approach, we also aim to improvements in operating margins and now be further strengthened by the results address the main challenges facing the cash generation in the financial year ending of the Future Proofing Kier programme.
All three of these markets have 30 June 2020 and beyond.
robust long-term fundamentals which are Pension surplus Our alignment to three market positions driven by changing demographics and Looking more broadly at the balance sheet, and our significant investment in new theincreasing use of technology.
As part our pension schemes are now in surplus.
systems provides the opportunity to ofFuture Proofing Kier programme, a Our current pension scheme is fully funded optimise how we operate.
We want to be re-aligned business model focuses the and we therefore expect our tri-annual resilient to accommodate changes in the efforts of our teams and makes it easier valuation discussions in March 2019 to be marketplace: our markets continue to forus to deliver for our clients.
At the same time, our working evolve, which requires us to be flexible and capital performance is strong, with Whatever sector they operate in, our front-footed to ensure we meet the operating cash conversion for 2018 at clients primary objectives are: to service changing needs of our clients and the more than 100%, which shows we continue their end-users be they water consumers, markets in which they operate.
to maintain very good financial discipline.
road users, housing tenants or rail Streamlining and transforming the Group in Having reached the end of our major passengers as best they can.
Through this way will make us more agile and give systems investment, we also expect our our three market positions, we aim to greater responsibility and accountability to capital expenditure to return to normalised leverage our skills, knowledge and our operations.
In procurement, for levels of around 30m per annum, having innovation to provide solutions which make example, we have created a powerful been around 90m per annum for the last this happen as efficiently and effectively as back-of-house shared services function.
We also want to build closer TheFuture Proofing Kier programme will relationships with clients, so we can better ensure this and other similar back-of-office understand the challenges they face and functions link seamlessly to the operations.
Overall, the programme will improve the resilience of the Group in a changing market and help us to better leverage the system investments we have made while strongly positioning the Group for 2020 and beyond.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 15 Strategic Report Chief Executives strategic review continued WE WANT TO USE OUR POSITIONING TO BUILD CLOSER RELATIONSHIPS WITH CLIENTS, SO WE CAN BETTER UNDERSTAND THE CHALLENGES THEY FACE In health, the Government has recently How did market developments Collaboration announced an increase in NHS funding of impact Kier in 2018?
We are known for our strong relationships 3.4% pa. Whilst it is expected that much of with clients, working collaboratively with There has been a significant level of this investment will go into front-line them, anticipating issues they face, turbulence in our markets over the past services, we expect this will create an providing problem-solving solutions 12months.
Unsurprisingly, this has led additional pipeline of opportunities in andinnovation.
toincreased scrutiny of the performance related sectors such as bioscience where andfinancials of companies in our A good example of working collaboratively we have also successfully established a sectorsand the ways in which we operate is our work with Highways England, who strong presence over the last few years.
for example, how we work with the supply have long-term, stable budgets and visible In addition, the UKs investment in aviation, chain and SMEs with particular reference future investment plans.
As a key supplier with the approval for expansion at topayment terms.
to Highways England, we work with them as Heathrow airport, will provide a major, they develop solutions such as their Routes We are confident that Kier has always had multi-year boost to a sector which is seeing to Market strategy and are helping them and will continue to have strong financial growth across in the UK.
Meanwhile, public with the transition to this model.
Closer and operational disciplines particularly in its policy is increasingly supporting modern working with our clients provides the best commercial and risk processes.
methods of construction MMC and we outcomes and is critical to securing new For example, in Construction our focus is have already delivered over 2bn of work, such as the recently announced on high-volume, modest-value contracts, projects that include MMC over the past extensions to Highways England Areas 3, primarily pursuing new work under five years.
frameworks or lower risk contract models.
In our Residential division, we are set to We operate over 400 projects at any one Sector opportunities benefit from the UK Governments Help to time, with an average value of about More generally in transport, a market Buy scheme that has been extended to 7-8m.
This helps us spread our sector where Kier has established 2021, supporting the increase in the operational risk and means we are more credentials, there are considerable building of affordable housing.
With a agile to respond to market developments.
opportunities arising in local authority national shortfall of a least one million roads, and in the rail sector with the launch We are a key supplier to government in the homes, this is a market with significant of its next investment period, CP6.
Our markets in which it is investing in e. g. growth potential and one we are actively credentials in rail have been significantly affordable housing, social and economic targeting.
Our innovative approach to using enhanced following the acquisition of infrastructure.
Many of our businesses joint ventures, such as the Homes England McNicholas and we expect to play an active operate through government frameworks joint venture launched in May, is enabling role in the next review period, CP6.
and five-year funding periods, which gives us to accelerate the development of our us access to more visible pipelines of work.
residential land bank through a capital In infrastructure we anticipate the increase efficient model.
The creation of the Homes in demand for UK power generation will More specifically, as a result of market England joint venture has created an present opportunities in the nuclear, developments in the year including the opportunity for Kier to increase the scale of renewables and gas sectors over the next liquidation of Carillion, Kier acquired a its affordable house building activities by five-to-ten years.
We will continue to greater share of the HS2 project and the c. 500 units per annum from 2020. monitor these markets closely and we are Highways Englands Smart Motorways also in discussion with many of our water portfolio.
We transferred over 150 people company clients as the water cycle, AMP7, into the company to help deliver these starts its procurement phase.
increased project requirements and worked closely and collaboratively with our clients In Buildings, we remain the UK market during these challenging periods.
leader with a focus on key sectors such as education and health.
In education, expenditure is driven by a growing population and the need to continually invest in the existing estate.
16 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strong progress against Vision 2020 Since 2014 we have made good progress on our Vision 2020 targets.
Key metrics 2020 target June 2018 Annual average operating On target 10% profitgrowth Property ROCE Ahead 15% Residential ROCE On track and improving to 15% Construction EBITA On track to 2.5% Services EBITA On track to 5.0% Net debt: EBITDA Achieved 1:1 Dividend cover On track and improving 2x Our regional presence will therefore During the year, we maintained our focus How is Brexit affecting your significantly mitigate any Brexit labour on promoting a good safety culture.
As the markets and business?
mobility risk that arises, as will our sector majority of our safety incidents are slips, We have seen no material impact of diversification.
Our property development trips and minor falls, our priority is to Brexitto date.
However, the Kier internal business has experienced limited change in improve behaviour rather than overhaul Brexit Taskforce team monitors our occupier demand and investment, but it working policies and practices.
supplychain-labour mobility and materials continues to closely monitor the market To this end, in 2018 we engaged and availability.
With continued uncertainty, and the phasing of property transactions.
partnered with external safety consultants weare scenario-planning and working to address the issue of minor incidents, withour clients and others in the industry How did Kier perform from a nonparticularly in our Highways and Buildings to ensure we are able to respond to financial perspective this year?
Looking ahead, we will futuredevelopments.
continue to progress with our current Safety We are particularly focused on monitoring efforts, focus more on every day Our safety performance in 2018 was the issue of labour mobility.
The strength behaviours, and drive improvements in encouraging, although improvements can ofmany of our supply chain partners is areas such as health and wellbeing.
always continue to be made.
Our safety directly linked to the flow of people and focus is a key element of how we operate skills into the UK, particularly in London Health and wellbeing as a business.
We achieved an accident and the South East, where a larger The health and wellbeing of our teams, incidence rate AIR of 96, reflecting a 26% proportion of our supply chain workforce both Kier employees and the supply chain, improvement on the previous year.
As a ismade up of non-domestic individuals.
is key as it directly impacts on operational recognised measure of safety performance, safety.
We have approximately 100 health our AIR not only reflects how we do champions across the Group who are business but is a key differentiator in trained to monitor and assess employees themarket.
Indeed, safety is becoming mental and physical wellbeing.
They are increasingly important for our clients at supported by a team of qualified on-site theselection stage.
We provide fitness-for-work health screening for Kier employees as well as ongoing care throughthe occupational health team.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 17 Strategic Report Chief Executives strategic review continued Diversity We also continued our strong focus on our The breadth of our Services business also graduate and apprenticeship programme, provides both job interest and career Diversity and inclusion is a key priority and one where we are taking meaningful action where we have maintained more than 5% opportunities for our employees, and stable ofour workforce on approved training financial performance.
We have chosen to as a business.
Our business and industry already employs people with very diverse schemes.
As a member of the UKs 5% work in markets where we provide critical Club, we have approximately 1,200 services, such as repairing roads or fixing socio-economic backgrounds, but we acknowledge we have considerable scope for graduates and apprentices currently leaks in water networks essential engaged in training across the business.
everyday maintenance that has to be improvement in the areas relating to ethnic and gender diversity.
We have established Asa responsible business, it is vital we are undertaken, and where future investment in a position to develop the necessary UK ismore certain.
several internal forums, such as our Balanced Business Network and the LGBT skills and expertise to support industry We are increasingly using joint ventures growth in the future.
We are actively and Allies Network.
In addition, we have across our Property and Residential created a Gender Strategy Steering Group seeking to encourage the Government and operations to make more efficient use of the public sector to make this level of which is responsible for driving leadership our capital.
This is evidenced through the action on gender.
We have a particular focus commitment a pre-requisite for tenders.
Cross Keys and Homes England joint Weare continuing to promote our Shaping on gender pay, where our median pay gap ventures announced over the last year, and reported this year was 20.2%, higher than Your World campaign, launched in the use of joint ventures on many of our September 2017, which encourages the national average.
We have fewer women property development schemes, such as in senior roles which means we have 11-15year olds to consider careers in those with Network Rail and Watford construction and the built environment.
proportionately more men earning higher Borough Council.
We are focused on tackling this gap Weare proud to report that we have We provide specialist services to a broad exceeded the targets we put in place for to increase the number of women coming range of sectors, and we have a track into Kier and progressing to seniorroles.
the first year of the campaign with over 350 record of problem-solving and providing Shaping Your World ambassadors across In addition to Group initiatives, our fresh thinking to our clients.
For example, the Company who regularly visit schools to operational businesses support a number we regularly use off-site construction explain the industry and to talk about the of key topics which are of particular andmodern methods of construction many and varied career opportunities importance to their clients.
As part of this process, available.
This campaign reached more inour Highways business, we have made weoffer our clients a unique breadth of than 15,000 students in its first year.
good progress around disability, and in complementary capabilities to help meet 2018 we achieved the Disability Confident Environment their project requirements.
accreditation for our work, supporting In 2018 we launched the first three Highways Englands focus on this topic.
Supply chain environmental initiatives as part of our 30 Our focus is truly local, using local by 30 strategy, which aims to reduce our resources and talent to benefit the local energy usage by 30% by 2030.
Its what I call a national covers a broad range of activities, from the Shaping Your footprint with a local flavour.
Our regional reduction of construction waste to water World campaign network of over 80 offices enables us to consumption and use of plastics.
It should deliver projects and services anywhere in begin to deliver financial savings over the the UK.
Another key differentiator is the fact next 12 to 18 months, and over time will 350 that, as a result of our average project size enable us to make a greater contribution to and the every day services we provide, we environmental protection and sustainability.
Kier ambassadors use very local SME supply chains.
Around the business, we have a strong regional What sets Kier apart from focus, unique among our peers, having thecompetition?
developed robust supplier relationships built 15,000 The Kier business model is at the heart of on local knowledge and trust over many our competitive differentiation.
Through our Students engaged years.
These relationships have helped us three market positions, we aim to leverage establish powerful market positions outside our skills, knowledge and innovation to of London and the SouthEast.
provide solutions which make this happen as efficiently and effectively as possible.
Collaboration with our supply chain is also Safety: Group Our business model provides stability and critical, and each year our businesses certainty when individual markets fluctuate.
spend time with our suppliers, working to Accident Incidence understand how we can better partner and In Construction, our high-volume, low-value Rate AIR innovate alongside them.
Keen to deepen approach offers a lower risk model which these relationships and ensure continuity protects us from profit and cash flow of supply, we offer a variety of contract volatility.
It provides us with long-term 96 types and payment mechanisms, including visibility, with projects often delivered in early payments schemes for the supply Improved by 26% framework arrangements, many with chain.
These are popular, often helping 2017: 130 five-year terms.
them with their working capital challenges, a typical feature of the sector.
18 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements THROUGH OUR THREE MARKET POSITIONS, WE AIM TO LEVERAGE OUR SKILLS, KNOWLEDGE AND INNOVATION TO PROVIDE SOLUTIONS WHICH ARE EFFICIENT AND EFFECTIVE Watch Haydn Mursells interview online www.
co. uk These activities are clear recognition of the We are on track to deliver on our Vision importance of our suppliers to our long-term 2020 goals.
We have a record order book business success and sustainability.
of c. 10.2bn, and our Construction and Services divisions are 90% secured, with In our Highways business, we have brought improved visibility of the work they need to new technology into the sector.
For undertake in the 2019 financial year.
We example, the Kier Highways team has also have a pipeline of work of 3.5bn in transferred the concept of Roadrake, which our property and residential businesses.
is used to clean beaches in Australia, to These developments will provide the Group the UK to clear litter on the Highways with greater resilience as we progress to England network.
This technology is now 2020 and beyond.
being rolled out on to other parts of the Highways England network.
Working in I believe our core businesses are collaboration with our supply chain, we are performing well and we have leading responsible for introducing a range of new positions in our chosen markets.
Kier is technology into the highways market which very well placed for the future.
Highways England and other members of their supply chain have adopted.
We are proud of our track record in this field.
What are your future priorities?
The UKs demographic trends support our Haydn Mursell three market positions while our balance Chief Executive sheet will continue to strengthen and 19 September 2018 benefit further from the implementation of our Future Proofing Kier programme.
We are focused on reducing our net debt, which will also benefit further from the Future Proofing Kier programme.
We will continue to pursue growth in our core operations, streamlining the Groups portfolio of businesses as necessary, and we will increase the operational efficiency of the business, ensuring we continue to deliver for our clients and be their trusted partner.
In light of market challenges, we will continue to closely monitor the risk profile of the Group.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 19
