Strategic report Chief Executive Nigel became Group Chief Executive Officer in June2012 and his leadership of the group has Officers Q&A delivered oversix years of successful growth.
com investors reporting-centre Nigel Wilson Group Chief Executive Officer Nigel, the group continues to means that our Board, senior managers and Q deliver successful results against employees act responsibly and ensure that The biggest issue in the background of a difficult political we work in the interests of all our stakeholders: Britain today is still environment.
Why has the company customers, shareholders and wider society, been so successful?
in being economically and socially useful.
how we build greater Operating profit increased by 14% to How important is investing capital in economic growth to A Q 2.3 billion with a return on equity of direct investments such as housing, improve everyones lives.
In 2018 we secured some huge urban regeneration, clean energy and We need to create real pension fide-risking deals, with 9.4 billion SME start-ups?
of sales and 1.1 billion of operating profit jobs that transform our Im delighted that weve now put over A including mortality release for Legal & 19 billion into these types of direct cities and towns and General Retirement Institutional, our biggest investments.
Building all types of new homes, business.
On the retail retirement side, its boost productivity.
including many affordable homes, has become been a tremendous year for annuity and a priority for me.
Some key successes in 2018 Nigel Wilson lifetime mortgage sales.
LGIM now has over were our housing schemes in Leeds Thorpe Group CEO 1 trillion in global assets, with 258 billion Park, Walthamstow and Crowthorne and our in international assets.
And we now have investments in later living accommodation.
We invested over 19 billion in direct investments, now have a pipeline of over 3,000 new homes helping to regenerate many of our biggest and we plan to deliver over 80,000 properties cities and creating a pipeline of 3,000 new over the next five to ten years.
These results highlight the strength established the UKs largest property platform of our individual businesses.
But they are to drive science and technology growth in also the direct result of our group strategy to regional cities, jointly investing 360 million leverage synergies among our businesses.
This is part of our This is a key reason for our success.
future cities programme which is regenerating communities in Cardiff, Salford, Leeds, You have talked extensively in 2018 Newcastle, Walthamstow, Bristol, Bath and Q about inclusive capitalism.
In clean energy we now have ten this important to you?
wind energy sites in operation together with our partner, NTR.
The biggest issue in Britain today is still A how we build greater economic growth As Britain leaves the EU, are you Q to improve everyones lives.
We need to invest relying more on your US businesses to create real jobs and better infrastructure to to ensure growth continues?
transform our cities and towns and boost Im convinced that the UK remains a A productivity.
Without improving productivity fantastic place to do business.
Its not we will not correct the stagnant growth in real only because of the UKs unrivalled financial wages that people have experienced for a services sector but its also related to our number of years.
This has to be achieved in a advantages in technology and manufacturing, responsible and inclusive way which raises our highly skilled workforces and world-class the boats for everyone, not just for the research in our universities.
Inclusive capitalism also 4 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Chief Executive Officers Q&A The US is the largest and most competitively accessible economy in the world and we can build more success in many of the areas that have worked so well for us in the UK: investment management, the need to fide-risk pension schemes, providing good-value life insurance and investing in infrastructure.
We have put over We now have over one million life insurance 19 billion into customers in the US.
direct investments So how are companies like Q Legal & General changing to ensure future success?
This report highlights our many recent A investments in digital innovation right across our businesses.
In Insurance our strategy is to create competitive advantages both in the UK and the US, enabling customers to apply, be accepted for and change their policies wholly online.
We have established Investing in our own Fintech business within Legal & future cities General Insurance andhave invested in SalaryFinance, a financial wellbeing platform which now has over 700,000 employees on its platform, and Smartr365, a digital mortgage broking platform.
In General Insurance, our SmartQuote and SmartClaim systems enable household insurance customers to purchase and make claims easily and quickly.
This has Investing in later increased customer satisfaction and reduced living homes operational costs.
Finally, how is your belief in inclusive Q capitalism being borne out in the day-to-day lives of your employees?
Inclusivity and diversity is a key A business principle and Im delighted that three of our seven divisional CEOs are Investing in women.
Our ambitious 50 50 by 2020 target, the US which aims to have 50% of senior management roles filled by women by 2020, has helped develop the careers of many talented women who are now managing vital parts of our business.
I have been working with our Group HR Director, Emma Hardaker-Jones, to help ensure that management positions are filled by talented and committed people regardless Investing in science of their gender, disability, ethnicity, age or andtechnology sexual orientation.
Inclusivity also means championing organisations that help our communities.
Im pleased that we have been major supporters of the Not a Red Card campaign, which has been successful in changing attitudes towards mental health.
Investing in UK business growth Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 5 Strategic report What drives We have created our strategy based upon six growth drivers which affect people across the world and our strategy enable us to develop growth opportunities.
These six long-term global growth drivers remain constant despite shorter-term changes inpoliticaland economic circumstances.
Achieve global leadership 2018 achievements Only company active in all inpensions fide-risking and global risk transfer markets become the UK leader in Achieved record year in LGRI, retirement income products.
with sales of 9.4bn Lifetime mortgage sales up Businesses benefitting 19%.
30% LGR Institutional Looking forward LGR Retail Ageing demographics The PRT market offers huge LGIM Workplace opportunities with around 2tn LGIM Personal Investing Ageing populations mean that pension savings in UK DB pensions.
Were well LGIM LDI need to last longer, for individuals andcompanies placed to succeed in the 0.7tn alike.
Companies have seen an increasing need UK annuity market and benefit to restructure their pension schemes to meet from 1.5tn of over-55s risingcosts.
Continue to build a 2018 achievements 258bn in international AUM world-class international asset 11bn external US net flows management business.
Building European distribution capability Businesses benefitting Looking forward LGIM We can benefit from US market LGR Institutional growth in PRT and defined Globalisation contribution pensions DC.
Were seeking expansion in According to PwC, global assets exceed Asian and EMEA markets.
Likemany other UK asset managers Our ETF developments can we need to step up to take advantage of the help drive growth in our potential of expanding global markets in North European businesses.
America, Asia Pacific and theMiddleEast.
Use long-term capital 2018 achievements 19.2bn in groupwide direct to becomethe leader investments indirectinvestments.
Future cities programmes in Newcastle, Leeds and Salford Businesses benefitting New build-to-rent sites with LGC pipeline of 3,300 homes LGIM Real Assets Ten new clean energy sites LGR Institutional Creating real assets LGR Retail Looking forward We will continue to invest in Theres an urgent need to invest in infrastructure future cities and SME finance, and urban regeneration in the UK, US and EU.
and to build growth in multiMany cities outside London need investment to tenure housing with strong match global competitors.
At the same time the UK opportunities in affordable continues to experience a serious housingshortage.
6 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report What drives our strategy Help people achieve 2018 achievements UKs No 1 retail life insurer financialsecurity affordably 73bn of mortgages through insurance, facilitated.
workplacepensions A leading UK DC asset manager with over 3.1m customers and savings.
Retail investment AUM of 30.6bn, positive net flows Businesses benefitting Welfare reforms LGI Looking forward LGIM Workplace We will use our capabilities Theres a growing need for people to be LGIM Personal Investing in UK Insurance to develop the financially independent, saving more for US business, and address the retirement and their future wellbeing and using UK savings gap with strategic insurance to survive financially following death, growth in DC, retail funds, disability or long-termsickness.
Achieve market leadership 2018 achievements SmartClaim and SmartQuote indigital provision of insurance delivering improved and retail investments.
customer experience Use technology to improve Use of robotics in administration and customer outcomes and enhanced sophistication increase efficiency.
in medical underwriting Cloud, AI, big data, block Technological innovation Businesses benefitting chain all built and utilised LGI Consumers increasingly expect digital ways to Looking forward General Insurance organise their finances.
In the low-cost world, We aim to become a fully LGIM Workplace technological solutions can mean the difference digital and data enabled insurer.
LGIM Personal Investing between success andfailure.
We will use technology solutions in DC Workplace.
Build economic growth 2018 achievements Pemberton approaching and earnings by investing 4bn AUM across all in Britains future.
SME funds Total SME finance of 414m Businesses benefitting Total investments in LGC early-stage start-ups LGIM Real Assets now 102m Providing todays capital Looking forward We will continue to commit In recent years, equity and investment capital capital to help UK fintechs havebeen in short supply.
The UK needs compete globally.
We will investment in modern, digital start-up businesses continue to meet demand to create jobs and stimulate economic growth.
forSME finance from the This can also .
Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 7
