04 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Group Chief Executives review Another year of strong strategic and financial performance Our continued strong performance positions us well to succeed in a digital world.
Antnio Horta-Osrio Group Chief Executive In 2018 the Group has again delivered and grow our leading digital bank whilst 5 per cent on 2017 and is in line with our delivering strong financial performance and significant benefits for our customers progressive and sustainable ordinary dividend and a strong financial performance, with market leading returns.
In addition, the Board has announced increased profits and returns.
As a result its intention to implement a share buyback of this performance, we have been able programme of up to 1.75billion, equivalent Financial performance to 2.46pence per share, up 76percent from to recommend an increased dividend and Statutory profit after tax of 4.4 billion share buyback.
was 24 per cent higher than 2017 and focused, UK business model continues to earnings per share at 5.5 pence per share position us well for sustainable success and Strategic progress was 27percent higher.
This was driven by continuing to deliver our purpose of Helping improved underlying profit including lower In February 2018, we launched the third BritainProsper.
remediation charges and we continue to stage of our strategic plan with an increased I am clearly proud of our customer focus narrow the gap between underlying and strategic investment of more than 3 billion and financial performance.
To deliver this statutory profit, a trend we expect to continue over the three year plan period, building sustainable success in the long-term we need as statutory profits increase further.
As a on our unique competitive advantages, to ensure we remain focused on enhancing result of this performance the Group has to transform the Group to succeed in a customer experience.
With this in mind, in delivered a further increase to our return digitalworld.
February2018 we announced our ambitious on tangible equity, which is now a market Over the first year of the plan we have strategy to transform the Group for success leading 11.7per cent.
Underlying profit of delivered significant progress against our in a digital world, with a significant increase in 8.1 billion increased 6 per cent, reflecting strategic priorities of Leading customer strategic investment.
We have already made growth in income and lower costs, partly experience, Digitising the Group, Maximising a great start in implementing the strategic offset by the expected increase in the the Group's capabilities and Transforming initiatives which will further digitise the Group, impairment charge.
Our relentless focus on ways of working as outlined onthe next page.
enhance customer experience, maximise our cost efficiency led to a reduction in operating capabilities as an integrated financial services costs despite increased strategic investment, Helping Britain Prosper Plan provider and transform the way we work.
and our cost:income ratio improved further In addition, towards the end of the year we The Groups success is intertwined with the to 49.3percent.
Asset quality remains strong UKs prosperity and we acknowledge we have also announced a strategic partnership with with the Groups gross asset quality ratio Schroders to create a market leading wealth a responsibility to help address the economic, remaining flat at 28 basis points, while the net social and environmental challenges the proposition.
Continued delivery against our asset quality ratio increased to 21basis points, strategic priorities positions us well for future country faces.
We do this through our Helping from 18 basis points, driven by expected lower Britain Prosper Plan, which was simplified successand our confidence is reflected in releases and write-backs.
and updated in 2018 to support our three The Groups loans and advances were year strategy and focus on metrics that have Given our UK focus, our performance is stable at 444 billion with growth in targeted the most impact on people, businesses and inextricably linked to the health of the UK segments including SME, Mid Markets and communities.
Over 2018, economic performance consumer lending offset by the sale of the During 2018 we lent over 12 billion to first has remained resilient with record 4billion Irish mortgage portfolio in the first time buyers and increased lending to SME employment and continued GDP growth and, half of 2018.
The Groups capital position and Mid Market businesses by 3 billion to whilst the near-term outlook remains unclear, remains strong with a pro forma CET1 ratio of Help Britain Prosper and have committed to particularly given the ongoing EU withdrawal 13.9 after allowing for ordinary dividends and lending up to 18 billion in 2019 to businesses negotiations, our strategy will continue to the share buyback.
as part of our continued support for the UK deliver for our customers.
Our strategy is Given the Groups capital build of economy.
We have also provided digital skills framed by our purpose of Helping Britain 210basis points in the year, the Board has training for more than 700,000 individuals, Prosper, being the bank with the largest retail recommended a final ordinary dividend SMEs and charities, and supported over and commercial presence throughout the of 2.14pence per share, bringing the total 3,000charities through our independent country.
Our unique business model and ordinary dividend for the year to 3.21 pence charitable Foundations.
market leading efficiency will ensure we can per share.
This represents an increase of continue to invest in customer propositions Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 05 STRATEGIC PROGRESS Significant progress has been made against our strategic priorities since the launch of our strategic plan in February 2018 15.7m 24% 3m 1m Digitally active customers Year-on-year increase in customers with access to of future skills training technology spend Single Customer View hours delivered Leading customer Digitising Maximising the Transforming experience the Group Groups capabilities ways of working We are building a market leading We have increased investment in In 2018 we launched Single We recognise that our colleagues digital experience, and in 2018 technology which now represents Customer View: a unique are critical to the success of launched API-enabled Open 16 per cent of operating costs, capability already enabling over our transformation and are Banking aggregation functionality with over two-thirds relating to 3million customers to view in one therefore making our biggest ever as well as enhanced security and enhancing existing capabilities place the pension and insurance investment in our people.
As part of and creating new ones.
This has products they hold with the Group In2018 we have increased our multi-channel model we also driven operational efficiencies alongside their banking products.
training hours by over remain committed to maintaining and improved the experience of We have expanded our workplace 50percent, including more than the UKs largest branch network, customers and colleagues.
pensions and savings offering 1 million hours dedicated to with one out of five branches in the to over 2million customers and We are adopting new developing skills of the future.
country, whilst tailoring it to meet have seen net inflows of 13billion technologies, introducing We have also introduced more customers complex needs more into our financial planning and machine learning and creating modern collaborative working effectively.
In the year we opened retirement propositions.
approximately 780,000 hours of environments, simplified people our flagship Halifax branch, additional colleague capacity We have also strengthened our processes by replacing several HR increased our mobile branch fleet through the use of robotics for client relationship model and systems with a single platform and to 44 and extended our remote simple repetitive tasks.
We have improved online functionality for developed a new performance advice coverage to 270 branches.
also made targeted investments in Commercial Banking clients.
Our management system Your Best We are also delivering increasingly public and private cloud solutions, Schroders partnership announced which launched in January 2019. targeted customer propositions.
which will deliver more efficient in October is a key part of our We are also transforming the way The success of our multi-channel, and scalable infrastructure going strategy to accelerate growth in in which change is delivered with multi-brand approach is reflected forward, whilst collaborating Wealth by leveraging our multi- 15 per cent of teams now using in our net promoter score which with fintechs to accelerate the channel customer reach and Agile methodologies.
increased to 62 in the year and is digital transformation of the Schroders investment expertise, up c. 50percent from 2011. business, as part of our broader with the aim of becoming a innovationstrategy.
top three UK financial planning Strategic priorities and focus for business within five years.
2019 on pages 12 to 15 In 2018, the Group became the first FTSE 100 We are already delivering a market leading Summary company to set a public target to increase return on tangible equity and expect further Framed by our purpose to Help Britain representation of Black, Asian and Minority improvement in 2019 to 14to 15percent Prosper, the Group has again delivered a Ethnic BAME colleagues, committing Capital build is expected to remain strong customer experience and financial to 8per cent of senior management and strong at 170 to 200 basis points per performance in 2018 whilst making significant to 10per cent of the total workforce by year with the Board's view of our CET1 progress in building new capabilities to 2020.
At the end of the year 6.4 per cent of capital requirement remaining at around transform the Group to succeed in a digital senior management and 9.5 per cent of all 13percent plus a management buffer of world.
While the year ahead will bring its own colleagues were from BAME backgrounds.
As a result we continue challenges, given the ongoing economic and In recognition of the importance the Group to expect to deliver progressive and political uncertainty, I continue to believe that places on helping the UK transition to a low sustainable ordinary dividends whilst our simple, low risk business model is the carbon economy, in 2019 we have included a maintaining the flexibility to return surplus right one.
Our current strategic plan for 2018 specific sustainability metric in our Plan.
This capital to shareholders to 2020, with continued strong investment, signals our commitment and is supported will further improve customer propositions Our net interest margin is expected to be by a detailed sustainability strategy.
More c. 2.90 per cent in 2019 and, as previously and grow our leading digital bank as part of information on the sustainability strategy is our multi-channel strategy, while continuing guided, remain resilient through the provided on pages 24 and 25. planperiod to provide leading and sustainable returns to ourshareholders.
Our market leading efficiency continues Outlook to be a competitive advantage and we Over 2018 the UK economy has proven itself now expect operating costs to be less to be resilient with record employment and than 8 billion in 2019, a year ahead of the continued GDP growth.
Whilst the near term original target.
We also continue to expect outlook for the UK economy remains unclear, a cost:income ratio, including remediation Antnio Horta-Osrio we continue to believe that our simple, low costs, in the low 40s as we exit 2020, with Group Chief Executive risk business model will deliver strong financial improvements in this ratio every year performance and market leading returns with Credit quality remains strong and, given our a resilient net interest margin, lower operating low risk business model and the significant costs enabling increased investment, strong portfolio improvements in recent years, we asset quality and lower remediation costs.
Our expect an asset quality ratio of less than guidance demonstrates our confidence in the 30basis points in 2019 and the rest of the business model and the future prospects of plan period the Group:
