Our business Performance Responsible Financial Overview Our strategy Our marketplace model review Business Risk Governance statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 15 Chief Executives review Distribution assets O ur portfolio is positioned around strong % fundamentals of owning structurally 69 supported real estate let to good tenants.
of the portfolio Andrew Jones Distribution assets owned Chief Executive % 33 Overview in the year to 1.3bn Our objective is to deliver We have instead focused on attractive and dependable t for purpose distribution, long income returns to our income and convenience assets shareholders whilst preserving where changing consumer and enhancing capital through shopping habits are providing owning structurally supported structural support.
real estate let to good tenants.
Our occupier and property In short, we aim to behave asa relationships improve our true REIT.
decision making and allow us The advancement of technology to maintain our sector leading continues to cause significant portfolio metrics.
Whilst we can disruption to many industries and never be totally immune from those that fail to adapt to change all headwinds, we believe that face an increasingly uncertain these relationships and our robust future.
Over the past five years, approach give us a competitive we have successfully positioned advantage that allows us to the portfolio to navigate this increase our earnings, progress disruption by pivoting away our dividend and see the value from multi-let operational of our assets increase ahead retailassets and office property.
LondonMetric Property Plc 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Chief Executives review continued Primarks value and store only proposition continues to succeed whilst the likes of John Lewis, Next and Argos have successfully adapted their Even after many years of businesses for omni-channel retailing by actively managing their store portfolios [ ZWVOh ISM ]X WKK]XQMZ LMUIVL Our portfolio and investing heavily in new distribution for new distribution and is aligned to modern warehouses and technology systems: warehouse space remains well it is no coincidence that they report shopping habits online sales well above 40% of IJW M TWVOh MZU I MZIOM[ total sales.
Digital evolution continues to cause In food retail, the disruption from Online retail sales non food significant disruption convenience operators such as Aldi Todays world is complex and more and Lidl is forcing the established dynamic than ever with technological grocery market to drive further % innovation impacting every aspect pricing and cost efficiencies as well of society.
as preparing for an onslaught from 26 online competition.
We have, therefore, The rapid and permanent shift in consciously avoided large format by 2020 compared consumer shopping habits has seen food stores and distribution, instead to20%today a material growth in pure online focusing on convenience stores where and omni-channel retailing.
This has changing habits have seen the growth seen online non food retail sales hit of top up shopping.
20%, compared to 13% in 2011, and this is forecast to reach 26% by 2020.
Distribution has strong Traditional brands are being replaced structuralsupport by names which barely existed a Despite years of being unfashionable, decade ago, but are now considered the channel shift in retail spending is very much part of retails New World providing a significant boost to the Order: Amazon, eBay, boohoo, distribution property sector: and this ASOS and Ocado to name a few.
These retailers rely on their efficient and well located distribution network Even after many years of strong to service their customers demands take up, occupier demand for new with ever increasing speed.
We are distribution and warehouse space nolonger a nation of shopkeepers.
remains well above long term averages.
Retailers and logistics Whilst the virtual tills are ringing, the operators are constantly improving physical ones arent.
Physical retail sales their distribution infrastructure and are growing at their slowest rate since warehousing to increase speed of 2012.
The outlook for more traditional delivery and cost efficiencies through retailers is very challenging and they automation, better locations and are having to adapt continuously to higher quality space: and this cycle remain relevant.
Recently, New Look, ofimprovement is happening at a Mothercare and Carpetright admitted faster rate than ever before.
that their store portfolios no longer meet their needs and have sought to There remains a strong demand radically shrink the size and cost of their supply imbalance, which is propelling estates.
We have also seen both Toys rental growth across most parts of R Us and Maplin fall away altogether, the UK.
The best distribution space and it is inevitable that they will not be is highly sought after and occupiers the last victims and that the list of retail are consequently prepared to pay failures will grow.
record rents and sign long leases, often with contractual rental uplifts The retail channel shift is real, material at review, asthey look to protect and permanent.
Stores today are their significant capital investments increasingly having to provide inside these warehouses.
The search convenience, value or extraordinary for greater efficiencies will, however, entertainment.
If they cannot, then inevitably lead to the closure of some what is their purpose?
older, less t for purpose logistics warehousing, which is something that we continue toaddress through our disposal activities.
Our business Performance Responsible Financial Overview Our strategy Our marketplace model review Business Risk Governance statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 17 these structural challenges.
We no Consumers expectations are always longer believe that its as simple as rising, meaning that yesterdays prime versus secondary.
It feels more wow quickly becomes tomorrows indiscriminate than that.
This is illustrated by increased The real estate fundamentals for expectations around speed of delivery, Therefore, we have consciously a trend which has underpinned our urban logistics are strong and so avoided the most vulnerable sectors further investment within the urban in retail and focused our retail we will continue to build critical logistics sector, particularly in assets exposure towards long income and UI[[ QV UIRWZ 3 OMWOZIXPQM[ close to large population centres.
convenience led assets let to the likes of The real estate fundamentals are attracted by growing income Aldi, M&S, Wickes and B&M.
As a result, strong and so we will continue to build our exposure to retail parks has fallen streams and strong intrinsic land critical mass in major UK geographies, to only 7% and our retail and leisure attracted by growing income streams IT]M[ WN MV []XXWZ ML Ja PM portfolio is 100% let on leases with over and strong intrinsic land values, often 12 years remaining.
ILLML JMVM WN UWZM IT]IJTM supported by the added benefit of Our team has considerable experience alternative uses.
in the retail market and our actions Deation and depreciation have allowed us to, so far, avoid the Urban logistics assets value destruction across the various The continuing transfer of sales to sectors.
This still has a long way to go, online represents a permanent and and whilst many in the property market profound structural change.
Its impact % want us to believe that we are entering is illustrated in Nexts latest results which the final act, we are not!
listed 17 store closures and average 29 rental falls of 25% on the 19 leases that it decided to renew.
Similarly, New See pages 28 to 31 of the of our distribution portfolio Looks CVA will see 60 stores close as Propertyreview well as reducing rents across 393 stores of between 20% and 60%.
Together, they represent over 75% of New Looks UK store portfolio.
Carpetright also confirmed the closure of 93 stores and reducing rents of between 30% and 50% on another 113, in aggregate representing over 50% of their UK estate.
The headwinds facing legacy real estate is a clear and present danger to the value of many retail assets.
As well as store closures and rent reductions, retailers are demanding shorter leases and more advantageous incentive packages.
The average lease taken by Next on lease renewals fell to seven years and they expect this to reduce to just five years.
Whilst the store network still retains critical importance for omni-channel retailers, at current rental levels they are for many an increasingly declining asset.
It is not evident that the property market is fully appreciating or pricing in the negative impact of LondonMetric Property Plc 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Chief Executives review continued Dividend security and growth fromourportfolio Income remains central to our investment thesis.
Our ultimate priority Focusing on income and income is to pass income generated by our growth is a simple idea but in a We focus on assets to shareholders, which is why we consistently pay out 90% of our WZTL WN MZa TW OZW P Q Q[ sustainable and earnings in dividends, and why, with one that we strongly believe in and growing income the benefit of future rent reviews, WVMh PI M IZM ISQVOh[MZQW][Ta finance and other corporate cost efficiencies, we are confident in our Demographic trends accentuating ability to progress our dividend.
thesearch for income Receiving a meaningful proportion The extended period of low economic of your total return in income not only growth and low interest rates continues provides a margin of safety against Our portfolio is in good shape to create an almost desperate search short term price uctuations, it also for yield.
We believe that this search is Q P TWVO TMI[M[ WN W MZ haMIZ[ helps compounding returns.
Growth unlikely to change any time soon as a on growth is always underestimated.
WVTa lower growth environment is combined hOZW[[ W VM QVKWUM with a demographic wave, as the Following the repositioning of the population ages and life expectancy portfolio, our investment strategy today TMISIOM IVL TQ TM LMNMV[Q M increases.
In the UK, according to the is more patient.
This is allowing us to KIXM`hZMY]QZMUMV ONS, the percentage of the population collect and compound our income dened as old age dependent has and reduce the frictional costs of risen from 24% ten years ago to 29% buying and selling that can negatively today and is forecast to increase to impact total returns: after all, the first 41%by 2036. rule of income compounding is to never interrupt it unnecessarily.
Therefore, we believe that income will continue to be the dening Fortunately, our portfolio is in good characteristic of this decades shape with long leases of over 12years, investment environment.
The investing occupancy at 97.5%, only 1.3% gross fraternity, including dedicated income to net income leakage and little funds, private investors, corporate defensive capex requirement.
We have and local authority pension funds are also benefited from good like for like pivoting their approach more and income growth over the year, and, more towards income returns that are going forward, we know that we have reliable, predictable and growing.
the certainty of future income growth through contractual rental increases These are compelling arguments and across half of the portfolio.
some real estate sectors are ideally suited to meet this need.
Indeed, this is Focusing on income and income essentially the role that REITs in the UK growth is a simple idea but in a world were created to provide, passing 90% of very low growth, it is one that we of their net income to shareholders, strongly believe in and one that we are without the burden of double taxation.
See pages 26 to 27 of the Propertyreview Our business Performance Responsible Financial Overview Our strategy Our marketplace model review Business Risk Governance statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 19 Outlook In an uncertain economic and political environment we believe We manage, enhance Our expertise and that our income compounding model is increasingly attractive, and create property relationships shape especially as investors pivot their ina responsible way ourdecision making investment approach for low growth and demographic changes.
Our income focus allows us to be a Delivering enhanced returns Disciplined decision making using little less obsessed about predicting fromourproperty ouroccupier intelligence exact market movements or the exact timing of cycles, although We continue to grow our income and We take a disciplined, patient and our thoughts on these will be improve the quality and attractiveness rational approach to investing.
We are reected in the management of our assets through fide-risked obsessed about the credit quality of ofourcapital structure.
asset management and short cycle occupiers, the security of our income, development activity.
quality of the real estate and its We remain highly nervous on the potential for income growth.
outlook for the retail sector with the In the year, we completed the tectonic plates shifting so materially development of 0.6 million sq ft at a Over the year, we were a significant that its now a very difficult sector yield on cost of 6.4%, materially higher net investor in distribution and used to navigate and deliver superior than the investment yield.
As at the our strong occupier and developer returns.
For the best space in the year end, we had 1.0 million sq ft of relationships to acquire over best locations, this is cyclical: for the development underway or in the near 300 million of distribution assets.
majority it is permanent disruption term pipeline.
This activity helps to Whilst we remain focused on growing and for the weakest it will be further modernise our portfolio, with our logistics exposure, that doesnt highly problematic.
28% now rated BREEAM Very Good, prevent us from selling to ensure that and it has reduced the average age our portfolio remains t for purpose.
Conversely, distribution remains ofour distribution assets to 15 years.
Therefore, we took advantage of the structurally supported by the strong market to monetise 88.2 million fundamental changes in consumer Our 58 lettings and rent reviews helped of our older and shorter let distribution shopping patterns with attractive to deliver 3.1 million of additional assets in geographies where we demand supply tension, especially income with lettings achieved at 22% believe rental growth and occupier for urban logistics where rental above ERV on average lease lengths of demand is less robust.
reliable, sustainable and consistent Whilst the market remains very Post year end, we have agreed and rental income and a fantastic competitive, we have a highly are in legals on further occupier bedrock from which to grow our talented and focused team with strong transactions representing an additional income and dividends.
relationships which puts us in a strong 1.3 million of income.
This includes four position to nd new opportunities and Our returns over the year are a distribution lettings and rent reviews at make well-informed decisions.
measure of the progress that 28% above passing rent.
we have made and reect our Disciplined nancing We expect our income to continue longer term sector and property to grow, particularly as we let the Our nancing remains aligned to our decisions.
Looking forward, we remainder of our recently completed property strategy.
Loan to value of seek to continually build a better developments and continue to settle 35% provides us with exibility to make company and believe that, despite distribution rent reviews at levels which further acquisitions and build our an environment of profound political are materially above passing.
Debt maturity remains and economic change, our strategy at five years and we have reduced positions us well to not only weather our cost of debt to 2.8% following the See pages 32 to 33 of the Property but also benefit from short term cancellation and recouponing of review and pages 42 to 43 of the uctuations in values.
interest rate swaps, the cost of which Responsible Business review has already been accounted for and has a payback period of2.5 to 4.0 years.
Our dividend is 108% covered and our EPRA cost ratio fellto 15% from 16% last year.
See pages 26 to 31 of the Property review and pages 34 to 39 of the Financial review
