CEOs statement Overview In 2018, LSEG operated against a backdrop of LSEGs successful When I joined LSEG in August 2018, I had an macroeconomic and political disruption, outsiders perception of the Groups strong including the continued uncertainty around the strategy and open access businesses and international standing.
Since then, implementation of the United Kingdoms decision my impressions of its strengths have only been to leave the European Union.
As a systemically philosophy provide a reinforced.
The Group is distinguished by its important financial markets infrastructure business, customer partnership approach, a set of world the Group has a responsibility to ensure the orderly strong foundation for class businesses across the capital markets lifecycle functioning of markets and continuity of service for and a team of committed colleagues.
LSEGs its customers, shareholders and other stakeholders.
further growth and successful strategy and open access philosophy With a strong global footprint and significant provide a strong foundation for further growth infrastructure businesses across the UK, Eurozone, US development and development.
and Asia, the Group is well positioned to adapt to any eventual outcome.
On behalf of our customers, the David Schwimmer The Group has grown rapidly through organic growth Group continues to advocate strongly for a defined Chief Executive Officer and acquisition in recent years, building businesses implementation period and the prevention of the around three core strategic areas - Capital Formation, fragmentation of regulatory systems designed to Information Services and Post Trade and Risk make financial markets efficient, stable and safe.
Management Services - supported by Group Technology and a commitment to operational The Group has skilfully navigated the challenges of excellence.
In the years ahead, we intend to further this evolving backdrop and delivered a strong set develop these businesses and focus on delivering the of results in 2018, continuing to execute its strategy opportunities and efficiencies of operating as a successfully across its core businesses, as outlined unified Group, to benefit our customers and to drive below.
Id like to acknowledge and thank David sustainable long-term growth and value for our Warren, Group CFO, for his leadership delivering shareholders and broader stakeholders.
these results as Interim CEO during the first seven months of 2018.
6 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 Strategic Report CEOs statement Information Services RepoClear reported the largest nominal amount We intend to further With its global reach and multi-asset capabilities, cleared in the services history with 197 trillion FTSE Russell continues to benefit from industry cleared across LCH Ltd and LCH SA, up 13% from develop these businesses drivers, including the growth of passive investment, 2017.
RepoClear has seen good customer growth with as well as the increasing customer demand for 10 new memberships and over 75 market extensions and focus on delivering access to data and analytical tools.
LCH SA now offers clearing of all euro- 2018, the value of ETF assets tracking its benchmarks denominated debt repo products in line with the opportunities and was US$606 billion.
long-standing member demand to consolidate their European government bond repo clearing activity efficiencies of operating In 2018, FTSE Russell assumed 100% ownership of into one CCP in order to leverage the benefits of T2S.
the FTSE TMX Global Debt Capital Markets business CDSClear also showed significantly increased growth, as a unified Group as it continued to strengthen its fixed income with a record of 1.2 trillion across its CDS index capabilities.
This follows the 2017 acquisition of and single names offering.
The Yield Book and Citi Index business, which substantially enhanced its ability to offer In November 2018, LCH SwapAgent further extended world-class multi-asset investment tools.
its non-cleared derivatives offering and processed its first swaptions trades, adding to its existing In September, FTSE Russell announced that China Post Trade Services cross-currency swap offering.
LSEG also acquired a equity A Shares would be included in its global Post Trade Services continues to be an area of minority c. 16% stake in AcadiaSoft, supporting LCHs equity benchmarks beginning in June 2019, an strategic focus for the Group.
In 2018, LSEG increased strategy to expand into the non-cleared space.
acknowledgement of Chinas remarkable growth its majority stake in LCH Group to 82.6%, while also Alongside LSEGs investment, LCH SwapAgent and and the significant progress that has been made in reaffirming its commitment to LCHs customer AcadiaSoft signed a heads of terms agreement to Chinese capital markets.
Upon completion of the first partnership model.
LCH achieved another record year explore opportunities for new products aimed at phase of inclusion, China A Shares will represent for volumes across its equities, fixed income, and OTC automating and standardising the margin process approximately 5.5% of the total FTSE Emerging Index.
derivatives clearing services driven by the roll-out of for non-cleared derivatives.
To put this in context, this could equate to US$10 billion new products and the growth of client clearing.
in net passive inflows of assets under management.
The Group also operates post trade businesses Monte SwapClear remains the largest OTC rates liquidity pool Titoli and CC&G in Italy, as well as UnaVista in the UK In January 2019, we announced that Waqas Samad in the world, processing over US$1 quadrillion in which primarily focuses on post trade reporting.
would succeed Mark Makepeace as Group Director notional volume in 2018.
More significantly for its In February 2018, CC&G was chosen by CCP Austria of the Information Services Division and join LSEGs members and customers, over US$773 trillion was to provide technology-driven CCP Clearing and Risk Executive Committee.
Waqas is a natural successor to compressed, up 27% on the previous year, enabling Management services.
UnaVista processed an lead the Information Services Division, including customers to save approximately US$39.5 billion in average of 34 million reports per day, as it helped FTSE Russell.
He will build on the existing strong capital during 2018.
SwapClear also expanded its clients meet the new reporting requirements business and proven strategy to continue to deliver global product offering to include non-deliverable under MiFID II.
on our growth expectations for this business, as well interest rate swaps in Chinese Yuan, Korean Won, and as continue to deepen our customer partnership Indian Rupee and LCH was the first CCP to introduce In January 2019, LSEG announced the purchase of a approach.
Mark has been a pioneer in the clearing of SOFR swaps in July 2018.
4.9% minority stake in Euroclear which will strengthen development of the global index industry and FTSE our existing operational and commercial relationship Russell today is a world class global business with LCH remains well placed to address the capital to the benefit of our respective customers.
more than US$16 trillion in assets benchmarked to its and margin challenges facing customers in the indices.
I would like to thank Mark for his leadership global FX market.
ForexClear continued to expand, and significant contribution to the Group.
clearing over US$17 trillion in notional, up 54% in 2018.
It also helped members compress US$4.5 billion of cleared notional with its first compression runs.
The service successfully launched clearing of deliverable FX Options in July 2018, developed in collaboration with the CLS settlement service.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 7 CEOs statement continued Capital Markets Group-wide Collaboration We are committed to A strong track record of innovation and an The benefits of the broader Group working more international outlook drive Londons capital markets.
closely together to deliver innovative solutions to our supporting global Despite global macroeconomic uncertainty, our global clients is clear.
Working across our businesses, capital markets businesses continue to perform well.
we are able to address many of the regulatory, financial stability and London Stock Exchange welcomed over three times technological and structural challenges facing our more international companies to list on its markets clients and the industry overall.
For example, as the sustainable economic than any other European exchange in 2018.
Three out market transitions to new global reference rates, both of the five largest IPOs in London in 2018 were from LCH and CurveGlobal have developed complementary growth by enabling international companies.
London Stock Exchange innovative products for clients while also addressing a continues to partner with exchanges around the priority for many of our government stakeholders.
businesses and world, including with Shanghai Stock Exchange on CurveGlobal has seen good uptake of its SONIA Shanghai-London Stock Connect, which aims to three-month futures contract, while LCH is helping to economies to fund directly connect investors and companies from both facilitate a smooth transition to new reference rates markets for the first time.
offering clearing of swaps for new global benchmarks innovation, manage including SOFR, SONIA and SARON.
AIM continues to be the leading international growth risk and create jobs market, helping companies raise 5.5 billion in new We are exploring how our Information Services and and further issues during the course of 2018.
Borsa LCH teams can work together to identify Group-wide Italiana helped companies raise 2 billion through data and analytics opportunities that benefit our listings in 2018 across its markets.
We are also using emerging technologies capitalisation of companies listed on Borsa Italiana to modernise the processes behind our business was 542 billion, around a third of Italian GDP.
For example, we are piloting artificial intelligence in our market supervision In fixed income, bond listings in London surpassed function, as well as in our FTSE Russell data business.
2,000 for the first time, raising a total of 347 billion.
In February 2019, we acquired a small minority stake Multiple debut and landmark international bonds in Nivaura, a UK-based FinTech specialising in came to London in 2018, including Angolas developing end-to-end automation and distributed largest-ever international bond and Fijis first ledger technology solutions for capital raising and international sovereign green bond.
The investment represents an growing investor demand for green finance, a record attractive strategic fit for LSEG as we work with 36 green bonds listed in London in 2018, including partners to explore ways to help companies raise the largest green bond to list in London to date, the capital in a more efficient and streamlined way.
1.2 billion issue from Industrial and Commercial Bank of China London Branch.
We are committed to operational excellence and are focused on driving efficiency across the Group The implementation of MiFID II in January 2018 has through several initiatives, including migration to begun to benefit our secondary market businesses cloud services for data and processes and the such as CurveGlobal, MTS and Turquoise as customers operation of shared service centres.
We opened our adapt to the new regulation.
CurveGlobal continues to Bucharest office in 2018, now employing over 100 see good volume growth with open interest at 348,000 skilled professionals across technology, data services lots at the end of 2018 and has started 2019 with a and corporate functions.
The office complements the record 350% year-on-year growth in average daily Groups existing shared services centres in Colombo, trading volumes as participants look for more efficient Sri Lanka.
We are also consolidating real estate, alternatives to existing futures platforms.
including multiple offices in New York City and Tokyo to drive efficiency and collaboration.
8 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 Strategic Report CEOs statement Our broader responsibility We also recognise our responsibilities to our people Our strategic vision As a global financial markets infrastructure and their professional development, and we continue business, LSEG provides critical services to clients to support a culture that reflects our values of remains the same around the world.
We run businesses that are of partnership, innovation, integrity and excellence.
In systemic importance and recognise that in doing so 2018, we introduced our first Group-wide Career to be the worlds we hold a privileged position in the financial Framework, Futures, designed to support colleagues ecosystem with a broad set of responsibilities to our in their career progression and facilitate internal leading financial stakeholders.
We engage proactively and positively mobility across the Group.
Our Mentoring Exchange with governments and regulators around the world programme was expanded globally to include more markets partner in more than 90 countries and maintain licences or than 800 colleagues and 50 colleagues also joined the other direct regulatory engagement in more than 20 30% Club cross-company mentoring scheme in the jurisdictions.
We are committed to supporting global UK.
In 2018, we also signed the Time to Change financial stability and sustainable economic growth Employer Pledge, affirming our commitment to by enabling businesses and economies to fund support mental wellbeing in the workplace.
innovation, manage risk and create jobs.
Looking forward Our core businesses are engaged in activities that Collaboration is a strategic and commercial directly support this purpose.
In Capital Markets, imperative for LSEG.
I firmly believe it will allow us helping high growth companies access capital is to take the Group to the next level of operational, fundamental to our aim of promoting innovation and financial and strategic success.
Across the Groups creating jobs.
We support SMEs through ELITE, our businesses and global locations, we will continue global educational and capital raising programme for to deepen our partnership approach, delivering private high growth companies, which now includes innovative products and services that meet the over 1,000 companies from 40 countries.
ELITE needs of our global customers.
partners with local exchanges around the world to develop the local funding ladder and investor base.
In We are mindful of the macroeconomic, technological Information Services, FTSE Russell has introduced and regulatory challenges in our industry.
We must innovative tools to help support investors interest continue to address an evolving landscape.
We are and investment in environmental, social and committed to continuing to invest in technology and governance ESG data factors, for example, deliver operational excellence, while investing for launching FTSE Russells STEP Change report to help growth across our core businesses.
drive better global standards in reporting and help companies measure their own performance against In summary, our strategic vision remains the same peers.
In Post Trade Services, LCH plays a critical role to be the worlds leading financial markets partner.
supporting global financial stability by reducing risk Together with LSEGs highly capable and experienced in financial markets through maximising the number team, I look forward to continuing to focus on the of counterparties that have access to an international opportunities ahead for our business, investing for liquidity pool, simplifying outstanding exposures and growth and driving efficiency, while operating as a delivering significant cost and margin efficiencies for unified Group for the benefit of our customers, members and customers.
David Schwimmer CEO 1 March 2019 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2018 9
