STRATEGIC REPORT Chief Executive Officers review Whilst 2018 was a more difficult year in terms of financial results, a significant amount of progress was made in continuing to build the long-term value of the business.
However, our absolute performance for 2018 Overview was impacted by the market backdrop.
FUM movements during 2018 $bn After two steady years of growth in asset Market moves, particularly for our long only prices, 2018 was characterised by an 1.0 -8.7 10.8 strategies, combined with an FX headwind -3.7 increase in stock market volatility, crises in and a lack of basic momentum, broadly Turkey and Argentina and slowing growth in 109.1 108.5 offset the strong net inflows resulting in a China and Europe.
Most major asset classes small reduction in FUM to $108.5 billion at ended the year in negative territory and the 31December 2018 as shown in the chart bouts of volatility affected investment opposite.
The lower closing FUM also means performance across many investment styles.
that run rate management fees as we enter Against this backdrop we did a good job of 2019 are lower than for 2018. delivering results in the areas we can control, Adjusted management fee profit before tax namely generating outperformance for was up 7% driven by higher net management 31 Dec Net Alpha Market FX 31 Dec clients, developing client relationships and 17 ows moves and 18 fees reflecting the strong FUM growth in controlling costs while investing for growth.
other 2017 and in the first three quarters of 2018, We outperformed peers by 1.0% on average before declines in the fourth quarter.
The across our strategies and we are pleased more difficult performance environment Refer to pages 142145 for details of the with the result given the tougher alpha Groups alternative performance measures resulted in a disappointing level of environment.
The client led growth in our performance fee generation and adjusted business remained strong in 2018 and profit before tax decreased to $251 million, combined with the firm foundations laid compared to $384 million in 2017.
Statutory across the organisation in 2017, translated profit before tax was $278 million, up slightly into net inflows of $10.8 billion.
The flows compared to 2017 with the gain on sale of were broad based demonstrating the our stake in Nephila offsetting the reduction increasingly diversified nature of our in performance fee profits.
Fixed costs were delivered below continues to be strongly cash generative target and only slightly up on the prior year with adjusted profit after tax a good proxy despite continuing to invest in new talent and for underlying operating cash flow of technology and successfully managing the $216million in 2018. implementation of two major pieces of regulation, MiFID II and GDPR, aided by a more favourable FX hedge rate.
Luke Ellis Chief Executive Officer MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 12 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION 2,3 Performance Absolute and relative performance in 2018 % Absolute performance in 2018 was heavily influenced by the increased volatility across Absolute Relative asset classes with the larger impact being Absolute return -0.8 4.0 in our long only equity strategies as can be seen in the chart opposite.
Performance in Total return 5.2 the absolute return category was down 0.8% -2.1 with our discretionary alternative strategies Multi-manager solutions having mixed returns but our quant alternative 0.0 -1.8 strategies holding up well despite it being a weaker environment for momentum.
In the Systematic long only -2.8 -15.6 total return category the alternative risk premia strategy suffered negative returns Discretionary long only 0.3 -11.5 but the emerging market debt strategy ended the year slightly positive.
Systematic Group 1.0 -7.3 long only strategies were down on average 15.6% across the product category with returns ranging from -11.8% to -17.9%.
Given it is the largest strategy in the Group, returns We repeatedly see that our clients value both Progress against strategic in the discretionary long only category were the strength and breadth of our offering, and priorities heavily affected by the performance of our ability to provide them with a single point Japan CoreAlpha.
Strong client relationships of contact who understands them and their In 2018 we saw continuing interest in our individual requirements.
In addition, the Relative performance across the Group was alternative risk premia, emerging market combination of our centralised infrastructure positive, with asset weighted outperformance debt and UK and European discretionary 1 and technology and the breadth of our versus peers across our strategies of 1.0% long only strategies.
Alternative risk premia investment strategies means that we are for the year.
The strong outperformance in was the biggest contributor to the net flows well-positioned to develop bespoke solutions the absolute return category was driven by and is a good demonstration of our product to suit specific client requirements, drawing our quant alternative strategies outperforming innovation generating value to both clients upon the varied investment expertise the Barclay BTOP 50 Index by between 1.2% and shareholders.
Across our total return strategies clients increasingly want strategies tailored Alternative risk premia continued its strong During the year, we built upon the to their unique needs.
In response to this, relative performance since launch and the engagement with our existing and target we work closely with our clients to emerging market debt strategy significantly clients during 2017, making further progress understand their circumstances and to outperformed competitors due to its in building long-term relationships with create individualised solutions for them.
Systematic long only clients and adding new relationships with relative performance was weaker with strategically important asset allocators and Innovative investment strategies underperformance of 2.8% in the year due distributors globally.
In line with this focus, We actively manage risk across a wide array to their value bias.
Relative performance in we continue to see the trend of clients of asset classes and geographies on behalf the Groups discretionary long only strategies investing across the firm, with 71% of FUM of clients every day.
The quality of our was slightly positive with Japan CoreAlpha at 31December 2018 relating to clients execution and risk management allows us performing ahead of peers and the UK and invested in two or more products, and 48% to invest across markets in a size that is European long only strategies performing relating to clients invested in four or more meaningful for clients.
Our ability to manage broadly in line with peers.
Our 50 largest clients are invested that risk, and to rapidly adjust course as in three of our strategies on average which needed, gives our clients confidence in also demonstrates the breadth of entrusting us with their assets.
It also gives engagement across the firm.
us the ability to identify and capitalise on new markets as they develop.
1 Refer to pages 142145 for details of the Groups alternative performance measures 2 Performance figures shown net of representative management and performance fees.
Past performance is not indicative of future performance.
3 Where a strategy has a formal benchmark, performance is compared to this.
Where no formal benchmark has been set, benchmark should be taken to refer to a relative index.
Relative performance is provided for illustrative purposes to provide market information and is not meant to be an accurate comparison.
The strategy is managed significantly differently than the benchmark or index.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 13 STRATEGIC REPORT Chief Executive Officers review continued Across our quantitative business, ongoing Efficient and effective operations focus on research continued to drive the Our central infrastructure is the foundation development of our strategies.
As an on which the firm operates.
This includes example, in 2018 we actively marketed the our proprietary central operational platform, We added some AHL TargetRisk strategy which currently which enables us to evolve and adapt as trades $1.7billion.
markets and our clients needs do, as well exciting new as our infrastructure teams more broadly, Within our discretionary business, we are which include enterprise technology, embedding quantitative techniques to capabilities during compliance, legal, human resources support and enhance the alpha from each and operations functions.
Developments include the deployment 2018. of quantitative techniques to reduce systemic As well as its ongoing benefits, our risk, as well as a quantitative trading portfolio infrastructure positions us to integrate within our long short equity programme, acquisitions or new teams rapidly, with which complements discretionary decision the potential for significant operational cost Asset weighted outperformance making with a systematic overlay.
synergies while preserving the investment versus peers At a Group level, we made further progress process.
We continue to review a large in centralising our trading and execution number of acquisition opportunities and function, including making a number of while we havent seen any that meet our 1.0% internal appointments, as we seek to build criteria in 2018, we think this capability will in 2018 our own firm-wide centre of execution prove valuable to shareholders in the longer excellence in trading, trading technology term, as it has in the past.
Net inflows and trading research.
A globally coordinated We regularly assess our cost base across central execution team allows us to adapt the firm in comparison to our revenue to todays more complex market structures earning capabilities to ensure we are running $10.8bn with the goal of delivering better execution the business as efficiently as possible while results for all of our investment engines.
We in 2018 investing for growth.
In 2018, we committed expect this ongoing effort to further reduce an additional $15 million of spend into our trading costs and slippage, translating into Adjusted profit before tax investment management and technology improved performance for clients.
In 2018 capabilities which will further support our this lowered run rate execution costs by ability to serve our clients globally.
$251m A higher FX hedge rate and the impact of down from $384m in 2017 We remain committed to keeping technology the new lease accounting standard means at the heart of the firm in a rapidly evolving that our fixed costs will be higher in 2019, world and have appointed an Alpha Chief although both of these impacts will normalise Refer to pages 142145 for details of the Technology Officer to manage the in the longer term.
Groups alternative performance measures development of the technology used across the firm to generate and deliver alpha.
He will People and culture be supported by a team drawn from across We are fundamentally a people business.
This new structure To best serve our clients and shareholders, supports our vision of creating a central attracting and retaining the best people and technology team, environment and platform creating an environment in which they can which promotes the highest level of achieve their potential remain top priorities innovation and agility, whilst minimising for us.
We place great importance on being any unnecessary duplication of technology, an employer of choice and a good place to tools and processes across Man Group.
We are committed to conducting our business in accordance with In 2018, we made great strides when it the principles outlined opposite, which are came to Responsible Investing RI as embedded within all areas of the firm.
While we will keep pushing for improvement, there are challenges in RI, the most important of which, in my view, is data.
There is no consensus on how to measure environmental, social and governance ESG criteria for companies, for example, or quantify which investments are the most responsible.
This is an area in which we are applying Man Numerics unique skillset, to improve the collection and analysis of ESG data.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 14 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION We are a true meritocracy where we Regarding gender diversity specifically, succeed through talent, commitment, in 2018 Man Group became a signatory to Business principles that diligence and teamwork.
We are committed the Women in Finance Charter, a pledge for guide our actions to supporting our employees so that gender balance across financial services.
everyone at Man Group has the opportunity As part of this, we have introduced a target Man Groups business principles to be the best they can be.
Over the past of at least 25% female representation in are designed to distil and define the 18months we have developed a dedicated senior management roles by December firms key priorities, focus and culture.
talent function which focuses on helping 2020.
We are pleased to report a positive The principles are displayed in our people achieve their potential, both trajectory in relation to gender diversity ManGroups offices internationally individually and within their teams.
across the firm, having seen an increase to promote a common understanding in the proportion of women in senior of the firms values.
We also know that by celebrating diversity management roles from 16% in 2016 to 22% and building an inclusive working in 2018, and we are committed to further environment, we will attract the best talent to Performance improvement in this area in the years ahead.
We believe that by embracing diversity in all forms we encourage original In 2018 we introduced our Enhanced First, foremost and always we and collaborative thinking with multiple and Parental Leave Policy, which entitles every focus on achieving superior differing perspectives which positions us to new parent, regardless of gender, to 18 risk-adjusted performance deliver the best results for our clients.
We are weeks of parental leave at full pay.
This is not committed to increasing diversity in all forms, dependent on location, and applies to both Clients at all levels, because we think it makes Man biological and non-biological new parents, Group a better, stronger firm.
Drive, our as well as to employees providing foster Our clients are at the heart of employee-led diversity and inclusion care.
We believe that this allows our people everything we do network, seeks to inform, support and inspire to take leave at one of the most significant our people.
During 2018, we saw the launch times in their lives, underscoring our Responsibility of three new employee networks within commitment to enabling our employees Drive Families at Man, Pride LGBT to have a true work-life balance.
We expect our people to do the and BEAM black employees at Man.
I believe that we do our best work for our right thing and conduct our Early in 2018, we issued our first annual clients when we support our employees, business with the highest Diversity & Inclusion report, which included and value their different perspectives and standards of integrity an overview of our initiatives to attract and experience.
I would like to thank everyone develop diverse talent as well as our gender at Man Group for their contribution to the Excellence pay statistics.
In the report, we introduced progress we made during 2018, particularly Paving the Way, our dedicated campaign given the tougher market environment.
Good is not enough, we strive to to enhance diversity and inclusion at Man be excellent in all we do Outlook Group and across the financial services and Looking ahead, we have had a healthy technology industries more broadly.
When it Differentiation number of new mandate wins but as clients comes to achieving real change in diversity respond to changes in the market and adjust in our industry, there is no doubt that a less We seek to be differentiated and their portfolios we have also seen a pick-up diverse pool of potential candidates is a original in our thinking in redemptions.
We believe that we can, and ManGroup is structurally well positioned must, take steps to address this pipeline for the future with compelling investment challenge proactively.
We have introduced Meritocracy propositions, deep client relationships and a number of initiatives to support this in a competitive advantage in our experience We succeed through talent, recent years, including our efforts focused of using financial technology to drive commitment, diligence and on school age to university students, and investment returns.
teamwork our Paving the Way campaign seeks to build our efforts in this area.
Through reporting Luke Ellis annually on our progress and commitment Chief Executive Officer to diversity and inclusion, we will assess and monitor the success of this campaign and our strategy over time.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 15
