04 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT M&S needs to change and change fast.
BECOMING A DIGITAL FIRST RETAILER We have addressed a number of immediate If we are to deliver major cultural change at issues and are now embarking on the task M&S we have to be a Digital First business.
of transforming the business to arrest the This change in approach was evident in decline and restart long-term growth.
the partnership we announced with TCS In November, I set out our five-year during the year and our migration off the transformation plan to make M&S special old mainframe system.
We will execute this plan, flexing and will develop new partnerships which aim adapting as we go, at pace.
A few miles into to put digital innovation at the forefront of our journey, I can see how much we need to our thinking.
do and I am determined that this time M&S Our store teams have cut costs and will take the hard steps to make our business improved customer service through the a very different one in five years time.
M&S needs to change roll-out of handheld devices in our stores, Change comes with short term pain.
reducing time spent on stock management and change fast.
Group profit was heavily impacted by a and enabling quicker response to customer large number of charges, most notably queries.
In our offices we are introducing a We are now in the those relating to the acceleration of our Smarter Working approach, reducing the UK store closure programme.
Profit before amount of expensive office space required first phase of our adjusting items benefited from a substantial in central London by half and working better improvement in International profit, but this and closer together.
transformation, was insufficient to offset the continuing pressures in our UK businesses.
IMPROVING OUR CHANNELS restoring the basics TO CUSTOMERS RESTORING THE BASICS IN CLOTHING so that we can deliver We accelerated our plan to operate from & HOME AND FOOD fewer, larger, more inspirational Clothing & sustainable, profitable For M&S to become more relevant, more Home stores with 32 stores either closed or often to more British households, we have proposed for closure out of a planned growth to investors, to reshape our Clothing & Home and reduction of over 100.
This transformation number of customers have moved their colleagues and the starts with eliminating silos and creating shopping to nearby stores.
As we reposition accountable businesses.
To lead this change, our Food offer to deliver sustainable growth, communities in which we appointed Jill McDonald who has we also slowed our Simply Food openings to strengthened the team in Clothing & Home, focus only on the sites with the best returns.
and Stuart Machin who joined us in April this Growth at M&S.
com was behind the market STEVE ROWE CHIEF EXECUTIVE year to transform our Food business.
as we focused on full-price sales in a highly In Clothing & Home, we continued our focus promotional market.
We remain behind the on full-price sales and removed promotions market in several key areas: our download and the number of clearance sales.
Sales speeds, though recently improved, are still declined as a result, but for the first time in slower: we are not yet mobile first: and we five years we grew the number of customers have an average search experience.
Our ambition is to We will deliver one-third of our Clothing & be the UKs essential clothing retailer Home sales online within five years to famous for quality products that offer prevent further erosion of our market share contemporary wearable style, at great and to reflect the way that customers prices.
We will continue to sharpen our shopping habits are changing.
ranges, by providing better choices with fewer options and delivering more We delivered a sharp improvement in wardrobe essentials at the right price.
profits in our International business, completing the planned exit of loss-making In Food, our focus on being special and markets, on time and under budget, and different saw us perform well at Christmas selling our Hong Kong business to a and Easter but our performance was not franchise partner.
We are focused on a good enough throughout the year.
We must franchise model and developing our offer broaden our appeal getting our pricing to ensure better availability and sharper and product ranges right so that we can prices.
We were pleased to deliver a return retain our core customers and attract busy to profitable growth.
families who want great tasting, quality food at outstanding value.
05 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 SUPPLY CHAIN FIT FOR PURPOSE offices and our cost of goods through fewer central London offices, changes to our In order to be a faster and more commercial packaging specifications and the way we business we must improve our supply chain, work with our suppliers.
This is enabling us to which is slow, inefficient and expensive.
improve our value proposition in Food and In Clothing & Home, the announcement to reduce costs for the business as whole.
of our investment in a new distribution centre at Welham Green is a step towards LOOKING AHEAD delivering a single-tier network of national distribution centres.
This will enable us to We have worked hard to put out the fires reduce stock holding points which make in our business over the past couple of our store deliveries slow and mean we years and are now in the first phase of carry many weeks more stock than our transformation plan, restoring the By recognising the our competitors.
basics so that we can deliver sustainable, profitable growth to investors, colleagues challenges we face Our intention to be one-third online means and the communities in which we operate.
In the and focusing on near term this means improving our I would like to thank all of my colleagues for operations at Castle Donington so that their hard work and dedication.
We have our transformation we serve customers better at busy times.
great people at M&S and we want to tap into their loyalty and passion for the brand to we can make M&S In Food we have a high-cost distribution help drive transformation.
Were doing this model which limits availability and increases both externally through better customer special again.
We are rolling out operational engagement, like our extremely popular improvements across our stores with My M&S favourite campaign, and internally the aim of improving stock file accuracy, through our new Suggest to Steve scheme reducing stock held in the back of our that allows colleagues right across the stores and ensuring appropriate deliveries.
business to share their ideas on how we can improve.
By working together, I am LOWER COST RETAILING optimistic that by recognising the challenges we face and focusing on our During the year, we have undertaken a forensic review of our cost base, with the clear roadmap for transformation we can make M&S special again.
ambition to reduce it by at least 350m in the medium term.
Our initiatives in our stores and our supply chain will deliver a significant proportion of these reductions.
The change in our culture and ways of working is also delivering benefits in our STEVE ROWE CHIEF EXECUTIVE TRANSFORMATION TIMEFRAME STEP THREE MAKING STEP TWO M&S SPECIAL SHAPING THE FUTURE STEP ONE RESTORING THE BASICS 2017 2021 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
