Strategic report Chief Executives Statement Marshalls is a Superbrand with a significant market position.
Our strong investment case is covered in more detail on pages 4 and 5.
Delivering growth Marshalls remains a benchmark for excellence and the 3 cornerstone themes of customer service, quality and sustainability continue to put the customer at the very heart of our business model and investment proposition.
2018 trading summary Group revenue for the year ended 31 December 2018 was up 14 per cent at 491.0 million 2017: 430.2 million.
This was a very positive result given the first 4 months of the year were affected by Summary severe weather conditions.
Revenue growth in the second half of Profit before tax up 21% to 62.9 million the year was particularly strong at 17 per cent.
Acquisition of Edenhall in December 2018 Sales in the Domestic end market, which represented approximately 29 per cent of Group sales, continue to outperform CPA forecasts The integration of CPM is now complete and were up 3 per cent compared with the prior year.
Whilst the first The Groups positive cash generation has continued half of the year was particularly affected by the severe weather, revenue growth in the second half of the year was up 7 per cent Continued commitment to our self help capital investment against the prior period.
The survey of domestic installers at the end programme and new product development of February 2019 revealed order books of 10.0 weeks 2018: 10.8 weeks which compared with 10.8 weeks at the end of October 2018.
Acceleration of the digital strategy development Sales in the Public Sector and Commercial end market, which represented approximately 66 per cent of Group sales, were up 20 per cent compared with 2017.
This included a full year contribution from CPM.
The core Commercial and Domestic businesses continue to deliver Introduction benefits from operational efficiency improvements.
The strong The Groups proven strategy has continued to deliver strong profit performance of our Landscape Protection business in the second growth in 2018.
The self help programme to support organic growth half of the year and the growth in the sustainable profitability is progressing well, with continued focus on New Build Housing, Road, of our emerging UK businesses remain key parts of the Groups Rail and Water Management, where higher levels of growth are strategy.
The growth of protective security street furniture anticipated.
Sales and order intake have remained strong in the first continues with strong focus on new product development couple of months of 2019 and were up 16 per cent against the prior and new target markets.
year comparative 8 per cent up excluding the impact of Edenhall.
International revenue grew by 4 per cent during 2018 and The Group has delivered an operating profit in 2018 of 64.8 million represents approximately 5 per cent of Group sales.
Marshalls 2017: 53.4 million, an increase of 21 per cent.
This result is also has made continued progress in developing the International after charging 1.2 million of operational restructuring costs business and its trading performance has improved in line with 2017: 1.2 million and 0.4 million of acquisition costs revenue growth.
Profit before tax increased by 21 per cent to 62.9 million Edenhall Holdings Limited Edenhall was acquired on 2017: 52.1 million and EBITDA increased by 19 per cent to 11 December 2018.
Edenhall is a leading UK manufacturer and 80.8 million 2017: 67.9 million.
Basic EPS was 26.29 pence supplier of sustainable concrete products and the acquisition is 2017: 21.52 pence, an increase of 22 per cent.
in line with our stated strategy to complement our organic growth with targeted acquisitions.
CPM is now fully integrated into Marshalls IT and financial systems.
CPM has traded strongly during 2018, surpassing expectations, and the business integration into the Marshalls Group is now complete.
We are developing our strategic objectives to be sustainable over the longer term.
08 Strategic report Capital discipline remains a key priority for the Board and The Groups strategic initiatives are set out in detail in the the Groups strong cash generation has continued in the year.
Strategic Report on pages 2 to 37.
Operating cash flow was 92 per cent of EBITDA.
Net debt at Innovation and new product development 31 December 2018 of 37.4 million 2017: 24.3 million was better In the core Landscape Products business, the growth in revenue than expected, even after the total cash outflow of 16.4 million from new products continued strongly and new product sales in connection with the acquisition of Edenhall.
represented 12 per cent of total revenue in 2018.
The objective is to Acquisition of Edenhall deliver innovative market leading new products that are aligned The acquisition of Edenhall is in line with our stated Group strategy with customer needs across all business areas.
The development of expanding into adjacent building products related to New Build pipeline continues to be strong and the Group is committed to Housing.
This is a strategic focus for Marshalls.
Edenhall is a concrete providing high performance product solutions.
Further details have brick manufacturer capable of providing a spectrum of colours, been included on page 28 including a case study relating to our shades and textures to meet any specification requirements for new Surface Performance Technology paving products.
This new facing bricks and specials.
The acquisition will enable us to offer technology is generating increased sales, specifically in New Build customers a broader product choice.
The combination of Marshalls Housing, which is one of our targeted growth areas.
and Edenhall will build our specification ability for both brands and Improvements in operational efficiency will also create leverage for our existing business in Mortars and The self help capital investment programme is continuing to Screeds.
Trading since completion has been strong and integration improve operational and manufacturing efficiency.
By way of is on track with our expectations.
example, we are now seeing significant efficiency benefits following Current priorities and operational strategy the 3 million investment in a modern sawmill and production The Groups 2020 Strategy has been successful and the results in facility at Natural Stone Paving in 2017.
The more recent new 2018 demonstrate this.
Our long-term strategy remains to grow the 3.5 million static crushing plant at Howley Park is described in business, deliver increasing operating margins in all businesses and more detail in the case study on page 10.
This plant is capable improve return on capital employed ROCE.
We are mindful of of crushing 7 different products at one time and will both reduce increased political and economic uncertainties and a conservative operating costs and improve efficiency.
In addition, the Groups approach is being taken to the development of our strategic in-house logistics fleet provides a competitive advantage and objectives over the longer term.
We are currently developing our the vehicles have industry leading safety technology.
With around strategic plan for sustainable growth over the next 5 years and 375,000 deliveries made each year, this remains part of the this will become the Groups 2023 Strategy.
Groups operations where there are still further opportunities for improvement.
During 2018, the ongoing development of the self help capital investment programme has been complemented by the Health and safety acquisition of Edenhall and the successful integration of CPM.
Marshalls is committed to safeguarding the health and safety of every employee and all stakeholders who may be affected by our ROCE, defined as EBITA shareholders funds plus net debt, undertakings.
Maintaining the highest standards of health and was 23.3 per cent for the year ended 31 December 2018 safety remains a cornerstone of the Groups culture and we are 2017: 24.8 per cent.
This ROCE calculation excludes the committed to the continual improvement in health and safety impact of Edenhall and is therefore on a like-for-like basis.
The achievement of annual health and safety Capital expenditure was 29.2 million in the year ended improvement targets is directly linked to the remuneration of 31 December 2018, which included 17.0 million of additional, the Executive Directors and senior management.
We continue to identify a good During 2018, there was a 14 per cent reduction in lost time workplace pipeline of capital investment projects that will drive future organic incidents.
There was also a 46 per cent reduction in working days lost growth.
In addition, increases in research and new product over a 3-year period, which is comfortably ahead of the Groups development expenditure continue to be made as part of headline target.
In addition, during the year, the Group successfully our growth strategy.
gained ISO 45001 accreditation across the UK businesses, being We continue to explore bolt-on acquisitions within our targeted the first company in the building products industry to achieve growth sectors of New Build Housing, Water Management, this standard.
Our approach remains Marshalls has also introduced a Mental Health Awareness focused and any proposed acquisition target will be carefully Strategy, and this has included the training of key individuals assessed against strict investment criteria and will be thoroughly in the business to become Mental Health First Aiders to support investigated during the detailed due diligence phase.
We continue to promote a culture in which all Marshalls digital strategy remains a key priority and continued managers visibly demonstrate health and safety leadership.
investment is being directed to enhancing the Groups digital Responsible business capability.
The aim is to provide our customers with world-class In 2018 the total amount of community support, including experiences and the digital objective is to ensure they receive charitable donations raised by employees, amounted to 267,000. the right data, at the right time, in the right format.
During 2018, we The total raised for MIND, the Groups chosen national charity has have established a new platform for our Commercial end market been over 200,000 over the last 2 years.
This includes amounts customers which runs a state-of-the-art digital infrastructure raised by employees, supported by the Companys contribution.
that provides greater ability and a blueprint for future systems architecture.
We are planning to release a new platform for our Marshalls continues to share its success by encouraging employee Domestic end market customers in 2019.
Our web and mobile share ownership.
The Groups all-employee 2015 Sharesave scheme applications enable customers to model their requirements and matured in 2018 and 684 employees have either exercised, or are allow full digital access.
The digital strategy is underpinned by still able to exercise, their options and achieve a 50 per cent return continuous improvement driven by data analysis and customer over 3 years.
We are integrating artificial intelligence in key transactional systems and, during 2019, we aim to create an artificial intelligence infrastructure upon which other business initiatives will be able Martyn Coffey to leverage.
Chief Executive Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 09 Strategic report Case Study Self help capital investment Total 2018 capital expenditure Self help investment Self help capital expenditure is additional to ongoing replacement 29.2m spend.
It must be value added, targeting volume growth areas and self help 17.0m cost reduction and efficiency opportunities.
The investment objective is to achieve a payback in less than 3 years and a healthy IRR.
Self Total capital expenditure over help capital expenditure was 17.0 million in 2018 and has been the last 3 years 30.7 million over the last 3 years.
The 3.5 million investment in a static crushing plant at Howley Park and the 3 million investment 63.8m in saws and automation in a new production facility at Brookfoot self help 30.7m are 2 examples of significant capital expenditure projects.
Howley Park quarry static crushing investment Site capital investment of 3.5 million Static crushing plant capable of crushing 7 different products at any one time Comprises of: Tip hopper loaded directly from 45 tonne capacity dumpers Jaw crusher Cone crusher 3 screening stations each with 2 decks Increase in capacity of 75 per cent Reduction in operating costs of 24 per cent Hi res to be supplied Quarry reserves of over 50 years Read more on the strategy on pages 18 and 19 www.
co. uk commercial Marshalls plc 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Case Study Acquisitions Integration of CPM Acquired in October 2017, CPM is now fully integrated into Marshalls Landscape Products and has been performing ahead of expectations.
Key strengths Comprehensive range of technical and innovative water management solutions: Growing business with a strong track record of quality and service: and The provision of bespoke off-site solutions.
Opportunities We can now offer a broader product choice that complements Marshalls existing water management offering.
CPM now extends the Groups range to include below ground drainage products: and The acquisition of CPM will enable Marshalls to deliver a fuller system-based water management proposition.
Acquisition of Edenhall Edenhall is a concrete brick manufacturer capable of producing a spectrum of colours, shades and textures to meet any specification requirements for facing bricks and specials.
The acquisition will enable us to offer customers a broader product choice in line with our stated strategy of expanding into adjacent building products related to New Build Housing.
Key strengths Edenhall is a profitable business with a strong track record of quality, reliability and service: and The business offers facing brick colours in all shades from white to blue and in a wide variety of textures from smooth to sand-faced and weathered finishes.
Opportunities Marshalls has a strong presence in the New Build Housing Sector, and Edenhall will fit in with our existing customer frameworks and agreements: The combined offer will build the specification ability for both brands: and We can leverage our existing business in Mortars and Screeds as Edenhall also sell directly into this sector.
The joining of the two companies will add real value to our customers and accelerate the growth of Edenhall.
Andrew Cotton Read more on the strategy on pages 18 and 19 Managing Director of Edenhall Holdings Limited Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 11
