Chief Executive's statement In 2018, we significantly increased the pace of organic revenue growth and accelerated progress on our strategic initiatives.
Our increased content on In 2018, we significantly new platforms contributed to strong performance across each of our aerospace, defence and selected energy increased the pace of markets which grew in aggregate by 9%.
As we continue to transition from a focus on product development to organic revenue growth and industrialisation and execution, we have also started to see the synergies from our accelerated progress on our strategic initiatives accelerate.
During the past twelve months, we delivered both our target to reduce our footprint by 20% strategic initiatives.
and achieved purchased cost savings of 2% p. a. which are starting to contribute to underlying margin improvement, and will be critical to our goal to improve operating margins by 200 basis points by 2021.
To sustain this growth over the medium term and improve return on capital employed, we remain focused on: continued investment in our technology and strategic portfolio: improving the service we offer to our customers: enhancing our competitiveness: and building a high performance culture, capable of delivering superior returns for shareholders.
Tony Wood Chief Executive Officer Meggitt PLC 08 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Portfolio Strategy We have continued to make good Our 2021 targets progress on our goal to increase our exposure to attractive and growing We remain confident in delivering our targets markets where we have strong competitive positions, through both our for cash and margin improvement by 2021 investment in differentiated technology and programme of noncore disposals.
Improve underlying Increase inventory Developing innovative products and operating margin by turns from 2.3x to technologies which enable our customers to achieve a step change in the safety, efficiency and reliability of complex equipment continues to be a critical priority for the Group.
In 2018, we made 200 4.0x excellent progress on a carefully targeted basis points group of technology innovation projects designed to enhance our long term competitive position in markets with Reduce purchase Reduce our strong growth potential.
costs by footprint by Our applied research into next generation thermal systems is an excellent example of one such innovation project.
Building on our strong pedigree 2% 20% in aeroengine thermal management, we per annum are developing a thermal system capable of managing a twofold increase in heat transfer which is twothirds the size and weight of our current technology.
And in the defence market, we have preferred suppliers in areas including secured a number of new orders which electronics, fasteners and machining, We also continued to execute a have enabled us to significantly increase we have been able to simplify our supply programme of noncore divestments.
These chain whilst better leveraging our scale In March, we completed the sale of include retrofit fuel tanks for the F A18 to reduce cost.
Thomson, a provider of precision Super Hornet and UH60 Black Hawk: engineered products, to Umbra and a $750m contract for composite parts This approach has been more than in April, we sold chemical etching for the F119 and F135 engines: and a enough to offset some increases on raw subsidiary, Precision Micro to Lloyds $320m extension of our contract to materials and tariffs on products sourced Development Capital.
As a result of provide brakes across a wide range from low cost countries, most notably these divestments and five others that of platforms for the Defense China.
Whilst we expect such costs to preceded them since December 2016, Logistics Agency.
remain a headwind in 2019, we believe we have increased our exposure to the progress we have made in centralised attractive markets where we have a To further accelerate long term growth, procurement will continue to support our strong competitive position from 66% we have adopted a new organisation goal to improve our underlying operating to 72%, further enhancing our platform structure in January 2019, moving from margin by 200 basis points by 2021. for long term growth and returns.
six capability based units to four marketfacing divisions: Airframe During the past 12 months, we have Customers Systems, Engine Systems, Energy & also met our target to consolidate our Organic book to bill of 1.08x in 2018 Equipment and Services & Support.
This footprint by 20% by 2021, with noncore reflects good progress in growing our structural change continues our evolution disposals and the closure of our relationships with key customers across to a more integrated and efficient Group Maidenhead aftermarket facility all market segments.
and increases our alignment with contributing to a further reduction of customers whilst ensuring we maintain three sites.
With eight site consolidations In the civil aftermarket, the launch of our a strong focus on innovation across our currently in progress and due to Smart Support offering has been businesses.
Successfully implementing complete over the next three years, critical to securing a series of long term our new organisation and delivering the there is good scope for further agreements with airlines and third party initial benefits of this transition are an rationalisation of our footprint which maintenance, repair and overhaul MRO important priority for 2019. currently stands at 45 sites.
providers, including Emirates, SR Technics, Turkish Technic and Air France An important contributor to our success Competitiveness Services.
Smart Support provides a in consolidating factories has been the In 2018, we delivered two notable flexible service and support package with progress in expanding capacity at some achievements against the 2021 targets a combination of new and surplus parts, of our existing facilities.
We have we announced at our Capital Markets Day specialist repairs, exchange pools and doubled the capacity of our low cost in 2017. technology upgrades to optimise and manufacturing capability in Vietnam and increase the predictability of aircraft significantly expanded our composites As a result of our increasingly centreled maintenance through the product facilities in Mexico and San Diego.
We approach to procurement, we met our lifecycle.
Expanding the early success of have also made excellent progress on our target to reduce direct purchased costs TM Smart Support is a key priority for 2019.
Ansty Park site, with construction activity by 2%.
Working with the Groups new Meggitt PLC 09 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Chief Executive's statement continued beginning, and which remains on Culture schedule to complete in late 2019, Our high performance culture for initial occupation in early 2020. deployment made strong progress in 7% 2018, with training rolledout to over Inventory turns increased to 2.7x 2017: 2,000 of our leaders.
This programme is Underlying earnings per share 2.5x despite the significant increase in already having a strong impact on our revenue during the year and our business with employee engagement up investment in buffer stocks to support 4% during a period of significant change growth, our site consolidation plans and across many of our sites.
Changing our as part of our contingency planning for culture will be a long journey but it is a nodeal Brexit.
We are making good excellent to see the early impact of this 9% progress at many of our sites but there programme which is equipping our teams Increase in organic revenue is much improvement yet to come as we to work more effectively and efficiently target 4.0x inventory turns by 2021. across a more integrated Group and increase the pace of strategy execution.
Our efforts to increase competitiveness and reduce costs are underpinned by the Inclusion is a key foundation of our Meggitt Production System, our global high performance culture.
We aspire approach to continuous improvement.
to build a diverse workforce, where our The financial and operational people succeed based on their talent, performance improvements at our most skill, knowledge and application.
advanced facilities continue to Nonexecutive appointments during demonstrate the potential we can achieve the last 12 months have increased the when we move a critical mass of sites to representation of female board members the latter phases of the programme.
by 50% and in 2019, we will focus on building the pipeline of future leaders In 2019, we are focusing central resources to ensure that we materially increase to increase MPS maturity and deliver diversity amongst our executive sustainable operational improvements at workforce over the coming years.
eight large, but early stage sites, that constrained overall performance in 2018.
A key principal of our corporate culture is This improvement will have a significant our focus on health and safety.
In 2018, impact on customer service and will lay we have seen our total reportable the foundation for future operational incident rate improve by 34% and our lost efficiency, critical to delivering our 2021 time incident rate improve by 78%.
we are pleased with the progress we have Meggitt Production System made this year, we aspire to achieve a MPS drives innovation in operational Five Polymer and Composites sites are culture capable of sustaining upper excellence, technology development, included within these eight early stage quartile performance in terms of the sales pipeline, functional excellence MPS sites.
safety of our employees and have and customer experience, using our targeted further improvements in 2019. combined strengths in a standardised Our fast growing engine composites site language and deployment approach.
in Erlanger, KY incurred significantly Performance higher costs in 2018 due to extended Reported revenue increased by 4% to learning curve impacts but exited the year 2,081m, after the adverse impact from with improving yield and productivity currency translation and divestments.
which we expect to continue to steadily improve in the coming year.
These costs After six years of modest organic growth, were a 150 basis point headwind to Group 2018 marked a significant acceleration margin in 2018. with organic revenue up 9%, reflecting Our fast growing engine strong performance in growing markets.
Greater levels of process reliability and Underlying earnings per share increased composites site in Erlanger, increased volume output will also be key by 7% to 34.2p 2017 restated: 32.0p.
to securing the support of our customers KY incurred significantly to transfer high volume production to higher costs in 2018 due to Within civil aerospace, original our recently expanded composite equipment revenue grew organically by extended learning curve manufacturing facility in Mexico.
We 6%, with increased shipset content on anticipate a progressive improvement in impacts but exited the year large jets and a return to growth in margin throughout 2019 as we execute business jets offsetting further declines with improving yield and this plan.
Aftermarket revenue productivity which we expect increased organically by 8%, with These complex components are reliant to continue to steadily particularly strong performance in large upon deep proprietary manufacturing jets where growing air traffic demand and improve in the coming year.
knowhow which continues to enhance a record low retirement rate contributed These costs were a 150 basis our position in one of the fastest growing to 10% growth which also benefitted markets in aerospace.
point headwind to Group from oneoff stocking associated with new distributor agreements.
Meggitt PLC 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Performance in defence was also strong, with the rate of growth accelerating Changes in our organisational structure significantly after a slow first quarter.
Original equipment growth benefitted Continued journey from holding company to from improving demand on fighter jet platforms, particularly the F35.
trend for increased investment in fleet readiness in the US was a growth tailwind with new orders for retrofit fuel tanks on the F A18 and UH60 contributing to healthy aftermarket demand.
Airframe Engine After five years of declining revenue in energy, revenue grew by 19% organically Systems Systems in 2018 with the continued recovery at Heatric supplemented by growth in our sensor and valve businesses which offset falling demand from industrial gas turbines original equipment manufacturers by capturing growth from endusers.
Underlying operating margin was flat at 17.7%, with the growing financial contribution from the execution of our Energy & Services & strategic initiatives enough to offset the Equipment Support extended learning curve costs at our Polymers & Composites division and higher levels of free of charge content supplied during 2018.
Outlook See more on page 40 The outlook for our end markets remains encouraging.
The fundamental driver of our business is air traffic, which improving fleet readiness and in 2019, The Group expects margins to improve continues to grow ahead of the long run we anticipate organic growth to increase in 2019 by 0 to 50 basis points.
The average of 4 to 5% per annum.
increasing momentum in our strategic medium term, production of large jets, initiatives, greater volume leverage and underpinned by backlogs of up to eight The outlook in our energy markets is gradual improvement in margin in engine years at current production rates, is mixed.
At Heatric we expect the recovery composites will be offset by continued expected to grow as airlines seek to to continue into 2019 given organic order growth of free of charge units and increase capacity to support anticipated growth of 24% in 2018.
This is likely to be unfavourable revenue mix, with civil OE traffic growth.
Our increased shipset offset by more challenging conditions in and defence growth expected to be our content on the latest generation of the Groups power generation exposures fastest growing segments.
aircraft supports a positive outlook for where we continue to offset falling civil OE revenues.
In 2019, we expect civil demand from the industrial gas turbine Our medium term underlying operating OE to grow organically by 4 to 6%.
OEMs with growth in sales to end users.
margin targets remain unchanged with In 2019, we expect organic energy growth the Group targeting improvement of at Civil aftermarket revenues will continue of 0 to 5%.
to benefit from above average growth in traffic and the record low retirement rate The Group has carefully considered a in 2018.
However, this growth will be range of scenarios and implemented partly offset by lower anticipated mitigating actions that arise from the risk utilisation of both business jets and of a potential nodeal Brexit.
These regional aircraft which account for 46% include investment in buffer inventories, of Group aftermarket exposures: and a Tony Wood the recruitment of additional customs strong comparative period in 2018, Chief Executive Officer administrators and application for in which aftermarket growth was thirdcountry EASA status, enabling us to supplemented by nonrecurring revenue continue to support European registered associated with new distributor aircraft under these circumstances.
Given agreements signed in late 2017.
In 2019, that less than 5% of the Groups revenues we expect civil aftermarket to grow are transacted between the UK and the organically by 3 to 5%.
EU, this is not considered to be a significant risk for the Group in 2019.
Our defence business is well positioned with significant exposure to the US On the basis of the above, the Group Department of Defense and good expects 3 to 5% overall organic revenue content on all of the fastest growing and growth in 2019. hardest worked platforms.
We continue to benefit from the trend to invest in Meggitt PLC 11 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
