Chief Executives review 2018 has obviously been a significant year in Melroses history.
An exciting time We were pleased to be given the opportunity by shareholders to unlock the undoubted potential that exists within the GKN businesses for shareholders and we look forward to delivering value to all of our shareholders.
Upon taking control of GKN, we Strong customer relationships immediately set about removing the duplicate central functions and are at the centre of any decentralising the GKN businesses, simultaneously reorganising the Melrose business and our businesses Group into the five divisions we have today: GKN Aerospace: GKN Automotive: have renewed their focus on GKN Powder Metallurgy: Nortek Air &Security: and Other Industrial.
improving their performance For the GKN businesses, decentralisation and delivery, particularly was the first step in bringing about the change in culture we believe is vital to in critical supply chains.
For GKN Aerospace and GKN Powder Metallurgy, Simon Peckham, Chief Executive we worked with incumbent management teams to agree their management plans.
16 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report For GKN Automotive, we were pleased At each of our businesses, investment in to fill the CEO vacancy with a high calibre candidate with a strong track record in the technology and operational improvements sector.
With an ambitious new executive is at the heart of our efforts to unlock their team around him, the GKN Automotive business will be transformed.
This translates to ongoing support these businesses present the exciting for the industry leading StatePoint Technology opportunity to improve their performance, as expected.
for HVAC and the new Aerospace Global Having agreed their approach, the GKN Technology Centre in Filton, UK.
businesses have been given the freedom and responsibility to start to deliver on their with these over the months to come.
Part of this has been a For the GKN businesses, our commitment It is apparent that, at acquisition, these refocus on profitable sales rather than at the time of the acquisition to invest an contracts constituted approximately 10% solely on growth.
There is also a clear amount equal to 2.2% of sales on research of GKN net sales, requiring a provision of expectation that they be good stewards and development was always considered 629 million as discussed in the Finance of their businesses for the benefit of all a floor, not a ceiling.
We are tracking in line Directors review.
We think these contracts stakeholders.
Despite inheriting the cash with expectations, including commencing offer a large potential for performance cost of unwinding the significant creditor work on the new Aerospace Global improvement in the future.
stretch employed by the previous GKN Technology Centre in Filton, UK.
In parallel, management, net debt leverage was better we are also investing heavily to achieve the As we said at the time of the GKN than previous guidance at 2.3x EBITDA.
operational improvements and so far we acquisition, we will be responsible Following this, a key task for this year have approved capital expenditure of more custodians of the GKN pension schemes is to have a better control and focus than 200 million in a mix of initiatives, and we stand by that commitment.
on the working capital in the GKN Group.
including plant extensions, capacity Since acquisition we have improved their Optimising cash management is a key upgrades and procurement efficiencies.
This corporate governance by appointing the first area for improvement for all of the investment process has benefited from, and independent Chairman of the UK schemes.
also been speeded up by, the more rigorous At each of our businesses, investment in approval process we have introduced.
Strong customer relationships are at the technology and operational improvements centre of any successful business, but Outlook are at the heart of our efforts to unlock these had been troubled for the GKN Alongside the continued progress in Nortek, their potential.
For Nortek Air & Security, businesses prior to our acquisition.
With we believe that our businesses will deliver ongoing support for the industry leading our support, the businesses have renewed some of the significant upside we see in StatePoint Technology for HVAC, the their focus on improving their performance 2019 despite continuing market volatility, refreshing of the product range for AQH and delivery, particularly in critical supply particularly for GKN Automotive.
Our and the data analytics acquired for SST chains.
To reassure key customers of the businesses are not without their challenges, through IntelliVision are vital to their ongoing strength of our commitment, Melrose has particularly geopolitical, with Brexit and development and are paying real dividends.
funded the significant investment required automotive sector uncertainty continuing.
This has been matched by investments to to achieve the necessary operational However, our businesses are proactive upgrade their production capacity and improvements fundamental to securing and will adjust their operations where continue their operational improvements, this improved performance.
We will continue to be prudent which have been key to the increase in in our approach and ambitious in our aims.
Part of these improving relationships has operating margins in Nortek businesses We believe the rigorous focus on cost been the focus coming from the opening by approximately six percentage points control, productivity and improved customer balance sheet review that identified a since acquisition.
delivery will continue to drive improvement significant number of poorly performing Whilst FKI has been a very successful in performance for all of our businesses.
contracts, which are further detailed in acquisition for shareholders, Brush has This gives us confidence that we will the Finance Directors review.
While we in recent years suffered from very difficult continue to meet our expectations and have adopted the appropriate accounting markets.
A large-scale restructuring was that 2019 will be another successful year.
treatment for these, we have also been initiated in 2018 as a result, and it has been clear that addressing these is a key priority successfully implemented by Brushs for each of the GKN businesses and management.
This will be completed in progress is already being made which has 2019.
Unfortunately, the well-publicised been welcomed by customers.
Some of further difficult market conditions mean Simon Peckham our investments to date have also been that your Board considers it should again Chief Executive supporting this.
We look forward to further reduce the holding value of this company 7 March 2019 updating shareholders on progress and this has been done in these accounts.
Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 17
