10 MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC ANN UAL RE PORT AND ACCOU NTS 2018 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT DEVELOPING THE PLATFORM FOR GROWTH MERLIN MADE GOOD STRATEGIC PROGRESS THROUGHOUT 2018.
OUR LONG TERM INVESTMENTS Merlin is uniquely placed to HAVE FURTHER DEVELOPED exploit the growing THE PLATFORM FOR opportunities to partner with FUTURE GROWTH.
leading owners of Intellectual Property content and provide additional ways in which to deliver memorable experiences.
OUR STRATEGY To create a high growth, high return, family entertainment company based on strong brands and a global portfolio that is naturally balanced against the impact of external factors.
These four strategic elements are identified by the following icons throughout this Annual Report.
High growth High return Strong brands Global portfolio STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC 11 67.0m VISITORS 327m UNDERLYING OPERATING PROFIT 2018 overview Market overview Merlin made further good strategic progress Merlin operates in an attractive marketplace, during 2018, delivering organic growth in benefiting from underlying growth underlying EBITDA of 6.2% and underlying characteristics and favourable dynamics.
We welcomed a record its heart is increasing disposable income in 67 million visitors whilst continuing to report both developed and emerging economies, strong guest KPIs, including a three percentage and the ever greater value being placed upon point increase in our Net Promoter score, time together with friends and family.
We have further strengthened our pipeline of attractive opportunities alongside Firstly, we continue to see the long term growth investing in our existing brands, underpinning opportunity through international tourism, our platform for continued growth.
benefiting our Gateway city attractions such as those in London, New York and Hong Kong.
Growth in the year was driven primarily by our Globally, there were 1.3 billion tourist arrivals New Business Development programme, which in 2017 over half of which were travelling saw us open a record 644 accommodation for leisure or recreation representing a rooms and seven new Midway attractions the 3.8% CAGR over the past decade.
This has majority of which were either new brands or been driven in part by the continued growth attractions in new markets.
The pilot openings of in emerging markets, with increasing levels of our two new brands Peppa Pig World of Play wealth in countries such as China and India set and The Bear Grylls Adventure, in Shanghai to continue over the coming years.
We therefore and the UK respectively, have already received remain confident that the market opportunity for encouraging guest feedback.
These openings our Gateway city attractions remains significant.
represent an entry into exciting new market categories for Merlin and underscore our focus Secondly, the increase in short breaks, in in strengthening our position as an operator addition to fuelling international travel, sees of location based entertainment partnering more and more people take staycations.
Short with leading owners of Intellectual Property.
breaks in the UK have grown at twice the rate of longer holidays over the past 20 years.
We are 2018 trading saw an improvement in trends increasingly well positioned to meet this demand across a number of our businesses.
Midway through our growing offering of themed, on-site London, which had been adversely impacted by accommodation and second gate attractions to the 2017 terrorist attacks, returned to growth extend dwell time.
Furthermore, the relatively in the second half of the year: and Resort lower cost to the guest of staycations has Theme Parks saw exceptionally strong like for historically provided balance to Merlins portfolio like growth, benefiting from successful product during more challenging economic conditions.
investment and very favourable weather.
This performance was partially offset by the cost Finally, Merlin is uniquely placed, given its global headwinds we have been highlighting for several reach and multi-format expertise, to exploit the reporting periods, as well as a quieter year growing opportunities to partner with leading for new news in our LEGOLAND parks.
owners of Intellectual Property content.
These partnerships provide Merlin with additional ways Since the year end we have announced our in which to deliver memorable experiences, intention to open a LEGOLAND park in whilst offering those partners opportunities South Korea, having reached an agreement to increase engagement with their customers.
with the local province regarding funding.
This Merlin has long enjoyed success through flagship is important for the continued development partnerships such as that with LEGO, and was of the LEGOLAND estate, and the planned pleased to launch two new IP-based brands in opening by 2022 will maintain our LEGOLAND 2018.
We see opportunities to develop further Parks momentum, following the targeted relationships with more IP or content owners opening of LEGOLAND New York in 2020. over the coming years, building on the success of existing relationships.
12 MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC ANN UAL RE PORT AND ACCOU NTS 2018 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT In addition to these existing market drivers, we Strategic synergies we continue to leverage continue to carefully monitor broader consumer the growing scale of the Group through tastes and trends, particularly with regards areas such as procurement, promotional to new concepts.
The exponential growth in activity and technology.
The roll out of the formats such as pop-ups and Escape Rooms is accesso e-commerce platform is substantially Our ongoing product of increasing interest, and we have already begun complete, whilst our 2019 focus will be investment and innovation, trialling some of these as part of offerings within upon further developing the digital guest our existing attractions, with Escape Rooms journey and the launch of the first Merlin and relentless focus on now in Madame Tussauds San Francisco and Annual Pass membership programme.
creating memorable The Bear Grylls Adventure in Birmingham, UK.
Short break positioning the success of our experiences for our guests Strategy update accelerated investment in on-site themed throughout 2018, have With this attractive market backdrop, Merlins accommodation and developing our theme resulted in continued strong purpose is about creating truly memorable parks into short break resorts remains experiences for our guests: creating memories compelling.
Accommodation revenue grew levels of guest satisfaction.
to be shared at the school gates, on social by 28% in 2018 on a constant currency basis media or simply on the journey home.
and has doubled over the past five years, now representing 21% of revenue across our Since the creation of Merlin in 1999, our strategic theme park Operating Groups compared to vision has been to create a high growth, high 13% in 2013.
Accommodation continues to return, family entertainment business naturally drive improved levels of guest satisfaction balanced against external factors.
Specifically, and increases in advanced bookings.
In we aim to continue to diversify our portfolio, 2018 we opened 644 rooms across three by geography, brand and customer, ensuring LEGOLAND parks, and anticipate opening a balance of indoor and outdoor attractions 372 rooms across a range of formats in 2019. and international and domestic visitation.
Midway roll out we continue to see the In pursuit of this, Merlin has consistently opportunity to open new Midway attractions focused on its six strategic growth drivers globally, based on both our existing and new see pages 14 to 15.
We opened seven new attractions in these in 2018 has been as follows: 2018, including pilots of our three new brands Little BIG City the first pilot attraction of Existing estate capex investment in the existing which was launched in Berlin in 2017, Peppa Pig estate helps to maintain and grow visitation World of Play and The Bear Grylls Adventure.
In addition to the major Our pipeline continues to comprise a mixture capex investments in 2018, such as the Wicker of new brands or attractions in new markets, as Man roller coaster at Alton Towers and LEGO well as the core brands in established markets.
City: Deep Sea Adventure at LEGOLAND Over time, these will broadly balance out, California, new innovations included immersive though 2017-18 reflected proportionally more build and play features in our LEGOLAND emerging market and new brand openings.
Discovery centres, and Madame Tussauds first In 2019, we target opening ten attractions.
intelligent wax figure in Shanghai.
Following our decision in Q3 2017 to rebalance our Opening new LEGOLAND parks 2018 capital allocation more towards new business represented the first full year of trading of opportunities, Midway Attractions and Resort LEGOLAND Japan, and the resort was enhanced Theme Parks existing estate capex spend was further through the addition of a SEA LIFE centre carefully reduced in 2018.
At the same time and 252 bedroom hotel.
We made encouraging the team retained a clear focus on maintaining progress during the year towards the opening our levels of guest satisfaction.
This capital of LEGOLAND New York, scheduled to open discipline has resulted in Group existing estate in 2020, and we have subsequently announced capex reducing to 9% of revenue, remaining our intention to open a park in South Korea by within our target range of 8% to 10%.
We remain in active discussions, some of STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC 13 which are advanced, with a number of potential These cost savings will be delivered through partners to develop several LEGOLAND parks back office savings, such as our Finance 21 in China.
The current investment phase for project, operational efficiencies by evolving our LEGOLAND parks will continue to have the business model, the application of continuous effect of reducing near term, reported Group improvement principles in our attractions, and ROCE given the projects gestation periods and in many cases through better use of technology funding structures, but we are confident in the and automation.
In addition to delivering financial long term opportunity and returns outlook.
savings, our programme seeks to improve productivity, better enabling our attraction staff Strategic acquisitions whilst we remain and general managers to focus upon what truly active in assessing inorganic opportunities delivers memorable experiences for our guests.
against our clear investment criteria, we made no acquisitions during 2018.
Guest satisfaction Our ongoing product investment and innovation, Health, safety and security and relentless focus on creating memorable The health, safety and security of our guests and experiences for our guests throughout 2018, employees remains our number one priority and have resulted in continued strong levels of guest we will continue to invest time and resource in satisfaction.
Guest feedback is monitored daily improving our already high standards.
In 2018, through the touchscreens at our attractions, we developed further global partnerships with generating over one million reviews each third party organisations related to matters year.
In 2018 we delivered an overall guest of health, safety and security with the aim of satisfaction score across the Group of 95%, mutually sharing any learnings, and launched and a Net Promoter score of 57%, which a number of internal initiatives including the increased by three percentage points.
Companys HSS magazine called The Shield and a new series of line manager-led briefings.
Employee engagement We know that the better engaged our Productivity Agenda employees are, the better our guests Merlin has successfully mitigated significant experiences will be.
We are therefore pleased cost pressures in recent years, resulting from to report that our annual employee survey legislative changes such as the UK National The Wizard Wants to Know which was Living Wage, and significant increases in utilities completed by 95% of our employees, shows and business rates.
We are also increasingly that 94% enjoy working at Merlin.
Employee seeing the impact of tighter labour markets engagement at Merlin remains significantly above in many parts of the world such as Southern global benchmarks.
Were not stopping there California, Bavaria and the South East of though.
In 2018 we developed a new employer England.
To date this cost mitigation has been brand and value proposition: Love Your Work.
achieved largely through attraction-level Work Your Magic, as we seek to attract, savings and tactical efficiency improvements.
recruit and retain the very best people, and work is under way to encourage even greater Mindful of these continuing cost pressures, we diversity and inclusivity within the workplace have been focused on our Productivity Agenda through a number of new people initiatives.
which seeks to consolidate a number of initiatives to provide long term, sustainable savings across Our team of 28,000 employees should be the Group.
As a result, we have identified proud of what we have achieved this year, and annualised savings of up to 35 million which we I would like to thank them for their continued expect to deliver by 2022, incurring overall onededication and for delivering another year off operating costs related to the implementation of fun, safe, and memorable experiences for of this programme of approximately 35 million.
our millions of guests around the world.
Nick Varney Chief Executive Officer 27 February 2019 14 MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC ANN UAL RE PORT AND ACCOU NTS 2018 OUR SIX STRATEGIC GROWTH DRIVERS PROGRESS, GROWTH AND PLANS FOR THE FUTURE GROWTH DRIVER PROGRESS Investment in the existing estate allows us to grow We made significant investments across all Planned investment visitation to the attraction, provides us with Operating Groups ranging from IP-based features cycles in the something new to market, and provides a degree such as the DC Comics Justice League of pricing power.
Each attraction has a planned experiences, through to new roller coasters such existing estate investment cycle with varying capex levels that as the Wicker Man at Alton Towers Resort.
As help to smooth overall expenditure across the planned, total investment reduced in 2018 as we portfolio and ensure investments are funded from reallocate capital to new business opportunities.
Find out more on pages 16 to 17 We continue to leverage the growing scale of the The roll out of the accesso e-commerce platform Exploiting strategic Group through areas such as procurement, for online revenue is substantially complete and synergies promotional activity and technology.
In doing so several projects are now under way as part of our we always seek to improve the customers Productivity Agenda initiative to deliver long term experience, for example, by streamlining the guest operational efficiencies.
journey on our e-commerce platforms.
Adding on-site, themed accommodation improves A total of 644 accommodation rooms were opened Developing our guest satisfaction, increases the catchment area during 2018 across LEGOLAND Japan, transforming theme parks into for our parks, and increases the level of the park which opened in 2017 into a resort, pre-booked revenue.
LEGOLAND Deutschlands new Pirate Island Hotel, destination resorts and LEGOLAND California, where a second hotel doubled the on-site accommodation capacity.
Find out more on pages 18 to 19 We are expanding our estate of Midway Seven new Midway attractions opened in 2018.
Opening new attractions, rolling out a combination of core These included Little BIG City Beijing, our second Midway and new brands, in both established and attraction under that new format, the first Dungeon developing markets.
attraction in Asia in Shanghai, and pilots of two new attractions IP-based brands The Bear Grylls Adventure in the UK and Peppa Pig World of Play in Shanghai.
Find out more on pages 20 to 21 We are expanding our current estate of eight 2018 was the first full year of trading for Opening new LEGOLAND parks that we operate under three LEGOLAND Japan that expanded into a full LEGOLAND parks models operated and owned, operated and resort in the year with the opening of the on-site leased, operated under management contract.
hotel and the SEA LIFE Nagoya second gate attraction.
LEGOLAND New York is now under construction.
We operate in relatively fragmented markets, with Reflecting our strict investment criteria, no Strategic non-natural owners of attractions.
This provides acquisitions were made in 2018. acquisitions opportunities for acquisitions.
NEW BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT EXISTING ESTATE DEVELOPMENT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC 15 STRONG BRANDS HIGH GROWTH HIGH RETURN GLOBAL PORTFOLIO 2019 OUTLOOK MEASURING PROGRESS Organic revenue Accommodation revenue Each year we plan that all existing estate attractions will have something new growth growth for customers to enjoy.
In 2019 major investments will include the launch of the iconic Colossos roller coaster at Heide Park while LEGOLAND Florida will see the first of our LEGO Movie World investments.
At SEA LIFE Sydney Aquarium, visitors will be able to experience the worlds largest 5.2% 27.7% Great Barrier Reef exhibit in the state of the art, interactive Day and Night in 2018 in 2018 constant currency on the Reef.
Accommodation Midway attractions Work will continue on our projects to evolve and simplify our operating 644 7 models across both theme parks and Midway attractions.
rooms across three across six brands in four countries LEGOLAND parks launching two new brands The Finance 21 project will start to roll out a cloud based software solution that will underpin the strategy to optimise the Groups finance organisation.
We plan to open on average approximately 500 rooms per annum in the medium term 372 in 2019 at LEGOLAND Billund, Alton Towers and Gardaland and will continue the investment in second gates to further develop resorts.
LONGER TERM FOCUS AREAS Productivity Agenda Our Productivity Agenda initiatives will look to evolve the Groups operations over the next few years.
We expect to see the benefits of this in lower operating costs, with up to 35 million annualised cost savings by 2022.
At the same time we will continue to focus on the guest experience, for example Reflecting our plan to roll out new brands in new locations, 2019 will see through the use of improved technology.
More Peppa Pig World of Play attractions will expand that new IP-based brand in China and the USA.
There will also be a Short break accommodation number of core brand openings with a suite of LEGOLAND Discovery We see a continued market demand for our themed accommodation in the Centres and SEA LIFE Centres scheduled to open in the USA, China short break holiday market.
Our investments in this area to date have proved and Malaysia.
very successful, generating strong financial returns and helping to increase guest satisfaction over their longer visit to a Merlin destination.
Accordingly, we plan to have opened approximately 2,500 new rooms between 2018 and 2022 across both theme park Operating Groups.
Construction on LEGOLAND New York will ramp up during 2019 in line LEGOLAND parks with our schedule to open in 2020.
At the start of 2019 we announced that agreement has been reached with the local province in respect of LEGOLAND Korea, which will be a fully owned and operated resort, scheduled to open by 2022.
Our increasing level of consultancy and study agreements give us confidence for further opportunities in China and we continue to believe that there is the potential for 20 LEGOLAND parks worldwide.
Intellectual Property IP We continue to monitor the market for acquisition opportunities.
We see the growing importance of IP content and how location based entertainment can be a platform for this, providing greater ways to deliver memorable experiences, whilst offering partners opportunities to engage with consumers in a richer way.
We see the opportunity to develop multiple relationships with IP or content owners over time and believe Merlin is uniquely placed to develop such relationships given our strong credentials, and our multi-format, global reach.
