STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS STATEMENT Craig Donaldson, Chief Executive Officer 2018 was another successful year of strong growth for phase of our growth.
Our key objective is to balance MetroBank.
Despite a challenging operating environment, growthwith profitability and capital efficiency, which means especially in the fourth quarter, the model continued to go moderating our rate of growth in response to the prevailing from strength to strength.
Weve delivered this growth while margin environment.
Furthermore, we will diversify our continuing to make substantial investment in our digital and lendingmix to access attractive segments and optimise our physical infrastructure and maintaining our unique culture.
Revenue growth will be accelerated by expanding our fee income through new value-added services, I am particularly proud that our achievements were recognised especially for SMEs supported by our C&I award.
Finally, we in the CMA customer satisfaction survey that was published in must accelerate our cost efficiency by driving our operating February 2019, with us coming top for personal and second leverage now we are achieving scale throughout the Bank.
forbusiness banking for overall quality of service.
Delivering this exceptional level of customer service while growing our Together these initiatives will place us in a better position balance sheet by 32% year-on-year is truly impressive.
tocontinue to deliver high growth in a capital efficient way, and I look forward to reporting on progress.
Our success in securing the top award of 120 million from the Capability and Innovation C&I Fund as part of the In January 2019 we announced that we had adjusted the RBSAlternative Remedies Package is recognition of our riskweighting of certain commercial loans secured on commitment to the underserved small and medium commercial property and certain specialist buy-to-let loans enterprise SME banking market.
These funds will allow that had the combined effect of increasing our RWAs by 900 usto build on our plans to bring much needed competition million.
Whilst the risk weightings have been adjusted, there to SME hotspots in the North of England, while also isno deterioration in the credit quality of the affected assets.
On 26 February 2019, we received notification that the PRA and FCA are investigating the circumstances and events that Although the business is performing well, the back half led to the RWA adjustment announced on 23 January 2019. ofthe year, particularly the fourth quarter, saw us face We will cooperate fully will the PRA and FCA.
headwinds from the wider macroeconomic environment and particularly in the form of net interest margin NIM We are learning the lessons from this and will continue compression, as despite a further base rate rise, yields fell.
to improve our systems and controls around capital and This is primarily due to excess market liquidity following the risk-weighted assets.
introduction of ring fencing for our larger competitors.
Finally, I would like to thank everyone at MetroBank Looking forward, we remain committed to our core strategy of including our customers, colleagues and shareholders, creating FANS, attracting low-cost deposits and lending at low without whom building the revolution in British banking risk through our integrated customer experience of bricks and would not be possible.
However, we are conscious of the need to adapt to the challenging conditions in the wider economic, craig Donaldson commercial and regulatory environment.
To that end we are chief executive officer implementing a range of strategic initiatives to deliver the next 10 April 2019 Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 03
