Chief Executives business review Continued trading 1 above the market average a and a return to profit growth I have been CEO for three years now and over that period we I am pleased with the momentum have undergone a lot of change both internally and in the external environment, with the cost headwinds which continue to impact the we have built and with the activity sector and more recently Company Voluntary Arrangements CVAs that is underway in the business.
and closures in casual dining.
When I joined the business, we were in sustained like-for-like sales Phil Urban Chief Executive decline and the business was underperforming on a number of metrics which are key to the success of a hospitality company.
Therefore, we embarked on a new strategy which focused on addressing the issues within the business and these fell into three strategic priorities which I discuss in detail later in this review.
In February 2016, we launched a programme of work called Ignite designed to meet these priorities, whose first objective was to get the business back into sustained sales growth and ahead of the market, a target we achieved over 18 months ago and have maintained since.
The second objective was then to stabilise profits and, although a FY 2018 adjusted profit before tax finished 5m down against last year, our performance in the second half, and the knowledge that there were some exceptional events in the first half, gives me confidence to say that we are now achieving that aspiration.
Our third objective is to return this business to sustained profit growth, which will be no mean feat given the macro environment I describe later, but that is exactly why we have embarked on our Ignite 2 programme of work.
The approach we have taken recognises that there is no silver bullet to growing businesses, but instead it is the incremental gains made across several fronts that can bring success.
Ignite 2 is a programme of work with a number of different workstreams, grouped under eight broad headings, each led by one of our Executive Directors and a functional expert.
We have also set up a project office and a governance routine, to ensure that we all remain focused on extracting as much value as we can from the programme.
Some of the workstreams have already seen their initiatives implemented and value start accruing, whereas others are far longer term, may require net investment this year, and should start paying back from FY 2020 and beyond.
The review that follows updates you on our progress in the year against the three strategic priorities: outlines our current view of the market in which we operate: summarises our corporate social responsibility values: details our financial performance in FY 2018 and updates you on our priorities for FY 2019.
Overall, I am pleased with the momentum we have built and with the activity that is underway within the business.
We continue to trade ahead 1 a of the market average, and our second half adjusted profit performance gives us confidence that the business has stabilised.
However, the spectre of an uncertain Brexit outcome, and political instability, means that we remain cautious about the shortand medium-term future.
14 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 45 GOVERNANCE 46TO91 FINANCIALSTATEMENTS 92TO147 OTHERINFORMATION 148TO152 During the year we have maintained a strong trading performance, We completed 232 remodels and conversions in FY 2018 FY 2017 252 investing in our estate and mitigating 28m of cost inflation whilst and remain on course to deliver a six to seven year cycle of investment, maintaining quality for our guests.
from the eleven to twelve year cycle of previous years.
In order to maximise the profit uplift following investment within the financial year, a For a second consecutive year like-for-like sales growth outperformed we completed more projects in the first half than in previous years.
We achieved like-for-like sales growth of 1.3% in the financial The in-year benefit from this, coupled with savings made in costs relating year despite extended periods of snow, unusually hot weather in the to closure, was 3m.
Conversions remain focused on the expansion summer and Englands prolonged success in the FIFA World Cup.
The of Miller & Carter, which now consists of 105 sites and continues a last reported period of like-for-like sales growth of 2.2% was free from to perform strongly both in terms of sales growth and returns.
a one-off events and, since the year-end, like-for-like sales have continued to grow at 2.2%.
Total sales grew by 0.5% on a 52 week basis impacted We continued to enhance the amenity of sites through our remodel by disposals made in the prior year.
Remodel projects provide a refreshed environment for sites which remain within the same brand, giving the opportunity both to delight Profitability in the first half was negatively impacted by snow in particular, existing, and attract new, guests.
The remodel programme provides resulting in a decline of 8m against last year.
However, in the second a vehicle through which brands can continue to evolve and innovate a half, adjusted operating profit grew by 3m, despite Easter shifting into in the highly competitive market in which we operate.
the first half, as the momentum from our strategic initiatives continued to gather pace.
Instil a more commercial culture We have made progress in developing a more commercial culture across a Adjusted operating profit of 303m was down 1.6% year-on-year the business over recent years, with a relentless focus on profitability on a 52 week basis.
On a statutory basis profit before tax of 130m essential in the current environment.
Our centralised procurement process grew against last year impacted by separately disclosed items.
allows us to leverage our scale and during the year we mitigated 6m of inflationary costs across food, drink and logistics.
In addition, centralised Our strategic priorities pricing changes have generated a benefit of 5m through benchmarking We have maintained our strategic approach with three priority areas against local competitors, events pricing and menu psychology.
focused on repositioning the Company to a stronger competitive position: Labour remains the most significant cost to the business and improving Build a more balanced business efficiency without compromising on quality is a constant focus.
Last year we rolled out new software across all of our UK business to help managers Instil a more commercial culture to more effectively deploy labour through more accurate sales forecasting, Drive an innovation agenda scheduling recommendations and electronic time management.
We have seen the benefit of embedding this software with in-year cost We continued to make strong progress across these three strategic mitigation of 8m.
We will continue to find additional efficiency benefits a priorities over the year resulting in sustained like-for-like sales growth by focusing on best practice use of the software.
a ahead of the market and growth in adjusted operating profit in the second half of the financial year.
Our focus on online interaction with guests continues with their increasing use of our digital platforms, such as apps and online feedback.
Build a more balanced business Last year we introduced reputation.
com a feedback consolidation tool Our estate comprises 1,750 pubs, bars and restaurants, of which more which enables managers to respond to comments from multiple sources than 80% are freehold or long-leasehold.
Our focus in this area is to through one system.
Through this tool we now respond to 93% of all optimise the balance of brands across the estate in order to create online feedback and we continue to see the benefits of the personal long-term value.
During the year, we continued to improve the quality interaction this platform enables for the guest.
In addition, it allows us of the estate through premiumisation and amenity upgrades.
to gather consumer insight to evolve our brands in line with consumer demands.
Since the year end we have increased the average feedback score across the estate to 4 out of 5 reflecting the hard work undertaken in this area.
Our strategy See pages 22 to 23 Annual report and accounts 2018 Mitchells & Butlers plc 15 Chief Executives business review continued Revenue by region FY 2018 1 3 2 Drive an innovation agenda Technological developments are constantly changing the way consumers 4 behave and our digital strategy is designed to enable us to benefit from those changes and to satisfy guests changing needs.
A mobile payment option is available in all of our brands, allowing guests to pay their bill on 6 their mobile device.
In addition, we continue to refine our order at table 5 facility where guests can order food and drink from their mobile device 8 7 at their table rather than having to queue at the bar.
This facility is currently on trial in several ONeills sites and the results show both a demand for, 11 and a benefit from, introducing this technology across more of the business.
10 As a result of this successful trial we plan to roll out the technology further 9 across ONeills and to four additional brands during FY 2019.
Digital development provides us with the opportunity to better understand and enhance our guests experiences.
An example of this is free wireless charging stations which we have trialled in a selection of our % of sales city centre locations with extremely positive guest feedback.
We have 1 Scotland 5% also developed our customer relationship management platform which 2 North West 9% enables more targeted and personalised communication with guests, 3 North East 3% the result of which has been increased conversions to bookings.
4 Yorkshire and Humberside 8% 5 West Midlands 14% Ignite 6 East Midlands 5% Ignite is the internal name used for our focused programme of work 7 Wales 4% underpinning the longer-term strategy.
The first phase of Ignite launched 8 East of England 7% in FY 2016 and focused primarily on returning the business to sustained a 9 South West 7% like-for-like sales growth.
Having achieved this aim, work began on 10 South East excluding London 15% Ignite 2, a second wave of initiatives which continue the focus on sales 11 London 23% growth and also incorporate more efficiency and cost-saving workstreams aimed at improving profitability in the face of industry-wide cost headwinds.
This second wave of initiatives required an in-depth, cross-functional analysis of processes and, in order to coordinate this work, a project office has been set up to support and govern the various workstreams.
This focus will ensure that the maximum value can be extracted from the programme of work.
Several initiatives are already in place within the business and are delivering value, whereas others are longer-term projects which will require investment during the financial year to begin delivering returns from FY 2020.
Examples of live Ignite 2 initiatives include the formation of a central expert labour deployment team who visit sites which are performing below the required labour scheduling accuracy.
This team provides practical support and system expertise and the result has been a material improvement in performance of the 210 sites visited in the year.
16 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 45 GOVERNANCE 46TO91 FINANCIALSTATEMENTS 92TO147 OTHERINFORMATION 148TO152 We have also introduced enhancements to our booking platforms by People reducing the number of steps a guest needs to take to book a table which We have a fantastic team of over 44,000 people across the business has improved our booking conversions.
In addition, we have introduced who are crucial to the all-important experiences which guests have with the recommendation of alternative venues when there is no availability us.
Attracting, training and retaining high-quality staff is more important at the selected site.
Take-up of alternative site bookings equates to than ever and despite the numerous initiatives we have introduced over c. 13,000 bookings per year.
the course of the financial year, we are pleased that our management Following a successful trial, we have, from the start of FY 2019, removed level turnover has improved by 2.6ppts.
This is particularly important cash expenditure for sundry expenses such as flowers, taxis, emergency during a period of change as managers provide stability to the teams on food purchases etc.
from our businesses: the aims of this are to increase site.
Our kitchen management turnover has reduced by 3.1ppts since last visibility and therefore control over expenses of this nature and also to year which is reassuring in light of the challenges that any changes in the identify opportunities to leverage our scale to achieve a better price for free movement of labour resulting from Brexit might bring.
We have also introduced an interrogative software tool turnover has increased by 2ppts, driven by hourly paid staff, reflecting which analyses all transactional till data and identifies patterns of behaviour the heightened competitiveness of this sector of the labour market.
We have a team of people trained in Engagement scores have also improved across all cohorts over the year.
the software who support our managers in then taking action if required.
In terms of training, we are proud of the work we have done on our apprentice scheme which we believe will provide excellent future talent Longer-term projects include a system update and change of processes to our organisation.
We are delighted to now have 1,800 apprentices around our stock management.
Last financial year we updated our stock taking part in our schemes which range from front and back of house system, a complicated project which impacted each of our businesses, roles in our pubs and restaurants to corporate roles in our head office.
a number of central teams and also required the cooperation of our suppliers.
The benefits of the system upgrade are significant: it allows Current trading and outlook us to automate tasks within the business which currently take up a large a amount of management time.
For example, remote counting will facilitate In the first seven weeks of the new financial year like-for-like sales have barcode scan stock taking which will significantly reduce the amount of grown by 2.2%.
time taken to perform a stock count and will automatically load the results a A return to adjusted operating profit growth in the second half into the system.
Prep and par is a tool which will aid kitchen staff with of the last financial year was a significant milestone for the Company.
identifying what to prepare for each session of the day based on site a With like-for-like sales growth consistently ahead of the market and specific trading patterns and forecasts.
This system, particularly when our focus on efficiency initiatives, we are confident that we are addressing used in combination with auto-ordering, will help to reduce waste and the elements of performance which are within our control.
However, instances of menu items being unavailable, improving guest experience.
the market in which we operate remains challenging and a high level As digital developments gather pace, it is important to ensure that we are of macro uncertainties remain.
We will remain focused on maintaining well positioned for future developments.
Therefore, we are undertaking a a strong balance sheet and reducing our net debt whilst positioning significant piece of work to consolidate our data onto one platform which the business to generate long-term shareholder value.
allows integration into third-party technologies.
This work will provide the foundation for fast adoption of future digital development opportunities.
Phil Urban Chief Executive The Ignite programme of work is designed to encourage the challenge of boundaries on many fronts, and we have been exploring opportunities to work with third parties as a way to accelerate innovation.
We have entered into a formal agreement with Ego Restaurants, who already successfully operate their Mediterranean offer in a few of our sites within the leasehold estate, investing in the brands parent company and agreeing a pipeline of our sites to facilitate the growth of the proposition.
Further to this we will open the first Miller & Carter site in Germany, supported by the Alex team, in 2019 which provides us with an opportunity to test another market given the success of the brand in the UK.
As measured by the Coffer Peach business tracker.
The Directors use a number of alternative performance measures APMs that are considered critical to aid the understanding of the Groups performance.
Key measures are explained on pages 148 to 150 of this report.
Annual report and accounts 2018 Mitchells & Butlers plc 17
