Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Having started the year with three brands, Our first priority was to focus on the rapid to leading UK comparison sites, we grew the Group in 2018 through the optimisation of our customer journeys, including our own MoneySavingExpert acquisition of Decision Tech in August, making the sites easier to use, particularly and MoneySuperMarket sites, We saved our customers a strong standalone comparison business for anyone using their mobile phone.
and it is now focused on taking trading in the growing categories of home During 2018 we invested significantly MoneySuperMarkets energy communications and mobile.
In line with in product engineering and scaled this comparison platform to market our Reinvent strategy, the acquisition across our business.
We are pleased with via distribution deals.
2.1bn in 2018 also supports the delivery of new market the results from our optimisation work growth by adding a B2B sales capability and will continue to enhance our customer Mortgage price comparison to our diversified business.
Customers are already looking to us As the most diversified price comparison business we take acquisition in August, Decision Tech has for help with mortgages and we are great pride in our ability to help people with their household traded in line with our acquisition model.
The first areas of the business we chose to developing a new comparison tool to optimise were the energy and credit card help them find the most appropriate bills and with good progress being made on our Reinvent customer journeys where we were able to personalised mortgage online.
In order to Insurance strategy, we are well positioned to help more people save significantly improve the conversion rates and be a leader in this digitisation of mortgages Growth in Insurance has been solid, delivering our financial performance, demonstrating we established a new fintech joint venture, even more money in the future.
revenue of 183.0m, up 4% compared to the value of this expertise and investment.
Podium, and have made our first steps 2017.
The shift in the car insurance premium Later in the year we started to optimise the to grow this part of the business.
cycle towards a period of declining annual car insurance experience for our customers.
We operate in a number of regulated prices has reduced the number of visitors markets, and once again Im pleased Summary to our site, but those visiting had a higher This capability to make our sites easier to we have been able to stay ahead of the propensity to switch and as such trading I am very proud of the progress we have use, alongside the existing strengths of our changes in the regulatory environment.
As part of our Reinvent made in 2018, our first year of delivery of the brands, technology platform and provider Our business has continued to thrive in strategy to optimise customer journeys, Reinvent strategy and am excited about the relationships, is making our business more a year that included the launch of GDPR, we have reworked and improved our car opportunities and plans we have for 2019. robust for the future and we are excited about the Insurance Distribution Directive and insurance question set.
Home insurance has our plans to deliver further impact in 2019. the introduction of Energy Price Caps.
performed well, reflecting a strong market Our work this year has grown the business, and pricing and promotion initiatives.
helped our customers find it easier to save The second strand of the Reinvent strategy We started 2018 trading with three strong more and delivered for our providers.
As we uses our new technology platform to enable and trusted brands: MoneySuperMarket, move into next year we will continue to build Money us to lead the evolution of price comparison MoneySavingExpert and TravelSupermarket.
on the investments the business has made to unlock new market growth: Revenue in our Money business grew Each has had a strong year of trading and in technology and data to innovate and take to 88.1m, up 3% compared to 2017. through our specific focus on the customer new services to our customers.
As household personalised MoneysuperMarket The improvement in credit performance experience within the Reinvent strategy we budgets continue to feel the strain in 2019 is attributable to customer experience During the year we started to increase the have made our sites easier to use so that we believe our overriding purpose to help level of personalisation and proactivity optimisation improving conversion and people can find the right deal for them with Mark Lewis people save will have even greater resonance of the services we offer.
Starting with strong provider offers.
This was partly offset less hassle, especially when they visit us Chief Executive Officer for our customers and we look well set to the customers who access us through by trading in our current account channel on their mobile phones.
Our conversion grow our business while fulfilling that goal.
our mobile app, we launched monitored which contracted as a result of a lower rates have increased in the main channels Overview number of attractive and promotional deals.
energy services, keeping an eye on their and this has allowed us to profitably grow bills each month and letting them know I am pleased to report that in 2018 we market share.
This approach, along with Mark Lewis when better deals are available to them.
helped households save more money the acquisition of Decision Tech and the Home Services Chief Executive Officer During the year we have than ever before: an estimated 2.1bn.
continuing shift to mobile, accounts for the Revenues grew by 15% to 49.2m, with 13 February 2019 made good progress with our In 2018 we also launched a Credit Monitor In the first year of delivery of our Reinvent reduction in our marketing margin to 63%.
switching in utilities gas and electricity app to help people understand and strategy, we grew revenue by 8% and grew Reinvent strategy including making up the majority of revenue in Home improve their credit score and further adjusted EBITDA by 2% to 129.4m after Our customers are telling us that they have Services.
The rising price environment was taking new propositions personalise the products we can offer choosing to invest in the build out of our noticed the improvement in our journeys supportive for switching and we secured a to help them make further savings.
product engineering teams to enhance such as Credit Monitor with our net promoter scores the YouGov number of competitive provider offers and our customer experience.
measure of customer satisfaction having to our customers and the exclusive deals.
In addition, the work in the In 2019 we will relaunch the increased for each of the three brands.
year to improve the customer experience acquisition of Decision Tech MoneySuperMarket brand with a new We enjoy market leading positions in Estimated savings made This increased customer satisfaction and across both MoneySuperMarket and identity and advertising designed to growing markets and our customers by customers in August.
higher conversion has grown revenue per MoneySavingExperts Cheap Energy Club, position ourselves to continue to lead visit us to save more money across active user to 15.90, with active users has significantly improved the category our industry as we make it even easier the broadest range of products in the remaining stable at 13m.
It has also been conversion rates.
As these markets another notable year for MoneySavingExpert 2.1bn continue to evolve and people grow ever and TravelSupermarket, in particular, Strategy take price comparison to the user more used to looking online to find the MoneySavingExperts successful campaigning Millions of customers visit our sites best value on a growing number of bills, We launched our Reinvent strategy in around issues such as so called mortgage Revenue per active user each year to find ways to save with we are committed to leading the way in February 2018 to deliver the next phase of prisoners trapped on high interest deals the personalised offers they find.
growth in our dynamic markets.
This strategy and its investigation into statements by Going forwards, we also believe that By doing so we are excited to help our is built on the core strengths of our business: British Gas on exit penalty fees has set we can use our new technology to serve customers save more while also creating our leading brands, product diversification the news agenda and we are proud to fight 15.90 such personalised offers to customers value for the providers that use our and breadth of provider relationships, the corner for our users in this way.
in other sites and apps around the web.
marketplaces as a way to attract and our modern technology platform and, In order to build out this B2B arm of retain users.
of course, our customers looking to save Read more about our strategy the Group we acquired Decision Tech, on their bills.
We have made good progress and KPIs from page 8 a leading B2B home communications on our Reinvent strategy in 2018. and mobile comparison business in Read more about the August.
Decision Tech has a strong performance of our brands track record of delivering B2B services from page 18 Moneysupermarket.
com Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 Moneysupermarket.
com Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 6 7
