8 Joint Chair statement A culture that delivers sustainable growth The Mondi Way is our framework for achieve our strategy.
By acting with integrity Passion for performance creating sustainable value founded on our we can balance our passion for performance Mondis strong track record of delivering three core values of acting with integrity, and our commitment to achieving long-term value accretive growth is achieved by our being passionate about performance, and shareholder value with the diverse needs of relentless focus on performance across caring about the world and each other.
our talented and hard-working teams: a Our vision, which Peter Oswald expands portfolio of cost-advantaged assets making Our directors dedicate time to reviewing on in his Chief Executive Officers letter, a diverse range of high-quality products: best-practice developments, assessing explains our future aspirations in line with and the integration of sustainability into performance and optimising Mondis our strategy.
By building on the approach.
We regularly review our Groups inherent strengths we can take governance framework and practices to Chief Executive Officers letter Page 10-11 advantage of opportunities while mitigating ensure they remain relevant, and we update the impact of risks.
policies and procedures as required.
Mondi Way Page 18-19 In June, a number of our board members We also consider the composition of the attended Mondis Leadership Forum, We appreciate the trust our shareholders Boards and length of service of individual alongside senior leaders and Mondi place in us to generate industry-leading board members to ensure an appropriate Diamond Awards finalists.
This provided returns, while contributing to society and balance of capabilities, business experience, us with an invaluable opportunity to see minimising our impact on the environment.
We are pleased Mondis leaders in action as participants This includes supporting local communities: to welcome Stephen Young to the Boards shared ideas, discussed strategic priorities to ensuring a safe, fair, diverse and inclusive and as our new audit committee chair, ensure the Groups long-term success, and working environment: and helping he brings strong financial and general celebrated excellence in innovation through employees, customers and suppliers to management experience, as well as an the Mondi Diamond Awards presentations.
in-depth understanding of working for an It gives us great confidence to know that international industrial business.
We said Mondis future lies in the hands of this highly goodbye to John Nicholas in May after Acting with integrity professional and forward-thinking team.
We thank John The boards of Mondi Limited and Mondi for his significant contribution to Mondi plc support the highest standards of during this time, not least as chair of the audit corporate governance with a focus on committee, and we wish him all the best for transparency, honesty and accountability.
Our governance framework is designed to guide our behaviour in all areas of decisionGovernance making, keeping our culture and values at Page 84-143 the forefront when we consider how best to Investing in the future is the key to creating long-term value.
David Williams Joint Chair left Fred Phaswana Joint Chair right Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 9 Together we have set the performance Five-year total shareholder return TSR of 74% bar high.
Over the last five years, Mondi euro returns: indexed to 1 January 2014 has delivered a compound annual growth Mondi plc Median of peer group Peer performance range in basic underlying earnings per share of 450 15%, with an industry leading return on 400 capital employed averaging 20.2% over the 350 same period.
We remain confident in the 300 Groups ability to deliver long-term value 250 to shareholders.
200 2018 was another strong year for Mondi.
150 Underlying EBITDA was up 19% to 100 1,764 million underlying EBITDA margin 50 of 23.6%, profit before tax was up 25% 0 1 Jan 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec to 1,105 million, and return on capital 2014 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 employed was 23.6%.
The boards of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc have recommended The model covers 10 Action Areas and Caring about people a final ordinary dividend of 54.55 euro includes 16 public commitments to be Safety remains our top priority and is a focus cents per share 2017: 42.90 euro cents per achieved by 2020, along with a carbon area at every Board meeting.
Together with the interim ordinary emissions commitment that runs to 2030. deeply saddened that two contractors lost dividend of 21.45 euro cents per share, this their lives while carrying out work for Mondi, amounts to a total ordinary dividend for Sustainability performance one in 2018 at Syktyvkar Russia and Page 48-63 the year of 76.0 euro cents per share, an the second early in 2019 at Ruomberok increase of 23% from 2017.
We also regret five life-altering Digitalisation is also a strong focus for Mondi.
Financial performance injuries during the year.
Our thoughts are with Our view is that by enhancing the way we Page 64-67 their families and colleagues.
Importantly our use technology, we can ensure that our teams have worked hard to understand the people have more time to focus on areas events leading to these incidents and how Underlying earnings per share requiring uniquely human skills.
Mondi has similar situations can be prevented in the euro cents set out a digital roadmap and training is being future.
We continue to strive for zero harm and ramped up to fast-track the digital expertise of euro promote behaviour that ensures everyone our teams.
189.1 cents returns home safely to their families every day.
The Group has a strong major capital We know that in order to be successful in the expenditure project pipeline.
We successfully future, we need to unlock the full potential commissioned the modernisation of the tt 189.1 of our people and nurture their passion.
mill Czech Republic towards the end of 2018, 148.9 137.8 By treating people with care and respect, we 133.7 and continue to make good progress on 107.3 can promote a culture that encourages our major capital projects, including our innovative teams to be dynamic, entrepreneurial and new containerboard machine at Ruomberok.
This in turn helps Mondi to build During the Boards visit to wiecie Poland constructive partnerships with stakeholders.
we were impressed by the results of the 260 million capital investment programme 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Investing in the future completed in 2017.
Mondi also completed 1 Compound annual growth rate the acquisition of Powerflute Finland, as well Looking forward, we expect the macro as two industrial bag plants in Egypt, and environment to remain uncertain, but overall Total ordinary dividend per share we continue to evaluate further acquisition our industry fundamentals are robust.
With a euro cents opportunities as they arise.
strong balance sheet and industry-leading margins, Mondi has the potential to sustain euro Strategic performance 76 cents its successful track record.
Our approach is Page 28-35 to focus on areas where we have the ability 2 to make a positive impact.
This includes 76 On behalf of the Boards we thank all who have the investment and business decisions we 1 62 contributed to Mondis excellent performance 57 make, how we interact with our stakeholders, 52 in 2018, showing integrity, passion and and our commitment to creating value in a 42 commitment along the way.
We have every sustainable way.
reason to believe that with our dynamic yet respectful approach, and passion for Our Growing Responsibly model remains the sustainable growth we will continue to deliver framework through which we shape our longindustry-leading returns into the future.
term response to sustainability, and enables 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 us to demonstrate, monitor and improve 1 In addition to the 2017 ordinary dividend, a special dividend of Fred Phaswana David Williams our sustainability performance across the 100 euro cents was paid in 2018 Joint Chair Joint Chair 2 Based on proposed final ordinary dividend of 54.55 euro cents value chain.
per share Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 1 5-year CAGR : 15% Return Index 10 Chief Executive Officers letter Contributing to a better world 2018 has been an exceptional year for The public focus on the impact of plastic Another key focus area is our commitment to Mondi on a number of levels, not least waste is changing that.
This momentum fighting climate change.
Our aim is to reduce because we have delivered another gives us an important opportunity to lead our emissions, improve energy efficiency and strong set of results.
However, it will also industry with innovative sustainable paper and replace fossil fuels with renewable biomassbe remembered as the year the spotlight plastic packaging.
By taking a holistic view, based energy, where it is practical and on plastics and the challenges thrown we can develop packaging that considers economically feasible.
We combine strategic up by our disposable society came into the needs of customers, their products and energy-related investments across our pulp focus driven in part by a welcome the planet.
and paper mills with good management surge in media and consumer interest.
and sharing of best practice.
For example, The development of a circular economy, The reaction by government and business over the past 10 years Mondi has invested which is restorative and regenerative has been extensive.
in five new highly efficient recovery boilers by design, requires deep collaboration.
at Frantschach Austria, Ruomberok The Mondi Way is our framework for creating During 2018 we strengthened existing Slovakia, tt Czech Republic, wiecie sustainable value, with our culture and values partnerships and built new ones, for example: Poland, and Syktyvkar Russia, as well as guiding the way we work.
Its important for e Through the Ellen MacArthur biomass boilers at Syktyvkar and wiecie.
our stakeholders to understand how Mondi Foundations New Plastics Economy As a group, we have reduced our specific is responding to the needs of our evolving Initiative were working with partners CO e emissions by 38% since 2004 and 2 global society and the role we choose to from across the value chain as part of 64% of Mondis pulp and paper mills play in addressing the challenges.
We have a Mondi-led pioneer project to innovate fuel consumption came from renewable defined our vision for the future to: a new sustainable FMCG packaging biomass-based sources in 2018. e Contribute to a better world solution that will prove the concept of Sustainability performance design for recycling.
e Be an employer of choice Page 48-63 e We continue to contribute as a member of e Be the global industry benchmark in the WBCSDs Forest Solutions Group and quality, customer service, innovation Being an employer of choice as WWF Internationals corporate partner and productivity in the paper and packaging industry.
Our primary responsibility as an employer of These are big ideas.
choice must be the safety of our employees.
In 2018 our Consumer Packaging and We have made significant progress in recent Mondi Way Fibre Packaging business units increased years in our goal to zero harm, but 2018 Page 18-19 their collaborative efforts to fast-track the started tragically with the death of a contractor development of EcoSolutions with a focus on: in Syktyvkar and the year saw five incidents Contributing to a better world e replacing plastic packaging with leading to life-altering injuries.
Unfortunately we renewable fibre-based paper packaging, At Mondi, we are pleased that the need for suffered another fatality in January 2019 e. g. EcoVantage shopper bags and sustainable packaging has moved sharply during drilling works at the construction site EcoComp food waste bags: into focus.
We are uniquely positioned, as of our new paper machine in Ruomberok.
a manufacturer of paper, but also flexible Our deepest condolences have been e replacing rigid plastic packaging with plastic packaging, to create the best extended to family members and colleagues.
flexible plastic packaging, typically solutions for forward-thinking consumer reducing plastic consumption by 70%: There isnt a single solution to this, but zero brands in collaboration with sustainable and harm remains our first priority and we have materials suppliers and recyclers.
e optimising plastic packaging for recycling, plans in place to address the challenge.
e. g. BarrierPack Recyclable and the Our paper and flexible plastic packaging We are proud of our passion for performance, Frosch pouch both 100% recyclable.
solutions regularly win awards, but and as CEO I am more determined than ever commercial demand for some of our most to make this a passion for safe performance.
Business review: Consumer Packaging innovative sustainable packaging was limited Page 76-79 before this year.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 11 Mondis focus on key global industry trends in sustainability, digitalisation and empowering brands continues todrive value accretive growth.
Peter Oswald Chief Executive Officer Low unemployment in many of our core Global industry benchmark Driving future growth markets and changing aspirations of delivering excellence I am confident that Mondis focus on key millennials means we have to be smart global industry trends in sustainability, We intend to set the standard for customer and responsive in attracting and retaining digitalisation and enhancing brand value will service, innovation, quality, and productivity.
the talent we need to achieve our business continue to drive growth.
Geographically we This means delivering excellence across ambitions.
In 2018 we held our first global remain well-placed for opportunities in all our work streams and there were many Diversity & Inclusion conference, from Europe and North America, which account positive milestones in 2018.
We have which we created targeted plans across for around half the global packaging also seen strong progress on our capital Mondi.
Gender diversity is important, but market.
Our leading position in central expenditure projects, in particular the so are age, ethnicity and all other forms and eastern European markets, as well as modernisation of our tt mill and our of diversity.
We have made progress in exposure to growing markets in Africa and planned new kraft top white machine broadening representation in some areas, Asia also provide strong opportunities for in Ruomberok.
but at the heart of our ambition is the our continued growth.
creation of an environment where all voices We completed the acquisition of Powerflute While we cannot predict the impact of are heard and new ideas rise quickly to in Finland and two industrial bag plants the current heightened geo-political the surface.
At Mondi, we recognise that in Egypt.
Over the past five years we and macro-economic uncertainties, our leading for innovation requires a different have completed a limited number of industry leading margins and strong cash approach to leading for change, and we smaller acquisitions as we struggled to generation, coupled with a strong balance need the skills and agility to do both.
I look meet sellers expectations on valuation.
sheet make us resilient and provide us forward to communicating our progress Looking forward, with our strong financial with the strategic flexibility to exploit in 2019. position and depth of management opportunities as and when they arise.
resources, we are well placed to move Leading with our hearts and minds, should the right assets become available at Our proposal to simplify our dual listed combined with clear strategic direction reasonable values.
structure into a single holding company is the key to our ongoing success.
So, in structure under Mondi plc will, subject to addition to our regular interactions, Mondis Mondi has a strong track record of shareholder approval, simplify cash and senior leaders come together every few operational performance and comprehensive dividend flows: enhance our strategic years for our Leadership Forum in 2018 programmes to eliminate costs.
Going flexibility: increase transparency: and we met in the energetic city of Berlin.
forward we believe that digitalisation will play remove the complexity associated with the The goal was to align around the priorities an important role.
We have been piloting current structure.
for Mondis growth journey with inspiring projects that will accelerate our digital leadership and employee engagement.
journey and identify the best way to harness With our robust business model and It is where we launched our vision for the technology: data science and advanced integrated value chain, strong cost future, and celebrated excellence with the analytics will help us to improve productivity management, and focus on partnering with culmination of the Mondi Diamond Awards.
and lower costs, and be key to connecting our customers to deliver innovative and Our 12 finalists presented their projects in better with our customers.
Technology can sustainable solutions, I am convinced we person, showcasing the very best of Mondi make us efficient, but its our employees that are well positioned for the future.
out of a diverse and impressive range of make us smart!
Overall 2018 was a year of strong progress 100 entries from across the world.
Strategic performance for Mondi across all fronts.
At the heart of Page 28-35 Business reviews this success is our people and it is to them Page 68-83 that I extend my thanks, for their passion, their innovation and their commitment.
Peter Oswald Chief Executive Officer Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018
