Strategic Report Chief Executive Officers review The Group has made good progress during the year with the implementation of our strategy going well.
We continued the deployment of our sales The Group has made good progress Group strategy effectiveness programme and made further during the year with the implementation Our long-term strategy is to build a Group with changes to strengthen the leadership capability of of our strategy going well.
We have distinctive capabilities and performance in the Group.
These capability building and business three areas: delivered organic revenue growth of changes will take time to fully deliver, however we Materials science capability and technology.
7.4% and organic headline operating are seeing the early impact of the changes in the Application engineering capability.
We have met our goal of growing profit growth of 9.4% while investing in line with our markets one year early delivering Customer and end-market focus.
in R&D, sales and wider business organic revenue growth of 7.4% during 2018. infrastructure.
We are now investing We have strengths in these areas today to build 10 million per year more in R&D Group results on, and these distinctive capabilities will be our focus in the coming years.
Through the than we were three years ago, Trading conditions were good through the year application of our skills in these areas we will a vital investment in the technical with a strong macro-economic environment add value as a Group.
translating into growth in the majority of our differentiation of the Group.
This favourable market backdrop, We will apply these skills in markets that are Safe and ethical working remains the top priority coupled with the benefits of our strategy growing and where we can operate at scale, for the Group and I am very pleased with our implementation has enabled us to deliver on a global basis.
We will apply these skills to progress during the year.
We have started a good organic growth during the year: solve difficult materials-based problems for our refresh of our thinkSAFE safety improvement Group revenue in 2018 was 1,033.9 customers, ethically and safely, and where they programme during the year with a wide variety million, 3.2% above prior year at reported value our differentiated solutions.
This set of of safety improvements underway in 14 pilot sites rates.
On an organic constant-currency capabilities provides a resilient and distinctive across the Group.
Our safety performance basis Group revenue was higher by 7.4%.
source of differentiation and is an enduring improved significantly with our Lost-time accident strategic goal for the Group.
The 2018 headline operating profit margin frequency accidents per 100,000 hours worked was 12.1%, with organic growth of 9.4%.
This is a In February 2016, we defined six execution Group headline earnings per share was great achievement and is testament to the hard priorities that would be our focus from 2016 26.7p 2017: 22.8p.
work and focus from all of our employees.
to the end of 2018 and that would address the immediate issues that were holding the Group Capital expenditure was 53.1 million, To support our ethical working, we launched back.
Our objective was to get the business 2017: 33.7 million a significant increase our Morgan Code during the year.
The Morgan growing in line with our markets in 2019. over the prior year as we invested in Code captures our expectations for the ethical new equipment to support operational standards that all our employees should meet in We have made good progress against our efficiencies, improved the fabric of our a concise and readily understandable document.
objectives to date: plants and built new capacity in select We completed the training of all employees in areas where we had bottlenecks.
Move to a global business structure.
the Morgan Code during the year.
We also Cash generated from operations was We changed to a global organisation structure started the refresh of our suite of ethics and 131.3 million, 2017: 127.6 million before in March 2016 and have progressively compliance related training programmes, the one-off US pension payment.
changed the structures within the global launching the first set of modules in the fourth business units GBUs to build larger units quarter of the year.
The net debt to EBITDA ratio at the year and create more customer and market focus.
The Group remains well We have completed the third year of our initial The change in structure has improved global within its banking covenants and has good three-year strategy implementation, and I am co-ordination across the Group and has headroom and balance sheet capacity for pleased with our progress.
We completed sharpened the accountability within each of appropriate future investment.
the planned divestment of the Composites our GBUs.
This is an important change to On a statutory reporting basis operating and Defence Systems business during the year enable the wider changes we need to make profit was 107.3 million and profit before and made further investments in R&D, sales and we completed this without any loss of tax was 94.9 million.
See pages 27 to 29 and other functional capabilities, funded business momentum.
6 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2018 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 2.
Increase investment in people Looking forward management and development.
Our objective is to strengthen our technical In 2019 we will continue to invest in the teams and increase our annual investment We are aiming to strengthen our leadership long-term health of the business and we have in research and development by around capability and deepen functional capabilities defined four priorities for the year, continuing the 1% of sales around 10 million, from our across the business, including in sales strategic developments of the last three years: 2015 starting point.
Drive sales effectiveness and market focus.
We will continue with the deployment of the At the end of 2018 our R&D spend is We have made further progress in tools, approaches and training that we have 10 million higher than the 2015 level.
strengthening the senior leadership population developed through our sales effectiveness We have established two new Centres of across the Group and in developing our IT, programme, bringing the new approaches to Excellence to drive materials development EHS, finance and HR functions.
We have also more of the sales organisation.
activity in carbon science and the metallising broadened our focus beyond the senior and joining of ceramics.
Both of these new population with the design of new Group- 2.
centres are up and running with the teams wide development programmes for our We will be working to embed our stage-gate working on new product developments to future leaders, and we will launch those process more deeply and to accelerate the enhance our differentiation and accelerate the during 2019. development of new materials and new growth of the Group.
We have also worked manufacturing processes.
We have added We have improved our approach to driving with our technical teams during the year to resources to our technical teams and we higher performance by integrating the reduce the overall number of developments have focused our teams on a smaller number leadership behaviours launched in 2017 they are working on to get more resource of priority projects.
Our focus will be into an enhanced, globally consistent and faster progress on a smaller number managing those projects closely to ensure performance management process.
they are delivered at pace.
stronger link between performance and 3.
reward has also been introduced to build the 3.
Increasing investment in people performance culture.
Our objective is to strengthen our management and development.
operational capabilities, reduce operational We have significantly strengthened the 6.
costs to fund reinvestment in the business, leadership capability across the Group.
Our We have completed the planned divestment and improve delivery and quality focus now shifts to building strong leadership of the Composites and Defence Systems performance.
teams and enhancing the performance of business in the year, the last of the priority our leadership teams as teams.
We will also We have continued to make good progress divestments that we identified in 2016. be launching new talent development with our operational improvements during the Through these actions we have exited programmes across the Group to support year.
We generated net savings that funded businesses where we were sub-scale or the development of our future leaders.
The savings came where there was limited synergy with from a wide variety of projects in automation, the remainder of the Group.
procurement and small-scale waste elimination sharpened the focus on the core business We have strengthened our operations teams across all of our global business units.
We have and reduced overhead costs.
We received and have good momentum going into 2019. also launched a number of larger lean consideration of 82.2 million from these We expect to deliver further operational manufacturing projects to reduce waste and sales and have used that to reduce our savings in the year to offset material and labour cost and improve delivery performance in net debt position, creating funds for inflation and we will continue to improve select sites.
Those projects have delivered cost reinvestment in the business in due course.
on-time delivery in a small number savings and delivery improvements during the Additionally in 2018 we have simplified our of sites where that is the priority.
year and will continue into 2019.
Thermal business in South America with the Looking forward to 2019, we are likely to see closure of our Thermal plant in Brazil and the 4.
Drive sales effectiveness and slower growth in the key industrial economies exit of our Venezuelan business, and we market focus.
in which we participate, and there are several have taken the decision to close our ceramic macro-economic and geopolitical uncertainties Our objective is to strengthen our sales cores business in China.
which could have a significant impact.
However, capability, and increase the intensity of effort The health of the business has improved based on our current assessment of business trends with new customers and in new markets.
significantly over the last three years, as has and orders, we expect to deliver modest revenue We have a sizeable programme of work the financial position of the Group.
We have growth in 2019, with efficiency savings delivering underway to improve sales effectiveness: completed significant investment in business benefits to Group headline operating profit.
redesigning our sales processes and approach, capabilities, reduced debt, reduced the Finally, I would like to thank Andrew Shilston for building capabilities, deploying new pension deficit and lowered the cost of his contribution to the business over the last six segmentation and pricing tools, streamlining long-term funding for the Group.
Operating years, and I would like to thank our employees sales processes, increasing business margins have improved while we have for their hard work and support during 2018. development resources and changing sales reinvested in the business, ROIC has incentives.
These approaches have been expanded from 16.0% to 18.1%.
We have developed through pilot activity in 2017 and returned the business to growth delivering a Pete Raby in 2018 we have deployed these more second year of organic revenue growth.
Chief Executive Officer widely across the business, typically starting with segmentation and sales structures and then moving to sales processes and incentives.
We have developed training programmes for our sales and customer service teams and piloted those during the year, ahead of wider deployment in 2019.
Annual Report 2018 Morgan Advanced Materials 7
