Strategic Report 14 Group Chief Executives review Record results and growing momentum Dean Finch Group Chief Executive Overview outside of London, and have daily price We have again delivered another recordcapping in place.
breaking set of results, with revenue, profit We continue to grow the proportion and free cash all growing strongly.
Both of of sales made through digital channels Our diversified international our international divisions delivered record up over 13% and are leveraging these revenue and profit performances, with our portfolio of industry-leading increasingly sophisticated systems in new UK businesses also growing very strongly.
For example, these systems enable Our diversified international portfolio of the integration of third party sales channels organic revenue growth industry-leading businesses is combining into our booking processes, a key area for organic revenue growth with strategic with strategic acquisitions future growth in public transport.
We saw acquisitions to deliver increasing to deliver increasing 63% growth in this segment in 2018 and shareholder returns.
We are delivering are investing to capture the significant on our aim of being a market leader on shareholder returns.
further opportunities we believe exist in service, price and customer relationships this area.
and growing our presence in the most affluent cities and regions.
Second, we have also continued to invest to improve our operational performance, Every division not only delivered organic including the accelerated roll-out of Lytx revenue growth, but the Group also saw an DriveCam smart safety cameras as well accelerating trend in the second half of the as driver aid and monitoring technologies.
This demonstrates the benefit of our We now have nearly 19,000 vehicles focus on operational excellence and the installed with DriveCam, and alongside investment in technologies that deliver speed monitoring and targeted driver improved and more efficient services.
training this is helping to reduce accident Ultimately, we are seeking to earn customers frequency.
In North America alone, where trust by setting fares at prices they value over 15,000 vehicles now have DriveCam on services that they can rely on to installed, we saw the average cost of injury complete their journey in a punctual and claims from collisions reduce by 22.4% safe way.
It is pleasing, therefore, that as year on year, demonstrating the cost well as growing commercial patronage saving opportunity.
across the Group, our contract portfolio remains typically medium to long-term Third, we are using technology to improve reflecting the loyalty we are seeking management controls, drive service to secure and providing a diverse and improvement and deliver efficiencies.
Our largest single We have invested in technology to enhance contract is less than 2% of Group revenue.
controls such as the real-time monitoring of on-time performance, sophisticated We have made important progress in three vehicle diagnostics and immediate feedback crucial areas during the year to help deliver to the driver on their driving performance on this agenda.
These First, sophisticated digital booking and systems, augmented by new management ticketing systems that allow us to serve old processes, are driving improvements, such and attract new customers in compelling as: higher average bus speeds in the West ways.
Our Revenue Management Systems Midlands, against the national trend: RMS in the UK and Spain are industryreduced vehicle breakdowns: and a leading and are driving passenger and yield reduction in accident frequency.
West Midlands buses have the Our organic revenue growth and tight largest contactless ticketing network cost control are helping drive strong and National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION sustainable cash flows, allowing us to their services into an existing platform that employer.
It is an achievement that 15 increase shareholder returns whilst also provides this capability.
employees across National Express feel pursuing value-enhancing investments and rightly proud of.
Our strategy therefore remains focused strategic acquisitions.
In 2018, we continued on the three key pillars I have set out a Before I explain in more detail how each to do this in a disciplined manner: targeted number of times: division has contributed to this record returns for acquisitions remain above 15%.
performance, I will set out the Groups We made a further 11 acquisitions in the Operational excellence, including financial highlights.
year, maintaining our disciplined approach organic growth, tight cost control, to securing the best returns.
In North rigorous cash flow management and Financial performance highlights America we made seven acquisitions, ALSA the disciplined allocation of capital to National Express had a very strong year added three new businesses and the UK one.
maximise returns: across all key financial metrics.
Group Investment in technology to drive revenue increased by 6.9% on a constant These new acquisitions often consolidate customer-focused innovation and currency basis 5.6% on a reported basis.
our existing presence to pursue growth excellence, improved safety performance This has been driven by strong growth in efficiently and enable us to expand into and greater cost efficiency: and every division, with both North America new complementary markets.
In North Growth through targeted acquisitions and ALSA setting new revenue records.
America alone, we won 20 small contracts and contract wins in the worlds most in areas where we have existing German Rail saw a decline in revenue, down affluent cities and regions.
operations, allowing us to grow our 15.1% in constant currency terms.
In Geneva, building Our sustained focus on these three areas is decline is due to the benefit of catch-up from our small international service depot, helping to underpin our consistent delivery revenues not recognised in 2016 being we purchased the AlpyBus ski-transfer of strong and growing shareholder returns.
realised in 2017 and a year-on-year change business and then combined this with Our free cash flow performance was in presentation of revenue.
Like-for-like further acquisitions and contract wins in particularly strong, at 198.6 million revenues increased 5.4% in German Rail.
local transit services to build a successful 2017: 146.4m.
Group Return on Capital multi-modal hub, operating in 10 market Revenue in constant Employed improved 50 basis points, to segments.
In 2018, AlpyBus grew revenues currency 2018 2017 12.4%.
Normalised earnings per share nearly 30% and passengers by 13.6%.
As a measure of our North America This hub strategy, combined with the US$m 1,416.1 1,311.3 confidence in the future, we have proposed digital innovation outlined above, provides a 10% increase in the final dividend.
German Rail m 76.6 90.3 an important potential growth area in the coming years.
We believe the successful Equally, I was delighted we secured the operator of the future will need to combine Revenue in m accolade of Britains Most Admired a reputation for operational excellence with ALSA 745.1 663.5 Transport Company in the 2018 Management a sophisticated digital presence that either Today awards.
This award showed that we North America 1,060.8 1,017.2 enables multi-modal integration that offers have managed to combine consistently UK 577.0 561.5 customers door-to-door journey options at strong financial performance with a German Rail 67.8 79.0 a price they value, or is easily able to plug reputation as a good company and Group 2,450.7 2,321.2 The contactless way to pay The introduction of contactless payment to our West Midlands bus fleet in 2018 has proved popular with customers.
Less than a year after the payment system was launched, a customer has made the three millionth contactless payment on our West Midlands buses.
A quarter of all bus fares in the West Midlands are now paid for with contactless cards.
Use of the card is capped at the adult day ticket rate, providing great flexibility for multiple journeys.
Contactless is not the only digital way of paying that has proved popular with bus passengers.
National Express West Midlands has sold its four millionth ticket on a mobile.
17% of the regions bus revenue now comes from people using their phones to buy tickets.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report 16 Group Chief Executives review continued Our profit performance was particularly hour controls, alongside further overhead Normalised operating strong.
We set records for every Group cost reduction.
When combined with the profit in constant currency 2018 2017 profit metric.
Group normalised operating fact that Spanish concession renewals ALSA m 119.1 108.3 profit increased by 7.7% to a new record have still not resumed, we have a strong North America US$m 129.4 121.6 of 257.7 million on a constant currency underlying momentum to build on further.
German Rail m 3.4 5.9 basis, up 6.7% on a reported basis Our strong cash generation remains a 2017: 241.5m.
Both North America and focus and enables us to continue to invest ALSA again set new records, with the UK Normalised operating in our existing businesses and new strategic profit in m achieving the highest rate of profit growth acquisitions or market entries.
ALSA 105.3 94.9 sees the start of our Rabat urban bus North America 96.9 94.3 These results were adversely impacted by contract and RRX German rail services, UK 79.9 70.9 3 million of currency translation, driven by significant new additions to our portfolio.
German Rail 3.0 5.2 the strengthening of Sterling against the We believe there are also opportunities for US Dollar.
Normalised profit before tax Central functions 27.4 23.8 strong growth in the Spanish mini-cab and increased by 11.3% on a constant US Charter School markets, as we Normalised operating currency basis, and 10% on a reported profit 257.7 241.5 leverage our presence in large cities to basis, to a new record of 220 million provide multi-modal services.
Our pipeline Interest and associates 37.7 41.5 2017: 200m.
Group statutory profit of acquisitions remains very strong and we Normalised profit before before tax also increased by 13.6% to hope to continue to expand our presence tax 220.0 200.0 another new record of 177.7 million in rich and growing urban areas this year.
Across the last five years, Outlook So in 2019, we are again anticipating the compound annual growth rates of our While 2019 has many uncertainties, I believe organic revenue and profit growth.
While Group profits reveal a strong and National Express is well placed to continue the political context, certainly in the UK, consistent delivery: statutory profit before to grow.
may be uncertain, we are determined to tax has grown at a compound annual rate remain a consistent source of growth in of 21.9% in that period, while normalised We have plans in place to capitalise further shareholder value.
operating profit has grown at 8.2% on the improvements in all our businesses compounded.
that are underpinning these record results.
For example: we are already progressing with further improvement to RMS in the UK and Spain that will help drive up load Dean Finch factors again: and, in North America we are Group Chief Executive improving asset utilisation and wage and 28 February 2019 Encouraging innovation One of our strategic priorities is to utilise technology to improve the way we operate and facilitate growth.
During 2018, we launched a new innovation programme to explore and develop digital opportunities for the business.
National Express Innovation and Science NXIS taps into the creativity of start-up enterprises to develop new solutions for the business.
Eight enterprises started with NXIS in Birmingham in December and are due to deliver proposals in Q2 2019.
Other NXIS hubs are being created in Spain and the USA, and will begin work during 2019.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018
