Group Strategic Report Chief Executive Officers Review 2018 builds on the foundations laid in previous years As I highlighted in my previous annual FY 2018 set another year of record top and bottom review, 2017 was a year of integration and lines, with revenues reaching US$2,057.3m and consolidation, key themes that continued in 2018.
The cluster-based approach EBITDA at US$487.4m.
2018 has benefited from adopted in the previous year proved the solid growth foundations laid in previous instrumental in unlocking efficiencies within the Group during FY 2018 and years, while simultaneously building upon them.
also allowing continued rapid expansion.
I often get asked how NMC manages to grow so quickly without unduly pressurizing management.
Our verticalsbased structure, combined with the clusters-based management approach, has proven instrumental in allowing the Company to maintain sharp growth without constraining management bandwidth.
Integration process picks up pace Building on 2017s core theme of integration, FY 2018 witnessed a more concerted effort towards unlocking additional synergies across NMCs growing healthcare network.
Few examples reflect this as adequately as the opening of a CosmeSurge clinic in Al Zahra hospital.
The combination of two assets, each acquired in 2017 Al Zahra hospital and 2018 CosmeSurge, respectively, speaks volumes of the Groups ability to streamline acquisition and integration capabilities.
The successful introduction of long-term care beds in both NMC Royal Abu Dhabi and Al Zahra hospital is another example in this regard.
In fact, the Company has added another 15 long-term care beds in Al Zahra hospital after rapid occupancy of the initial batch of beds.
The Groups Integration and Efficiency projects are important to extract further value from legacy and acquired assets.
A significant proportion of the Groups EBITDA growth in FY 2018 is organic derived from both increasing revenues and the success of managements integration and efficiency projects over the last two years.
6 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Group Strategic Financial Other Overview Report Governance Statements Information A significant proportion of the Groups EBITDA growth in FY 2018 is organic derived from both increasing revenues and the success of managements integration and efficiency projects over the last two years.
UAE remains the engine of short while KSA offers exciting longer-term Apart from improving its reporting to medium term growth growth opportunities standard, the Company maintains Despite being the most dominant Hosting nearly triple the population its efforts on improving the underlying private healthcare operator in the UAE, size of the UAE, the underserved KSA metrics that form the foundation of a NMC continues to see attractive growth healthcare market offers many attractive sustainable and ethical business.
Our opportunities in its home market.
While accounting employees truly serve as the core asset Groups hospital network stands out from for a relatively small share of NMCs top of the company.
Management continues its competition due to two key factors: and bottom lines in 2018, KSA is expected to take steps to further improve the 1 an unrivalled geographic reach, with to become a significant contributor to the working environment.
As part of this NMCs network spread across six of Companys financial performance in the process, a new Head of HR GCC was the seven Emirates in the country and longer term.
hired during 2018, who brings substantial 2 catering to the entire range of patient international experience and reinforces base in economic terms.
It is the latter NMC signed a joint venture agreement the departments senior management that has given NMC the scale and critical with GOSI Hassana Investment team.
Additionally, the Company mass to offer some of the most complex Company, which was recently finalized.
continues host a number of events medical services in the country.
The Positioned as the second largest to recognize the performance of collaborations signed with Boston multispecialty operator in the Kingdom high-achieving employees, along with Childrens Hospital and the Cincinnati in terms of number of beds, the JV is giving them a chance to interact with Childrens Hospital is an embodiment ideally positioned to significantly increase top management.
The most prominent of these factors.
The combination NMCs penetration of the Saudi market.
event in this regard is the Groups of state-of-the-art facilities and an Foundation Day, celebrated on 1 August unrivalled paediatric patient base in the ESG: Increasing focus on sustainability of every year to commemorate the country led two of the worlds top children and ethical impact history of the Company, as well as its hospitals to sign an exclusive agreement Be it patient care, employee satisfaction, future.
A number of informal events are with NMC across not just the UAE, but the corporate governance or maintaining held regularly, ranging from friendly sports entire GCC region.
rights of minority shareholders, matches to talent competitions, which sustainability and ethics have long been act as team strengthening exercises, as The continued roll-out of mandatory ingrained in NMCs core strategy.
In 2018 well as an opportunity for staff members insurance in the UAE, with Dubai the the Company started to coordinate its to interact with senior management in latest to complete its implementation Group efforts in this area, much of which an informal environment.
last year, remains a key growth driver had previously been undertaken and in the country.
Capitalizing on this driven at individual business level.
We In 2018, the Company reviewed further its opportunity, the Group has outlined published our first annual ESG report, engagement activities with employees.
a 300 beds expansion program, involving which documents a wide range of KPIs New Employee Forums have been set up brownfield expansions of the two existing relevant to the Company, as well as the across the Group as a new, more formal, facilities in Dubai and a 100-bed greenfield wider sector.
With both equity and debt way of Senior Management and the facility in the underserved Mirdif area.
markets laying greater emphasis on Board engaging with employees.
ESG, the Company has enhanced the As outlined at our 2018 Capital Markets quality of reporting, as well as investor The success of managements continuous Day, the UAE continues to offer growth engagement, on this front.
efforts to improve the Groups work opportunities that were unavailable environment is reflected by the fact that even up until recent years.
The O&M NMC has consistently been recognized as agreement signed with ADNOC in 2018 one of the Top Companies to Work For is one such example.
The prestigious by the Great Place to Work Institute in contract has extended NMCs reach recent years.
to the town of Ruwais, a location that may not otherwise have become part of the Groups network.
PRASANTH MANGHAT Chief Executive Officer NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 7
