Chief Executive Officers report On the Beach continues to be a dynamic, entrepreneurial and ambitious business.
We deliver value-for-money beach holidays to our customers that are personalised to their individual needs.
We maintain a daily focus to improve the quality of our customer proposition and the value that we provide to our growing customer base.
We have focused on driving traffic to site efficiently with improvements to our bespoke bid management capability, driving Group online marketing spend as a percentage of revenue down 4.1 percentage points to 37.2% and our revenue after marketing costs increasing 15.8%.
Our continued growth has been delivered by executing a simple strategy to personalise our customer proposition to increase conversion and improve margin, and at the same time drive an efficient increase in our market traffic share.
Our growth provides further evidence of our ability to gain market share from traditional tour operators and other online travel agents OTAs in a summer where unprecedented weather conditions weakened demand for beach holidays.
The business has also adapted to manage significant legislative change within the financial year including the implementation of the second Payment Services Directive prohibition of credit card charges for consumers PSD2, the General Data Protection Regulation GDPR and The Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations PTRs.
Growth Growth has come as a result of: On the Beach continues to be Driving an efficient increase in our share of market, while a dynamic, entrepreneurial and investment into our brand has also increased awareness with branded share of traffic at its highest ever level of ambitious business.
We deliver 63.9% of overall traffic FY17: 59.3%.
Optimisation and personalisation of our market-leading value-for-money beach holidays multi-device customer proposition driving an increase in both the number of unique visitors, and the revenue per to our customers that are unique visitor.
Smartphone traffic is now 66% of total traffic and smartphone bookings have increased 48% personalised to their individual year on year.
Increasing the directness of our relationships with end suppliers to achieve 70% of hotels sourced directly.
Simon Cooper Continuing to provide the highest possible level of Chief Executive Officer customer service by investing in our service staff and function to increase repeat purchase volumes by 14% year on year.
Driving an increasing proportion of sales into exclusive product whilst maintaining our lean cost base and risk free model.
Group gross profit m Core revenue after marketing costs m Investing to increase the visibility of the Sunshine.
co. uk brand in the paid search auction.
92.6m 52.0m The acquisition of Classic, which supports our strategic 10.8% 15.8% goal to gain a share of the offline market by providing FY17: 83.6m FY17: 44.9m third party agencies with an online portal which allows access to a wide range of value-for-money beach holiday product.
12 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Market The Group has now moved its headquarters into a bespoke We believe that overall demand for short haul beach holidays facility close to the centre of Manchester and believes this will was slightly down on the previous year because of the better support our drive to recruit and retain the best digital unprecedented warm weather from May through to August.
talent to allow us to out-innovate the market.
The Contact These weather conditions had a particularly noticeable effect Centre will continue to operate from its current base in Cheadle, on the lates market.
We expect that continued growth in online where we will refit the existing contact centre with 50% more penetration resulted in our addressable market remaining desk space to support our continued growth.
broadly flat year on year.
We continue to recruit and grow talent internally and have We have observed the following market trends: recently moved to a twice annual Ruby Academy to train A strong return in appetite for customers to travel to 20 internal and external candidates each year to add to our destinations in the Eastern Mediterranean, most notably technology teams.
In October we welcomed our new CTO Turkey.
Stefan Nordin into the business and we believe his prior A shortfall in seat capacity following the Monarch collapse experience will greatly assist us in our ambition to double the for departures in the winter and spring followed by a size of our digital capability over the next three-to-five years.
significant increase in seat prices.
We are also pleased to welcome on board the team of 124 Lower seat price inflation for summer departures because of staff from Classic who will continue to operate out of Classics a reprogramming of capacity and a reduction in demand in existing office in Worthing.
Aggressive discounting by tour operators in the lates Investment in product market to fill risk capacity.
We have been able to drive growth in our direct contracting Strong demand for forward bookings with a slight function, building on the strong foundations which were put in weakness in the recent period, perhaps attributable to place in previous years and delivering 70% of total hotel buying confusion confidence over the outcome of Brexit through in-house capability, with significant incremental margin negotiations.
The increasing proportion of directly contracted product has continued to support the improved customer Investment in brand satisfaction scores as complaint ratios on directly contracted We have continued to invest in an efficient multi-channel product are significantly lower than third party sourced product.
approach supported by our sophisticated bid management Our continued focus to strengthen our relationships with capability and have enhanced our cross-device attribution key overseas suppliers is giving us increased access to capability, giving us greater clarity on the return on marketing exclusive rates, ring-fenced capacity and OTA exclusivity investment of multi-device traffic.
This has allowed us to while maintaining our no risk, lightweight business model.
continue to take share of market traffic, with increasing We have also added resource to build our portfolio of directly efficiency.
The auction dynamics have remained relatively contracted hotel product in longer haul destinations to support benign throughout FY18 with transient periods of aggressive our expansion into Dubai and over the coming year we will add spending by a range of competitors.
resource and product in the Indian Ocean, Thailand and the Caribbean.
Our brand continues to strengthen, supported by our investment into a fully national offline marketing campaign and In FY18 more than 30% of our hotel product was contracted sponsorship of the ITV show Benidorm.
We have optimised on an exclusive basis with us delivering significant incremental our in-house econometric modelling to allow us to monitor volume for our key partners and our focus will be to continue the effectiveness of our offline marketing spend and are well to build on this base throughout 2019 and to convert our advanced with our planning for our largest ever campaign differentiated supply position into incremental margin.
In the three years since we launched iPhone, iPad continue to explore opportunities to contract with partner and Android apps, we have achieved in excess of one million airlines on a more strategic basis to deliver incremental revenue downloads, and an increasing percentage of traffic and for partner airlines.
bookings comes via our mobile apps.
We have also invested to build booking management capabilities and reminder We have also invested significantly in our search technologies functionality into our apps so that customers can interact with to support our strategic objective to drive an increasing us via the app throughout the period before, during and after proportion of differentiated flight and hotel product via an their holidays.
opaque booking path and to allow us to build innovative search tools for customers who are destination agnostic.
Investment in people We have increased our investment to multi-skill our  facing staff to ensure that we can provide an even higher level After significant growth of 51% in H1, the whole of of customer support for all of our valued customers and support Scandinavia experienced unprecedented warm weather for the the sale of package holidays post the implementation of the period from early May until the middle of August.
Against this new PTRs on 1 July 2018.
We are delighted to have maintained backdrop, demand weakened and our competitive position in our excellent Net Promoter Scores and that our repeat purchase the market was severely impacted by widespread discounting rates have increased significantly through FY18.
of distressed product by Swedens leading tour operators.
ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 13 Chief Executive Officers report In these conditions, across the four month period, the sensible 3.
Personalising our customer proposition: course of action was to cut marketing activity to a background Driving an increasingly simplified customer experience level, with a significant impact on revenue performance but across multiple devices by continually testing changes to the website versus a control to increase conversion.
a saving versus forcast losses with a view to reinvesting the savings made at the start of the new financial year.
Encouraging login and showing the most relevant product to all site visitors on all devices at the earliest During FY18 we launched ebeach.
dk in Denmark to complete possible opportunity.
Against the backdrop of the warm Enhancing personalisation by supplementing capabilities with data science and machine learning.
summer the investment into this brand was naturally limited by lack of demand in the background market.
Building a multifunctional app to engage directly with users and provide a higher standard of service in Strategy and growth an efficient manner.
It continues to be the Groups vision to be Europes leading 4.
Leveraging increased revenue through direct and online retailer of beach holidays.
differentiated supply: On the Beach continues to deliver significant growth in its core Building a programme of direct and differentiated and adjacent markets by evolving a strategy based around the supply to leverage margin and gain market share following principles: Building our in-house capability to increase visibility of differentiated product.
Out-innovating through agility and investment in talent and Differentiating an exclusive product offering through technology innovative and attractive customer and supplier 2.
Driving an efficient increase in traffic through branded and payment terms.
Expanding our model into new search technologies, source 3.
Leveraging increased revenue through direct and markets, destinations, channels and products: differentiated supply Building online functionality to inspire customers who 5.
Expanding our model into new search technologies, source are destination agnostic.
markets, destinations, channels and products Leveraging our core capabilities to expand internationally.
Our key strategic pillars for FY19 are: Expanding our long haul offering to monetise existing search volumes.
Out-innovating through agility and investment in talent and Building and launching an online portal to allow technology: third party agencies to offer our product to the five million holidaymakers booking through offline Continuing to invest into our people and our platform to allow us to innovate at an increasing pace channels.
and in doing so, stay ahead of the competition.
Expanding our product offering to include a wider Reinforce company-wide values based on range of hotel and villa product.
innovation, simplicity, communication, respect and Current trading and outlook great customer experience.
Use our new digital HQ in central Manchester to The first quarter of our financial year calendar Q4 is historically ensure we are well placed to attract and retain the the quietest trading period for the Group.
Demand for travel best talent.
in 2019 has started off strongly supported by a slightly earlier release of summer capacity by major low cost carriers and lower year-on-year seat prices for winter departures.
Driving an efficient increase in traffic through branded and direct channels: has been supported by ongoing efficiencies in the Groups Investing in an efficient multi-channel approach marketing spend.
supported by our sophisticated bid management capability.
The Board is pleased to report that current performance is in line with expectations and believes the business is well Increasing investment offline in conjunction with econometric modelling capability to strengthen brand positioned for the key trading period that commences in late awareness and to ensure marketing investment is December and continues into Q1 2019. efficient.
Driving performance improvements in The Board will provide a further update on trading at the AGM on 7 February 2019.
co. uk and reinvesting a proportion of these synergies to drive increased online visibility.
Seeking further value-enhancing merger and Simon Cooper acquisition opportunities.
Chief Executive Officer 28 November 2018 14 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018
