14 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Chief Executive Officers statement Continued strong performance We are well-placed to continue to deliver attractive returns ANDY GOLDING CHIEF EXECUTIVE Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 15 I am delighted to report another excellent target market of professional multiyear for OneSavings Bank OSB.
The property landlords accounted for 81% Statutory basic earnings per share Group achieved strong results as we of completions for OSB by value during worked together to deliver our vision of 2018, with a continued high proportion being our customers favourite bank.
of professional landlords choosing to 5 5.5p Underlying basic earnings per share grew remortgage with us.
This performance by 14% to 58.5 pence with underlying demonstrates the sustainable strength pre-tax profit up 15% to 193.6m.
Our of our proposition, in particular our strategy continues to provide us with a specialist, manual underwriting, as well 9% platform to grow profitably and develop as our deep and historic relationships the business whilst we are ever mindful with mortgage intermediaries.
2017: 51.1p of the uncertain economic and political environment in which we are operating.
We have seen significant growth in the commercial side of our Buy-to-Let SME Dividend per share Our ability to raise and retain retail segment through the InterBay brand.
funds given the long-standing heritage We have used our strong understanding of the Kent Reliance brand, track record of this market to invest in products, 14.
6p of raising funds whenever needed service and innovation that have proved and our leading retention rate of 95%, increasingly popular with commercial means we can safely and confidently borrowers.
We developed the proposition fund the lending business we wish to further following our successful entry 14% write.
The strength of our proposition into the bespoke bridging market 2017: 12.8p continues to attract new customers.
and in August 2018, we successfully Ourmanual underwriting process, launched InterBay Asset Finance, with strong risk management and enhanced the first of its flexible asset finance stress testing, including numerous Brexit deals funded in October.
I am pleased scenarios, give us a deep understanding with the success our commercial of the markets in which we operate.
business is enjoying and the positive start for our asset finance business.
We flex our lending in different business As with all new business segments areas according to the opportunities that we enter, we do so cautiously present, always underpinned by on a test, assess and grow basis.
appropriate prudence given the current uncharted political and economic Our more cyclical commercial businesses environment.
Whilst Brexit may impact continued to perform strongly throughout certain business opportunities, our balance 2018.
The Banks Heritable Development sheet remains strong, our core markets Finance business provides development remain extremely attractive and we have finance to small and medium-sized a high-quality secured asset portfolio.
residential developers operating in areas Combined with an excellent funding of the UK where demand for housing is franchise and customer proposition, this consistently strong.
We are delighted with positions us well to continue to deliver the performance of the Heritable joint professional value for our shareholders regardless of venture the JV since it started lending the uncertain macroeconomic backdrop.
We had the opportunity landlords recognise to acquire the JV partners interest in Our customer franchises 2019 and in doing so recognised an the strength of our An award-winning secured lender exceptional cost of 9.8m in 2018 in The Group grew its loan book by 23% to respect of this option.
We are particularly proposition 9.0bn in 2018 and, whilst maintaining pleased that we were able to retain the its discipline on understanding and key individuals in the business going pricing for risk, delivered a strong net forward, whilst continuing to offer them interest margin NIM of 3.04% for the opportunity to lend alongside the the year.
Our core Buy-to-Let business Bank to align interests.
We also saw continues to grow as professional controlled growth in the provision of landlords recognise the strength of our secured funding lines to other lenders that proposition and enjoy the excellent levels operate in certain high yielding, specialist of customer service that they receive.
sub-segments, such as residential bridge finance and asset finance.
New Buy-to-Let SME mortgage origination increased to 2.8bn during 2018, As we flagged earlier in 2018, originations reflecting our specialism and expertise in the residential segment increased in inlending to limited companies and large 2018 with attractive opportunities in portfolio landlords.
We are particularly more complex prime and second charge proud of our lending growth as it was markets.
However new organic lending achieved in the context of industry-wide was more than offset by redemptions in gross Buy-to-Let advances increasing the back book and acquired mortgages 1 by 4% in the year to 37.1bn.
Our in run-off, contributing to the first charge 16 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Chief Executive Officers statement continued gross loan book reducing marginally ISA season in 2018.
We opened a outlined in Basel III, will be beneficial to1,224m from 1,241m at the end of record number of accounts, raising a to the Banks capital requirements.
We piloted new specialist products significant amount of fixed term savings in the residential segment in 2018 and at a price below our target cost of OSBI undertakes a range of primary are seeing encouraging results.
Over the funds, further demonstrating the value processing services at a significantly medium term, we see an opportunity of the Banks strong retail presence.
lower cost than an equivalent UK-based to deliver attractive risk-adjusted operation, whilst delivering consistently returns from this new product range, I am delighted that Kent Reliance was high quality service levels.
I am especially particularly once we transition to IRB.
recognised by winning the Savings Account pleased that we continue to achieve this Provider of the Year from MoneyAge and whilst maintaining our focus on our Our focus on new and existing customers was commended for Best No Notice customer-led vision, borne out by an means we are always investing in and Account Provider by Moneyfacts Awards in increase in customer NPS to an improving our sales capability across 2018.
These awards are a testament to our outstanding 63 2017: 62. our brands.
We continued to gain savings proposition and to the outstanding recognition from mortgage customers and customer service delivered by our staff.
A strong and sustainable business intermediaries, winning multiple awards The Group continued to exercise strong during the year.
I am particularly pleased The Bank remained predominantly retail diligence over loan and customer that OSB won multiple awards including funded in 2018, with a loan to deposit assessment.
The loan loss ratio increased 2 Best BDM Team, Best Specialist Lender and ratio for the year of 93% delivering on our to 10bps in the year to 31 December 2018 Best Buy-to-Let Lender, all from Mortgage strategy to primarily fund our loan book 2017: 7bps, largely as we modelled the Strategy Awards and Moneyfacts using retail deposits.
At the close of the potential for a more severe impact from Best Specialist Mortgage Provider in Bank of Englands Term Funding Scheme the outcome of the Brexit negotiations in 2018.
In addition our Sales Director, TFS in February 2018, the Bank had our economic scenarios.
Removing the Adrian Moloney, was awarded Business drawdowns of 1.5bn.
The TFS funding impact of this additional scenario, the loan Leader: Complex Buy-to-Let Lender by is repayable by the end of February loss ratio was consistent with the prior British Specialist Lending Awards.
Along with our proven ability to year as we saw no deterioration in the raise retail funds, the Bank was ready credit quality of the book across our Through the Banks mortgage product to re-commence its RMBS programme lending businesses.
The modelling of transfer scheme, Choices, we are in Q4 2018, but market conditions and more severe economic scenarios consistently increasing the proportion pricing were unattractive.
In addition, surrounding Brexit increased our focus of borrowers who choose a new product the Bank participated in the Bank of on the resilience of our business model within three months of their initial Englands Indexed Long-Term Repo to House Price Index and commercial real product ending and this grew to around scheme ILTR with a total of 80m ILTR estate risk and we continue to assess our 69% by December 2018.
This is driven borrowings outstanding at the year end.
lending appetites in relation to these risks.
by success in highlighting opportunities available to borrowers who might Leveraging and investing in our unique Our front book of mortgages continues otherwise revert to standard variable business model to demonstrate our excellent credit rate SVR and who should ensure that The low cost to income ratio of 28% management.
From more than 48,500 they are actively choosing appropriate reflects our efficient and scalable loans totalling 11bn of new organic mortgage pricing and features.
Through 2018 we originations since the Banks creation in invested significantly in future proofing February 2011, we have only 206 cases of Sustainable funding with awardthe business by delivering regulatory arrears over three months in duration, with winningsavings projects, principally General Data an aggregate balance of 53.5m and an Our stable and award winning retail Protection Regulation GDPR, the average loan to value LTV of just 62%, funding franchise continues to support Second Payment Services Directive PSD reflecting the continued strength of the lending growth, with retail deposits up 2 and the ongoing project to deliver Banks underwriting and lending criteria.
We also started upgrading our 40,000 new savings customers joined IT infrastructure, including customer The weighted average LTV of the overall the Bank in 2018.
Key to our vision is platforms.
This increased expenditure mortgage book remained low at 66% at becoming our customers favourite bank was partially offset by our continuous the end of 2018, with an average LTV of and we put our customers at the heart focus on finding efficiencies in the costs 69% on new origination during the year.
This is demonstrated ofrunning the Bank on a business as usual by our market-leading 95% retention rate basis, through maintaining disciplined The lower NIM of 3.04% 2017: 3.16% amongst customers with maturing fixed cost management, increased benefits of reflects the changing mix of the loan book rate bonds and ISAs.
The strength and scale and leveraging our unique operating despite broadly stable asset pricing and fairness of our retail savings proposition, platform in India OSBI.
I am particularly wider average five year swap spreads, coupled with excellent customer service pleased that finding these efficiencies partially offset by a relatively favourable and high retention rates, allow the Bank reduced our management expense ratio cost of retail funds and additional to raise significant funds when required to 0.84% from 0.86% in the prior year.
benefit from the Bank of Englands Term without needing to price at the very top Funding Scheme TFS.
The mix of the of the best buy tables and provides a The Groups first generation IRB models loan book continues to change with new consistent and stable source of liquidity.
were delivered on schedule in late origination forming a growing proportion 2016 and we ran them for the second of the total book, diluting the impact We continue to develop our savings year in 2018.
We remain pleased with of loans originated or acquired several proposition and following investment progress towards our IRB application years ago when yields were exceptionally in a new ISA transfer management and believe that the new calibrations, high.
The favourable cost of retail funds system, we had a particularly strong combined with the final IRB output floors was due primarily to the retail savings Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 17 market not pricing in the full November Following the statement released on 2017 and August 2018 Bank of England 9 March 2019 confirming that Charter Our vision & values Base Rate rises.
Five year fixed rate Court Financial Services and OneSavings mortgages accounted for c. 56% of BuyBank were in advanced discussions to-Let completions for our Kent Reliance regarding a possible all-share combination brand in 2018, up from 43% in 2017. of the two companies, we are today Our vision is to become our pleased to announce the recommended customers favourite bank: Our achievements in 2018 are a all-share combination of the two one that delivers its very testament to the management and organisations.
This statement and any best, challenges convention staff of OSB and I would like to thank future public documents relating to the and opens doors that my colleagues for their hard work and possible combination will be placed on otherscant.
the Investors section of the OSB website at www.
As such, we are Looking forward to 2019 not able to provide our usual extent of Our values guide us to the Despite the macroeconomic and political guidance for the financial year ahead.
success we are all striving uncertainty surrounding the outcome of towards for ourselves and the negotiations of the UKs departure We recognise the macroeconomic our customers.
from the EU, trading conditions in uncertainty caused by the Brexit our core markets remain positive and negotiations, however, based on what we current application levels in our Buyare currently seeing in our core markets to-Let and commercial businesses and assuming current application levels Stronger are strong as we head into 2019 with continue, we would expect to deliver mida robust pipeline of new business.
teens net loan book growth in 2019.
Based together on current asset pricing, swap spreads Whilst OSB may be less directly affected by and cost of funds, we would anticipate Aim Brexit than companies which trade in the NIM for 2019 to be marginally lower EU, we have considered and planned for than in 2018, due to the changing mix high the potential implications carefully, both of the loan book, despite broadly stable strategically and operationally in expected asset pricing.
Whilst we will continue to and stressed conditions.
The Board has investment in the business for growth Take commissioned a number of reviews from in 2019, as always, we will maintain ownership external experts and economic advisers a strong focus on cost efficiency and to assist in this work.
In our planning, control as reflected in our cost to income we considered our own particular and management expense ratios.
Create circumstances, including our location, regulatory environment, customer credit We start 2019 with a fully loaded CET1 your future profiles, loan securities, location of our ratio of 13.3% and a proven organic stakeholders, including key customers and capital generation capability through suppliers, as well as our workforce.
Our dividend policy have analysed the potential impact of a remains a payout ratio of at least 25% For more information go to page 62. range of scenarios such as the effect of a of underlying profit after taxation no-deal Brexit, including falling property attributable to ordinary shareholders.
prices, on loan loss provisions, including the Groups IFRS 9 impairment process, I believe that OneSavings Banks which are covered in the Risk review.
customer-focused business model and the We have also analysed the potential strength of both our lending and savings impact of various Brexit scenarios on franchises, mean we are exceptionally different portfolio segments with a view well-placed to continue to generate to coordinating strategic actions across attractive returns for our shareholders.
the credit risk lifecycle if a deterioration in the macroeconomic outlook were to occur.
This same plan could be deployed Andy Golding should the Group observe credit profile Chief Executive Officer deterioration post a no-deal Brexit.
14 March 2019 Outside our core Buy-to-Let market, we also see good opportunities in other segments of the lending market where we already have expertise and a platform to build on.
In particular, we expect to grow further through our InterBay Commercial brand and we see more opportunities to grow our residential lending franchise 1.
UK Finance, New and outstanding buy-to-let in the medium to longer term.
We will, mortgages, 19 Feb 2019. however exercise caution and grow 2.
Excluding the impact of TFS and ILTR drawdowns.
sensibly into new markets as we adjust The unadjusted ratio was 111% as at 31 December 2018 2017: 109%.
to a potentially new economic outlook.
