Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Q&A with Steve Ingham, CEO What is the impact of Brexit on PageGroup expected to be, and how will you minimise Q any disruption?
Uncertainty is not helpful when candidates are thinking about making a job move or clients are A considering making a hire.
However aspects of our business have performed well.
Page Personnel, where the business is focussed on more junior appointments, and has a higher proportion of temporary recruitment, had a record year.
The UK business now represents 17% of the Group and is very diverse in nature.
In 2007 Financial Services clients represented c. 12% of the UK business whereas now its 5%, with a far more diverse spread across our 13 specialist disciplines.
Looking forward, we have limited visibility of the macroeconomic impact that Brexit will have on our UK business.
However, there is very little candidate Looking forward what do you consider to be your or consultant cross border flow, and we have main strategic goals and how do you expect to Q domestic cost bases in both the UK and Europe.
addition, our wide network of consultants in Europe means that we are well placed if there is a significant We outlined our updated Page Vision during our transfer of roles into Europe.
Investor Afternoon in May 2018, where we set out A our Vision to reach a headcount of 10,000, gross profit of 1bn and operating profit of 200m-250m.
We have made good progress throughout the year, with a significant investment in fee earners driving both a record headcount and gross profit.
This, alongside our tightly controlled cost base, resulted in We set out our Vision an improvement in our conversion rate to 17.5%, the to reach a headcount of highest since the global downturn in 2009.
10,000, gross profit of 1bn To achieve our Vision, we will continue our focus on market categorisation and ensure that our investment and operating profit of approach remains aligned with this strategy.
Our main investment focus will be into our five Large, High 200m-250m.
Potential markets, all of which delivered record years in 2018.
We will continue to diversify in the US, invest in Latin America and South East Asia, develop the domestic market in Mainland China and expand our What do you consider the to be your biggest temporary and contracting businesses in Germany.
Improving our conversion rate and achieving our operating profit target will be driven by many factors.
After several years of investment we have built a Our operational support projects such as the strong team that are well prepared for the future.
centralisation of Shared Service Centres will drive A Our largest challenges are external factors such economies of scale and the implementation of our as heightened geopolitical and macro-economic Global Finance System will result in flexibility and instability.
In the UK, uncertainty exists around variability in our cost base.
We have recently created the timing and terms of Brexit, in Greater China, the role of Chief Operating Officer to build capability the economy and confidence have been affected and deliver initiatives quickly.
This will drive future by trade tariff uncertainty, and we are cautious of productivity and improvements in efficiency.
some political uncertainty in Europe, particularly in Another key strategic area is to make further progress France.
on our diversity and inclusion agenda.
For 2019 our Our ability to scale up or down quickly works to primary focus will be on gender.
Gender Diversity is our advantage.
We have strong cost control and a strategic goal for each Managing Director and an by way of natural attrition, we are able to quickly element of their annual bonus is linked to the gender react to any changes in market conditions.
Strategic report | 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Q&A with Steve Ingham, CEO As a business that has a higher focus on Q We are serious about succession permanent recruitment, how are you affected by the increasing expectations of workers for more planning and talent development in flexible temporary or contract roles?
order to show our consultants how Whilst 76% of our gross profit is permanent recruitment, which is only a reflection of the balance to be the leaders of tomorrow.
A that currently exists in the working populations of the level, profession and countries in which we work.
Our level of expertise and knowledge is similar in both.
We do not prioritise one over the other and our conversion rates in both are similar.
What are the progression opportunities at Q PageGroup and how do you invest in our leaders As weve expanded internationally we have found of the future?
that in several markets, typically, developing economies our high level of permanent to temporary More than most companies, being an organically recruitment is a reflection of the mix between grown business means there are many opportunities various factors, including where we are in the A for rapid progression within PageGroup, from cycle, the salary level at which we recruit and the consultant to the senior leadership team.
We have geographies in which we operate.
In many of our many examples of this across the Group.
The international markets we undertake little, or no management team, and myself as CEO, started temporary placements, since for cultural reasons, as consultants, demonstrating the significant temporary is not yet a widely accepted practice for progression opportunities that we can offer.
facilitate this progression, we have clearly defined We are seeing the emergence of a temporary career paths, a global succession planning process and interim market in Latin America and Asia and and a talent development learning roadmap, that as such, we have invested heavily.
In Germany supports the professional development of all our we have invested in fee earners and offices for staff at every stage of their career.
our Interim business, which grew 42% in 2018, We are serious about succession planning and and now represents 20% of Germany.
Having talent development at all levels of the business in a business which has a good mix of temporary order to show our consultants how to be the leaders and permanent is attractive from a diversification of tomorrow.
We offer a competitive remuneration perspective, and can help reduce revenue volatility package, run executive coaching schemes, internal at certain points in the cycle.
We are therefore and external mentoring programmes, personal very open to market opportunities, wherever they development planning, management development make sound financial and strategic sense, in both programmes, a Global Directors Academy and an permanent and temporary segments.
We now have a particular emphasis on the development of our senior management and are engaging with external resources to help us assess and coach our top talent ensuring we have succession plans across all markets and roles.
We have recently invested in a global digital-learning platform called BOOST!
to enable all of our people to develop their skills and capabilities, whether in a classroom or virtually.
There is also a particular emphasis on diversity and inclusion through our Women@Page and Ability@Page programmes, to ensure everyone gets an equal opportunity.
We also have an international mobility programme, which gives opportunities to our people at all levels to develop themselves even further in different countries and regions, so that they can take on new challenges and grow as individuals.
