A3 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW A3.1 Strategy review The past five years have seen the Group transition from being a monoline centralised lender to a diversified specialist banking group.
This process has generated a closer alignment of the Groups cash and capital resources, facilitated growth and diversification, both organically and via acquisition, and accessed a broader and more stable funding base.
Across this period the Group has improved returns to its shareholders and optimised its flexibility to recycle capital internally to support the needs of its growth businesses.
The past year has evidenced the strengths of this strategic approach, which will continue to drive the Nigel Terrington Groups development going forward.
Chief Executive The Group supports the needs of its consumer and SME customers and seeks to develop its presence in these markets through a combination of specialist product design, distribution and underwriting supported by its efficient centralised operating platform and resilient technology.
Organic growth has been strong during the year, augmented by business and portfolio acquisitions.
The Group has an outstanding throughthe-cycle record in challenging markets with excellent risk metrics, reflective of the cautious and prudent approach it takes to its risk appetite alongside its highly effective operating model.
We expect growth to remain strong in the future, with a focus on the delivery of our organic strategy being augmented by proposition expansion, where such developments provide an attractive risk profile and shareholder return.
During the year the activities of the Commercial Lending division have been strengthened by two acquisitions.
Iceberg, completed in December 2017, expanded the Groups lending to professional firms and Titlestone, completed in July 2018, generated a step-change in the size and scope of the Groups development finance presence.
Both acquisitions were funded by a combination of retail deposits and internally generated capital resources.
Capital for the Titlestone purchase was also partly provided by a recycling of capital from Idem Capital, where a portfolio of loans was sold during the final quarter of 2018, generating a significant gain that has been separately identified in this years accounts.
Alongside the strategic progress demonstrated in the year, the Group has delivered strong results for its shareholders.
The table below summarises these on both a statutory and an underlying basis, the latter excluding the costs and benefits arising from the acquisitions and asset sales mentioned above which do not form part of the day-to-day activities of the Group.
The underlying results, therefore, should provide greater clarity on the Groups operating performance.
Statutory Underlying Appendix A Profit before tax Up 25.3% to 181.5 million Up 7.8% to 156.5 million 2017: 144.8 million 2017: 145.2 million Basic EPS Up 12.8 pence to 55.9 pence Up 4.9 pence to 48.2 pence 2017: 43.1 pence 2017: 43.3 pence RoTE Up 2.7 pps to 16.1% Up 0.5 pps to 14.0% 2017: 13.4% 2017: 13.5% PAGE 21 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Lending Strong and targeted growth in organic business volumes has been delivered during 2018.
The scale of our Commercial Lending division has been supplemented by business acquisitions, while Idem Capital also completed a loan portfolio purchase transaction of commercial lending assets.
Excluding the contribution from the acquired businesses, organic originations grew 18.1% to 2,188.6 million 2017: 1,853.4 million.
Including post-acquisition lending from the acquired businesses, total lending increased by 25.9% to 2,333.2 million.
The scale of organic growth and the development of the commercial lending proposition over the past five years is demonstrated in the chart below.
Annual lending volumes by asset class m Year ended 30 September 2014-2018 Mortgages Commercial Lending The Groups largest business remains its buy-to-let franchise.
The UK private rented sector continues to see strong levels of demand from tenants, which is expected to continue for the foreseeable future.
The buy-to-let market has experienced a period of disruption following a series of fiscal and regulatory changes aimed at both landlords and lenders.
Against this backdrop the Groups performance has remained strong, with over twenty years experience of servicing the needs of professional landlords differentiating it from other lenders and allowing the business to make market share gains during the year.
New buy-to-let origination levels increased by 6.8% from the previous years level to 1,495.5 million in the year to September 2018 2017: 1,399.9 million, with the Groups market share, as measured by the figures reported by UK Finance, increasing from 3.93% to 4.11%.
However, survey data suggests that the Group has a more material share of the professional landlord market.
With this sector comprising approximately 23% of the market as a whole, the survey results indicate the Groups share of its target market was in the region of 14%.
The most recent regulatory changes in the buy-to-let market require lenders to collect and analyse more information about the landlords property portfolio and wider business than has previously been common in the market.
Consequently, some lenders have restricted their buy-to-let activity as a result of the increased demands of such a complex underwriting process.
The Groups expertise in this particular market segment has positioned the business well to benefit from these changes and further increase its market share.
The Groups other mortgage businesses comprise its second mortgage activities, where new origination levels rose 17.3% to 71.2 million during the year 2017: 60.7 million and a specialist residential lending operation, which remains in its pilot phase with distribution limited to a small number of brokers pending final product reviews and associated systems and process enhancements.
New specialist residential volumes totalled 56.5 million during the year 2017: 3.9 million.
Further asset and income diversification is generated by the Groups Commercial Lending division.
The divisions asset finance activities have been transformed to service a broader mid-market range of SME customers, as opposed to restricting lending solely to the more limited niches originally serviced.
Customer credit profiles are generally stronger in this larger sector, with margins commensurately lower.
This strategy has resulted in higher new business volumes up 61.2% on the year ended 2017 to 354.7 million in 2018, including 95.5 million generated by the acquired Iceberg operation.
The motor finance business also saw strong growth in 2018.
Operating in the hire and lease purchase segments of the market with no exposure to personal contract purchase products, new business origination grew by 48.3% to 177.9 million during the year 2017: 120.0 million.
The divisions development finance operation was enhanced by the acquisition of Titlestone in the year, accelerating its expansion.
This operation provides funding, principally to smaller property developers, and new drawings totalled 136.8 million 2017: 48.9 million, with 49.1 million of this arising in Titlestone.
The Groups structured lending unit, which provides lending solutions to non-bank financial institutions, agreed its first facilities in the year with three arrangements active by the year end.
Drawings in the year were 40.6 million with a balance of 38.7 million by the year end.
By the end of 2018 the business was operating at breakeven, with a positive contribution to Group profit expected in 2019.
The Groups portfolio purchase business, Idem Capital, is an established purchaser of loan portfolios.
Gross purchases in 2018 were 83.4 million 2017: 98.0 million.
The sector has proved increasingly popular for both specialist purchasers and credit funds in recent years, with available returns reducing accordingly.
Idem Capital has retained its credit and pricing discipline across the past year, but as a consequence, current year activity has been focussed on augmenting the organic asset and motor finance advances made elsewhere in the Group through the purchase of such loans from other lenders.
PAGE 22 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts million Funding The Group continued to expand its retail deposit funding base and increased its access to Bank of England facilities during the year.
At 30 September 2018, retail savings balances were 5.3 billion and the Term Funding Scheme TFS and other central bank drawings totalled 1.0 billion, compared with savings deposits of 3.6 billion and 0.7 billion TFS drawings a year earlier.
In addition to funding new advances, the Group refinanced a number of previously securitised or warehoused portfolios using retail deposits.
Similar refinancing activity is expected over the coming years.
The Group also launched its first securitisation since 2015, raising 435.3 million through the Paragon Mortgages No.
The Groups funding has become increasingly diversified in the years following the financial crisis.
This is illustrated by the chart below which shows, for each of the year ends since the Group re-entered the funding markets, the outstanding balance on post-2010 funding lines.
Funding for pre-2010 balances is still primarily provided by securitisation funding arranged around the time of advance.
Post-2010 funding by type m 30 September 2011-2018 Warehouse Tier 2 bond RMBS Idem Capital Retail bond Retail deposits Retail deposits represent the Groups primary source of funding for new lending, whilst securitisation is used as and when conditions in that market are attractive, as they were during the year, allowing the Group to maintain a diversified approach to its funding.
Capital The Groups CET1 ratio was managed down to 13.8% in 2018 2017: 15.9%, reflecting balance sheet growth, product diversification, acquisitions and higher distributions to shareholders through buy-backs and enhanced dividend levels.
The Groups total capital ratio was 16.2% at September 2018 2017: 18.7%.
Enhancing shareholder returns on a sustainable basis is a key objective for the Group and during the year underlying basic EPS increased by 11.3% 29.7% on the statutory basis.
Following a reduction to a 2.75 times dividend cover ratio in 2017 the Group targeted a further reduction to 2.5 times in 2018.
The dividend for the year of 19.4 pence reflects the new target, based on underlying performance, and has increased by 23.6% 2017: 15.7 pence.
The Group has adopted a formulaic approach to its interim dividend levels going forward, with the interim dividend per share from the 2018 interim being one half of the final dividend declared in the preceding period in normal circumstances.
The Groups share buy-back programme progressed in the year, with 25.2 million having been invested, enhancing shareholder returns, until the programme was suspended to reflect the capital requirements of the Titlestone acquisition.
The Group is not anticipating a share buy-back in 2019, but will seek the normal shareholder approvals at its February 2019 Annual General Meeting AGM to allow flexibility if conditions change and surplus capital becomes available.
The business remains well funded, strongly capitalised and effectively placed to continue to deliver long term, sustainable returns through its robust operating model.
The Group is positioned to respond quickly to the challenges and to take advantage of the opportunities that will arise given changes in the broader operating environment.
A more detailed discussion of the Groups performance is given below covering: Lending review Funding review Financial review Operational review Lending, performance and Retail deposits, wholesale Results for the year People, risk and regulation markets funding and capital management PAGE 23 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts million A3.2 Lending review The Groups operations are organised into three divisions, based on product type, origination and servicing capabilities.
This organisational and management structure has been in place throughout the year.
New business advances and investments in the year, together with the year end loan balances, by division, are summarised below: Advances and investments Net loan balances in the year at the year end 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Mortgages 1,623.2 1,464.5 10,473.5 9,953.9 Commercial Lending 710.0 388.9 1,133.2 558.8 Idem Capital 83.4 98.0 521.1 611.4 2,416.6 1,951.4 12,127.8 11,124.1 The Groups loan book increased by 9.0% in the year, with new advances and investments 23.8% higher than in the previous financial year.
1 Mortgages The Groups Mortgages division offers buy-to-let first charge and owner-occupied first and second charge mortgages on residential property in the UK.
In all its offerings, it targets niche markets where its focus on detailed case-by-case underwriting and its robust and informed approach to property risk differentiate it from mass market and other specialist lenders.
Housing and mortgage market The UK mortgage and housing market remains finely balanced and activity remains subdued, with this position having continued throughout the financial year.
New mortgage approvals, reported by the Bank of England, in the year ended 30 September 2018, at 255.4 billion had increased by only 2.1% from the previous year, 2017: 250.1 billion, with remortgaging increasing by 9% and house purchase mortgages declining by 2%.
This level of transactions remains some 30% below the 2007 peak in the market.
The Nationwide House Price Index reported annual growth of only 2.0%, similar to the 2.0% seen in 2017, with London seeing a decline in prices, although house prices there remain close to their 2007 peak.
Growth has been at this level for the past eighteen months, with expectations of future increases remaining modest.
The most recent Nationwide analysis forecasts an increase of only 1.0% over 2018 as a whole.
These market trends were supported by the latest survey data from the Royal Insitution of Chartered Surveyors RICS UK Residential Market Survey, which highlighted a lack of market momentum with market confidence drifting downwards, but with a mixed picture on house price expectations across the country.
For the mortgage industry, the interest rate environment, which is still low by historic levels despite recent rises, has led to benign credit conditions, with low arrears and a negligible level of forced sales.
Overall the economic environment for the mortgage market currently appears both positive and sustainable.
The impact of a potential economic downturn, whether as a result of the Brexit process or otherwise, remains an area of focus across all lending markets.
The Group seeks to mitigate its exposure to such conditions through a robust approach to property valuation, employing an experienced in-house property team who undertake around two thirds of valuations and conduct validation work on 100% of valuations performed by third party surveyors.
The internally conducted surveys are subject to regular monitoring and the Risk and Compliance function includes qualified property risk resource.
The weighted average loan to value ratio across the Groups first mortgage books at 66.0% 2017: 66.3% note 9 provides significant protection in the event of a future downturn.
Buy-to-let The year has seen the buy-to-let mortgage market continuing to reshape following a period of sustained regulatory intervention.
Following changes to tax and stamp duty affecting landlords, the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA introduced new rules on the conduct of buy-to-let underwriting, which came into force partly in the 2017 financial year and partly at the start of the current period.
The regulatory changes were implemented in two phases: From 1 January 2017 the PRA imposed common standards for affordability testing in the buy to-let sector, similar, in principle, to the approach adopted by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA for owner-occupied lending under the Mortgage Conduct of Business MCOB rules From 1 October 2017, lenders were required to underwrite portfolio buy-to-let cases on a much more specialised basis, differentiating between portfolio and non-portfolio landlords, based on the number of properties owned with buy-to-let finance PAGE 24 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts UK Finance UKF reported that completions in the year ended 30 September 2018 were 36.4 billion, compared to 35.7 billion in the same period in 2017.
Within this total, new lending for buy-to-let property purchases saw a decrease, from 9.9 billion to 8.8 billion.
Remortgaging levels grew, from 24.6 billion in 2017 to 26.1 billion in 2018.
However, with more customers choosing longer term fixed rate loans, the potential capacity for remortgage activity is expected to reduce in the medium term.
Almost all new buy-to-let lending continues to be at initially fixed rates, but the preference for longer fixed periods, driven by customer expectations of interest rate rises to come, has been one of the most significant market trends over recent years, with 49% of market-wide completions in September 2018 having a five year fixed term or longer, compared to around 40% of the September 2017 completions and around 20% of completions a year earlier.
The numbers of new buy-to-let mortgages reported by UKF over the past four years are set out below.
Number of new buy-to-let mortgages UKF Purchase Remortgage Activity in the market supports the Groups analysis of the likely impact of the regulatory changes, with clear evidence of a polarisation of the landlord population between portfolio landlords and those with single properties.
The proportion of portfolio landlords operating through corporate structures has also continued to increase.
In response to this, the positions of the lenders active in the market have also become more clearly defined, with some major lenders, including some of the largest, not offering a portfolio landlord proposition, some addressing portfolio landlords only in a limited way and a smaller group of specialised lenders, including the Group, offering a full range of products.
This has been driven by the availability of experienced resource, system and process capability.
Overall the Group considers these changes to be positive, with a more sharply focussed class of buy-to-let landlords emerging.
These should be motivated to provide a better service to tenants and their funding requirements are a good match for the products offered by the Group, providing an opportunity for the Group to grow its market share, albeit in a potentially smaller market.
The impact of these, and previous, changes on the lettings market is less easy to determine at this stage.
The tenure distribution of households remained stable in the latest English Housing Survey 2016-17, with the private rented sector continuing to house 20% of all households.
The September 2018 RICS UK Residential Market Survey reports increasing tenant demand against lower levels of landlord instructions, creating upward pressure on rents, which RICS expects will increase by over 2% in the current year, accelerating to a rate of 3.5% per annum over the next five years.
This should have a positive impact on affordability for buy-to-let landlords.
Lending activity The Groups new lending activity in the segment during the year is set out below.
2018 2017 m m First charge buy-to-let 1,495.5 1,399.9 First charge owner-occupied 56.5 3.9 Second charge 71.2 60.7 1,623.2 1,464.5 Total mortgage lending in the Group increased by 10.8% in the year.
The majority of this increase arose from the divisions core buy-to-let products, but other mortgage offerings also contributed.
PAGE 25 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts number Buy-to-let The Groups buy-to-let lending increased by 6.8% year on year, despite the disruption in the market described above and the consequent pressure on volumes.
The pipeline of buy-to-let loans in process at the year end was 778.9 million, an increase of 28.9% on the position a year earlier 2017: 604.2 million.
The changes in the way in which buy-to-let landlords are addressing the market, driven by the recent regulatory changes, can be seen in the analysis of the Groups new buy-to-let lending by customer type, compared to the previous year.
In the table below corporate customers are those operating through limited companies.
Other complex customers are non-corporate customers with portfolios of four properties or more or with specialist properties.
30 September 30 September 30 September 30 September 2018 2018 2017 2017 m % m % Buy-to-let advances Corporate customers 656.7 43.9% 293.5 21.0% Other complex customers 528.8 35.4% 609.4 43.5% Total corporate and complex 1,185.5 79.3% 902.9 64.5% Non-complex customers 310.0 20.7% 497.0 35.5% 1,495.5 100.0% 1,399.9 100.0% These advances showed the impact on the Groups business of the concentration of buy-to-let activity among more professional investors, many operating through corporate structures.
This trend is set to continue into the next financial year, with 87.8% of pipeline cases being either corporate or complex 2017: 70.4%.
This trend can be seen in the analysis of the Groups buy-to-let pipeline application numbers over the last three years.
Percentage of complex pipeline cases Number outstanding at date Corporate Other complex In common with the wider buy-to-let market, the Group has seen a significant increase in customer preference for new buy-to-let mortgage loans which have an initial fixed rate period of five years, rather than the shorter terms typically chosen previously.
The proportion of five-year products, by number, in the Groups new buy-to-let lending, at 72.9% had increased significantly since last year 2017: 50.8%.
This should increase the stability of the Groups balance sheet going forward, with longer-dated product maturities supporting higher growth rates in the loan portfolio in the medium term.
Other mortgage lending The Groups second charge mortgage lending has increased 17.3% during the year, but remains at modest levels.
The second charge market is currently not large, with total lending of 1,031 million in the financial year reported by the Finance and Leasing Association FLA little changed from the previous year 2017: 1,003 million.
A significant part of this total does not fall within the Groups risk appetite and the Group seeks to target only that population of customers with the strongest credit quality in this area, avoiding any form of sub-prime business, which necessarily limits the addressable market.
The Group continued to develop its offering in specialist sectors of the owner-occupied mortgage market during the period.
This lending remains in a pilot phase, with it yet to be established whether a sufficiently large opportunity exists which would generate satisfactory returns at acceptable risk levels.
PAGE 26 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts percent Performance The outstanding loan balances in the segment are set out below, analysed by business line.
30 September 30 September 2018 2017 m m Post-2010 assets First charge buy-to-let 4,481.8 3,661.1 First charge owner-occupied 59.4 3.9 Second charge 141.3 98.4 4,682.5 3,763.4 Legacy assets First charge buy-to-let 5,779.8 6,175.4 First charge owner-occupied 11.2 15.1 10,473.5 9,953.9 At 30 September 2018 the balance on the Groups mortgage portfolio was 5.2% higher than a year earlier, with the post-2010 buy-to-let book having grown by 22.4%.
The annualised redemption rate on post-2010 buy-to-let mortgage assets at 16.7% 2017: 22.7%, has reduced from the high level seen in 2017, reflecting both the profile of product maturities and the changing focus towards complex landlord customers.
The annualised redemption rate on pre-crisis lending, at 6.0%, is the same as that seen in the year ended 30 September 2017, reflecting the properties of those loans relative to current market offerings.
The redemption rate was also reduced by greater numbers of the Groups customers opting to re-fix their loans during the period, rather than redeem and refinance elsewhere.
This affected both customers on products which reached the end of their initial fixed rates and also on those already on reversionary rates.
This process was enhanced by systems developments to make the process as easy as possible for customers.
While the Group earns a smaller margin on these switch products, the customers should then stay with the Group for a longer period on their new fixed rates, offsetting the reduction in margin over the medium term.
Arrears on the buy-to-let book as a whole have marginally increased in the year to 0.11% 2017: 0.08%, with arrears on post-2010 lending standing at 0.01% 2017: 0.02%.
These arrears remain very low compared to the national buy-to-let market, with UKF reporting arrears of 0.42% across the buy-to-let sector at 30 September 2018 2017: 0.45%.
This exemplary performance reflects the Groups focus in underwriting on the credit quality and financial capability of its customers, underpinned by a detailed and thorough assessment of the value and suitability of the property as security.
Second charge arrears increased to 0.21% from 0.06% in the year, as the book began to season, with performance remaining strong, while the new residential lending has yet to see any arrears, although the loans are still comparatively unseasoned.
The Groups receiver of rent process for buy-to-let assets helps to reduce the level of losses by giving direct access to the rental flows from the underlying properties, while allowing tenants to stay in their homes.
At the year end 770 properties were managed by a receiver on the customers behalf, a reduction of 6.2% since 2017 2017: 821 properties as cases on the old book resolve and post-2010 cases perform well.
Outlook Looking forward, the Groups mortgage business is strongly positioned as a specialist participant in a market which is still restructuring following fiscal and regulatory change.
Its focus on specific customer requirements is key to growing volumes and enhancing earnings.
An important part of the divisions strategy going forward will be to continue to enhance systems to improve the experience of customers and brokers.
This will include increasing opportunities for customer self-service and more direct system links to major brokers.
The business is well placed to withstand potential instability in the UK economy, with its strong credit standards and robust assessment of security condition and value affording it a high degree of protection.
Average loan-to-value ratios on new buy-to-let lending were 71.8% for the year ended 30 September 2018, with stressed affordability levels in line with or above the PRA requirements.
Continued strong rental demand and good affordability suggests the Groups customers will be resilient in the face of anticipated rate rises or broader economic uncertainty.
Exposure on owner-occupied lending is low, and the risk position on second charge lending has been carefully managed.
Overall the Group supports the provision of housing in the UK in a controlled and sustainable way, and through its relationships with landlords and trade bodies seeks to promote higher standards in the private rented sector.
PAGE 27 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts A3.2.
2 Commercial Lending The Groups Commercial Lending division brings together a number of streams of mostly asset backed lending to, or through, commercial organisations.
The principal customer focus of the division is on lending to SME and mid-sized corporate customers, which is an important differentiator from the rest of the Groups business.
During the year the Commercial Lending division significantly broadened its activities.
The acquisition of Titlestone added substantial volume and capacity to the divisions development finance unit, the acquisition of Iceberg expanded short-term business lending and the new structured lending offering was launched in the year.
The asset finance market in the UK is substantial, covering some 75.1 billion of outstanding balances at 30 September 2018 2017: 74.7 billion and 32.1 billion of advances in the year then ended 2017: 31.2 billion.
It is the Groups strategy to target niches within this market where its particular skill sets can be best applied, and its capital effectively deployed to optimise the relationship between growth, risk and return.
Examples of such niches are the financing of waste collection vehicles for local authorities, construction equipment and complex veterinary equipment.
Outside the leasing market the division also has niche offerings providing other forms of funding, generally to SME businesses.
Access to customers is generally through specialist brokers, including the Groups in-house brokerage, Premier Asset Finance Premier, or equipment suppliers and the markets in which the division operates tend to be fragmentary, with different brokers focussed on different asset types.
The common themes of these diverse business lines are a reliance on understanding and engaging with the customer and the valuation of any security, together with expertise in collections and security realisation.
In common with the rest of the Group, the divisions focus is on the maintenance of strong credit standards and it does not pursue business volumes at the expense of margins.
The division relies heavily on specialist teams to address the separate business lines, either sourced externally or internally developed.
Acquisition of Titlestone During July 2018 the Group acquired the entire share capital of Titlestone Property Services Limited and a portfolio of loan assets from its related companies together Titlestone.
Titlestone provide development finance loans to smaller property developers, a field in which the Group already had a presence.
The acquired loan portfolio was valued at 227.4 million, but there were no other significant tangible assets in the acquired business.
The consideration paid was 274.3 million in cash note 15.
The addition of the Titlestone team to the Groups existing development finance unit offers the opportunity for the Group to reach critical mass in this market much more swiftly than would be possible through purely organic growth, and the teams network of relationships with developers, brokers and other professionals will provide a solid foundation for the further expansion of this business.
Following the acquisition, the Titlestone and Paragon teams were merged and the business rebranded as Paragon Development Finance.
The Groups strategic objective is to expand its lending to cover a larger part of the UK as the Titlestone business, in common with the Groups initial development finance offering, was focussed on the South East of England and the Group sees additional promising opportunities outside this area.
The combined operation is focussed primarily on smaller residential developments, where assets are likely to be more liquid and where demand is likely to be more resilient under economic stress.
This area has also been identified as one where there is a shortage of available funding.
It also aligns with the UKs public policy priority of increasing house building, where the Help to Buy scheme is acting to support prices of completed developments.
A project is currently taking place to integrate the new operation into the Group, which will continue into the new financial year.
Progress so far has been encouraging and the acquired business has generated 49.1 million of new lending since acquisition.
The Group is confident that this business will form a significant and profitable part of the divisions activity in future periods.
Acquisition of Iceberg During December 2017 the Group acquired the assets and business of Iceberg, a specialist broker and lender, which had previously operated through two limited liability partnerships note 14.
Iceberg focusses principally on short-term unsecured business funding for professionals such as solicitors and accountants and, through solicitors, in lending to parties in inheritance and matrimonial proceedings based upon the strength of their prospects.
The consideration paid was 6.8 million in cash, with deferred consideration of up to 13.0 million payable, dependent upon performance.
The combination of the market intelligence and contacts in the Iceberg business with the Groups funding capabilities is expected to create additional value in the asset finance business over time, adding higher lending volumes to this specialist product set.
At acquisition Iceberg was acting as a broker, passing on the majority of its originations for funding by other lenders.
Access to Group funding will enable the value of the Iceberg loan portfolio to grow over time with a consequent increase in revenues and contribution.
Loan balances of 2.0 million were acquired with the business and, by 30 September 2018, there were 32.9 million of Iceberg generated assets on the Groups balance sheet.
Advances in the nine months since acquisition were 95.5 million.
The process of integrating the Iceberg operations with those of the Group continues.
Progress in the first nine months has been good and the prospects for future benefits from the acquisition are encouraging.
PAGE 28 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Lending activity The divisions SME customer base has had a broadly stable year with no indications of a Brexit impact so far, however recent surveys indicate nervousness going forward, which may start to impact on the investment decisions of small and medium sized firms.
The new lending activity in the segment during the year is set out below.
2018 2018 2017 m m m Asset finance ongoing operations 259.2 Asset finance - Iceberg 95.5 Asset finance 354.7 220.0 Motor finance 177.9 120.0 Development finance - ongoing 87.7 Development finance - Titlestone 49.1 Development finance 136.8 48.9 Structured lending 40.6 - 710.0 388.9 The asset finance business has seen a 17.8% like-for-like growth in the period as the business continues to develop following strategic changes introduced over the past two years.
Including Iceberg, the value of new lending in the book was up 61.2%.
This result is significantly in excess of the guidance of 0.6 billion given at the half year, even excluding the Titlestone business.
Significantly, the developments in the year have led to greater diversity in 2018s advances than was seen in 2017, in line with the Groups strategy.
The asset finance business has remained competitive in its core hard asset ie construction equipment market despite pricing pressure from new entrants.
It has maintained its focus on margins and sought to support its business levels through good customer relationships and service standards.
Asset finance advances include the Groups first aviation loans, where 12.4 million was outstanding at the year end, and although the operation is still in its early stages, the credit quality of customers is good.
This business provides a good example of the niche focus employed by the Group within the wider asset finance space.
The asset finance business also made a significant investment in assets for hire under operating leases, both term and spot, acquiring 19.3 million of assets to generate future income 2017: 12.9 million.
Following the last two years of investment, net operating lease income increased by 26.7% to 3.8 million for the year 2017: 3.0 million.
This growth has taken place against a backdrop of aggressive competition in the market and continuing economic nervousness in UK industry, leading to some reluctance by SMEs to take on new finance commitments, especially longer-term arrangements, at least until the UKs future trading relationship with Europe becomes clearer.
The motor finance business continues to develop with a 48.3% increase in new lending.
Product offerings remain carefully targeted to avoid riskier and mass market sectors and the Group has no exposure to personal contract purchase and similar product types which have caused concern to commentators and regulators during the year.
The business addresses specialist propositions in the motor finance market where distinctive products can generate appealing returns and make effective use of the Groups capital.
This includes funding less mainstream vehicle types, such as light commercial vehicles and motorhomes.
The current rate of growth is expected to moderate as the business becomes more mature, with the specialist segment of the market always being limited to some degree.
The Groups organically grown development finance business provided funding for small-scale property developments with an average facility size of around 2.0 million, a significantly underserved market.
Advances grew by 79.3% in the year as the business expanded into new areas of the country including Yorkshire and the Midlands.
This experience served to confirm the viability of the business stream and provided support to the decision to acquire Titlestone in July 2018.
Post-acquisition the larger development finance business presents a significant growth opportunity, with undrawn facilities and pipeline commitments of 366.7 million providing a springboard for the start of the new financial year.
During the second half of the year, the first of the Groups structured lending facilities, with Liberis, the business cash flow lender, went live.
This was followed by a further two facilities during the year with more scheduled to complete after the year end.
Initial returns appear promising, with the team building a good relationship in the market place.
The structured lending unit provides senior debt to the UK non-bank lending market and deploys loans to help support best-in-class businesses working across consumer and commercial lending.
Transactions are secured on underlying assets and structured using established robust methodologies.
The business addresses certain segments where the Group may be under-weight or has no exposure at all and where working with a recognised industry expert is preferable to organic expansion.
Outstanding facilities at 30 September 2018 have reached 52.5 million, of which 38.7 million had been drawn at the year end.
Across all business lines growth has been carefully controlled with credit quality and margins prioritised over expansion and care has been taken to focus effort on those sectors or subsectors of the market most suited to the Groups business model and most likely to provide it with a good return on capital.
PAGE 29 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Performance The outstanding loan balances in the segment are set out below, analysed by business line.
30 September 30 September 2018 2017 m m Asset finance 403.4 323.6 Motor finance 256.6 163.0 Development finance 352.8 42.3 Structured lending 38.7 - Invoice factoring 21.8 14.8 Professions finance 42.6 1.4 Unsecured business lending 13.1 9.0 Other loans 4.2 4.7 1,133.2 558.8 Professions finance includes Iceberg assets and similar assets generated in the ongoing business.
Margins in the segment have remained strong but have reflected both the changing business mix and the strategic repositioning of the asset finance operations to address the larger, higher quality but lower margin mid-range segment of the asset finance market.
Arrears on the segments business remain low with arrears in the asset finance business at 0.78% and motor finance at 0.93% 2017: 0.97% and 0.56% respectively, comparable to those in the wider sector, with the FLA reporting average arrears for asset finance at 0.70% and car finance at 2.50% at 30 September 2018 2017: 0.60% and 2.20%.
Credit quality in both the organic and acquired development finance books has been good, and the overall performance of the projects has been in line with expectations.
These accounts are monitored on a case-by-case basis by the Credit Risk function.
At 30 September 2018 no accounts had been identified by the monitoring process as being likely to result in a loss, beyond a small number of Titlestone accounts identified on acquisition and allowed for in the purchase price.
The average loan to gross development value for the portfolio at the year end, a measure of security cover, was 63.2% 2017: 60.6%.
This increase reflects the initially cautious launch of the product in 2017 and the mix effect from the acquired portfolio.
Overall the charge for impairment in the segment was 2.0 million 2017: 0.1 million, which remains low relative to the book size.
Outlook The Groups intention is to continue to develop its businesses, selectively focussing on those areas where the greatest return can be achieved.
This will involve both increasing the reach of its existing offerings and adding further product lines or specialisms, to improve the diversity of its loan book.
It will also prioritise maintaining margins and customer relationships in the existing books.
The division seeks to be responsive and flexible in addressing the market, but its UK focus means that it is exposed to a downturn in investment amongst UK business as a whole.
The coming year will see the continuation of the integration of the Groups development finance operations and the geographical expansion of the proposition within the UK.
The continued growth of the aviation finance and structured lending products is also anticipated.
A particular priority will be the on-going integration of the acquired operations into the division.
Overall the division has a good platform on which to build and increasing scale and diversity will enable a better return to be generated from its resources, control framework and investments in systems.
3 Idem Capital The Groups Idem Capital division includes its acquired loan portfolios, together with its pre-2010 legacy consumer accounts.
Idem Capital has a strong capability in loan administration and an ability to self-develop systems, allowing it to respond to regulatory developments and more specialised portfolio requirements.
Unlike many market participants, Idem Capital is able to deploy securitisation and particularly retail funding to support its investment.
The divisions focus is on acquiring portfolios where it can enhance value through its collections process and access to funding, and which will augment the organic origination activities of the Group.
It uses its analytical skills base, which it sees as a core differentiator, to identify and evaluate portfolios brought to market against these criteria.
Its principal area of focus over recent years has been on portfolios of UK paying secured and unsecured consumer finance balances, but it has the capability to leverage Group expertise in other asset classes which was used in the year.
PAGE 30 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts It is also willing to consider transactions, deal by deal, on a partnership basis, having acted as a co-investor, servicer or both in various deals in the past.
Overall Idem Capitals success rests on understanding assets, strong analytics, advanced servicing capabilities and the efficient use of funding.
Lending activity Towards the end of the year the Group completed a 83.4 million portfolio purchase of primarily motor finance receivables.
The loans, acquired from a UK bank, were predominantly performing, asset-backed, UK loans and have been successfully migrated on to the Groups systems where they will be managed through their normal contractual lives.
This was the sole purchase in the year and represents Idem Capitals first purchase outside its traditional target areas of secured and unsecured consumer loans, providing an excellent example of the division acquiring portfolios of recently originated and performing loans to complement the Groups broader new business flows.
The portfolio purchase market has continued to be busy with a large number of participants bidding on transactions.
The operation participated in all of the significant bid processes in its target asset classes, including some very large transactions, but market pricing has generally been aggressive and has driven up bidding on some transactions beyond levels where the Group considers them to be capable of achieving satisfactory return levels within its risk appetite.
Activity in the asset sales market tends to be lumpy and the Groups level of investment in any period will reflect the number, type and quality of portfolios offered, together with the levels of return other market participants are willing to accept.
The Group believes that its ability to accurately evaluate a potential acquisition is a core strength and it is not willing to compromise on credit quality or target return levels in pursuit of volumes.
Idem Capital remains on the panels of all the principal UK vendors.
The Group completed a disposal of assets with a carrying value of 54.7 million in the final quarter of the year, realising a profit of 28.0 million against book value.
The Group took the decision to crystallise the opportunity presented by a strong market price for the assets sold to realise a capital gain and to recycle this capital to support further growth in the commercial lending division, where the acquisition of Titlestone took place in the same quarter.
The sale also enabled the repayment of Idem Capitals external funding facility, incurring exit costs of 1.2 million, including break fees and accelerated amortisation of capital structuring costs.
Performance The value of the loan balances in the segment are set out below, analysed by business line.
30 September 30 September 2018 2017 m m Second charge mortgage loans 274.6 392.3 Unsecured consumer loans 173.7 219.1 Motor finance 72.8 - 521.1 611.4 The reduction in balances is a result of the scale of realisations from the brought forward consumer loan portfolios, together with the asset disposals in the year.
This was offset, partially, by the motor finance portfolio acquisition.
120 month Estimated Remaining Collections ERC on acquired consumer assets reduced from 688.8 million at 30 September 2017 to 489.6 million at the year end, for the same reasons.
It should be noted, however, that as the motor finance portfolio acquired during the year was not acquired at a discount and valued on a cash flow basis, its future recoveries are not included in the ERC amounts.
Margins achieved by Idem Capital vary materially by portfolio and are also impacted by the strength of cash generation, particularly when this exceeds expectations for assets acquired at a discount.
Where purchases are focussed on performing portfolios, the margin dynamics will more closely resemble those achieved by similar originated assets.
The sale of loan balances during September will serve to accelerate this mix-led change in margin profile for the division.
Maintaining a high level of customer service is key to the success of Idem Capital and complaints and compliance issues in the acquired portfolios remained low in the period.
Flows of redress cases, where the original lender is required to compensate the customer for conduct issues on acquired accounts, have increased in the period.
It should be noted that the terms of loan acquisitions generally leave responsibility for pre-acquisition conduct issues, such as PPI, with the vendor, not the Group.
The Groups recorded complaint levels, on the measures published by the Financial Ombudsman Service FOS, remain very low with only 58 new complaints in the six months ended 30 June 2018, while the Groups overturn rate in the same period, where the ombudsman reversed the Groups decision, at 35%, is broadly in line with the 30% average for the industry.
Operational improvements have continued to be made in systems, processes and employment patterns which are expected to generate efficiencies in future periods.
Arrears on the segments secured lending business have improved to 15.8% 2017: 17.5%, the reduction arising from the sale of some of the poorer performing accounts in the year.
These arrears levels remain higher than the average for the sector but this reflects the seasoning of the balances, which are mostly more than ten years old and the inclusion of accounts which are currently making full monthly payments, but had missed payments at some point in the past.
Average arrears for secured lending of 9.4% at 30 September 2018 were reported by the FLA 2017: 11.2%.
PAGE 31 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts None of the divisions remaining portfolios at the year end were regarded as materially underperforming, with strong overall cash generation.
The Group monitors actual cash receipts from acquired portfolios against those forecast in the evaluation which informed the purchase price.
Up to 30 September 2018 such collections were 109.7% of those forecast to that point 2017: 109.3%.
Overall the segment had a credit for impairment of 0.1 million 2017: 1.5 million charge, representing the stable arrears position and the impact of improving house prices on secured provisioning.
Outlook While the Group expects that flows of assets for disposal will continue to build, increasing economic uncertainty may restrict the scope for vendors and purchasers to arrive at mutually acceptable pricing, especially for unsecured assets and the flow of completed deals in the market may slow down.
The divisions strategy in this market will continue to focus on transactions which are more idiosyncratic in nature and therefore make best use of its core skills in pricing, data, operations and account management in generating value, together with the purchase of portfolios of performing loans similar in nature to those being originated within the Groups Mortgages and Commercial Lending divisions.
The business will continue to maintain its detailed and disciplined approach to evaluating, pricing and bidding on portfolios, not compromising on margins and risk, ensuring that the Groups capital is appropriately deployed and thereby generating appropriate shareholder value.
The division is well placed to manage its assets going forward, and the refocus of the portfolio in the period should reduce credit exposures if economic conditions in the UK deteriorate.
A3.3 Funding review Over the past five years the Group has transitioned from being entirely wholesale funded to its present broadly diversified funding model, focussed around its retail savings deposit flows.
1 Debt and deposit funding During the year, the Group continued its strategy of focussing its funding on its retail savings capability.
However, having also optimised its use of central bank funding at attractive rates to support lending during the early part of the year, the Group completed a securitisation transaction in April 2018, taking advantage of strong investor demand and the attractive rates then available to structure its first deal since 2015.
The growth of retail deposit funding flows also allowed the Group to reduce the amount of warehouse funding facilities required to support new lending during the year.
The Groups funding at 30 September 2018 is summarised as follows: 2018 2017 2016 m m m Retail deposit balances 5,296.6 3,615.4 1,873.9 Securitised and warehouse funding 6,490.3 7,781.8 9,947.1 Central bank facilities 1,024.4 700.0 - Tier 2 and retail bonds 445.4 444.8 554.3 Total on balance sheet funding 13,256.7 12,542.0 12,375.3 Off balance sheet central bank facilities 108.7 109.0 108.8 13,365.4 12,651.0 12,484.1 The Group actively prepares its interest rate exposure position for likely increases in UK interest rates indicated by Bank of England guidance.
The risk of a downward movement in rates in recent years has been limited by an apparent absolute lower bound on market rates.
This will cease to be the case as rates rise and this is addressed by the Groups treasury policy.
The Groups funding and hedging policies are also influenced by the levels of longer-dated fixed rate products now being offered, and it is seeking where possible to increase the levels of maturity matching in its overall balance sheet position.
PAGE 32 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Retail funding The Groups savings business provides customers with a range of deposit options, offering value for money and competitive rates, combined with the protection provided by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS.
The business currently sources all deposits through its website, with its strong repeat business and net promoter scores complemented by access to price comparison websites and recommendations from industry savings experts.
The business model provides the Group with a stable funding platform, with a focus on term funding to manage interest rate risk and the ability to limit product availability to short periods of time.
At the end of the period 74.5% of deposits were term or notice accounts 2017: 83.3%.
Retail deposits continue to represent a reliable, cost-effective and scalable source of finance for the Group.
As a consequence of the preference for retail funding in the Groups funding strategy, the volume of retail deposits has continued to grow significantly during the period, with balances at 30 September 2018, at 5,296.6 million, having increased by 46.5% over the year 2017: 3,615.4 million.
However, this represents only a small proportion of the UK savings market, with household savings balances reported by the Bank of England increasing by 4.9% in the year ended 30 September 2018 to 1,174.6 billion 2017: 1,119.2 billion, although these deposits remain overwhelmingly with clearing banks and building societies.
The strong supply has helped to maintain the recent trend for low savings rates with the average annual interest on two-year fixed interest bonds, reported by the Bank of England, having increased from 1.26% in September 2017 to 1.42% in September 2018, with rates on one-year bonds increasing from 0.78% in September 2017 to 0.95% in September 2018, the increases being less than the base rate increases in the same period.
It does not appear, therefore, that the closure of the TFS to new drawings in February 2018 has had any material impact on rates in the savings market although the trend of rates has been generally upwards.
New entrants to the banking market have adopted similar approaches to the savings market as the Group, and therefore competition for internet-sourced deposits is increasing.
The level of competition forces the Group to remain competitive on pricing, products and service.
Even so, rates may be influenced by the funding needs of other participants in the market, which are beyond the Groups control.
During the year the savings business has continued to develop to address these competitive challenges, with improvements to customers ability to access their accounts, improved service from the website and enhanced opening hours of our telephone support group.
Savings balances at the year end are analysed below.
The proportion of short term deposits easy access and those available at three months notice or less has increased in the period to 30.3% 2017: 22.6%, representing 1,606.0 million of the balance 2017: 1,035.4 million.
This has been driven by market requirements, as customer anticipation of rate rises in the near term leads to a preference for short-dated deposits.
The growth of the retail funding balance since the Group received authorisation as a deposit taker in 2014 is shown below.
Retail deposits m At 30 September 2014-2018 The Groups products, process and approach have been recognised in the industry and by customers and during the year it won the Best Monthly Interest Provider award in the 2018 Moneynet awards and was named as the Best Long-term Fixed Rate Cash ISA Provider in the 2018 SavingsChampion.
PAGE 33 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts million In customer feedback 90% of those opening a savings account with the Group in the year, who provided data, stated that they would probably or definitely take a second product 2017: 87%.
The net promoter score the excess of positive over negative feedback per 100 respondents in the same survey was 61, up from 59 for the 2017 financial year.
When customers with maturing savings balances in the year were surveyed 90% stated that they would probably or definitely consider taking out a replacement product with the Group 2017: 89% with a net promoter score at maturity of 50, up from 42 for the 2017 financial year.
This performance is particularly valuable to the Group, given the benefits of customer, and deposit, retention.
The Groups outsourced administration platform continues to meet its needs and provides a cost-effective, stable and scalable solution in the medium to long term, with a new agreement having been signed in the period to provide longer-term security to this important commercial relationship.
In order to broaden the franchise and reduce dependence on price-comparison websites as a source of customers, the Group has been working to develop alternative routes to market, which are expected to be rolled out during the coming year.
This includes the launch of the Groups savings products on the Hargreaves Landsdown Active Savings platform after the year end.
It is also investigating potential new savings products and customer groups, in order to mitigate the pressure on rates which is imposed by the competitive market, and to ensure it manages its increasing levels of maturing retail balances effectively.
The size and diversity of the Groups deposit base is expected to continue to expand, forming the principal funding source for new lending activities.
The guarantee provided by the FSCS scheme is likely to reduce the potential for an economic downturn to impact liquidity and the profile of the Groups target customers suggests that they are likely to be resilient in those circumstances.
Wholesale funding The performance of the UK wholesale funding markets over the year has been mixed, with more activity than in recent periods, particularly following the cessation of the TFS.
Pricing has, however, been subject to some volatility, being attractive in the early part of the year, while becoming more expensive again towards the end of the period, with increases driven by increasing UK inflation, concerns over international trade, the impact of uncertainty in Italy and a lack of clarity on the terms of the UKs exit from the EU.
The Groups strategic objective of creating a broader-based funding structure, coupled with the availability of attractively priced funding from the Bank of England during the first half of the period, has meant that its use of securitisation and similar funding tools is presently limited to those instances where a particularly compelling case can be made in terms of the tenor, cost and availability of the funding.
As a result, the Group did not access the public securitisation market after November 2015 until April 2018, when Paragon Mortgages No.
This was the largest value and lowest interest margin transaction completed by the Group since 2007.
PM25, backed by a mixture of new and legacy buy-to-let mortgage assets, raised 435.3 million of external funding in sterling Mortgage Backed Floating Rate Notes.
The senior notes were rated AAA by Fitch and Aaa by Moodys and bear interest at London Interbank Offered Rate LIBOR plus a margin of 0.65%.
The initial average rate on the external notes was 0.72% above LIBOR.
The transaction contained several novel features, which enhanced its value to the Groups funding strategy.
It has the capacity to accept further loans, rather than repaying redemption monies immediately.
This extends the expected life to five years, rather than four and makes the funding both more cost-effective and more suitable for the five-year fixed rate mortgage products which are becoming increasingly popular in the market.
The deal also generated internally held rated notes which may either be sold later or used as collateral for Bank of England facilities, giving the Group significantly enhanced funding and liquidity options.
During the year the Group paid down two securitisation transactions, one funding legacy mortgages and one funding post-2010 mortgages.
These assets were refinanced, principally with retail deposits, releasing significant cash balances for use elsewhere in the Group.
After the year end notice was given on a further legacy mortgage transaction and the Groups remaining consumer finance transaction.
Further such refinancing transactions should be expected over the coming years.
As a consequence of the increased focus on retail deposit funding, the Groups warehouse capacity, which had been used to fund buy-to-let mortgage originations, was rationalised, with the 550.0 million of capacity which existed at 30 September 2017 being closed out in the year.
The Group recognises the benefit of wholesale warehouse funding to provide standby capability, particularly in the event of market disruption elsewhere, and as an alternative to retail deposit funding for liquidity purposes.
Following the year end a new 200.0 million facility was agreed with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
With an interest rate of LIBOR plus 0.95%, this will provide a source of cost-effective standby funding.
The Group continues to regard wholesale and structured lending as an important part of its funding mix, but these markets will only be accessed where it is appropriate and cost effective to do so.
Central bank facilities The Group has continued to access the funding facilities offered by the Bank of England, which provide flexible, low-cost collateralised loans designed to reinforce the transmission of low base rates to households and businesses.
The most significant of these facilities for the Group has been the TFS, which was available for new drawings until February 2018 and was used by the Group to support new lending.
Drawings on this facility were made against the security of pools of mortgage loans.
The interest cost of new TFS funding was very attractive, compared with either retail deposits or securitisation, and repayment is due four years after the drawing, in 2021 22.
In common with many UK institutions, the Group made extensive use of the TFS up to its withdrawal and drawings by the schemes closure had increased to 944.4 million, which remained in place at the year end 2017: 700.0 million, providing 7.1% of the Groups external funding.
The Group also has access to the short term Indexed Long-Term Repo scheme ILTR, which gives access to six-month liquidity from the Bank of England, secured against pre-positioned pools of assets.
The Groups liquidity drawdown under the Funding for Lending Scheme FLS, which provides liquidity of 108.7 million 2017: 109.0 million remained in place throughout the period.
The terms of this facility are such that neither the drawing nor the liquidity provided appear on the Groups balance sheet.
PAGE 34 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts The Group has also pre-positioned further mortgage loans and certain other assets with the Bank of England to act as collateral for further drawings on central bank funding lines, if and when required.
The Group will continue to access these facilities in future, as part of its overall funding framework.
Funding for Idem Capital assets Idem Capital utilised retail deposit financing for its 83.4 million portfolio purchase in July 2018.
This was made possible by the quality of the portfolio acquired, with the profile of the loans acquired more closely matching new motor and asset finance originations in the Commercial Lending segment and therefore meeting the Banks risk appetite.
During the year Idem Capital has had a non-recourse funding facility with Citibank, which was used to fund assets from time to time.
This facility was paid down in September 2018, when the loans it had funded were either sold or refinanced, more cost-effectively, with retail deposits.
Idem Capitals strategic focus on better quality portfolios, which are more suitable for retail deposit funding, meant that the facility was less relevant to its on-going operations.
Certain legacy assets, principally second charge mortgage balances are also funded through pre-credit crisis securitisation structures.
Corporate funding While the Groups working capital has been primarily provided by equity since 2008, in recent years it has expanded its use of corporate debt funding, issuing both retail bonds and Tier 2 corporate bonds.
All the Groups working capital debt funding has been raised since the credit crisis and therefore there are no legacy issues relating to these borrowings.
The Group is rated by Fitch Ratings, which reviewed its rating in the light of the Groups 2017 reorganisation and, on 6 April 2018, upgraded its Long-Term Issuer Default Rating to BBB from BBBwith a stable outlook.
The BB rating on the Groups 150.0 million Tier 2 Bond was also upgraded to BBBat the same time.
Although no corporate debt was issued in the period, such borrowings continue to form part of the Groups long-term funding strategy and the enhanced rating will support further long-dated corporate debt issuance in both scale and pricing terms.
Summary The Groups overall funding position remains strong.
Retail deposit flows represent the core element in the funding programme, however the successful securitisation in the year demonstrates the continuing benefits delivered by a diversified funding base.
Further information on all the above borrowings is given in notes 47 to 51.
2 Capital management The Groups funding model places primary reliance on retail deposit funding, which has fundamentally changed the working capital cycle of the Group, reducing the variability in working capital demand and hence enabling an on-going reduction in working capital levels relative to the size of the balance sheet.
Dividend and dividend policy In its 2017 results announcement the Company announced a policy of targeting a dividend cover ratio of 2.75 times in 2017 and 2.50 times in the current financial year and thereafter, subject to the requirements of the business and the availability of cash resources.
The final dividend for the year ended 30 September 2017, paid in the year, was declared in accordance with that policy.
To provide greater transparency, the Company also indicated that its interim dividend per share will normally be 50% of the previous final dividend, in the absence of any indicators which might make such a level of payment inappropriate and an interim dividend for the year of 5.5 pence per share was paid in July 2018 in accordance with this policy.
In determining the level of dividend for the year, the Board has considered the dividend policy, but has also taken into account the Groups strategy, capital requirements, principal risks, the level of available retained earnings in the Company, its cash resources and the objective of enhancing shareholder value.
In particular the Board considered the capital requirements of the businesses acquired in the year and the nature of the significant one-off items of cost and income included in the result for the year.
The Board determined that the existing policy remained appropriate, but that the one-off items, which do not relate to ongoing earnings generation would be excluded from the earnings used to derive the dividend.
On this basis, the Board is proposing, subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting on 14 February 2019, a final dividend of 13.9 pence per share which, when added to the interim dividend, gives a total dividend of 19.4 pence per share for the year.
This represents an increase of 23.6% from 2017, bringing the dividend cover to 2.5 times, based on earnings excluding one-off items 2017: 2.75 times note 7 a.
PAGE 35 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts The progress of the dividend for the year is shown in the chart below.
Dividend for the year pence In respect of the years 2012-2018 Regulatory capital The Group is subject to supervision by the PRA on a consolidated basis, as a group containing an authorised bank.
As part of this supervision, the regulator will issue individual capital guidance setting an amount of regulatory capital, defined under the international Basel III rules, implemented through the Capital Requirements Regulation and Directive CRD IV, which the Group is required to hold relative to its risk weighted assets in order to safeguard depositors in the event of severe losses being incurred by the Group.
During the year the PRA determined that the amount of the regulatory capital required should be disclosed by firms in their public reporting.
The Group maintains extremely strong capital and leverage ratios, with a total capital ratio of 16.2% at 30 September 2018 2017: 18.7% and a UK leverage ratio at 6.4% 2017: 6.6% note 7 d. The CET1 ratio, 13.8% at 30 September 2018, reduced during the period 2017: 15.9%, reflecting the growth in the balance sheet, acquisition of goodwill and distributions to shareholders through buy-backs and dividends.
The Groups medium term CET1 target remains at 13.0%.
The Groups total regulatory capital at 30 September 2018 was 1,045.7 million 2017: 1,030.5 million, a level in excess of the amount required by the PRA guidance, including the 727.7 million required in respect of Pillar 1 and Pillar 2a.
This amount includes variable and fixed components and further capital buffers, either specific to the Group or applicable across the sector, may also be required.
In December 2017, the BCBS published its final proposals regarding amendments to the assessment of institutions capital adequacy, in its document Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms.
This addresses both the Standardised Approach SA for credit risk, presently used by the Group and the Internal Ratings Basis IRB, which is based on firms own internal calculations and subject to supervisory approval.
The new BCBS rules are scheduled to take effect from 1 January 2021 and the most material change for the Group relates to an increase in the risk weightings applicable to buy-to-let lending assets.
The proposals may also serve to limit the comparative advantage available to IRB users over SA users through the use of floors, setting minimum capital requirements where the IRB is used.
The final proposals are much less severe in their treatment of buy-to-let, amongst other asset classes, than the proposals published two years earlier, but would still require the Group to carry increased capital.
The final version of the framework still needs to be enacted into EU law to take effect and there are important areas where discretion is given to national supervisors or other competent bodies.
Therefore, the full impact of the reforms will not be certain until the legislative process is complete and the appropriate bodies have made their intended use of their discretions clear.
The Group will be closely monitoring developments as this process progresses.
The Group also notes the steps taken by the PRA towards using its assessment of Pillar 2 capital to reduce the perceived capital disadvantage of banks using the SA compared to IRB banks, which the regulator regards as distortive to the market.
The PRA published its final policy statement on this in October 2017, and the Group is considering its potential impact, when taken with the Basel reforms described above.
IRB approach The Group continues to develop its own IRB approach to credit risk, notwithstanding the outcome of the CRD and PRA processes.
It has substantial performance data, excellent credit metrics and core competence in credit risk and analytics to support the adoption of an IRB approach for determining appropriate risk weightings for its assets.
In addition to the potential capital advantages from adopting the IRB approach, the Group sees broader business benefits from adopting the disciplines required by IRB as a core part of its risk management structure, which should lead to further enhancements in the internal risk governance framework.
Other UK institutions currently using an IRB approach for their buy-to-let portfolios achieve materially lower risk weightings than the 35% required by the present SA, with PRA benchmark figures, most recently updated in October 2017, being typically in the low to mid-teen percentages.
The Group expects to be in a position to apply formally to the PRA for IRB authorisation for its buy-to-let and development finance portfolios in early 2019.
These will be the first portfolio for which authorisation is sought, with development work continuing for further asset classes which will be added on a phased basis to achieve the coverage required by the IRB rules.
PAGE 36 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts pence Liquidity The Groups operational capital and funding requirements are also influenced by the need to retain sufficient liquidity in the business to meet its cash requirements in the short and long term, as well as to provide a buffer under stress.
There is also a regulatory requirement to hold liquidity in Paragon Bank.
The Board regularly reviews liquidity risk appetite and closely monitors a number of key internal and external measures.
The most significant of these, which are calculated for the Paragon Bank regulatory group on a basis which is standardised across the banking industry are set out below.
Indicator 2018 2017 Regulatory minimum LCR Liquidity cover ratio 144% 246% 100% NSFR Net stable funding requirement 113% 118% 100% From 1 January 2019 This shows the available liquidity at the year end to be well in excess of regulatory minimums.
Gearing and share buy-backs The Groups reorganisation completed in 2017, coupled with the strong capital base and low leverage, provide the opportunity for the business to reduce its over-reliance on equity capital, improving returns for shareholders.
The future requirement to raise debt for liquidity purposes has been reduced by its access to retail deposit funding and the Group is able to take a long term view of opportunities available to it in the corporate debt markets to optimise its funding, working capital and regulatory capital position over time.
At the same time the Group will carefully monitor any excess equity position and consider whether any adjustment is required, either through further changes in the dividend policy or through share buy-backs.
In November 2014 the Company announced a share buy-back programme, which had been extended to 215.0 million by November 2017.
During the year the Group bought back 5.1 million of its ordinary shares at a cost of 25.2 million, including stamp duty and transaction expenses note 59 : these shares being held in treasury.
Treasury shares may subsequently be cancelled.
Since the programme commenced in 2014 the issued share capital has reduced from 306.6 million shares to 260.7 million shares, a decrease of 15.0%.
The size and timing of the programme is reviewed periodically to take account of anticipated investment opportunities and the balance of the Groups debt and equity capital resources.
As a result of the potential capital requirements of the Titlestone acquisition the programme was suspended during the year and no further buy-backs are proposed in the short term.
Capital outlook The appropriate level of capital for the business to meet its operational requirements and strategic development objectives is kept under review by the Board, in particular when major acquisitions or other significant changes take place.
The strength of the Groups business lines, the diversification which has been achieved in the funding base in recent years and the further opportunities for growth and sustainability opened up by the group reorganisation in 2017, provide the foundations for the capital base to sustain the Group going forward.
PAGE 37 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts A3.4 Financial review The financial year ended 30 September 2018 saw the Groups underlying profit appendix A increase by 7.8% to 156.5 million 30 September 2017: 145.2 million while on the statutory basis profit before tax increased by 25.3% to 181.5 million 30 September 2017: 144.8 million including a gain on the sale of financial assets of 28.0 million.
Earnings per share increased by 29.7% to 55.9 pence on the statutory basis 30 September 2017: 43.1 pence and by 11.3% to 48.2 pence on an underlying basis 30 September 2017: 43.3 pence.
1 Results for the year CONSOLIDATED RESULTS For the year ended 30 September 2018 2018 2018 2018 2017 Underlying Adjustments Total Appendix A m m m m Interest receivable 451.7 0.2 451.9 409.2 Interest payable and similar charges 195.2 2.1 197.3 176.6 Net interest income 256.5 1.9 254.6 232.6 Net leasing income 3.8 - 3.8 3.0 Gain on disposal of financial assets - 28.0 28.0 - Other income 15.5 - 15.5 17.2 Total operating income 275.8 26.1 301.9 252.8 Operating expenses 111.9 2.3 114.2 102.3 Provisions for losses 7.4 - 7.4 5.3 156.5 23.8 180.3 145.2 Fair value net gains losses - 1.2 1.2 0.4 Operating profit being profit on ordinary activities before taxation 156.5 25.0 181.5 144.8 Tax charge on profit on ordinary activities 35.7 27.6 Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 145.8 117.2 2018 2017 Dividend rate per share for the year 19.4p 15.7p Basic earnings per share 55.9p 43.1p Diluted earnings per share 54.2p 41.9p The exclusions from underlying results above appendix A relate principally to the acquisitions and asset sales in the period which do not form part of the day-to-day activities of the Group.
The adjustments reduce earnings and related measures but have been made to provide greater clarity to users on the operating performance of the business.
The acquired Iceberg and Titlestone businesses contributed 4.1 million to underlying profits and 1.9 million to statutory profits.
This contribution is expected to increase going forward.
Total underlying operating income increased by 9.1% to 275.8 million 2017: 252.8 million.
Total operating income on the statutory basis, at 301.9 million 2017: 252.8 million also included the 28.0 million one off gain on Idem Capital asset disposals arising in the year.
Net interest income increased by 9.5% to 254.6 million from the 232.6 million recorded in the year ended 30 September 2017.
The increase reflects growth in the size of the average loan book, which rose by 6.4% to 11,626.0 million over the year 2017: 10,930.8 million appendix B.
Underlying net interest margin NIM in the year ended 30 September 2018 increased to 2.21% compared to the 2.13% in the previous year appendix B.
On the statutory basis, which includes the costs of building up the cash balances required for the Titlestone acquisition and the break costs of the Idem funding facility, the NIM was 2.19% 2017: 2.13% appendix C. The increase in NIM is in line with guidance given at the half year.
During the year, a gain of 28.0 million, was realised on the sale of long-standing Idem Capital consumer loan assets where the EIR based accounting, coupled with movements in the debt purchase market caused the carry and market values to diverge markedly.
After costs incurred on the settlement of related funding arrangements the net gain was 26.8 million.
This disposal represents a major refocus of the Idem Capital operation and included assets purchased in a large number of different transactions.
It also supports the redistribution of capital to the Groups growth businesses, with the Titlestone acquisition occurring in the same quarter.
As such, this gain is unlikely to be repeated in future periods.
PAGE 38 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Excluding the gain on disposal, other operating income was little changed at 19.3 million for the year, compared with 20.2 million in 2017.
Underlying operating expenses increased by 9.4% to 111.9 million from 102.3 million reported in the previous year, partly reflecting the increase in the average number of employees to 1,349, a 2.4% rise 2017: 1,317 and the level of employees joining the payroll in the period, which saw employment costs increase by 13.3% year on year note 24.
The year has also seen significant investments in systems and personnel in order to support the development, launch and start up phases of new product lines such as development finance, structured lending and aviation finance.
Further investment was made to support the expansion of existing business lines, to enhance the Groups operational resilience, to improve its cyber security and to meet its General Data Protection Regulation GDPR requirements.
Despite this, the overall underlying cost:income ratio remained stable at 40.6% 2017: 40.5% appendix C and remains significantly below the industry average.
The Board remains focussed on controlling operating costs through the application of rigorous budgeting and monitoring procedures and the underlying costs for the period are in line with guidance given to the market.
The Group expects the overall cost:income ratio to improve over time as acquired and start-up operations are integrated into the Group and it starts to see the benefits of income growth from its new and expanded operations.
Total operating expenses, which included the costs of the Iceberg and Titlestone acquisition transactions, increased by 11.6% to 114.2 million 2017: 102.3 million, giving a cost:income ratio on a statutory basis of 37.8% appendix C. The charge of 7.4 million for loan impairment has increased from that for 2017 2017: 5.3 million.
As a percentage of average loans to customers appendix B the impairment charge remains broadly stable at 0.06% compared to 0.05% in 2017.
The Group has seen favourable trends in arrears performance over the period, both in terms of new cases reducing and customers correcting past arrears, whilst increasing property values have served to reduce overall exposure to losses on enforcement of security.
The loan books continue to be carefully managed and the credit performance of the buy-to-let book remains exemplary.
Yield curve movements during the period resulted in hedging instrument fair value net gains of 1.2 million 2017: 0.4 million net losses, which do not affect cash flow.
The fair value movements of hedged assets or liabilities are expected to trend to zero over time, as such this item represents a timing difference.
The Group remains economically and appropriately hedged.
Corporation tax has been charged at the rate of 19.6%, increased from 19.1% for the previous year.
The reduction in the underlying rate of UK corporation tax applying to the Group in the year, from 19.5% to 19.0%, has been offset by the increased proportion of the Groups profit to which the 8.0% Bank Tax Surcharge applies.
Profits after taxation of 145.8 million 2017: 117.2 million have been transferred to consolidated equity, which totalled 1,095.9 million at the year end 2017: 1,009.4 million, representing a tangible net asset value of 3.59 per share 2017: 3.45 per share and an unadjusted net asset value of 4.25 per share 2017: 3.84 per share appendix D. A3.4.
2 Segmental results The Group analyses its results between three segments, which are the principal divisions for which performance is monitored: Mortgages, including the Groups buy-to-let, and owner-occupied first and second charge lending and related activities Commercial Lending, including the Groups equipment and motor finance leasing activities, together with development finance, structured lending and other offerings targeted towards SME customers Idem Capital, including loan assets acquired from third parties and legacy assets which share certain credit characteristics with them The Groups central administration and funding costs, principally the costs of service areas, establishment costs, and bond interest have not been allocated.
Items excluded from underlying profit have also been included in unallocated costs, as these are not included in divisional results internally.
The underlying operating profits of these business segments are detailed fully in note 16 to the accounts and are summarised below.
2018 2018 2018 2017 Segment One off Total m m m m Segmental profit Mortgages 144.8 - 144.8 143.3 Commercial Lending 19.9 0.1 19.8 14.1 Idem Capital 78.2 26.8 105.0 75.9 242.9 26.7 269.6 233.3 Unallocated central costs 86.4 2.9 89.3 88.1 156.5 23.8 180.3 145.2 PAGE 39 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Mortgages Trading activity during the year in the Mortgages division delivered further growth during the year, with the segmental profit at 144.8 million, up 1.0% from the previous year 2017: 143.3 million.
Net interest income increased by 4.3% to 157.6 million 2017: 151.1 million, broadly in line with the growth in the loan book of 5.2%.
The costs of the division increased as a result of higher activity levels while other income reduced during the period, in part reflecting an increasing trend for borrowers to choose fee-free loan products.
The overall result was also affected by a 1.8 million increase in impairment provision in the year, with the variance arising on a small number of legacy loans.
Commercial Lending Segmental profit in Commercial Lending increased 41.1% in the year to 19.9 million 2017: 14.1 million.
The operations acquired in the year, Iceberg and Titlestone contributed 4.1 million to the divisional operating result.
Excluding the 229.3 million of acquired assets, the loan book grew 61.8% in the year, and reached 1,133.2 million at 30 September 2018, driving the increase in net interest income.
A number of business units within the Commercial Lending segment remain in start-up phase, including the structured lending area, which made a loss during the period and is expected to make a positive contribution during 2019.
Idem Capital The Idem Capital divisions portfolios continued to perform well in the year to 30 September 2018.
Strong cash performance in the year supported an increase in segmental profit of 3.0% to 78.2 million 2017: 75.9 million.
In September a sale of some non-core low-quality balances from the divisions older portfolios realised a net gain of 26.8 million, after allowing for break costs in associated funding arrangements.
3 Assets and liabilities SUMMARY BALANCE SHEET 30 September 2018 2018 2017 m m Intangible assets 169.3 104.4 Investment in customer loans 12,127.8 11,124.1 Derivative financial assets 855.7 906.6 Free cash 238.0 305.5 Other cash 1,072.6 1,191.4 Other assets 51.7 50.2 Total assets 14,515.1 13,682.2 Equity 1,095.9 1,009.4 Retail deposits 5,296.6 3,615.4 Borrowings 7,961.2 8,927.2 Pension deficit 19.5 29.8 Other liabilities 141.9 100.4 Total equity and liabilities 14,515.1 13,682.2 The increase in intangible assets results from 65.5 million of intangible assets and goodwill recognised on the Iceberg and Titlestone acquisitions in the year.
The valuation of these assets was reconsidered at the year end and is presently considered to be appropriate.
PAGE 40 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts The Groups loan assets include: Buy-to-let and owner-occupied first mortgage assets in the Mortgages segment Second charge mortgages, with new originations in Mortgages and purchased and similar legacy assets in Idem Capital Other unsecured consumer lending in Idem Capital Asset finance and motor finance loans in the Commercial Lending segment, with similar purchased accounts in the Idem Capital segment Development finance loans in the Commercial Lending segment Structured lending loans in the Commercial Lending segment Professions finance, invoice finance and other finance for SME businesses in the Commercial Lending segment The allocation of these loan assets between segments is set out below.
Movements in the Groups loan asset balances are discussed in the lending review section Section A3.2.
Movements in derivative financial assets arise principally as a result of the effect of changes in exchange rates on instruments forming cash flow hedges for the Groups floating rate notes.
These movements do not impact on the Groups results.
Cash flows from the Groups loan portfolios remained strong during 2018.
These flows, together with an increased deposit base, financed the expansion of the Groups loan book, supported portfolio and business acquisitions and underpinned an increased dividend payment to the Groups shareholders.
Cash was also utilised in the share buy-back programme, which commenced during December 2014 and where 25.2 million including costs was deployed in the year.
Free cash balances were 238.0 million at 30 September 2018 2017: 305.5 million following the acquisitions towards the end of the period note 33.
Movements in the Groups funding are discussed in the funding review section Section A3.3.
The accounting value of the deficit in the Groups defined benefit pension plan has reduced significantly over the year ended 30 September 2018.
Gilt yields increased over the year and more recent market mortality assumptions were adopted and together these resulted in the deficit under International Accounting Standard IAS 19 falling to 19.5 million 2017: 29.8 million.
A corresponding actuarial gain of 8.9 million before tax was recognised in other comprehensive income 2017: gain of 29.0 million.
During the year a Pension Funding Partnership PFP arrangement was agreed with the Trustee, effectively granting The Paragon Pension Plan the Plan a charge over the Groups head office building as security for its agreed contributions and thereby reducing the Plans funding risk.
While the valuation under IAS 19 is that which is required to be disclosed in the accounts, pension trustees generally use the technical provisions basis as provided in the Pensions Act 2004 to measure scheme liabilities.
On this basis, the deficit at the triennial valuation date was 18.0 million and this had reduced to 15.2 million at 30 September 2018 excluding the benefit to the Plan of the PFP 30 September 2017: 14.9 million, representing an 87% funding level 30 September 2017: 87%.
Including the benefit of the PFP the deficit was 3.7 million, a 97% funding level.
4 Accounting changes On 1 October 2018 the Group adopted the provisions of International Financial Reporting Standard IFRS 9, which will require loss provisions on financial assets to be calculated on the basis of expected rather than incurred losses.
This will result in the Groups impairment provisions increasing by approximately 27 million at that date and its equity reducing by 22 million after tax.
For regulatory capital purposes the CRR allows the impact of the transition to be phased in over a five year period, so that the initial impact on capital ratios will be negligible.
On a fully loaded basis the transition to IFRS 9 will result in the Groups CET1 ratio reducing from 13.8% to 13.5%.
It should be noted that this movement represents principally an acceleration of the impairment charge and is therefore a timing difference, rather than an additional loss.
The Group continues to develop, test and validate its IFRS 9 approach and therefore these estimates are provisional and may be revised on the basis of this further analysis.
PAGE 41 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts A3.5 Operational review A3.5.
1 Management and people The Groups people are both its most significant cost and the key to its future growth and development.
Over 1,300 people worked for the Group throughout the period, at its Solihull headquarters and other locations across the UK.
The training and development of these people together with a rigorous recruitment and selection process are a key part of the Groups organic growth strategy and underpin the strong progress made and the Groups Investors in People Champion status.
Governance and management As had been announced during February 2018, on 10 May 2018 Robert Dench resigned as both Chairman and director after fourteen years on the Board, having become Chairman in 2007.
His tenure has seen major challenges and changes for the Group, covering the credit crisis, the Groups return to lending, the launch of Paragon Bank and most recently the transition to a specialist banking group.
Throughout these events Bob has chaired the Board in a collegiate, but challenging way and has been a supportive Chairman to the management team, with his wealth of banking experience being an invaluable asset to the Group.
He left the Group in a strong strategic position and excellent financial health.
Bob left to take up a new challenge as Chairman of The Co-operative Bank p. l. c. and departed with the sincere thanks and good wishes of his fellow directors and other colleagues.
Fiona Clutterbuck succeeded Bob as Chairman on 10 May 2018, having previously been Senior Independent Director and an independent non-executive director of the Group.
She also succeeded Bob as Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
This appointment was the result of a thorough and independent recruitment process, involving both internal and external candidates, during which it became clear that Fiona was the best candidate to become Chairman.
She has a strong knowledge of the Group, having served on the Board since 2012 and has a wealth of financial services experience, having held senior positions at leading UK and international banks.
She was most recently Head of Strategy, Corporate Development and Communications at the Phoenix Group, until March 2018, while also serving as a non-executive director at a number of prominent listed companies.
Following Fionas appointment, Peter Hartill, an independent non-executive director since 2011, was appointed to succeed her as Senior Independent Director, in addition to his responsibilities as Chairman of the Audit Committee, while Hugo Tudor, an independent non-executive director since 2014, succeeded Fiona as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
On 31 December 2018 Alan Fletcher and Patrick Newberry will step down from the Board.
Alan has served as a director since 2009, including a lengthy term as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, ceasing to be independent for corporate governance purposes in February 2018.
Pat served first as an independent director of Paragon Bank PLC from its earliest months of operation in 2014, serving as chairman of its audit committee, and joined the Board of Paragon Banking Group in 2017.
They will leave with the thanks of the Group and their fellow directors for their support and dedication in the development of both the Group and Paragon Bank PLC, and the best wishes of their colleagues for the future.
The Groups second annual statement under the Modern Slavery Act 2015 was published on its website in March 2018.
Relevant policies have been reviewed and updated as appropriate.
All employees have completed an annual e-learning module on this subject to raise awareness and understanding.
People and development The Group continues to focus on maintaining an efficient and effective workforce, increasing employee numbers by 1.7% over the year.
This increase includes those who joined the Group as a result of the Iceberg and Titlestone acquisitions and bringing these people into the Group has been an important priority during the year.
The Group maintains its accreditation from the UK Living Wage Foundation and minimum pay continues to meet the levels set by the Foundation.
The Group prides itself on the fact that its people remain with it for a long time.
Its annual employee attrition rate of 16.1% is below the national average and 26.8% of its people have over ten years service, with 10.9% having achieved over 20 years with the Group.
We believe this is due to providing quality development opportunities and creating a place where people want to work, which has meant that knowledge and experience have been retained in each of our specialist areas.
We believe our people are well positioned to support the Groups future growth strategy.
PAGE 42 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Employee numbers At 30 September and average for the year Year end Average The Group was proud to have signed the Women in Finance Charter, sponsored by HM Treasury, in 2017.
The Charters objectives reflect the Groups own aspirations in the field of gender diversity and in January 2017, the Group published its first set of internal targets under the Charter.
The Group published an interim update in January 2018 and the latest update at 30 September 2018 confirms the Group is making good progress towards its targets: 52.3% of employees receiving management career development leadership training are female target 50% 58.4% of the workforce are on flexible working contracts target 10% 32.3% of the flexible working available is on a part time basis target 50% The Group notes the publication of the Hampton-Alexander HA review on gender diversity during the year.
The Group believes that its Women in Finance primary objective is consistent with the reviews recommendation and notes that its proportion of female senior managers at the year end, as defined by HA, was 29.1% 2017: 31.4%.
The Group has calculated its gender pay gap at April 2018, as required by law.
This calculation shows that median female pay in the Group was 30.8% less than the median male pay.
This is broadly in line with the results reported by other financial services companies and narrower than the 39.8% gap for the sector reported by the Office of National Statistics in their Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings published in October 2018.
The Group will be analysing its gender pay gap data as part of its Women in Finance initiative to determine if there are areas where urgent action is required, but preliminary results suggest where groups of similar positions exist, there is no evidence of systematic gender bias on pay.
The Groups succession planning strategy has also been an important area of focus during the year, with all Board and executive management roles together with their direct reports identified from a leadership and specialist perspective.
Immediate successors are in place for these roles for the short term to provide business continuity and longer-term succession plans are being developed for those with career aspirations and strong potential.
This area will remain a priority for the Board, with the assistance of the Nomination Committee, during the forthcoming year.
2 Risk The effective management of risk is crucial to the achievement of the Groups strategic objectives.
To ensure this is achieved the Group operates a risk governance framework, structured around a formal three lines of defence model business areas, Risk and Compliance function and Internal Audit supervised at Board level.
During the year the Groups risk governance framework has worked effectively to manage and mitigate the risks to which the Group is exposed from its various operational activities, while continuing to enhance its ability to manage all categories of risk.
In particular this has been focussed on: The continuing evolution of the Groups risk appetite statements and embedding them in the processes of the businesses The embedding of a new operational risk management system in business areas for use on a day-to-day basis The review of cyber security controls and the evaluation of ongoing investments in systems resilience and security Support for the integration of acquired operations and the development of new businesses and product types, to ensure they are fully captured by the risk management framework PAGE 43 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts number The principal challenges in the risk environment faced by the Group during the year included: The potential impact of the proposals on capital regulation from the BCBS Execution and transitional risks arising from recent acquisitions, particularly the acquisitions of Titlestone and Iceberg in the period The impact of continuing uncertainty as to the terms on which the UK will leave the EU in March 2019 The impact of fiscal changes over recent years on the demand for buy-to-let mortgages in the UK Changes in the regulatory environment relating to the underwriting of buy-to-let mortgages Heightened cyber-security risks as a result of the increasing sophistication and frequency of cyber-attacks affecting the financial services sector Major regulatory developments including the implementation of the GDPR The level of business change required in respect of a move away from LIBOR linked products The Group continues to closely monitor its exposure to current and emerging risks as they develop, and a particular focus continues to be the risks arising from the present uncertainties surrounding the UKs future relationship with the European Union.
At this point the Group considers itself well placed to mitigate the impact of the risks to which it is exposed.
Further details regarding the governance model, together with the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group, the ways in which they are managed and mitigated and the extent to which these have changed in the year are detailed within Section B6 of this annual report.
3 Regulation The Bank is authorised by the PRA and regulated by the PRA and the FCA.
The Group is subject to consolidated supervision by the PRA and a number of its subsidiaries are authorised and regulated by the FCA.
As a result, current and projected regulatory changes continue to pose a significant risk for the Group.
The governance and risk management framework within the Group continues to be developed to ensure that the impacts of all new regulatory requirements are clearly understood and mitigated as far as possible.
Regular reports on key regulatory developments are received at both executive and board risk committees.
Whilst the Group is impacted by a broad range of prudential and conduct regulations, given the nature of its operations, the following are of particular note: In March 2017, the FCA issued a policy statement to complete the consultation process regarding PPI that it began in 2015.
This included setting a deadline of 29 August 2019 by which consumers will need to make PPI complaints and new rules and guidance on the handling of such complaints.
Impacts from this process have, so far, been minimal and this is expected to remain the case The impacts of the Second Payment Services Directive PSD2 have been evaluated with the support of external advice.
It was determined that the Group is compliant with the regulations based on the current product suite.
Consideration of PSD2 will form part of all future product development The Senior Managers and Certification Regime SMCR will be extended to cover a wider section of persons employed in the financial services sector during 2019.
This will increase the number of the Groups employees within the SMCR and the oversight activities required to ensure compliance with the extended rules.
These systems have been developed in the period and training modules for all impacted people have been delivered across the Group The development of proposals, led by the Bank of England and the FCA, to establish SONIA the Sterling Overnight Index Average administered by the Bank of England as the primary sterling interest rate benchmark by the end of 2021, in place of LIBOR, continues to be monitored to assess any potential impact on the Group.
In November 2017 the regulators announced that the latest stage of this process would commence in January 2018, with consultations taking place during the year In December 2017 the BCBS published its Basel III: Finalising post-crisis reforms document.
This has clarified the proposed increase to the capital risk weights for buy-to-let lending under the revised standardised approach and the introduction of a capital output floor based on the revised standardised approach.
The proposed changes had been anticipated within the Groups IRB project GDPR came into force with effect from May 2018, representing the most significant revision to data protection legislation for several decades.
The Group continues to take appropriate steps to ensure that it is compliant with the new legislation Whilst the Group, along with the rest of the UK corporate sector, does not have clear visibility on potential regulatory changes that may be introduced following the UKs decision to leave the EU, it does not have any EU passporting issues that need to be considered.
Certain regulations applying in the financial services sector only affect entities over a certain size.
The Group considers whether and when these regulations might apply to it in the light of the growth implicit in its business plans and puts appropriate arrangements in place to ensure it would be able to comply at that point.
Overall, the Group considers that it is well placed to address all the regulatory changes to which it is presently exposed.
PAGE 44 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts A3.6 Conclusion The Group intends to maintain its current strategic approach moving forward, focussing on using its extensive credit experience to enable it to operate effectively and with a low-risk appetite in its chosen range of specialist markets.
The deep understanding in these sectors, combined with the flexibility of the operating model, enables the Group to focus resources to optimise the relationship between growth, risk and reward.
The diversification delivered by a series of organic and acquisitive developments over the past five years, combined with a broadly-based funding approach leaves the business well placed to deliver further value to its stakeholders over the coming years.
The Group enters 2019 with a strong new business pipeline, is well positioned in its chosen markets and equipped with high levels of liquidity.
Despite the potential for economic uncertainties arising from Brexit and elsewhere, the Group remains confident of its future prospects.
NIGEL TERRINGTON Chief Executive 21 November 2018 PAGE 45 Strategic Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts
