Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 10 CEOs strategic overview Technology is radically changing the way we live, work, and learn, and we are only in the early stages of what is possible.
John Fallon Chief Executive Pearson is the worlds learning company.
A nd three, making Pearson simpler and Dear Shareholders, Our purpose is to empower people to more efficient.
This does not just cut costs.
A year of progress progress in their lives through learning, It also provides an important platform for enabling them to acquire the knowledge future growth because it enables us to We are making good progress, financially, and skills to thrive in an ever-changing and reallocate investment to our growth areas operationally and strategically.
As the link more quickly, innovate at scale, and build a adjusted operating profit increased by 8% between education and employment more direct, longer-term relationship with last year, with a healthy 94% of that profit becomes both more important and the tens of millions of learners who use converted into cash.
We outperformed on explicit, we aim to be at the heart of a Pearson products each year.
our cost savings plan and are now on track wider ecosystem of partners, shaping to achieve more than 330m in annualised the future of learning.
A digital first approach cost savings by the end of this year.
We strengthened our balance sheet even We will be able to play that role because of The increasingly digital nature of our further, allowing us to invest more than the world-class capabilities we bring to bear, courseware and assessment businesses ever in the digital transformation of our and the ways in which we combine them to can be seen in the work we do with company.
The demand for dynamic, achieve better learning outcomes.
We will American schools and universities.
evidence-based, outcome led, digital first get there by focusing on the three things Digital now accounts for 56% of all tests education products and services is growing that are starting to change the growth we administer in US schools and 55% of our all the time.
So we are investing in the digital dynamic of Pearson: US Higher Education Courseware revenue.
platforms, products and services that help O ne, we are leading the digital This digital first approach is driving our people make progress in their lives through transformation of our courseware and product innovation and investment.
learning and it is starting to pay off.
These businesses Our Global Learning Platform GLP will Our digital and digitally-enabled revenues make up 65% of our sales today.
Their 1 accelerate our ability to develop, test, and now account for 62% of our sales and we collective sales fell by 4% underlying last deliver highly personalised experiences expect them to grow steadily over time.
year as we are at a point in the across all of our products and services, technological disruption of these eventually becoming a platform for A strategy for future, businesses where the impact of the decline growth for the whole company.
sustainable growth in analogue sales from textbooks and Revel, our first fully integrated digital paper and pen testing is still greater than There is, however, a lot still to do.
On the courseware product, increased subscribers the benefit of growing digital uptake.
measure that is the best indicator by over 40% last year.
New Revel titles, We are now close to a tipping point in of our companys long-term success with enhanced assignment options and these businesses, however, where the sustainable and profitable growth in like for sophisticated data analytics, will be the first momentum shifts.
As these businesses like sales we are not yet where we need to products to launch commercially later this become increasingly digital first, the rate be.
Underlying sales were down by a further year on the GLP.
of decline will gradually lessen before one percent last year.
What is encouraging, revenues stabilise and, in time, grow again.
though, is that we expect revenues to We will also launch our first Artificial stabilise this year an important step in the Intelligence AI powered maths tutor, as a T wo, we are investing more in our Pearson recovery before starting to grow mobile app marketed directly to Calculus businesses in structurally growing markets.
again in 2020 and future years.
students around the world, providing step These businesses, all fully digital or by step feedback instantaneously on hand digitally-enabled, make up 35% of our sales That growth will be driven by our compelling written attempts to solve a problem.
today and grew 7% underlying last year.
vision of Pearsons future, a clear As we invest more, these businesses will understanding of the capabilities grow more quickly and, as they become a the competitive edge that will get us bigger part of Pearson, they help the there, and what we need to be focusing company as a whole to start to grow again.
on today to secure that future.
1 Excluding WSE and US K12 Courseware.
Underlying growth rates exclude currency movement portfolio changes and accounting changes.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 1 Overview 11 11 We will partner with universities on our first AI powered essay marker, that will adapt to Key achievements in 2018 the personal style of any professor.
And we expect to bring a new adaptive maths 1 product, which we are currently piloting, Adjusted operating profit Strong balance sheet, low net debt to commercial launch early next year.
546m 143m This growing, innovative product pipeline signals we are now ready to shift our higher Achieved 2018 adjusted operating profit Net debt down from 432m in 2017 education product portfolio to a digital first in the upper half of our guidance range.
as we continue to strengthen our model, with frequent releases of content, balance sheet, enabling us to navigate 1 See p4647 for an explanation of features and updates no longer tied to an a large transformation.
this alternative performance measure edition cycle.
and p222225 for full reconciliation of the numbers to the equivalent Print resources will be available, but as statutory measure.
rental or an add on service.
This means better customer choice with simple, affordable and convenient access to the Continuing organic investment Simplification programme ahead courseware that enables students to be of plan successful and all giving better insights 700m for instructors to enable better outcomes.
130m Continued investment in fastest A digital first, subscription-based business is growing businesses in order to In year cost savings for 2018 running also, of course, a much more stable one.
build a pipeline to grow revenue ahead of our plan enabling further Increased investment in our structural over the next few years.
investment back into the business.
growth opportunities is also paying off.
Total annualised cost savings now expected to be 330m.
Online Program Management, OPM our business helping universities scale online, increased underlying sales 10% last year, with global course registrations growing 2 Pearsons digital revenue 2018 Percent of sales 14%.
We signed a new OPM contract with leading European business school ESSEC in France the fourth global market we have Digital 34% entered in OPM allowing students to study Digitally-enabled 28% AI and big data in an online masters format.
Non digital 38% Our virtual schools business, Connections Academy, grew underlying revenue by 8%.
Professional Certification grew underlying revenue by 4% with over 70 new contracts 2 Excludes WSE and US K12 Courseware.
The Pearson Test of English Academic, our homegrown test of English aptitude, increased test volumes by 30% in part driven by the extension of the Australian immigration office contract for a further two years.
This has opened up additional opportunities with governments and educational institutions that we are currently exploring.
The Pearson Test of English is also a good example of how, as we become a simpler and more efficient company, we are also able to operate much more globally, sharing innovation more quickly with customers all over the world.
Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 12 CEOs strategic overview A wider trend in lifelong learning is the Promoting talent and diversity A simpler portfolio growing demand for employer certified through a time of great change We have now reached an agreement to sell and applied, career relevant education.
our US K12 Courseware business to Nexus Making an impact matters to the highly Our leadership in BTEC and apprenticeship Capital Management.
School publishing in motivated and talented colleagues who, programmes is an interesting opportunity America has been an important part of inspired by our mission and purpose, to grow internationally and we are working Pearson for many years, and what it does are committed to driving the company on some promising initiatives in Thailand, matters to teachers and students across the through what is, by any definition, a major Vietnam and China.
We are pleased to have found new transformation.
Many new and talented It is by focusing on these three priorities owners who are committed to its future, employees are joining Pearson, but we leading the digital transformation of our and we wish it every success.
The sale frees also continue to say goodbye to some courseware and assessment businesses: us up to focus on the digital first strategy long-standing friends and colleagues.
investing more in our structurally growing that will drive our future growth.
Through As we align our cost base, and bring businesses: and making Pearson simpler our assessment, virtual schools, advanced everything we do in line with the future and more efficient that we will set Pearson placement and career education direction of the company, the scale and pace growing again.
As we accelerate our move businesses, we will still serve schools across of change can be disruptive and difficult for to digital, Pearson also becomes more America and we will now be better placed many colleagues.
This makes it all the more sustainably profitable and scalable, with a to focus on the areas in which we can help important that we are very focused on the more reliable and predictable revenue and students to be successful in their studies overall health of the organisation, and in cash profile.
fostering a culture that enables people to learn, to grow, and to be able to innovate, Our commitment through these times of change.
Looking ahead to efficacy and impact To do that, we are focusing on developing Last year, Viscount Blakenham, Pearsons talent at all levels, and we remain firmly former Chairman and CEO, and the last Underpinning all of this work is our committed to improving diversity and member of the Pearson family to lead the commitment to efficacy, to achieving the inclusion across the company.
For example, company, sadly passed away.
Michael was very best learning outcomes.
Last year, as required by UK legislation, we now widely regarded for his staunch defence of we became the first education company in publish an annual gender pay report editorial independence and freedom of the world to publish externally audited and covering our UK employees, which reveals a speech, his commitment to international independently reviewed reports about the median pay gap, in favour of men, of 14%.
growth and expansion, and his personal efficacy of our products.
This year, we are The only way to close this gap is to have embodiment of Pearsons values.
releasing our second series of reports.
more women in more senior positions in These reports give us confidence that our In terms of its focus and operations, Pearson the company, and we are taking concerted existing products can be used to impact on is now quite different from the company he actions that we believe will help us to outcomes that matter to our customers and stepped down from 23 years ago.
What has achieve this over time.
Our public commitment to efficacy not changed is our commitment to taking a we think it is important to hold ourselves is also influencing others in the sector to long-term view, and creating sustainable to account on that basis, so we are planning now take up similar work.
What is most value for our shareholders by providing to publish a company-wide gender pay exciting, though, is how we are applying important services to our customers in report next year.
what we are learning to the next generation entrepreneurial and innovative ways.
of digital first products and services that We continue to make progress.
We are Accelerating the move to more accessible, we are launching this year.
We are able to proud to be recognised on Forbes Best more affordable and better learning is as explicitly connect the outcomes that matter Employers for Diversity in 2019 and important as anything that this company most to our customers: evidence-based Bloombergs Gender Equality Index.
We are has taken on in its 175 year history.
We are content, assessment, and technology, all also proud of the progress and the external confident that our strategy will deliver designed to be implemented in ways that recognition of our sustainability work.
In long-term sustainable growth, and we maximise the impact on learning.
This January 2019, we were named as one of the expect to make further progress in 2019. enables us to shape the future of learning Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations so educators, learners, employers and in the World, which ranks large companies Thank you for your ongoing support.
shareholders all get the best possible on their performance of reducing carbon return for the investments we make.
and waste, their gender diversity among leadership, revenues derived from clean products and overall sustainability.
John Fallon Chief Executive Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 1 Overview 13 13 Executive team John Fallon Chief Executive Coram Williams Chief Financial Officer Albert Hitchcock Chief Technology & Operations Officer Anna Vikstrm Persson Bob Whelan President Pearson Assessments Bjarne Tellmann General Counsel Chief Human Resources Officer & Chief Legal Officer Deirdre Latour Chief Corporate Affairs Officer Giovanni Giovannelli Jonathan Chocqueel-Mangan President Growth Markets Chief Strategy Officer Kevin Capitani President North America Rod Bristow President UK & Core Markets Tim Bozik President Global Product Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 14 Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 2 Our strategy in action 1 15 5 Online learning is the only way for me to keep up with school because I can set the pace for my coursework.
Connections Academy allows ARUWIN SALEHHUDDIN Virtual schools STUDENT ATHLETE students like Aruwin to pursue their dreams today, while also preparing 288m them for the careers they want later.
Aruwin chose Colorado Connections Revenue Connections Academy schools are Academy, a virtual school, because it tuition-free, online public schools offered her the flexibility to pursue 8% for students in grades K through 12. her dream of becoming a professional Underlying revenue growth alpine skier.
At Connections, students can work Aligned to strategic priority, p22 2 at their own pace and are supported In between practice sessions and by certified teachers who create competitions, Aruwin spends time personalised learning plans.
After high Over 70,000 students in the US take school, she hopes to attend Cornell advantage of this virtual option, University, with the goal of becoming while international students can enroll an architect or industrial designer in our online private school.
This way after her skiing career.
of providing education to even more learners has been hugely successful 93% of parents with enrolled students say they would recommend the programme to others.
