Review of the Chief Executive Officer Chris Loughlin Chief Executive Officer Building our leadership in water and waste Our water business continued to outperform during Customer needs and theyear, despite adverse extreme winter weather.
Strong operational and financial performance underpinned our priorities will continue to sector-leading return on regulated equity, which consistently tracks above 11%.
While we incurred a penalty for pollution be the cornerstone of incidents, South West Water achieved overall outperformance against its outcome delivery incentives ODIs, resulting in a net reward of 2.6 million for the year.
We are committed our operations.
to reducing the number of pollution incidents and a programme of actions is underway, which has already shown good progress see pages 38 and 40 for furtherdetails.
I am pleased to report the Group made excellent progress against our strategic objectives, implementing changes to We continue to share the benefits of our outperformance deliver Group-wide synergies and savings within our water with our water customers through our unique WaterShare and waste businesses while delivering on our promises to mechanism.
Since 2015, we have identified 79million to customers, maintaining a responsible approach to finance beshared with customers.
Our focus on cost efficiency and creating business growth across the value chain.
means South West Waters average annual bill is lower Webelieve all companies should be held to the highest thanit was nine years ago and this underlines the Groups possible standards and welcome the dialogue between the strong commitment to delivering the best possible service Government, our regulators and the wider water industry.
As the Chairman has stated, South West Water already Our continuing investment in our assets and distribution operates in line with Ofwats proposed improvements.
network has allowed us to deliver notable improvements in drinking water and bathing water quality, while our leakage Health and safety levels have almost halved since privatisation.
At the same As I said last year, we are committed at the highest time, we continue to maintain conservative gearing levels, leveltoshowing leadership in improving safety by ensuring the amount of debt we take on is consistent with usingconcepts and learnings from a range of industries, Ofwats notional view of an efficient company.
Iam pleased to note the progress we have made following In September 2018 South West Water will submit its the creation of our new health and safety programme combined business plan for the 2020-2025 regulatory HomeSafe.
As detailed in the Chairmans statement period PR19, covering both the South West and page08 and the Our People section page 26 of this Bournemouth operating areas.
Ofwats final methodology Report, this wide-ranging behavioural change programme for PR19 was published in December 2017 and indicates is being adopted by everybody working at Pennon and is arelatively more prescriptive approach than PR14, with creating a clear and structured long-term platform for all aneven greater focus on cost efficiencies and the delivery health and safety activity.
South West Water 20 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 iswell placed to meet these challenges.
As part of our While a small part of the Pennon Group, our subsidiary preparations forPR19 which have included our largest Pennon Water Services, which provides retail services to programme of customer research and engagement to non-household customers across the UK, isnowserving date we launched the Get into Water campaign which over 160,000 retail customer accounts across 18different has been helping us to further understand customer wholesale regions.
The business achieved net growth in needsand preferences.
customer accounts during the year with some c. 7,000 accounts switching to Pennon Water Services see page 41 We believe c. 6 to 9 billion of investment will be required for more information.
Pennon Water Services is ringfenced over the 30 years to 2050.
The anticipated areas of from South West Water and can secure services from any investment are: resilience, environmental protection and wholesaler in the UK.
enhancement, security of supply, flood protection and transformational improvements to customer service.
Cost efficiency drive continues South West Water maintained its strong track record Our waste operations again performed well with the incontrolling total expenditure totex with cumulative fundamentals of the UK waste market remaining strong savings of 177 million and financing outperformance and demand for energy recovery facilities ERFs set to of100million in the first three years of K6 2015-2020. continue to exceed capacity.
We anticipate the capacity gapto be greater than seven million tonnes by 2030.
TheERFs performed strongly and the operational part 1 ofour portfolio has achieved an availability of 92%.
Elsewhere in our waste operations, Viridor successfully negotiated a reset to its contract with the Greater Manchester Waste Disposal Authority, achieving a positiveoutcome.
In recycling, we are seeking to influence government policy, including to mitigate increasing pressure on input quality from local authority cost savings.
We have invested to ensure output quality requirements are delivered and areseeking further targeted investment in value adding technology.
Our risk reward share with customers now covers 65% of input volumes.
We are maintaining flexibility in our landfill operations, where we continue to see demand for landfill solutions.
Investing for sustainable growth Development of our ERF portfolio continued during the year withthree plants progressing throughcommissioning, and construction of our 12th facility atAvonmouth near Looking to the future: Bristol on track for delivery in 2020 21.
The majority what do our customers think?
ofViridors capital investment continues to relate to the In preparation for PR19 we have been carrying out research delivery of the ERF portfolio, which will support Pennons andengaging with our customers and stakeholders across earnings growth to 2020 and beyond.
We have successfully theSouth West and Bournemouth areas to refresh our implemented all phases of our ERF business model from understanding of their long-term priorities.
In September 2017, initial concept to raising investment, gaining planning we captured the results of that process in WaterFuture 2050. permission, building facilities, winning contracts and Itsets out our updated long-term vision 2020-2050 and also operating plants to high levels of efficiency.
highlights someof the specific service levels we are proposing to achieve between 2020 and 2025.
To ensure that the views ofour customers and stakeholders remain central to our plans, we invited further feedback on the priorities and proposals for the 2020-2025 period.
New interactive tools and techniques for greater customer participation include our Get into Water campaign that is built around a video showing how South West Water is planning for the future.
We invited the public to have their say via our social media channels including YouTube, Twitter, Facebook and LinkedIn.
This campaign generated thousands of customer interactions.
co. uk waterfuture 177m 92% cumulative totex average 1 outperformance ERF availability 1 Weighted by capacity, excludes Bolton, includes JVs at100%.
21 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Review of the Chief Executive Officer continued Pennon continues to drive greater synergies and savings South West Waters role is to secure adequate supplies across the Group and share best practice through the ofwater, treat it to high drinking water standards, provide Shared Services programme.
Both Viridor and South West resilience to prevent flooding or droughts and to return Water have a breadth and depth of experience in managing water to the environment in a responsible and benign way.
large asset bases and in using innovative engineering This is essential for the long-term resilience of our water andtechnology to increase efficiency and effectiveness.
We continue to make good progress in our We aresharing this knowledge across the Group so we programme ofcatchment management initiatives working canharness our combined skills.
We are ontrack to achieve with local landowners and farmers in a wide range of by 2019 the annual cost savings and synergy targets of upstream and downstream initiatives.
c. 17million which were initially identified in the2016 17 UK waste strategies prioritise waste minimisation and Shared Services Review.
recycling wherever possible, followed by energy recovery for non-recyclable materials, with landfill always the last resort.
Viridors strategy aligns with that.
When Avonmouth Pennon continues to drive greater ERF is operational the Group will hold some 19% of national energy recovery capacity and we will be the UK leader synergies and savings across the Group.
Our gross carbon emissions increased by 11% as our fleet In the water business, the integration of Bournemouth ofoperational ERFs continues to grow while we scale down Waters business into South West Water operations has our landfill operations in themselves the most significant provided a natural opportunity for consolidation.
Our target contributors of greenhouse gas.
Our full greenhouse gas is for c. 27 million of cumulative synergies by 2020 and we GHG reporting can be found on pages 102 and 103. are on track to achieve this.
Wecontinue towork to minimise and reduce the carbon intensity of our operations and to maximise the carbon In our waste operations, we centralised control to optimise benefits of our services for customers.
We have focused on driving efficiencies by entering into more framework contracts in Pennon is both an asset business and a people business.
partnership with key suppliers and by rationalising our The Group can only be as good as the people who build supplier base.
We continue to implement self-help and operate its assets.
Training, developing and retaining measuresin our recycling business by rationalising facilities, employees who have the right skills to take us forward is renegotiating contracts and sharing commodity risk and anessential part of our strategy.
This year for the first time, reward with our clients.
we ran a Group-wide employee engagement survey that is helping us identify what matters to our employees so we Enhancing sustainability and resilience can deliver improvements that benefit and strengthen In fulfilling their role of serving local communities, stewarding theirskills and our culture as well as our operations.
resources and providing essential services, our water and waste businesses integrate long-term sustainability into Reducing our environmental impacts remains a priority.
Weare an active member of Business in the Community, and were delighted to retain our 3 star rating in their Corporate Responsibility Index and improve our score Strategic sustainability objectives The Sustainability Committee has defined the following strategic objectives, which drive the sustainability targets set by South West Water and Viridor.
Commentary on our performance against our objectives is integrated throughout the strategic report.
Manage Pennon Group as a sustainable and successful business for Develop and motivate our employees, treat them fairly and ensure the benefit of our customers, shareholders and other stakeholders that they are fully engaged in allaspects of Pennon Groups objectives and follow the highest standards ofbusiness conduct Aim to ensure that all our business activities have a positive economic, social and environmental impact on the communities Aspire to leadership in minimising emissions that inwhich we operate contribute to climate change, and develop climate change adaptation strategies Engage with our customers and other stakeholders and foster goodrelationships withthem Aspire to leadership in all aspects of waste prevention and resource efficiency by delivering solutions for society Strive for the highest standards of health andsafety in the that help to address the environmental challenge of depleting workplace so as to minimise accidents, incidents and lost time natural resources.
22 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 to92% this year.
We also collaborate on initiatives including their Circular Economy Task Force.
Wealso retained our inclusion in the FTSE4Good Index, following independent assessment in 2017 of our environmental, social and governance ESG performance.
Our people We look to attract, develop and retain a highly skilled andcustomer-focused workforce, supported by our award-winning apprenticeship programme see Our peopleon pages 26 and 27 for more information.
Our employees supported communities through 225 days of volunteering during the year with Viridor exceeding the goal that it had set of delivering 1,500 hours of volunteering by 2018.
Both South West Water and Viridor continue to offer broad community education programmes.
Our success relies on the professionalism and hard work ofour employees and I would like to thank all of them for their dedication during the year.
Key performance indicators KPIs New systems delivering great results We have made some changes to the KPIs we present Working closer together over the past 12 months has helped intheannual report, to ensure they are consistent with usachieve some great things for our customers, employees thoseadopted as part of our revised remuneration policy, andour business.
approved by shareholders last year.
The KPIs set out More than 250 people from across the Group have been onpages 24 and 25 are those used by the Board to involved in project Enterprise, which is helping us to work measure the performance of the business in delivering the smarter.
Enterprise has delivered new standardised systems strategy and are directly relevant to executive remuneration.
andprocesses for Viridor leading to more consistent and better Additional metrics are provided within the operational and quality data, and making life easier for our people, the business, financial reviews pages 28 to 51. our suppliers and customers.
Outlook Making the most of our size and scale, Pennon is also launching Customer needs and priorities will continue to be the a Group-wide travel management system helping our employees cornerstone of our operations.
In our water business, save time and effort when booking business travel, and helping wewillcontinue to share with customers the rewards the Group make significant savings.
wereceive for outperformance while working to maintain To support and deliver ongoing improvements across Pennon, highstandards of customer service.
In our waste aSenior Leadership Forum has been established, bringing operations, we will work with local authorities in a together leaders from across the Group to collaborate and keep strongspirit of partnership.
aligned on the progress we are making against our strategy.
In water, the successful merger of Bournemouth Water into South West Water has strengthened our operations.
We are also currently in talks regarding extending our operational area to cover the Isles of Scilly.
In waste, growth will come from our ERF portfolio, with the expansion supporting earnings growth to 2020 and beyond, as additional facilities come on stream.
We expect demand in the wider residual I believe Pennon Group is well positioned to deliver for its waste market to exceed capacity over the long term.
customers, communities and shareholders through a clearly articulated strategy for water and waste operations in the South West Water continues to lead the sector in many UK, while taking a progressive approach to working with areas, delivering RoRE outperformance through totex policy makers to achieve change within the water sector.
savings, financing with the lowest effective rates in theindustry and achieving net ODI rewards.
We are determinedto sustain our outperformance momentum over the remaining K6 regulatory period, remain at the forefront of cost efficiency for the water sector and continue to share these benefits with our customers.
Thisis a strong platform as we prepare for PR19 and develop our business plan for the next regulatory period Chris Loughlin 2020-2025.
We are demonstrating a real commitment to Chief Executive Officer engaging our customers and other stakeholders in this regard.
While we expect PR19 to be challenging, South West Water is well placed to respond and to continue delivering truly outstanding services tocustomers.
23 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
