GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS The acquisition of the Standard Life Assurance businesses in 2018 REPORT wastransformational for Phoenix.
It allowed us to evolve from being aUK closed life consolidator intothelargest life and pensions consolidator in Europe: with Heritage and Open businesses spanning the UK, Germany and Ireland.
Phoenix delivered strong financial performance during the year, generating 664 million of cash and increasing the resilience of the Groups capital position through the implementation of our hedging programme to the Standard Life Assurance businesses.
Our leverage ratio remains below the target range and our credit ratings were affirmed by Fitch Ratings in September following completion of the acquisition.
Phoenixs substantial new business capabilities bring improved sustainability to our long-term cash generation.
Our Open business is growing, driven by the success of thecapital-light Standard Life branded products sold through the Strategic Partnership with Standard Life Aberdeen.
This growth isaugmented byour successful entry into the bulk purchase annuity market which, together with vesting annuities, keepsscale in our Heritage business.
Whilst the acquisition of the Standard Life Assurance businesses represents an important milestone in our consolidation journey, itis notourfinal destination and weremainconfident inour ability togrowfurtherthrough additional acquisitions.
PHOENIXS BUSINESS CONTINUESTO BE RESILIENT.
OUROPEN BUSINESS BRINGS IMPROVED SUSTAINABILITY TO CASH GENERATION AND WE ARECONFIDENT ABOUT OUR GROWTH OPPORTUNITIES.
CLIVE BANNISTER GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 4 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION ACQUISITION OF THE STANDARD We also now have a European business Transition programme LIFE ASSURANCE BUSINESSES which contains both Heritage and Open Our transition programme is making AND STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIP business.
We are poised to complete good progress and will deliver an WITH STANDARD LIFE ABERDEEN our preparations to ready this business endstate operating model over three for Brexit with a Part VII transfer to phases.
We are now targeting savings Phoenix completed the acquisition of the anIrish domiciled subsidiary, Standard of75 million per annum from our Standard Life Assurance businesses on Life International Designated Activity 2018business as usual combined cost 31 August2018 with 99.98% of voting Company SL Intl due to complete in baseof 600 million and have also shareholders supporting the transaction.
We have injected 250 million of set a 30 million target for one-off The acquisition was funded through capital into SL Intl prior to this Part VII costsavings.
a950 million rights issue completed and will report our 2019 cash generation inJuly with a take-up rate of 96.25%, and figures net of this injection.
Actuarial harmonisation the issuance of 500 million Tier 1 notes in April and a 500 million Tier 2 bond In 2018 we delivered 500 million Cost and capital synergies inSeptember.
I would like to thank ofcapital synergies in respect of the Upon announcement of the ourinvestors for their overwhelming Standard Life Assurance businesses.
transactionin February 2018, we set support for this acquisition.
This principally consists of the atotal cost and capital synergy target benefitsfrom capital synergies from for the transition ofthe Standard Life The acquisition has brought additional implementing the Groups equity and Assurance business within Phoenix scale to Phoenixs pre-existing UK currency hedging strategy but also of720 million.
Heritage business which now has includes capital synergies by internally 118 billion of assets under administration.
restructuring indemnity benefits Upon completion of the acquisition It has also brought a significant Open withinthe Group.
inAugust, we worked with our business to Phoenix in the form of newcolleagues from Standard Life Standard Life branded workplace pension, We have increased our capital synergy Assurance to design the operating retail pension and Wrap products.
target to 720 million to reflect the model of our combined organisation.
estimated impact of moving towards These products are predominantly Phoenixs strategic asset allocation It is clear to me that Phoenix will be capital-light unit linked products and will forannuity backing assets and creating forever strengthened by the breadth be delivered to the customer through the a single life company.
ofskills that our new colleagues bring.
Strategic Partnership with Standard Life I am extremely grateful for the hard Aberdeen.
Under this partnership, In addition, the programme will also work across all locations in the Group Standard Life Aberdeen will undertake bring together our two internal models.
that has ensured that our transition sales, marketing and distribution for new This has never been done before and programme has the best of both.
business which Phoenix will underwrite the timeline we outline today targeting As aresult of this collaboration, and administer.
In this way, both PRA approval by the end of 2020 Iampleased to announce an companies continue to provide the remains indicative as we work increaseof70% to a new total services that align to their key strengths throughanumber of key decisions synergytarget of 1,220 million.
and is built to work seamlessly for andwork with our regulators to customers with the full proposition being assessachievability.
delivered under the Standard Life Brand.
THE END STATE OPERATING MODEL WILL BE DELIVERED IN THREE PHASES OVER THREE YEARS Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Focuses on enabling Head Office Covers the Finance and Actuarial Will deliver the end state operating functions such as HR, Legal and Risk to functions.
This includes the modelfor both the UK Heritage and enhanceprocess efficiency and remove harmonisation of the Groups capital UKOpen segments.
This phase will also deliver framework and related internal operating model will be designed asingle Risk Management Framework modelaswell as improving the torespond to an evolving landscape and three lines of defence model.
alignment ofreporting processes fromthe Open business perspective asacombined business.
whilealso providing a versatile platformfor futureconsolidation.
Phase 1: Enabling Head Office Functions Phase 2: Finance and Actuarial Phase 3: Customer and Technology 2019 2020 2021 PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 5 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REPORT CONTINUED FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Assurance for the four-month period post CUSTOMERS completion of the acquisition together Cash generation is resilient Phoenix places its customers at the with net positive impacts of management andsustainable heartof what it does and is committed to actions and experience and actuarial delivering a high level of customer service Phoenix delivered 664 million cash assumption changes during 2018. and to improving customer outcomes.
generation in the year taking total cash generation in 2017 and 2018 to 1.3 billion Assets under administration Phoenix invests in its online capabilities and exceeding the upper end of the target As at 31 December 2018, the Group and we connect digitally with as many range for this period of 1.01.2 billion.
had226 billion of assets under ofour customers as possible.
administration, reduced from the The Group has set new short and 240 billion pro forma position at For Phoenix Life, this digital journey is longer-term cash generation targets for 31 December 2017.
This fall is primarily being shaped through our outsourcing the enlarged business.
In 2019 we expect driven by market movements experienced arrangement with Diligenta.
80% of our to generate 600 700 million of cash in the fourth quarter of 2018 when Diligenta pension customers can now net of the cost of capitalising our Irish markets were particularly negative.
logon to our digital platform and during subsidiary for Brexit and our target for During the year, strong net inflows on 2018 we saw over 40% of eligible 2019 to 2023 is 3.8 billion.
In addition we ourUK Open andEuropean businesses customers taking advantage of our online expect to generate a further 8.2 billion have partiallyoffsetnet outflows on encashment functionality.
In absolute ofcash from 2024 onwards.
numbers this would be 80% of around 1 million customers.
The combined cash guidance of REGULATORY AND 12.0 billion reflects the cash for our LEGISLATIVECHANGES In 2018, over 14,000 policies moved into in-force business only and does not drawdown with Standard Life and digital include the additional cash flows that may In September we were informed by the was the channel of choice for the majority be generated on new business.
As our Financial Conduct Authority FCA that of these customers.
Furthermore, with Open business grows, it will help to offset ithad closed its investigation into Abbey more than three million logins last year, the run-off of our Heritage business and Life Assurance Limited following the ourmobile app is now the easiest way bring improved sustainability to our cash thematic review into the fair treatment forStandard Life customers to interact generation which in turn supports our oflong standing customers in the life with us when they want.
stable and sustainable dividend policy.
The FCA found that the conduct of Abbey Life Assurance Limited Since auto-enrolment we have Phoenix Group capital position did not warrant supported11,000 schemes into a enforcement action.
Standard Life was During 2018, the Group strengthened the qualifying workplace pension scheme referred to the FCA enforcement division resilience of its capital position, increasing 1 with1.7 million new joiners auto-enrolled to consider whether any of the issues the Solvency II surplus from a pro forma into them by employers.
identified in the thematic review on of 2.5 billion as at 31 December 2017 non-advised annuities sales warranted to3.2 billion as at 31 December 2018.
In August, I was delighted to announce that further intervention and we continue to we would be introducing caps on ongoing work with the FCA on the The Shareholder Capital coverage ratio charges across our Phoenix Life nonongoing investigation.
also increased to 167% at 31 December workplace unitised pensions business and 2018 from a 147% pro forma ratio at removing exit charges on small unitised With regard to annuities sales, both 31 December 2017, well within our pensions policies.
This change will benefit Standard Life and Abbey Life agreed with targetrange of 140% to 180%.
c. 250,000 policies and reduce the average the FCA to undertake a past business Phoenix Life ongoing charge for unitised review and both programmes are well Operating Profit non-workplace pension policies to 1.1%.
Both of these reviews were The Group delivered total operating profit known issues at the time of acquisition of 708 million and reports for the first We recognise the importance of customer and we expect the costs arising from time operatingprofit across its three service and monitor our performance these reviews to be covered by the mainbusiness segments.
The increase through a number of metrics.
We have indemnities agreed at the time of compared to the prior year is primarily exceeded all of our customer service the acquisition.
driven by the inclusion of Standard Life targets in 2018.
ILLUSTRATIVE CASH GENERATION PROFILE OVER TIME Management actions Management actions increase or accelerate MANAGEMENT ACTIONS cash generation across the Heritage and Openbusinesses.
OPEN Open Growth of Open business at 2018 levels willoffset Heritage run-off.
Heritage HERITAGE Our Heritage business runs off at 5-7% per annum.
Time 1 P ro forma assuming the acquisition of the Standard Life businesses took place on 31 December 2017.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 6 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 Cash generation STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION COLLEAGUES CONCLUSION Phoenix has the skill set, scale and financial strength to be at the forefront Corporate responsibility plays a In 2018, Phoenix delivered on its existing ofthe UK and European life consolidation centralrole in the colleague experience strategic priorities alongside a material market.
We remain optimistic about atPhoenix.
The three strands of physical, acquisition.
We completed the integration theopportunities that 2019 will bring mental and financial wellbeing underpin of both the AXA Wealth and Abbey andwe are ready to move forward our colleague and community initiatives, Lifeduring the year and to date have withtransactions that add value to which now extend to the Standard Life generated cash from both transactions of our investors.
968 million or over 70% of consideration.
We also completed our on-shoring I have been delighted to welcome former Volunteering is a priority across the programme replacing the previous Standard Life colleagues to the Phoenix Groupwith over 50% of Phoenix Group Cayman Islands registered holding family and thank all of my colleagues and Phoenix Life colleagues participating company with a UK-incorporated one.
throughout the Group for their hard work in volunteering activities over the year.
during a year that has seen Phoenix We look forward to 2019 with deliver its strategy for the benefit of 2018 saw Phoenix embark on a excitement.
Whilst we will of course bothshareholders and policyholders.
significantlistening exercise to reremain focused on the safe transition invigorate our commitment to our ofour combined businesses, we have corporate values.
The Big Conversation themanagement bandwidth to deliver brought these values to life and delivered onour growth strategy.
an agreed set of behaviours created bystaff and championed by senior The drivers of consolidation in the CLIVE BANNISTER management sponsors.
lifeinsurance industry are numerous: GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER trapped capital, specialist skills shortages, 2019 will see us engage colleagues in stranded costs, and an increased 4 March 2019 thecreation of a combined set of values regulatory burden.
These drivers will for the Group, building on previous work generate future acquisition opportunities conducted at Standard Life Assurance for Phoenix.
This focus on engagement and colleagueempowerment creates a richand diverse working environment, reflected in our continued status as oneofthe UKs Top Employers.
THE DRIVERS OF CONSOLIDATION ARE INCREASING AND PHOENIX ISWELL PLACED TO BE THE LEADING LIFE CONSOLIDATOR IN EUROPE DURING THIS PROCESS.
CLIVE BANNISTER GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 2018 TIMELINE February April July September Announced proposed 500 million Tier1 950 million FCA closes Abbey Life acquisition of the Standard notes issued.
Fitch Ratings affirms ratings and places Phoenix on stable outlook.
March May August December Integration of First BPA transaction Acquisition New UK holding AXAWealth and announced.
of the Standard companyin place.
businesses Abbey Life Part completed.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 7
