Chief Executives statement Im proud and excited to be taking over as CEO.
The value of our business is much greater than being a retailer or a vet care provider.
Its the way we can give pet owners a breadth of products, grooming, vet care and other rollout to be sure we open practices in puppy shop.
With that in mind, we gave services.
Combined quality locations for the best vet partners.
a complete overhaul to our range and with the way we can With slower rollout we can, and need to, also launched the VIP Puppy Club.
By focus more on strategies to accelerate joining the club, customers receive 10% serve them through growth in our existing practices, where off their first puppy product shop, a free we know there is still huge potential.
bag of Advanced Nutrition food, their stores, the website and 1 About 84% of our First Opinion practices first month for free with a flea product are relatively young and whilst they subscription, a free puppy groom and our pet professionals, require more funding from us over the a free vet nurse check.
We have seen the colleagues and vets next four to five years, the long term prize some great results from our initiative, for us and our vet partners is substantial.
with a 25% spending increase by Puppy who genuinely care Club customers.
Year one of our about customers and three-year strategy has delivered, and as a Home of value and convenience business we are on a stronger competitive During the year, we invested c13m in their pets.
footing to return to sustainable profit pricing to deliver better value for our growth.
We have taken a targeted Our plans to reposition retail are working, new CEO, my plan has a bigger focus on approach, which began with a campaign more customers are coming back to digital, tapping into the vast potential of that lowered prices and highlighted the shop with us, and we are committed to our customer and pet data, and taking value in our private label Advanced returning the business to profit growth.
action to ensure our vet business reaches Nutrition.
This was followed by price But it hasnt been easy.
We took decisive its potential.
Our market has a track record adjustments across branded Advanced action, threw passion and energy into it, of resilience in a downturn and as we Nutrition, more food categories and and delivered targeted pricing changes adapt to a changing environment, we pet essentials.
We are confident this is to give customers the products that will emphasise the things that make driving a positive reaction with mattered most to them, with the service Pets at Home unique and best placed customers, having seen such a strong and value they expect from us.
Our to serve the UKs pet loving owners.
rebound in Merchandise trade during the product innovation this year has been year.
Advanced Nutrition also performed Peter Pritchard the best I can remember and the Group Chief Executive Officer very well, with 12.7% volume growth investment we made in the development and significantly increased private label of a subscription service is bringing some participation.
Looking forward, excellent results, as is Order-In-Store, Strategic update maintaining a competitive price position which brings our full online range to will always be part of everyday strategy every store in the business.
Drivers of our like-for-like growth but this will not be to the same scale as Home of all things pet The veterinary services market is a very the prior financial year.
Our biggest competitive asset is the attractive space in which we can grow.
ability to give pet owners the full breadth Delivering better value for customers is We have a profitable business delivering of pet care: customers who shop across also a priority in our grooming business, strong returns, achieved largely through retail, grooming and vet have around where we experienced some slower our preference to work in partnership with three times the spend of those who are trading during the year.
We are set to vets who share in the success of their just retail customers.
launch a trial package in selected salons practice.
The shortage of qualified vets in where, for an annual fee, customers can the UK remains an industry wide problem, Puppy owners are an opportunity to bring their dog for unlimited bath and so we have chosen to slow our practice develop a relationship at one of the brush treatments.
most important milestones the first Pets at Home Group Plc 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Strategy Strategy and performance Page 18 Strategic evolution and outlook Whilst price has been an important continue to grow for the next four to in the year ahead part of our improved trading, it doesnt five years, after which we expect to see The pet care market remains resilient, present the full story.
Investing in digital the balance decline, and are comfortable with growth in pet products estimated helped deliver omnichannel revenue this is mainly a feature of the immaturity at c2% in 2017, and veterinary services at growth of 75%.
The two initiatives of our estate.
We again grew our market share in driving such strong growth are OrderWith a long term view of growing our the vet segment and are pleased to say In-Store and subscription for flea practices to maturity, the prize remains: that following our price repositioning products.
We have also improved our for us in the mature profits from a work in retail, we have won back share website experience with a faster mainly fixed cost business, and for our 3 in the food and accessories markets.
checkout process across mobile, tablet vet partners in the form of dividends and desktop, and have started to trial and the capital value of their practice.
FY19 will be the second of our threerepeat order across food products.
We currently have 87 such practices year financial transition back to Looking to the year ahead will see that have fully repaid all debts and sustainable profit growth, and following ongoing upgrades to our website look, we are focusing more on strategies our progress in FY18, we are determined content and navigation, with more to accelerate growth in our existing to achieve our plan.
In the coming subscription products in our plan.
practices, to ensure we can deliver financial year we are targeting like-forHome of veterinary excellence the inherent potential of the business.
like revenue growth ahead of the market We have a successful veterinary in both Retail and our Vet Group, and Retail space evolution and vet business growing ahead of the market a transition back to low single digit practice rollout 2 in both First Opinion practices and underlying Group profit growth.
We With a total of 448 superstores, our store Specialist Referral Centres.
The Vet remain a cash generative business estate is nearing its optimum size.
In the Group generates cash returns on with a priority to invest in our core coming year we will open only a small 2 invested capital of 24% despite the capabilities, particularly our Vet Group.
number of stores in carefully selected 1 majority of practices c84% being areas, in up to five new locations.
At the Delivering the financial plan does relatively young.
same time, we will continue to rollout not require adhering to our historical grooming salons amongst the existing We can attribute the strong revenue strategic priorities of growing like-forstore estate and expect to open 10-20. growth in our First Opinion practices like, space and margins.
Our strategy to a number of competitive differences: should evolve with the market and In our veterinary business we opened a but also to the drive of our vet partners competitive changes, our challenges net number of 25 new practices to bring in the JV model, who share in the and our ambitions.
Our immediate our total to 461.
We also transformed success of the practice.
Our model priorities are to address the few more practices to give them extra provides vets with business services and remaining areas of our price consulting space, or longer opening cashflow support as they grow, in return repositioning programme and take hours, so that we have ten super for management fees.
action to ensure the vet business surgeries and six practices opening 24 7. can deliver on its potential.
But in the The revenue progression for practices, The challenging supply of veterinarians coming months, we will evolve our and therefore our fee income, has been has long been a feature of the UK longer term strategic plan to become relatively consistent.
In coming years, market and was exacerbated after the the best pet care business in the world: as our rollout profile swings more to Brexit vote around 30% of vets in the UK a bigger focus on digital, data, more standalone, rather than in-store are thought to be EU domiciled.
In services and changing the shape of practices, we may see some variations addition, our practice rollout has always our stores in an ongoing environment in revenue performance, although we been heavily weighted towards the end of channel shift.
still expect the standalone practices of our financial year, which has placed to deliver strong returns for the Group.
an excessive burden on the business and we are taking an active decision to The path to profit growth for some spread this profile more evenly through practices is lengthening as a result of the year.
The supply of veterinarians the upward pressure on payroll costs.
is unlikely to change in the short term Peter Pritchard This factor, combined with the large and our priority is to open practices Group Chief Executive Officer number of young practices in the in quality locations for the best vet 22 May 2018 business, is leading to increased funding partners.
We expect to open 20-25 requirements from Pets at Home in the practices in the year ahead and have 1 Refers to vet practices younger than 10 years.
form of working capital operating loans.
2 A lternative Performance Measures APMs are defined already opened four in the new financial and reconciled to IFRS information, where possible, We expect the overall funding level to year to date.
3 M arket information sourced using internal data and UK pet market reports, OC&C 2017.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 17
