16 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 17 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW STRATEGIC & OPERATIONAL PROGRESS IN REGULATED MARKETS Mor Weizer Chief Executive Officer OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS Playtech intends to focus on higher-margin TradeTech: Playtech continues to believe that Strategy update opportunities going forward, which includes new TradeTech is a highly attractive asset.
It is a growth Playtech has conducted a thorough review of its customers in both existing regulated markets business that contributes to the overall EBITDA of position in the industry over the last six months.
and newly regulated markets, through structured the Group.
However, the Group recognises it is For more It is clear that Playtech has achieved significant agreements and wherever market dynamics allow.
less understood by many of our investors, who are information growth in recent years, thereby extending our scale.
more focused on the gaming part of the business.
Performance Playtech will also focus on unchartered territories The Company believes it has an unparalleled set of In addition, it has a different business model to review going forward.
It estimates that there are over assets within the industry.
Playtech has delivered this other CFD firms, as TradeTech operates as both page 62 1,000 sites globally today that do not take a single by balancing operating in regulated and unregulated a B2B and B2C business.
The Group has invested significantly Products markets, using the cash generated from the higherpage 40 in R&D in recent years to enhance its leading margin unregulated business to extend its lead by Regulated markets and future markets technology, allowing a faster and cheaper time investing in its technology and through M&A, while Risks & In 2018, regulated revenue increased to 78% of total to market for its licensees.
This investment, and uncertainties also returning significant amounts to shareholders.
The increase in regulated revenue resulting benefit, will be essential for tapping into page 68 is a result of the continued progress the Company Playtech and the industry as a whole has been in these unchartered markets.
has made on the strategic goals outlined above as transition.
As further jurisdictions regulate, operators Core B2C: Playtechs core B2C business comprises well as the acquisition of Snaitech in 2018.
Playtech and suppliers have had to adjust to higher taxation primarily of Snaitech in Italy, but also its Sun Bingo continues to lead the way in regulated markets and and greater oversight and legislation.
In addition, operation, its Casual Gaming business and the actively promotes regulation in future and emerging the increase in the number of regulated territories HPYBET B2C sport business in Germany and markets.
Regulated markets in Europe, Latin America has also led to more competition across the Austria.
Playtech will continue to focus on selected and the US are key to our continued growth.
Playtech believes that a balance between B2C opportunities globally, while maintaining a Company is focused on raising industry standards regulated and unregulated markets is still needed Snaitech strong focus on Snaitech and its business in Italy.
and enabling a fairer, safer and more sustainable as unregulated markets remain high margin and sector, where Playtechs regulated markets-focused In 2018, Playtech completed the acquisition of leading Italian gambling highly cash generative.
Playtech believes it is capabilities have an advantage.
The acquisition created a fully-integrated gaming essential to have a cornerstone presence in three intends to increase its scale and distribution in these company across retail and online.
or more regulated jurisdictions to diversify its risks, It is clear that Playtech markets by signing new licensees.
Playtech has achieved this diversification through the strength Europe: has achieved significant of its B2B business in the UK, its unique position in The UK is another key market for Playtech, where 55% 27% Italy with Snaitech and through the success of its the strength of Playtech ONE provides it with a growth in recent years, Revenue Growth Growth in regulated agreement with Caliente in Latin America.
strategic advantage and a cornerstone presence.
at Constant Currency online revenues thereby extending our The Companys extended agreement with Gala Looking at the entirety of the Group, Playtech Find out more about Snaitech and the acquisition on pages 50 to 54 Leisure, to launch a new omni-channel gaming has a four-pronged business: scale.
The Company brand across bingo and casino, confirms Playtechs Core B2B market-leading position as the technology partner believes it has an of choice in the UK.
Playtech has become a strategic 24% Core B2C 44% partner to Gala Leisure and launched a full omniAsia unparalleled set of assets channel solution in 2018, including best-of-breed Sun Bingo Revenue TradeTech Growth retail products fully integrated with industry-leading within the industry.
Core B2B: While Playtechs B2B business has a very strong set of assets, the Company must also adjust Regulated markets in Europe represent significant 14% to the evolving industry landscape.
In particular the growth opportunities.
For example, Playtech Asia: Playtechs B2B gaming business in Asia is Growth in regulated revenue Company believes that a significant portion of its launched in the Swedish market on 1 January 2019 different and isolated from the rest of the Company.
at Constant Currency addressable market is untapped.
and was one of the first technology companies It operates a different business model whereby to launch industry-leading brands following the it provides only content to the market.
As an The core strategy of Playtechs B2B gaming 9% regulatory changes which came into effect at the unregulated business it is also higher-margin and business is to focus on higher-margin regulated start of 2019.
Playtech is partnering with leading TradeTech Revenue Growth more highly cash generative compared to other opportunities, with Sports, Casino and Live Casino betting platforms to bring its industry-leading parts of the Group.
The cash generated from this being of greatest importance.
Playtech will continue products to Sweden.
In addition, Playtechs Swedish business will continue to be used to cement its to support existing licensees with better tools and 78% specialist content studio Quickspin launched 30 of position in regulated markets as well as returns new technologies to provide them with greater its most popular titles on the first day of regulation Group Regulated Revenue to shareholders.
flexibility in running their businesses.
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 18 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 19 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW cont.
Playtechs leadership position in Playtech secured new US: incentive schemes to subbonus communication and licensees to support their efforts continues Playtechs commitment Europe was further reinforced agreements in key markets Playtech has applied for a licence in H2 2018 with the launch of its with strategically important in promoting Playtech content.
to deliver technology in line with, in the State of New Jersey and and ahead of, regulation.
shared liquidity poker network in licensees in Poland and Portugal.
is actively considering licensing Playtech continues to monitor France and Spain.
Partnering with In Poland, Playtech was selected opportunities and forming developments in Asia closely Responsible Gambling Betclic and Unibet in France, and by Totalizator Sportowy, the strategic alliances across the and, at its current run rate, still Bet365, Betfair, Casino Barcelona Polish National Lottery provider, country.
Playtech has strategic Regulators across Europe, sees commercial benefits to and Sportium in Spain, Playtechs to launch its first online Casino optionality within its technology including the UK, Italy, Spain operating in the region.
While network has become the first offering.
In Portugal, the Sports stack in order to go into joint and Denmark, continue to operating at a lower run rate B2B poker network across the division won a landmark ventures, partnerships and B2B strengthen consumer protection than before, Playtechs Asia two territories, which represent agreement to power the countrys deals with land-based casino and safer gambling regulations.
business remains high margin major regulated poker markets.
leading operator SASs new groups, media groups and Playtech welcomes sensible and highly cash generative.
The network significantly boosts online sportsbook, with Casino existing international clients.
policies designed to support the This cash will continue to be marketing and revenue potential to follow in 2019.
STRATEGY IN ACTION: SCALE & DISTRIBUTION long-term success of the sector used to execute our strategy Asia: STRATEGY IN ACTION: SCALE & DISTRIBUTION for operators across France whilst also creating a safer, fairer in regulated markets and for Latin America: THE LEADING TECHNOLOGY COMPANY IN REGULATED MARKETS Competition in China increased and Spain, through largerand more responsible industry.
THE LEADING TECHNOLOGY COMPANY IN REGULATED MARKETS shareholder returns.
Latin America remains a key in 2018 from new market entrants, scale cross-territory network Playtech is well positioned to help growth territory for online gaming.
resulting in downgrades to partnerships and promotions.
It licensees navigate the continually Playtechs IMS platform Mexico is now one of Playtechs expectations announced to the will also significantly expand on Regulation has delivered new markets and new licensees evolving regulatory landscape top five regulated markets by market in July.
Activity in Malaysia, Playtechs Information the offering for players in both around responsible gambling player jurisdiction since FY 2017. highlighted as a headwind due in Switzerland, Poland and Sweden.
Technology means that Management Service markets, with greater guaranteed in online and retail markets.
This follows the growth of to a change in market conditions, IMS platform is one of the prize pools and an increased licensees and partners can deploy a compliant, sustainable licensee Caliente, which during continues to be significantly lower industrys most powerful player Playtech also continues to array of cash game tables.
This 2018 extended its relationship than its previous highs.
management systems, driving strengthen its Responsible marks the introduction of the first and responsible omni-channel solution on day one of the industrys pioneering omniGambling technology offerings.
In Asia, Playtech functions out channel technology.
Playtech Following the integration of regulation.
of a base in the Philippines and is committed to continuing BetBuddy to IMS in the first is licensed as a B2B service Latin America remains a key to expand the data-driven half of 2018, the solution is provider under the Philippine capabilities of Playtechs IMS now being deployed to its first n November 2018, leading land-based Casino operator regulator, PAGCOR.
Playtech Our Track Record growth territory for online gaming.
to retain its position as the licensees, including Buzz Bingo.
Swiss Casino announced its partnership with Playtech to works directly with large global leading technology provider The combination of BetBuddys Playtech has a track record of I launch its first online offering ahead of the online casino B2C operators that it works with Mexico is now one of Playtechs in the gambling industry.
applied artificial intelligence delivering engaging omni-channel market launching in 2019.
In December, Playtech launched in other jurisdictions, but the to assess risk while working betting and gaming solutions Polands first regulated online casino in partnership with vast majority of activity in Asia is top five regulated markets by The first half of 2018 saw Playtech seamlessly with Engagement to some of the leading brands government operator Totalizator Sportowy.
conducted through Playtechs introduce Smart Limits to the 360s real-time player messaging, in regulated markets across player jurisdiction.
third-party distributor in order to data-driven services within the will allow operators to implement The partnership with Swiss Casino and Totalizator Sportowy the globe.
Playtech BI Business Intelligence followed multi-year agreements in 2018 with Sociedade fide personalised messaging that tools available on its platform.
The Omni-channel approach allows empowers consumers to make Apostas Sociais SAS in Portugal for Sports and and casino, The increase in competition in B2B Poker network since the with Playtech by integrating the industry standard in gaming is to brands to leverage leadership in as well as extending and expanding its contract with Fortuna China has resulted in a highly safer choices.
In addition, new industry-wide shared liquidity Playtech BGT Sports sportsbook have rigid predetermined game retail in the new online market Responsible Gambling features in in the Czech Republic.
agreement across France, Spain, into its existing Playtech Casino value limits.
Playtechs BI has Playtech has taken the decision Playtechs Portal and Marketplace Data-driven services deliver Italy and Portugal last year and offering.
Also in the region, and introduced a system that derives During the year, Playtech worked with its partners bet365, platforms, aimed at increasing not to seek to compete on advantage in regulated markets: highlights Playtechs continued again driven by progress in Betfair and Pokerstars, ensuring its technology was ready for the optimal limits for the specific pricing and instead has focused both licensee and player Commercial and Responsible strength in regulated markets.
Sports, Playtech launched an player, on a specific game, from the changing regulations in the Swedish market.
Playtech was education and awareness of on underlining the premium Gambling services integrated sportsbook across one of the first technology companies to launch industry-leading multiple data parameters and position of its offering in the Playtechs casino content, are The landmark acquisition of retail and online environments inputs, including player history, Compliance across AML, brands in Sweden when the new market regulation came due to be trialled in 2019.
Snaitech, completed in June, region.
KYC, anti-fraud and risk into effect on 1 January 2019.
In addition, Playtechs Swedish current balance and bonuses in the region is likely to remain, provided the Company with a active.
This is a further innovation Playtech continues to engage analysis underpins all specialist content studio Quickspin launched 30 of its most cornerstone strategic presence Looking forward, we continue to and accordingly Playtech has Playtech technology popular titles on the first day of regulation on 1 January 2019. in Playtechs ability to deliver a constructively with regulators and see positive momentum in the taken several actions to secure in one of Europes fastest growing fully bespoke customer journey, stakeholders on a wide range of and largest regulated gambling region and are optimistic about its position in the market.
Outside Europe, a key geography for Playtech has been Latin across channels and product policy topics.
The Company is opportunities, particularly in Brazil, markets.
By using its proven America, where the Company believes it holds a strategic verticals driven by the powerful also collaborating with licensees, These actions include appointing omni-channel technology and Argentina and Peru.
In 2018, Brazil advantage having a foothold through a strategic partnership a new Managing Director for data captured across the Playtech academics, charities and industry took an important step towards industry-leading regulated market with leading Mexican brand Caliente.
In line with trends in ONE eco-system.
bodies to help raise and shape Asia who has responsibility for software, Playtech believes there regulating online gambling and Europe, Latin America continues to see new regulation add Playtechs operations in the industry standards, share best sports betting.
Meanwhile in is a significant opportunity to In 2018 Playtech also launched additional markets.
In the first half of 2018, Playtech BGT Sports practices and explore how region, including managing leverage the strength of the Snai Argentina, Buenos Aires has agreed a deal to provide online and retail sports technology its new player engagement relationships with operators technology can help address recently legalised online sports brand in Italy, growing its digital platform as the next phase of to leading brand Sportium in Columbia, one of Latin Americas some of the most pressing and distributors.
The Company presence and driving cross-sell gambling and lottery and Peru key new markets.
The new has also launched multiple new challenges facing the industry.
is also exploring proposals to between retail and online in a engagement platform will allow games, focusing on branded fragmented and underdeveloped regulate online sports betting B2C brands to respond to user content, and has increased the and casino games.
data in real-time with cross support given to its partners in of Playtechs operations in Latin vertical in-game live messaging the region to enable them to offer America positions the Company across multiple offline channels.
progressive jackpots, another well, with these potential This project was completed key Playtech strength.
In addition markets representing significant in conjunction with the new to this, Playtech has participated opportunities in the future.
UK Competition and Markets in promotions and provided Authority requirements around 20 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Strategic Report Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 21 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW cont.
Regulated global network on any channel.
Live Casino in 2018 Live casino delivered a PBS also developed Tap2Bet, in 2016 with the first licences Bingo Gambling Division Playtech has continued driving Live from experience, allowing which enables customers to issued in 2017.
Playtech also Bingo had a solid 2018 markets show the strongest GPAS technology is developed Performance growth for Poker, coinciding with using Playtech ONEs omniproduct innovation in Live Casino, customers the ability to play stake bets quickly and easily deepened its relationship with performance as new variants Gaming B2B following the migration to its new Roulette from a land-based with their debit cards by tapping its key licensee Caliente in and features drove sales, while the launch of EU liquidity sharing, channel approach and can Casino and the product is well-positioned be seamlessly developed for Live Casino facility in Riga in casino.
In addition, key products their card on the terminal, as Mexico.
Playtech has worked operators were more tactical Revenues from the Casino vertical 2017, by launching new concepts, such as Roulette, Blackjack and well as Bet Recommender, an with Caliente since 2014 in online with bonusing and promotions.
to maximise the potential of retail and online.
Historically, fell 22% to 320.1 million in 2018, any future regulatory changes.
converting popular online games games and features.
Driven Baccarat all saw extensive UX intelligent recommendation casino and, since the integration The Bingo vertical remains a key driven by the changing dynamics by the powerful Playtech IMS overhauls providing a more engine using advanced AI of PBS, has rolled out its digital customer acquisition channel Playtech will continue to invest into retail games was expensive of the Asian casino market in the in the product as the online and inefficient and involved two player management platform and immersive feel in line with algorithms, which suggests sportsbook in 2017 and in 2018 at an operator level.
Playtechs period and the tough like-for-like data-driven business intelligence Playtechs approach in leading relevant content to customers on integrated retail SSBTs into the Bingo offering allows licensees poker market demonstrates an sets of technology and two sets comparatives with FY 2017. increasing market opportunity.
Therefore, those technology, Playtech Live Casino UX solutions.
Recommendations offering with the first SSBTs to provide seamless crossis fully integrated into the Playtech are based on the behaviour of placed in Caliente casinos.
sell and movement between using Playtechs innovative GPAS Excluding Asia, Casino revenues Playtech BGT Sports PBS Other technology have an advantage in platform and Casino offering.
other customers in comparable channels and verticals, but more enjoyed strong momentum, Since the creation of PBS, Other revenues grew 5% at Key contract extensions were The period saw Ladbrokes Coral selections, similar to Amazons importantly provide integrated growing 9% in 2018 on a retail-driven, regulated markets.
Playtech still expects sports to also secured during the year.
The launch a dedicated sports area for recommendation feature.
like-for-like basis at constant be one of the fastest growing majority of revenue under the In 2018, Playtech fully PBS extended its agreement the World Cup with an integrated currency.
This was partly driven implemented the unification of verticals in the coming years.
2018 saw a number of operators to supply Paddy Power Retail In 2018 the Bingo division Other reporting line is derived bet slip.
This was in addition to by contributions from new In line with these expectations, released Age of the Gods Bingo from Playtechs retail Casino its eight content studios onto launch within both retail and with the software for its suite of seasonal experiences such as Casino agreements with Casino its agile development platform.
sports saw the largest increase online.
In the first half of 2018, PBS self-service betting terminals.
for the network, tying in the software IGS, the land-based around Cheltenham roulette Barcelona in Spain and Veikkaus in revenue across all B2B Gaming successful Playtech brand.
For its Casino management system.
Playtech is shifting the studios delivered a landmark agreement PBS also extended its agreement and Chinese New Year.
In addition, Pokerstars, towards leveraging new tailored to supply Sociedade fide Apostas to supply Ladbrokes Coral with top tier operators, Playtech also alongside a successful launch of B2C Gaming developed six exclusive Bingo jackpots, a new game suite, Playtechs Live Dealer product, Snaitech in-game innovations and a greater variants, to supplement these new significantly increased its Playtech In 2018 Playtech completed the Bingo variants three new Bingo focus on platform features that will content portfolio in 2018.
Other acquisition of leading Italian benefit licensees.
A new game Playtech has continued driving The Snaitech acquisition has features were also introduced, major contributors which saw gambling operator, Snaitech.
including Flip N Win which suite to be launched in 2019, growth in 2018 were Bet365, The acquisition created a fully product innovation in Live Casino, delivered a significant increase Kingdoms Rise, will showcase gives paying players the chance Paddy Power Betfair, Betfred integrated gaming company of winning free tickets.
across retail and online and following the migration to its new to Playtechs scale and distribution see improved retention rates and development also extended provides Playtech with a to side games, with four new improved customer experience Operational momentum cornerstone presence in one of Live Casino facility in Riga in 2017. capabilities.
network slot titles including Age continued in 2018 in the Casino its key target markets.
Playtech of the Gods branded games and verticals, including the Sporting Playtech completed the will utilise its omni-channel 11 operator exclusive side games Legends progressive jackpot integration of 35 brands onto the technology stack to capture the launched over the year.
In 2018 The move to the new facility has verticals with a 12% increase Sociais SAS, Portugals largest the software for its suite of suite rolled out across the Frankie Playtech Open Platform POP in online growth opportunity in one continued to drive an increase in revenue to 98.0 million gaming and betting operator, self-service betting terminals Bingo also started to shift to an Dettori, Ronnie OSullivan and 2018, enabling access to a huge of the largest gambling markets agile development methodology in new Live Casino licensees in 2018, and a 13% increase with its new sportsbook offering throughout Great Britain and Football Stars games, designed selection of third-party games on in the world, where online and the number of dedicated at constant currency.
SASs major Northern Ireland, the Republic which will reduce delivery cycles to foster sportsbook cross-sell any channel or platform, of which market penetration remains low going forward.
For example, in the period, shareholder is Santa Casa da of Ireland and Belgium until during the football World Cup.
there were 16 specific third-party PBS continues to develop at approximately 8% of gross Playtech launched new additional Misericrdia fide Lisboa, Portugals the end of 2020.
This will New content launches, and Buzz Bingo launched at the end integrations.
New linkages are new pioneering content and Gaming Revenue in 2019. dedicated tables with Sisal, Sports national lottery provider.
The PBS cover over 12,000 terminals as specifically integrated content now rapidly achieved, freeing technology to drive incremental of September 2018 and has been Interaction, Mansion and Casino.
online sportsbook went live with well as exciting new content across product vertical, such The Snaitech acquisition has outperforming expectations.
In revenue for its licensees as com.
Moreover, 2018 saw Betfred SAS in June 2018, following an and features.
In addition, PBS as World Cup specific material, delivered a significant increase to addition to the POP and thirdwell as drive innovation in the Playtech expects further growth partner with Playtech Live to accelerated project to go live also signed a new Sportsbook are important evidence of the Playtechs scale and distribution on Buzz Bingo as the project party integrations, Playtech is sports betting vertical.
Following deliver a bespoke dedicated ahead of the FIFA World Cup contract with Codere until constant innovation of products capabilities in a high-growth now also able to offer its partners the integration of PBS with the to integrate the retail ECM area for roulette and blackjack.
In its first month of trading, October 2022, which includes required to deliver a more regulated market.
Snaitechs wallet into the IMS wallet is access to the IMS bonusing and Playtech IMS platform, PBS can SAS acquired 20,000 newly all jurisdictions Spain, Mexico, engaging and relevant offer results are included in Playtechs engagement tools.
offer an omni-channel sports completed, and Buzz Bingo uses Playtech achieved an extensive registered first-time depositors.
Colombia and Panama, currently to regulated markets.
consolidated financial statements its dedicated Bingo development array of new product deliveries, product across retail and online Also, in Europe, PBS continued 8,500 bet entry points BEPs from 5 June 2018, the date the The new Playtech Marketplace that is unique to the industry.
allocation to replicate its retail Further progress, driven by innovative customer engagement the roll-out started in Spain worldwide 7,622 SSBTs was launched in H2 2018 and, acquisition completed.
Bingo features on its online site.
tools, and successful promotional Track my SSBT Bet and innovation, was evident through and 864 Tills.
with Codere Andalusia and by year end, over 30 brands Cash out functionality is GPAS Playtechs Gaming Platform activity, all of which was Regulation in the gambling now has more than 1,000 had launched.
2019 will see Migration to HTML5 from Flash complemented by the surge now available across all Services as a Service.
GPAS has been industry remains one of the key terminals in the region.
Marketplace become the new is now nearly complete and operators globally, either The Companys strategy to focus developed with the aim of in new customer areas and market dynamics shaping the industry standard of content is expected to be completed table propositions.
through integration with the In the key target market of Latin on regulated markets, shifting continuing to evolve the way that development and growth of the aggregation with a roadmap that by the middle of the year.
In operators own app or through America, PBS continued to away from unregulated markets, gaming content is designed and industry.
Playtech has significant leverages Playtechs BI system Playtechs Live product portfolio addition, with the Italian PBAD3 the PBS Bet Tracker product.
develop its strategic position has been most pronounced in created, ultimately extending experience of driving growth in to deliver snackable insights to regulations finalised, considerable grew throughout the course and signed an agreement to the Services revenue line.
In 2018 the use of Playtechs technology the highly regulated UK market, content and marketing teams.
of 2018 with Spin a Win and PBSs most important product effort has been directed into supply an integrated retail and Services revenue declined 9% at across the industry and increasing and Snaitech has considerable Marketplace removes much of development in 2018 was updating the Bingo platform to Live Trivia, which both received digital sportsbook to Sportium constant currency.
the scale and reach of Playtechs understanding and experience of the guesswork with new and a positive response from MatchAcca, which enables users support these regulations.
Colombia through the provision platform.
GPAS technology and working with the regulator in Italy.
existing operators when they to combine multiple markets Progress in regulated Services The concluding elements of the customers.
Live Trivia is the first of self-service betting terminals its proprietary math engine allows Management believes that the look to target player clusters for online gaming Trivia product within the same event to create an revenue was seen in the work were finalised at the start SSBTs, over the counter OTC third parties operators, content combination of the Playtech and acquisition, retention and player accumulator bet with one specific period with a strong increase of 2019, putting us in a position enabling customers a free-to-play services and online sportsbook.
providers and developers to Snaitech businesses can realise values, even down to a countryexperience, where their general price, subsequently encouraging in new business, with a focus to re-launch Italian Bingo at the The PBS offering has been use a simple drag and drop shareholder value and execute specific level.
PBS on regulated activity in Spain, start of February.
knowledge is tested as they approved by the Colombian user interface to build highon the significant opportunity look to win a variety of prizes.
launched MatchAcca across retail Mexico, Columbia and Portugal.
quality HTML5 games or submit Poker for online growth in the current and digital sportsbook in 2018, Regulated Services revenue also Omni-channel is a key aspect of Colombia first announced its their own existing content for Poker is an important part of the market dynamics.
Playtechs overall strategy, and ahead of the FIFA World Cup.
saw an increase from increased plan to regulate online gambling distribution across Playtechs complete Playtech ONE product Live services.
offering and grew 2% at constant 22 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW cont.
compared to previous year, ESMA new rules and regulations including a full-year benefit from came into effect in August 2018.
Part of the rationale for the the acquisition of ACM assets As reported at the interim completed in October 2017. results, management decided acquisition of Snaitech was the to take a prudent approach Strong momentum in the TradeTech B2B business to marketing spend on new strength of its retail network and customer acquisition in 2018, continued in 2018, with a total volume of $2 trillion, compared taking the view that the incoming resonance of the Snai brand.
regulation may potentially impact to $1.3 trillion in 2017.
This is supported by a significant the economic metrics across the market.
This resulted in slower pipeline of new customers to This expertise is especially expanded to include new each of the sub-segments of our growth in the number of new important given recent regulatory product verticals and has also customers in 2018, with total new B2B business, establishing strong developments in Italy.
In 2018, the been extended for a period of foundations for the future growth customers of 15,100 compared government in Italy approved an up to 15 years.
advertising ban for all forms of These new terms will help the Group was able to produce gambling which will be fully active TradeTech management believe to enhance the Sun Bingo increased interactions and trading in July 2019.
Part of the rationale these results reflect the successful customer offer, while delivering activity with its existing customer for the acquisition of Snaitech was execution of its strategy to greater value to both Playtech base, resulting in a 60% increase the strength of its retail network become the provider of choice and News UK over the long in existing customer activity, on and resonance of the Snai brand.
to brokers in the financial trading term.
It also follows strong which is the result of continued Management believe that the industry.
The combination of performance from the operation investment into the product ban on advertising will facilitate the Groups liquidity offering, across the past year, driven by and service improvement.
market consolidation in the execution and risk management the continued focus on targeted fragmented online market, with In addition, while its still too early offering, and its front-end and and data-driven marketing.
companies with a retail brand and back-end technology, enables it to properly evaluate the long-term presence set to benefit and gain impact of ESMAs new measures, to deliver an end-to-end solution TradeTech Group online market share.
given the continued healthy Playtechs financial division the advertising ban, there have revenue generation post ESMAs TradeTech Group continued to TradeTech 360 solution been various increases in taxation implementation, management deliver positive financial results on gambling activities in Italy.
TradeTech believes its superior commenced a gradual increase which reflects the continued These are estimated to negatively technology and services in its on marketing spend and new improvement and progress impact Snaitech EBITDA in 2019 B2B segment give it a strategic customer numbers are now made in the business in by approximately 30 million advantage in the early stage returning to a growth trajectory.
TradeTech delivered including impact of the 2018 and underdeveloped financial organic growth, new business TradeTech continues to Dignity Decree as well as 2019 trading industry.
To increase the and successfully integrated budget law before mitigation.
profile and recognition of its B2B grow outside of the EU, with acquisitions during the year, approximately 18% of active technology suite, management In 2018 Snaitechs total revenues laying the foundations for future has branded it as TradeTech customers coming from our grew 1.0% to 894.6 million.
growth in the years to come.
non-EU licences and the Group 360, representing the most The growth in revenue was comprehensive B2B management expects this number to continue The division reported continued predominantly driven by 27% to grow as TradeTech continues system and data-driven business growth on reported results and on growth in online, partially offset intelligence tools the equivalent to diversify its revenue base.
a proforma basis with revenues by a decline in gaming machines of Playtechs IMS platform in the and adjusted EBITDA increasing revenue of 3%.
by 9% and 9% respectively, consolidated 511.9 million compared to 2017, and by 4% of revenue and 93 million TradeTech 360 enables brokers and 12% respectively, on a of EBITDA from Snaitechs to efficiently operate a complex proforma basis including the 2018 performance.
multi-brand, multi-licence, multiMor Weizer comparable ACM performance channel, and multi-risk model Chief Executive Officer White-label: Sun Bingo update in 2017.
These positive headline across the globe.
The Group Revenue from Sun Bingo in 2018 20 February 2019 results reflect an improvement has a strong pipeline of brokers increased significantly, growing in EBITDA margin from 32% looking to improve their business by 43% 44% on a constant in 2017 to 33% in 2018, as operationally by migrating currency basis compared to incremental revenues allow to TradeTechs systems and 2017.
The strong revenue for higher-margins as the infrastructure and the Company growth was driven by the business continues to grow.
believes this will become a continued focus on targeted significant growth factor of TradeTech Group B2B results and data-driven marketing.
Revenue from B2B activity Playtech has agreed a multiincreased by 17% during the Markets.
com performance year extension with News UK to period.
This was driven by 20% The TradeTech Group B2C operate Sun Bingo, one of the growth in the liquidity offering, brand, Markets.
com, enjoyed UKs largest and most popular which increased to $27.9 million continued revenue growth in bingo sites.
The collaboration in 2018, and 118% growth on our 2018 of 12% in a period where the with News UK was originally execution and risk management implementation of the European established in 2015, but under offering to $24.8 million Securities and Markets Authoritys the new contract has been
