CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW Polypipes balanced exposure to the different elements of the UK construction market, together with its long-term growth drivers of legacy material substitution, legislative tailwinds, and its acquisition strategy to provide our customers with a onestop shop and geographic reach, delivered another record performance in 2018.
Martin Payne Chief Executive Officer I am pleased to report that Polypipe has As noted in last years report, price increases working capital basis.
Accordingly, the delivered another record performance had been implemented in early 2018 to results for Polypipe France have been in 2018, with revenue from continuing mitigate inflationary effects seen in the treated as discontinued.
Completion of this operations 5.2% higher than the prior year second half of 2017.
I am pleased to report transaction, which represented excellent at 433.2m 2017: 411.7m, underlying that these increases were successfully value for shareholders, was a significant operating profit 1.9% higher at 74.0m implemented progressively through the step forward in implementing our strategy, 2017: 72.6m, and underlying basic first half of the year.
In 2018 oil prices rose allowing the Group to concentrate on its earnings per share 4.4% higher at 28.4 throughout most of the year, resulting higher margin product groups in plumbing, pence per share.
Against a background of in higher raw material costs as well as drainage and ventilation, in both our UK mixed conditions in the UK construction increases in energy and transport costs.
market, the Beast from the East in Wage inflation continued to track consumer In May 2018, Polypipe presented its first February and March 2018, and uncertainty price inflation.
While the Group does all it Capital Markets Day since it listed in April around the nature and timing of the UK can to mitigate inflation through various 2014.
This confirmed that, following an withdrawal from the EU, this performance cost reduction measures, the scale of the in-depth review, the Group would continue shows the robust nature of the Polypipe oil-related inflation meant that price increases to drive profitable organic growth through business model and the strength of its were inevitable.
Further price increases have exploiting legacy material substitution and long-term strategic drivers of legacy material been implemented in the first quarter of legislative tailwinds in water and climate substitution and continuing legislative 2019 to reflect this, and I am confident that management.
The Group continues to tailwinds in water management and climate these increases will be successfully delivered.
review bolt-on acquisition opportunities to management.
The year has also seen a number of changes accelerate growth.
Our strategic priorities to the Group, all in line with the Groups are to firstly add innovative solutions to our strategy, which leave it well placed to already market-leading offer in water and capitalise on future opportunities in its climate management, in order to provide Revenue from chosen markets.
our customers with a one-stop shop and continuing operations secondly to provide further geographic reach On 29 March 2018, the Group completed to leverage our skills, technical knowledge was 5.2% higher than the sale of Polypipe France Holding SAS and IP across a wider market.
Polypipe France, its French operations, the prior year to Ryb S. A. a France-based manufacturer In line with this strategy, the Group and distributor of plastics in Europe for announced two acquisitions in the second 16.5m on a debt and cash-free normalised half of the year.
Permavoid Limited 32 OUR STRATEGIC REPORT Permavoid was acquired on 31 August Our strong sustainability and recycling credentials continue to be something that are 2018 for an initial consideration of 4.0m important not only to Polypipe but to our customers, investors and employees, and we will on a debt and cash-free normalised continue to explore opportunities to increase our usage of recycled material wherever we working capital basis, with a further can.
consideration of up to 12.5m depending During the year we have followed events in the UK and across Europe as the UK moves on financial performance in the two years towards withdrawal from the EU on 29 March 2019 Brexit.
In doing this we have assessed to September 2020.
Manthorpe Building the risks to our business likely to be caused by Brexit, although this has proved difficult due Products Holdings Limited Manthorpe was to the uncertainty of the nature and timing of the withdrawal.
While we are not complacent, acquired on 25 October 2018 for a total we have concluded that Polypipe is at the lower end of the risk spectrum with regard to the cash consideration of 52.1m on a debt impact of Brexit.
With approximately 90% of our revenues derived from, and manufactured and cash-free normalised working capital in, the UK market, we have relatively little cross-border trade.
Also, if material costs increase basis.
The strategic rationale for acquiring as a result of either increased tariffs or a devaluation of Sterling, we will look to recover these these businesses is strong, with both increased costs in selling prices, as we have done historically when faced with cost inflation.
businesses providing innovative solutions Where it is deemed appropriate however, proportionate mitigating actions have been and to complement the Groups existing offer, are being taken, such as building raw material and finished goods stocks to allow for some and I am excited by the prospects for these supply chain disruption at ports, accelerating the refinancing of our debt facility that would businesses in the coming years within the otherwise have needed to have been done in the summer of 2019, taking forward currency Group.
The integration of these businesses cover and providing support to our non-UK EU colleagues, who account for approximately into the Group is progressing well and 13% of our UK workforce, to register for settled status.
both businesses are performing in line with management expectations.
The impact of Brexit on our end markets is difficult to predict, especially given the uncertainty around the nature of the exit.
However, we continue to monitor our lead Polypipe continues to be highly cash indicators around the Group and remain vigilant to any changes.
generative, notwithstanding spending 42.5m on acquisitions net of disposals The following tables set out Group revenue and underlying operating profit from continuing during the course of the year and capital operations by operating segment: expenditure of 1.5x depreciation in our REVENUE existing businesses.
This delivered Group 2018 2017 Change leverage of 1.7x pro forma EBITDA 2017: m m % 1.6x.
The Group is well invested and well Residential Systems 245.3 223.5 9.8 placed to continue to pursue selective bolton acquisitions where appropriate in line Commercial and Infrastructure Systems 187.9 188.2 -0.2 with the Groups strategy, while maintaining 433.2 411.7 5.2 a strong balance sheet, and a disciplined approach to capital allocation.
UNDERLYING OPERATING PROFIT 2018 2017 Change The Group continues to take its m m % responsibilities towards sustainability very Residential Systems 46.3 44.3 4.5 seriously.
Although product standards and Commercial and Infrastructure Systems 27.7 28.3 -2.1 certain applications do not permit use of recycled materials in some products, 74.0 72.6 1.9 wherever possible we use recycled materials The Group continues to show resilience by having a balanced exposure to the different instead of virgin polymer.
In 2018 we used elements of the UK construction market, all of which have different drivers and move 44,700 tonnes of recycled plastics, which at different paces, and again this years performance perhaps more than most represents 40.2% of our overall plastic demonstrates this.
Of this recycled plastic, 16,000 tonnes were from recycled milk bottles and other polyethylene consumer liquid bottles which are sourced In 2018, we used 44,700 tonnes from recycling companies such as Veolia ofrecycledplastics, which represents in bales and go through our 15-stage recycling process at our plant in Horncastle, 40.2%of our overall plastic usage Lincolnshire.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 33 POLYPIPE GROUP PLC CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW RESIDENTIAL SYSTEMS I am delighted that on 25 October 2018 basis, excluding the impact of the 1.3m the Group acquired Manthorpe, a leading revenue associated with the Permavoid Revenue in our Residential Systems segment, designer and manufacturer of moulded acquisition on 31 August 2018.
This resulted which is almost exclusively derived from the and extruded plastic and metal products in full year revenue in our Commercial and UK market, was 9.8% higher than the to the UK and Irish residential and RMI Infrastructure Systems segment of 187.9m prior year at 245.3m 2017: 223.5m.
It has performed in line with 2017: 188.2m, 0.2% lower than the prior The acquisition of Manthorpe on 25 October expectations since joining the Group and year on a reported basis, and 0.9% lower on 2018 contributed 2.8m revenue in the year, we are pleased with how the integration is a like-for-like basis excluding Permavoid.
As well as a strong cultural fit, is again considerably ahead of the market UK revenue, which accounts for 81% of the the acquisition is a good strategic fit with and represents a strong performance in overall segment revenue, was 0.2% higher Polypipes Residential Systems offering in a challenging environment.
UK Commercial and the water and climate management sectors, Conditions in the UK residential markets Infrastructure markets remained difficult, with differentiated, patented, value-adding continued in line with prior years, with particularly through the first half, with some products that will help us deliver a one-stop growth in the new housebuild sector driven small improvements in the second-half as shop for our customers.
There are exciting by a structural housing shortage in the road programmes, both smart motorway operational and commercial synergies that UK, continued historically low mortgage upgrades and new road projects, began have been identified and will be delivered rates, and demand side help for first time to gather momentum.
Successful product during 2019 and beyond.
buyers through the Governments Helplaunches also helped drive second half to-Buy scheme.
The Fuze range of HDPE and Improvement RMI market, however, electrofusion soil stacks launched by our Manthorpe is a good continues to be slow, with weak consumer Building Services business in the second strategic fit with confidence driven by uncertainty around the half of 2017 has been extremely successful, EU withdrawal process impacting private complemented by the successful launch of PolypipesResidential RMI, and continued austerity impacting a fabrication service supplying fully Systems offering public RMI.
Within that limited public RMI assembled soil stacks to site.
The 5.0m spend, we have seen post-Grenfell diversion investment in a large-diameter continuous of expenditure towards fire risk-related corrugator in our Civils factory at Horncastle, Residential Systems delivered an underlying projects impacting our performance within which came on-stream in the first quarter operating profit 4.5% higher than the prior that segment.
of 2018, has also had encouraging early year at 46.3m 2017: 44.3m representing results and contributed to the second-half an 18.9% margin 2017: 19.8% with cost performance, along with the successful Like-for-like reduction activities being more than offset launch of Nuaires IAQ-Valve and expansion by the dilutive effect of price increases, growth of 8.5% of the XBC range of heat recovery the relative growth of lower margin new ventilation units.
It is encouraging to note is considerably ahead housebuilding volumes, and towards the that the development of these products is end of the year, inefficiencies caused by ofthe market squarely in line with the Groups strategic operating at or near full capacity in certain growth pillars of legacy material substitution areas.
Investment in both new production Despite these challenging conditions, for example, Fuze replacing cast iron, equipment and yard expansion and layout ourResidential Systems segment delivered continuous corrugator replacing concrete improvements at our main Doncaster site a strong result for the year.
The adverse and legislative tailwinds for example, Nuaire are being made to alleviate these capacity weather conditions in February and March IAQ-Valve and XBC range driven by air bottlenecks and will provide for a return to 2018 impacted first-half performance with quality and building energy efficiency.
efficient working during the current year.
year-on-year revenue growth at the half COMMERCIAL AND year of 5.9%.
However, concerted efforts by  the house developers to claw back some of We had a particularly challenging first half in the weather-related lost time aided by mild this segment, with tough market conditions weather conditions during the autumn and and the adverse weather resulting in firstwinter, as well as a two-month contribution from Manthorpe, helped second-half revenue half revenue being 6.6% lower than the to grow 13.7% compared to the prior year.
However, with performance This exceptional level of growth presented significantly improving in the second half, a number of operational challenges in largely through self-help measures and our businesses, with parts of the business marginal market improvements, revenue operating at or near full capacity.
grew 6.7% or 5.3% on a like-for-like 34 OUR STRATEGIC REPORT Export revenue, which accounts for While RMI, commercial and infrastructure approximately 19% of overall segment markets have been and will continue to be Permavoid revenue, was 1.6% lower than the prior challenging, the balanced exposure that year, with lower revenue in the Middle East Polypipe has to these different sectors of acquisition provides driven by difficult market conditions, more theconstruction industry positions the unique patented than offsetting improved performance Group well.
The alternative products that As we look into 2019 and beyond, the manufacturing strategy in the Middle East, opportunities for growth through legacy enhance our water announced last year, has been successfully material substitution, legislative tailwinds implemented.
The first production run of management in water and climate management are still Permavoid product using our tooling with as strong as ever, and together with helpful solutions offer local subcontract injection moulders was emerging trends in green infrastructure successfully completed and sold in the and appropriate acquisition opportunities second half of the year, and the closure Commercial and Infrastructure Systems to broaden our product and solutions of our Dubai manufacturing facility and delivered an underlying operating profit of offer, I am confident the fundamentals transfer of production machinery back to the 27.7m 2017: 28.3m and represents for the Group remain strong.
While we UK was also completed during the year.
While the remain vigilant to the short-term impacts closure of our Middle East manufacturing of economic and political uncertainty in our facility improved profitability, this was more markets, I look forward to another year of Fuze HDPE soil than offset by higher costs associated with progress in 2019. the adverse weather in the first half of stackrange 2018 and again the dilutive effects of Martin Payne successfully launched price increases.
Chief Executive Officer OUTLOOK On 31 August 2018, we acquired Polypipe has made significant strategic Permavoid, a specialist designer and supplier progress in 2018.
The disposal of Polypipe of plastic surface water management France and the acquisition of Permavoid solutions in commercial, residential and and Manthorpe have all been firmly in line sports pitch applications.
This is a great with the Groups strategy.
Organic growth strategic fit with the Group, providing ahead of the UK market and strong cash unique patented products that enhance generation has continued to demonstrate our water management solutions offer in the robust nature of the Group.
sustainable urban drainage systems, green infrastructure, Blue-Green roofs, podium decks and sports surface applications, I look forward to as well as some exciting geographic reach opportunities.
Permavoid has another year of been used in applications throughout progress in 2019 Europe including the redevelopment of Orlysquare in Amsterdam, the Maankwartier Heerlen development in Holland and the While the political and economic uncertainty redevelopment of Liverpool Football Clubs associated with the UKs withdrawal from Anfield stadium.
Through its US licensing the EU may impact markets in the short partner, Permavoid is also beginning to see term, we believe that the fundamentals of increased demand for its products in the US, our markets remain robust.
Government and an exciting development that will continue opposition both understand the structural into 2019 and beyond.
housing shortage in the UK and recognise the need to increase the housing stock further, and with Help-to-Buy now extended until 2023, historically low interest rates and good mortgage availability, the mediumterm fundamentals for new housebuilding remain sound.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 35 POLYPIPE GROUP PLC
