CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER'S REVIEW 2018 was another year of solid operational delivery 2018 saw higher production, positive free cash flow and a return to profitability.
The Group is ahead of plans to restore balance sheet strength and remains focused on consistently delivering free cash flows.
Growth projects such as Tolmount, Zama and Sea Lion, together with promising exploration in Mexico and Indonesia, Tony Durrant are being advanced within a disciplined Chief Executive Officer financial framework.
Oil prices increased during the first three In addition, with more production history quarters of 2018, peaking at US$86.2 bbl in to calibrate our dynamic models and to October before falling steeply to close the underwrite a higher recovery, we would hope 80.5kboepd year at US$50.2 bbl.
Against this volatile to be able to revise over time our estimate of Record Group production backdrop, 2018 was another year of solid the Catcher Area reserves.
We also aim to operational delivery by Premier, resulting drill infill wells to target unswept areas of in significantly higher cash flows and a the reservoir to extend plateau rates and return to profit.
to ensure that the Catcher Area FPSO continues to operate at full capacity.
UK production kboepd Production increased year-on-year averaging 80.5 kboepd, despite material The sanction of our operated 500 Bcf gross asset sales.
This was driven by new Tolmount Main gas field in August was a 2018 47 production from our operated Catcher significant achievement for the Group.
Area and continued high operating Tolmount Main is, in barrel of oil equivalent 2017 40 efficiency across the portfolio.
terms, of similar size to our Catcher project 2016 33 at sanction.
By partnering with Our production portfolio today is infrastructure company Kellas Midstream, concentrated in two main geographical we have been able to minimise our share of areas: South East Asia Indonesia and capital expenditure while retaining our Vietnam and the UK Continental Shelf.
equity exposure to the upside in the project, Revenue by region US$1,438m Our operated Asian assets, driven by high significantly enhancing the expected United Kingdom uptime and low-cost structures, generated returns on our investment.
Once on-stream, Vietnam material free cash flows for the Group.
Tolmount Main will provide the next phase Indonesia Singapore demand for our Indonesian gas of growth for the UK business unit and will Pakistan remained robust and the opportunity contribute materially to the Groups cash remains to develop and deliver additional flows, given our tax-advantaged position in resource into the Singapore market under 3% the UK.
our long-term gas sales agreements.
Our 66% Chim So field in Vietnam continued to The HGS 'Humber Gathering System' 13% outperform and we again increased our infrastructure through which Tolmount reserves estimates for the field at the end of Main volumes will flow has the potential to 2018, a third increase since first oil in 2011. develop into a significant new production hub over time.
It is highly economic for us to Production from our UK assets, which deliver additional equity gas resource over represents over half the Groups production, 18% the HGS infrastructure and we are on track grew materially during 2018.
This was to spud the Tolmount East appraisal well, driven by our Catcher Area which reached which is seeking to confirm resource increased plateau rates of 66 kbopd gross potential of up to 300 Bcf gross, in July.
in the fourth quarter, considerably in We also plan to acquire seismic data over excess of the 50 kbopd gross envisaged the Greater Tolmount Area during the first at sanction.
This strong performance has half of 2019 to further define prospectivity continued into 2019 and further underpins in the area.
In addition, there is the our confidence in the longer-term potential to benefit from third party cash flow generation potential of this volumes transported over the Tolmount asset.
At year-end, we revised upwards our Main platform.
Catcher Area reserves to include the Catcher North and Laverda accumulations.
P Pr re em miie er r Oi Oill pl plc c 2 20 01 18 8 A Annu nnua all R Re ep por ort t a and nd Fi Fin na anc nciia all S St tat ate em me en nt ts s 18 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 19 In August 2018, Premier sanctioned the development of its operated Tolmount Main gas field in the Southern North Sea.
The 500 Bcf gross Tolmount Main gas field is scheduled to come on-stream at the end of 2020 and secures Premier's medium-term production profile.
Full year production of 80.5 kboepd, Appraisal of giant Zama discovery a record year for the Group Mexico underway Catcher at 66 kbopd, underpinned Highly prospective, new acreage by high operating efficiency captured offshore Mexico and in the Andaman Sea Tolmount Main gas project sanctioned, platform construction Year-end net debt reduced to commenced US$2.3 billion, from US$2.7 billion 500Bcf 867 mmboe Tolmount Main 2P Group 2P reserves reserves gross 2C resources reserves Our largest pre-development project is the fully appraised Sea Lion field which, at over 220 mmboe gross of resources in Phase 1 alone, represents a material opportunity for Premier.
During 2018 we selected the key contractors for the project, many of whom also worked on our operated Catcher project, and put in place LOIs for the provision of services.
Our key contractors, having carried out extensive due diligence, agreed to provide up to US$400 million of financing for Sea Lion Phase 1, underlining the robust nature of the project and the opportunity to be involved in developing the first field in a new basin.
The critical path to a final investment decision remains securing a senior debt funding structure, likely involving a combination of export credit financing and project bank funding.
The industry continues to follow closely our progress and it remains our preference to bring in an additional equity partner to the project once we have finalised the funding structure.
Our exploration team has done an excellent job of refocusing our portfolio towards lower risk but more impactful opportunities whilst operating within significantly reduced budgetary constraints.
A notable success was the Zama discovery in 2017.
Much of 2018 was spent preparing for the Zama appraisal campaign as well as progressing early WORKING INTEREST ENTITLEMENT engineering work on potential development concepts.
The programme is well underway Production kboepd 2018 2017 2018 2017 with encouraging initial results.
Indonesia 13.2 14.1 8.7 10.3 Pakistan 5.3 6.5 5.3 6.4 UK 46.8 39.5 46.8 39.5 Vietnam 15.2 14.9 13.0 13.0 Total 80.5 75.0 73.8 69.2 P Pr re em miie er r Oi Oill pl plc c 2 20 01 18 8 A Annu nnua all R Re ep por ort t a and nd Fi Fin na anc nciia all S St tat ate em me en nt ts s CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER'S REVIEW Priorities for 2019 Looking ahead to 2019, our priorities are: Deliver 2019 production guidance of 75 kboepd Maintain high operating efficiency at Catcher P rogress Tolmount Main to schedule and within budget: appraise Tolmount East P rogress senior financing structure for Sea Lion C omplete Zama appraisal and define development plans M ature prospects on newly captured acreage for drilling M aintain a competitive cost base D eliver debt reduction These objectives, if successfully achieved, will put us in good stead to enhance shareholder value.
We have further enhanced our exploration Our proven and probable 2P reserves, Total 2019 capital expenditure including portfolio through the capture of additional on a working interest basis, reduced to abandonment is expected to be US$340 acreage in our basins of choice.
We were 194 mmboe 2017: 302 mmboe, primarily million.
Full year 2018 operating costs were particularly pleased to have secured the due to the recategorisation of Sea Lion US$10 boe while leasing costs associated heavily contested Block 30 in Round 3.1 Phase 1 2P reserves 134 mmboe as 2C with our operated Chim So, Huntington just prior to the new government placing a resources following new guidelines issued and Catcher FPSOs amounted to US$7 boe.
moratorium on further licensing rounds.
by the Society of Petroleum Engineers.
2019 operating costs are forecast at US$13 We were also successful in securing the These point to holding Sea Lion boe, slightly higher than 2018, reflecting the Andaman II licence offshore Indonesia in undeveloped resources as contingent impact of disposals of low-cost gas the highly prospective North Sumatra until financing for the project and formal production and expected natural decline basin.
This has attracted considerable approvals have been secured.
To rebook the from fixed cost base assets, while lease costs industry attention with the opening up 2C resources of Sea Lion as 2P reserves the are expected to be of the order of US$7 boe.
of a potential commercialisation route funding and other approvals would need to Debt reduction remains a key corporate via the onshore Arun gas terminal.
The booking of the Tolmount priority.
The Groups strong operational our exploration portfolio is capable of Main field as 2P reserves, following its performance supported by its low-cost base delivering a series of high impact wells sanction, and an upward revision in our and a disciplined capital expenditure which have the potential to augment estimate of 2P reserves at Catcher, Chim So programme resulted in us generating materially the Groups resource base.
and Elgin-Franklin, more than offset the material free cash flow during 2018.
This, We have also continued to exit our more impact of 2018 production and disposals.
together with proceeds of US$73 million mature legacy positions which do not This represents a reserves replacement ratio from selective disposals of non-core assets meet our internal investment hurdles.
of 220 per cent, excluding the technical and the early exchange of the convertible recategorisation of Sea Lion resources.
At 31 December 2018, Group proven and bonds, resulted in a reduction of net debt by probable 2P reserves and contingent 2C We are the operator of the majority of US$393 million to US$2.3 billion, ahead of resources, on a working interest basis, were our assets which provides us with strong the plan agreed with our lenders.
We also 867 mmboe 2017: 902 mmboe, including the control over future expenditure significantly reduced our covenant leverage effect of 2018 production and asset sales.
programmes and the ability to flex ratio covenant net debt EBITDAX to 3.1x The sanction of the Tolmount Main project our discretionary spend in the event of 2017: 6.0x comfortably within the covenant added 46 mmboe to 2P reserves.
In addition, another downturn in the commodity price.
of 5.0x at year-end and back in line with Premier booked the 3 mmboe net 2P During 2018, development, exploration and many of our peers.
reserves related to the Catcher North and abandonment spend was US$353 million, Laverda fields while there were also reserve below original guidance, due to deferrals of upgrades at Chim So and Elgin-Franklin.
appraisal and abandonment expenditure and tight cost control.
2P reserves 2C 2P reserves mmboe resources mmboe 1 January 2018 302 902 Production 30 30 Net additions, revisions 66 21 Sea Lion recategorisation 134 - Disposals, relinquishments 10 26 31 December 2018 194 867 P Pr re em miie er r Oi Oill pl plc c 2 20 01 18 8 A Annu nnua all R Re ep por ort t a and nd Fi Fin na anc nciia all S St tat ate em me en nt ts s 20 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 21 Looking to the year ahead, we have a highly It is our highest priority to continue to operate cash generative production base, which is all of our assets in a safe and responsible supported by a substantial hedging manner, to ensure the safety of our workforce programme, an improved portfolio mix and to minimise potential risk to the underpinned by high margin Catcher environment.
Not only is it the right thing to barrels and a tightly controlled cost base.
do, it is also a prerequisite for maintaining our This positions us well to deliver further social and legal licence to operate for the debt reduction in 2019 while progressing longer-term.
We are pleased to report that we our future growth projects to create recorded no serious injuries, no spills and no material value to all of our stakeholders material process safety events during 2018. over the longer-term.
We also had record low GHG gas intensity at Premiers operated assets.
In all our HSES We have considerable optionality within metrics, we aim to deliver continuous our portfolio to grow organically and deliver improvement and upper quartile value over the longer-term.
At the same performance against our peer group.
time, Premier has an excellent track record of delivering value from acquisitions and The composition of the Board and its we continue to evaluate potential committees is continually under review.
acquisition opportunities that enhance our As Jane Hinkley will reach the ninth asset base and create synergies with the anniversary of her appointment during 2019 existing core businesses.
With many of the we are pleased to announce that Barbara majors and larger independents looking to Jeremiah, subject to the approvals of refocus their portfolios away from the UK shareholders at the AGM in May, will join North Sea, there is an opportunity for the Board.
It is intended that, following a Premier to acquire mid-life, cash flow transitional period, Barbara will take over generative and profitable production assets as Chair of the Remuneration Committee with potentially significant upsides, which from Jane.
have not been pursued by the previous asset holders.
Of course, any potential acquisitions have to be measured against Tony Durrant and compete for capital with the existing Chief Executive Officer organic opportunities within our portfolio.
P Pr re em miie er r Oi Oill pl plc c 2 20 01 18 8 A Annu nnua all R Re ep por ort t a and nd Fi Fin na anc nciia all S St tat ate em me en nt ts s BUSINESS UNITS REVIEW Strong performance across the portfolio Premier has seven offices worldwide with 782 employees and is organised into five business units UK, Indonesia, Vietnam, Pakistan and the Falkland Islands with support provided from the corporate headquarters in London.
Premier is active both offshore and onshore, but all of the Companys operated interests are located offshore.
01 United Kingdom 05 Pakistan PAGE 23 PAGE 28 01 02 Vietnam 06 Mexico PAGE 25 PAGE 29 05 06 03 Indonesia 07 Brazil 02 PAGE 26 PAGE 29 03 07 04 The Falkland Islands PAGE 27 04 Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements 22 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 23 01 United Kingdom The non-operated Elgin-Franklin field Solan Premier 5.2 per cent non-operated interest Premier interests averaged 6.7 kboepd net, ahead of forecast.
Shetland Producing oil elds Islands Production was boosted by a strong Pipeline interests performance from the new wells brought on-stream, successful remedial work on existing wells and continued high operating Orkney efficiency.
At year-end, Premier revised Islands upwards its 2P reserves by 7 mmboe net which brings them in line with the operators estimates and reflecting the inclusion of planned additional infill wells.
Balmoral Area Premiers operated Huntington field UK Premier 100 per cent operated interest averaged 5.8 kboepd net during 2018, Huntington reflecting forecast natural decline and several unplanned shut downs.
SCOTLAND Modifications to the FPSO were made to Aberdeen facilitate gas import which, together with Elgin Franklin the conversion of a former production Catcher Area well to a water injector, has improved Kyle reservoir deliverability and plant stability.
The Huntington field has continued to benefit from high operating efficiency post period end with production averaging over 6 kboepd year to date in 2019.
Production from the Premier-operated Solan field Premier 100 per cent operated interest averaged 4.6 kboepd, ahead of forecast, driven by high operating efficiency of over 90 per cent.
Premier expects to drill a new producer P3 in 2020 targeted at increasing Tolmount ENGLAND production from the Central Northern part CMS of the field.
Separately, Premier continues to review the potential for third party volumes over the Solan infrastructure.
The Balmoral Area, comprising the Balmoral, Brenda, Nicol and Stirling fields, delivered The UK delivered record production Production 1.3 kboepd net in 2018 with production The Catcher Area FPSO, which produces from impacted by an extended summer in 2018 of 46.8 kboepd, up almost the Catcher, Varadero and Burgman fields, maintenance shut down.
Production from 20 per cent on 2017, driven by reached oil production rates of 60 kbopd the Kyle field Premier 40 per cent nonincreased Catcher Area Premier gross in May, as commissioning of the gas operated interest averaged 1.6 kboepd net.
50 per cent operated interest plant was completed.
In the fourth quarter, As a result of cost control and asset continued strong reservoir performance and performance, cessation of production from production.
In November and increased plant availability, following final the Balmoral Area has now been deferred December, UK production averaged commissioning of the FPSO secondary until 2021 while the lease of the Banff FPSO, over 60 kboepd, supported by high systems, resulted in oil plateau production which handles Kyles production, has been uptime across the asset base and rates being increased to 66 kbopd and Premier extended to August 2019.
In the Southern issuing the final acceptance certificate to the North Sea, the Rita Premier 74 per cent increased rates from the Catcher FPSO provider.
We have safely delivered 38 operated interest and Hunter Premier Area, offset by the Babbage Area Catcher cargoes since first oil.
79 per cent operated interest fields ceased sale in early December.
In August, production in mid-2018 following closure of Four further Catcher Area producer wells Premier sanctioned its next UK the Theddlethorpe gas processing terminal.
were drilled during 2018 with the 18th well, growth project, the 500 Bcf a Burgman field producer, completed in UK unit field operating costs on a per barrel Tolmount Main gas development October.
This concluded a highly successful of oil equivalent reduced to US$13 boe 2017: three-year drilling programme which was US$18 boe while lease costs increased to Premier 50 per cent operated 33 per cent below budget and delivered well US$10 boe 2017: US$5 boe.
These reflect interest which is now in the productivity on average 30 per cent higher new production from the leased Catcher execution phase.
In addition, dynamic data FPSO.
In 2019, Premier expects UK operating continues to demonstrate good connectivity costs including lease costs to remain between the reservoirs and strong pressure around US$23 boe with the impact of a full support provided by the aquifer and injector year of Catcher production at increased rates wells.
The Group remains highly offset by natural decline on more mature, encouraged about the potential overall fixed cost base assets such as Huntington, recovery from the Catcher Area and expects Kyle and the Balmoral Area.
to refine its estimates as more production data is obtained.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements BUSINESS UNITS REVIEW CONTINUED 46.8kboepd Record net UK production Developments The Tolmount Main gas project is now well drilling at Tolmount Main as well as the Premier has identified several high-value into its execution phase.
Construction of location of a potential Tolmount Far East subsea tie-backs and infill drilling locations the minimal facilities platform commenced exploration well, in addition to defining to maintain and extend production rates in Rosetti Marinos Ravenna yard in further prospectivity in the area.
Premier expects to December 2018 with fabrication of the Portfolio management sanction the development of the Catcher primary structural steel and nodes as well During 2018 Premier continued its North and Laverda oil accumulations as the rolling of the tubulars underway and programme of non-core asset disposals Premier 50 per cent operated interest progressing to plan.
Detailed engineering from the E. ON portfolio with the sale of during the first half of 2019 and, as a result, and procurement of the trees, wellheads its 30 per cent interest in the Esmond at year-end 2018 booked the 3 mmboe net and subsea pipeline has also started.
At Transportation System 'ETS' to Kellas reserves associated with the two fields.
The Easington, Centricas onshore receiving Management Ltd for total cash proceeds US$70 million net project will entail two terminal, preparation for modifications of US$22.9 million after working capital development wells drilled from a common required for Tolmount gas import has adjustments.
Premier also completed the drill centre and tied back to the Varadero started and significant purchase orders are sale of its interests in the Babbage Area to field.
Drilling is scheduled to commence in being placed for engineering work-scopes.
Verus Petroleum SNS Ltd 'Verus' in mid-2020 with first oil targeted for early The four well development drilling December 2018 receiving cash proceeds 2021.
In addition, Premier expects to drill an programme is scheduled to commence of US$38.7 million, after adjustments for infill well on the Varadero field immediately mid-2020 with the first well expected to Babbage cash flows collected since the before the Catcher North and Laverda come on-stream in the fourth quarter of effective date of 1 January 2018.
The sale drilling programme to target resources that year.
Premier continues to estimate proceeds from both transactions were beyond the reach of the initial production that its share of the capital expenditure to used to pay down the Companys debt.
Premier plans to acquire 4D seismic develop Tolmount Main will be around across the Catcher Area in the second US$120 million, comprising project quarter of 2020 to help confirm additional management and development drilling future infill well locations.
costs, with the infrastructure joint venture between Kellas Midstream and Dana In August, Premier and its partners Petroleum funding the platform, pipeline sanctioned the development of the and the terminal modifications.
Tolmount Main gas field Premier 50 per cent operated interest in the Southern Gas Exploration and appraisal Basin.
The Tolmount Main gas field is Premier has contracted the Ensco 123 rig to expected to produce around 500 Bcf drill the Tolmount East appraisal well in 96 mmboe gross of gas with peak July ahead of drilling the Tolmount Main production of up to 300 mmscfd development wells in 2020.
targeting 220 Bcf to 300 Bcf P50 to P10 of gross unrisked resource in an area to the east of the main Tolmount field which sits above the Tolmount Main gas water contact.
On success, the Tolmount East appraisal well will be suspended for use as a future producer to be tied back to the HGS infrastructure.
A 3D seismic survey across the Greater Tolmount Area is scheduled to commence later this month.
The survey will be used to help optimise development Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements 24 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 25 INDONESIA CAMBODIA VIETNAM Premier interests Ho Chi 02 Vietnam Producing oil & gas elds Minh City Export pipeline Vung Tau The Vietnam business unit continued to generate material free cash flow NCS Pipeline for the Group during 2018.
This was driven by a strong production Andaman II Chim So Gas Export performance, underpinned by a 12W Chim So Dua better than forecast subsurface performance and sustained high Tuna discovery operating efficiency, combined with Natuna Sea MALAYSIA Block A a continued low operating cost base.
On the back of this outperformance, WNTS to Premier again increased its total SINGAPORE Singapore 540km Singapore recoverable reserves estimate to Jurong Singapor Singapore e STRAIT OF SINGAPORE Island over 120 mmboe.
Route of WNTS Pipeline Batu Ampar Batam Tee BATAM BATAM SUMATRA Panaran Production The Chim So and Dua fields continued to online.
As a result of this strong subsurface INDONESI A Production from Block 12W Premier produce with a high operating efficiency of performance, Premier again increased its 53.13 per cent operated interest, which over 90 per cent during 2018 with reserves estimates of Chim So by 5 mmboe contains the Chim So and Dua fields, maintenance programmes completed on net at year-end 2018. averaged 15.2 kboepd net, up on the prior schedule.
Production from the fields was also Operating costs from Block 12W have corresponding period and above budget.
boosted by four well intervention campaigns, remained low at US$5 boe while the lease This strong performance was driven which perforated new zones in the shallower cost of the FPSO averaged US$6 boe as by high operating efficiency of the reservoir sections of existing production Premier continues to maintain tight control Chim So FPSO and successful ongoing wells and resulted in an additional 1 kboepd of its cost base in Vietnam.
Premier also well intervention programmes which net of production during 2018.
The two continued to sell its Chim So crude at a offset natural decline from established Chim So infill wells, drilled and completed premium to Brent during 2018. reservoir horizons.
in December 2017, have also continued to perform strongly contributing over 1 million barrels of net oil production since coming 15.2kboepd 2018 Vietnam net production 90% operating efficiency from Chim So Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements MALAYSIA VIETNAM INDONESIA BUSINESS UNITS REVIEW CONTINUED CAMBODIA VIETNAM 03 Indonesia Premier interests Ho Chi Producing oil & gas elds Minh City Export pipeline The Premier-operated Natuna Sea Vung Tau Block A NSBA fields delivered a robust performance in 2018, NCS Pipeline underpinned by an increased market Andaman II share within GSA1.
This, together Chim So Gas Export 12W Chim So Dua with continued low operating costs, led to the Indonesian business Tuna generating US$110 million of net discovery Natuna Sea cash flows for the Group.
MALAYSIA Block A WNTS to Singapore SINGAPORE 540km Singapore Jurong Singapor Singapore e STRAIT OF SINGAPORE Island Route of WNTS Pipeline Batu Ampar Batam Tee BATAM BATAM SUMATRA Panaran Production and development Development Exploration and appraisal Production from Indonesia in 2018 averaged The development of the Bison, Iguana, In January, Premier was awarded a 40 per INDONESI A 13.2 kboepd net with the Natuna Sea Block A Gajah-Pueri BIG-P gas fields Premier cent operated interest in the Andaman II fields Premier 28.67 per cent operated 28.67 per cent operated interest entails a licence in the underexplored but proven interest delivering 12.9 kboepd net and three well subsea tie-back to existing North Sumatra basin offshore Aceh in the the Kakap field Premier 18.75 non-operated infrastructure and is progressing to budget 2017 Indonesian Licence Round.
PGS has interest, now sold, averaging 0.3 kboepd net.
The Naga and Pelikan commenced a 3D seismic acquisition deck extensions and the Pelikan and AGX programme designed to mature the Premier sold an average of 233 BBtud gross platform spools were successfully installed numerous prospects and leads identified on 2017: 234 BBtud from its operated Natuna offshore during the third quarter.
existing 2D seismic, many of which exhibit Sea Block A fields during 2018.
Fabrication of the subsea structures direct hydrocarbon indicators.
Drilling is Singapore demand for gas sold under GSA1 commenced in October and will be installed targeted for late 2020.
The licence has the remained robust, averaging 292 BBtud offshore along with the flowlines, flexible potential to deliver significant gas volumes 2017: 286 BBtud.
Premiers Anoa and risers and umbilicals in mid-2019.
A DSV will into North Sumatra and adds a potentially Pelikan fields delivered 153 BBtud gross then complete the final hook up and tie-ins material new gas play to Premiers 2017: 143 BBtud, capturing 52.4 per cent during the second half of the year.
2017: 49.6 per cent of GSA1 deliveries, of the three BIG-P development wells is on On Natuna Sea Block A, Premiers above Natuna Sea Block As contractual track to commence in the first half of 2019 exploration team is reprocessing existing share of 51.7 per cent.
Gajah Baru and Naga with first gas planned for late 2019.
Once Anoa 3D datasets and analysing production delivered production of 80 BBtud gross on-stream, the BIG-P gas fields will support data from the WL-5X well to assess the 2017: 91 BBtud under GSA2, representing the Groups long-term gas contracts into ultimate potential of the Lama play beneath 100 per cent nomination delivery by Singapore and will help to maintain the Anoa field and to identify potential Premier.
Gross liquids production from t production from Natuna Sea Block A. infill drilling locations within the Anoa he Anoa field was 1.2 kbopd 2017: 1.1 kbopd.
Gas sales from the Kakap field averaged Elsewhere in Indonesia, Premier and its 4 BBtud gross 2017: 17 BBtud gross while joint venture partners continue to seek a gross liquids production was 0.7 kbopd farm in offer to the Tuna PSC Premier 65 2017: 2.6 kbopd.
The reduction on the prior per cent operated interest ahead of a two corresponding period reflects the sale of well campaign to appraise the Tuna field.
Kakap to Batavia Oil which completed in April.
Premier continues to benefit from a low-cost base in Indonesia with operating costs averaging US$6.7 boe for the period.
Gas supply by contract GSA1 GSA2 BBtud gross 2018 2017 2018 2017 Anoa, Pelikan 153 143 Gajah Baru, Naga 80 91 Kakap 4 17 Total 157 160 80 91 Note: Premier completed the sale of its interest in Kakap in April 2018.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements MALAYSIA VIETNAM 26 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 27 04 The Premier interests Oil discovery Sea Lion Falkland Islands Atlantic Ocean During 2018, the focus has been on securing LOIs Letters of Intent with key contractors and progressing the financing structure for the first phase of the development of the Sea Lion field in the North Falklands Basin ahead of a final investment decision.
Stanley 220mmbbls Sea Lion Phase 1 gross up to US$400million of vendor loan notes secured The Sea Lion project represents a material Premier has also continued to progress opportunity for the Group with around discussions with senior debt providers, 400 mmboe net to Premier to be developed including export credit finance agencies, over several phases.
Sea Lion Phase 1 around the funding structure of the project.
Premier 60 per cent operated interest will In particular, Premier is preparing to submit develop over 220 mmbbls of gross resources an application for project funding once in PL032, using a conventional FPSO based FEED has been completed, scheduled for scheme, similar to Premiers successful the second quarter of 2019.
it remains the Groups preference to optimise its level of participation in the During 2018, Premier completed the project by bringing in an additional equity selection of its key contractors and put partner once the funding structure has in place LOIs for the provision of key been finalised.
services, including an FPSO, the drilling rig, well services, SURF, subsea production systems and installation services, as well as vendor financing.
Premier is now working with its selected contractors to complete FEED and to convert the LOIs into fully termed contracts.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements BUSINESS UNITS REVIEW CONTINUED 05 Pakistan Premiers Pakistan business continued to generate positive net cash flows for the Group, supported by high operating efficiency of over 95 per cent and a low-cost base.
Production from Premiers six non-operated producing gas fields in Pakistan averaged 5.3 kboepd 2017: 6.2 kboepd during 2018.
The fall in production reflects natural decline in the main gas fields partially offset by better than expected results achieved from the new Kadanwari development wells brought onstream.
Premier realised an average price of US$3.4 mscf for its Pakistani gas during the period while operating costs remained low at US$0.9 mscf US$4.9 boe.
In April 2017, Premier announced the sale of its Pakistan business to Al-Haj Group for US$65.6 million.
To date, Premier has received US$40 million of deposits from the buyer and also collected US$25 million in cash flows since the economic date of the transaction 1 January 2017.
Premier expects the sale to complete on settlement of final working capital adjustments, which is scheduled for the end of the first quarter of 2019.
US$40million Deposits received to date from buyer of Pakistan assets 5.3kboepd Pakistan production in 2018 Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements 28 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 29 3,000m 2,000m 1,000m 3,000m 1,000m 100m 2,000m Exploration & appraisal In recent years, Premier has sought to rebalance its exploration portfolio away from traditional but now mature areas to underexplored but proven hydrocarbon basins with the potential to develop into new business units over the medium-term.
06 Mexico In Mexico, pre-unitisation terms were programme is now being undertaken targets, including the high impact Wahoo agreed by all potential partners in the ahead of a drill stem test with the results prospect, which exhibits a flat spot on 2D Zama field and approved by the expected in early April.
The rig will then seismic analogous to the Zama discovery, Mexican Government in September.
move to drill the second appraisal well and the Cabrilla prospect ahead of a drilling The pre-unitisation agreement provides Zama-3 to evaluate the southern part campaign in 2020. a framework to enable the sharing of data of the Zama oil field.
The results of the Premier also secured a 100 per cent operated to ensure the safe and optimal appraisal appraisal programme will feed into the interest in two blocks Blocks 11 and 13 in of the Zama field and, in the event a shared early engineering work, being undertaken the more frontier Burgos Basin, which is reservoir is proven, it establishes a defined by McDermott and IO, and will help inform directly inboard from the deep water process for the overall development of the concept select decision ahead of a final Perdido fold belt.
An environmental the field and the initial participation of investment decision which is targeted baseline study across the two blocks was each party.
for 2020. completed in 2018 and the forward plan is to In September, the Mexican Government In March 2018, Premier was awarded three reprocess existing 3D seismic during 2019 approved the Block 7 Premier 25 per cent new licences in Round 3.1, significantly with the aim of identifying potential non-operated interest appraisal enhancing the Groups acreage position drilling targets.
programme, comprising two back-to-back offshore Mexico.
Premier, together with its On Block 2 Premier 10 per cent nonwells and one side track.
The first appraisal joint venture partners DEA operator and operated interest in the Sureste Basin, well, Zama-2, spudded to the north of the Sapura, secured the highly contested Block Premiers option to participate and convert Zama discovery well at the end of 30 Premier 30 per cent non-operated its carried 10 per cent interest to a paying November.
The well penetrated 152 metres interest which is directly to the south west interest of up to 25 per cent equity or to of net pay above the oil water contact and of Premiers Zama discovery in the shallow withdraw was triggered in May 2018. encountered a better than anticipated net water Sureste Basin.
A block wide 3D Premier has opted to exit and received final to gross ratio.
The rig subsequently spudded seismic acquisition programme is scheduled government approval for its withdrawal the up-dip vertical Zama-2 well side-track to commence in June 2019.
The programme from the block in February 2019. and has encountered the main reservoir will further define potential exploration on prognosis.
A comprehensive coring SCE-AP3 07 Brazil and Tatajuba prospects.
The two wells Premier interests 40km combined will test in excess of 500 mmbbls Oil discovery Premier has continued to take an South of gross prospective resource.
operational lead for environmental Atlantic licensing and well planning in the offshore Having matured and evaluated the Ocean Cear Basin, where the Group plans to drill prospectivity on Block 665 Premier two wells in 2020.
50 per cent operated interest utilising the high-quality 3D seismic acquired by In the first quarter of 2018 Premier secured Premier and its partner, the decision has approval from the ANP to replace the two CE-M-665 been taken to relinquish the licence at the well commitment on its operated Block 717 end of the initial term in July 2019.
Premier 50 per cent operated interest with a single deeper well targeting the stacked Pecem discovery Berimbau and Maraca prospects.
Premier intends to drill this well in the first half of CE-M-717 2020 as part of a two well campaign with Block 661 Premier 30 per cent non-operated BRAZIL interest.
The 661 well will test the Itarema Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements
