12 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Chief Executive Officers review Introduction PFG is the leading provider of credit products which provide financial inclusion for the 10 to 12 million consumers who are not well served by mainstream lenders.
We serve 2.4 million customers through our four brands: Vanquis Bank credit cards, Provident home credit, Satsuma online loans, and Moneybarn car finance, all of which have market-leading positions.
There remains a significant opportunity to enhance our market-leading positions through our businesses working much more collaboratively across our core capabilities of credit, collections, distribution, data and analytics.
Continuing to develop our digital capability will be central to maintaining our market-leading positions.
The delivery of the Groups strategy is supported by a financial model that is based on investing in capital generative businesses offering an attractive return, and which aligns the dividend policy witha strong capital base and future growth plans.
Malcolm Le May Chief Executive Officer 13 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report We have been focused on collections activity during 2018 A year of operational recovery the turnaround of the home credit business in 2018.
2018 has been a year of operational recovery after 46.6p This has resulted in the collections performance of credit theevents of 2017.
Following the recapitalisation of the originated since the fourth quarter of 2017, where the Adjusted Groups balance sheet through completion of the rights CEM has ownership of the customer relationship and has EPS issue in April 2018, we committed to five clear objectives issued the credit, performing broadly in line with historic for 2018.
These were: i implementation of the home 26.6% growth on 2017 levels.
However, the collections performance of credit credit recovery plan with a view to the business becoming issued prior to the fourth quarter of 2017 has performed fully authorised by the FCA: ii completing the ROP refund significantly below historic levels.
These customers We have made programme in Vanquis Bank and adapting the business were typically active during the migration to the new excellent progress model to changes in regulation, particularly in respect operating model and we have seen a large number in 2018 on of the new persistent debt measures: iii maintaining of these customers making less frequent payments delivering against a constructive dialogue with the FCA to progress the which are also typically lower than their contracted the operational investigation atMoneybarn: iv strengthening the rate.
The CEMscollecting from these customers did objectives we set Groups governance framework and changing culture not originate the loan in most cases andtherefore the ourselves at the to refocus more on thecustomer: and v re-accessing customer relationship is not as strong.
however, these balances now onlyrepresent I am very pleased to report that we have delivered approximately 20m of CCDs receivablesbook Malcolm Le May against each of these objectives.
Chief Executive Officer During the implementation of the recovery plan, Home credit recovery plan the performance management of field resource has been focused on managing activity and customer CCD has made excellent progress in implementing outcomes without the use of performance-related pay the UK home credit recovery plan which culminated or financial objectives.
However, in early March 2019, in the business gaining full authorisation by the FCA the FCA confirmed that the business can implement in November 2018.
This is a major achievement by the enhanced performance management of CEMs based CCD team who have worked tirelessly to turnaround on a balanced scorecard and agreed to the introduction thebusiness following the events of 2017. of an element ofvariable performance-related pay.
The implementation of the recovery plan has required The scorecard will be tested for impact on customer asignificant strengthening of the controls and processes outcomes and for calibration in an area and then alarger throughout the business in 2018.
In particular, there region before being deployed in full by the end of the have been two major milestones delivered in the year.
The implementation of this Firstly, we now use voice recording for all issuance of full suite ofperformance measures is a key milestone credit in the UK and the majority of collections visits.
in ensuring the sustainability of returns in CCD and This enables us to evidence our interactions with the creation of longer term value for shareholders.
It is customers and oversee customer outcomes, both essential toimproving the efficiency and effectiveness ofwhich are very important in meeting regulatory of the field organisation, both in terms of delivering requirements.
It also allows us to use the recordings for consistently good customer outcomes and returning training purposes, ensuring that our CEMs continuously the business torun-rate profitability in due course improve theirservice to customers.
through growing the customer base and improving Secondly, during the second quarter of the year, we collections performance.
piloted a new field structure in 20 locations which We have made very good progress in the turnaround involved the introduction of a new management role, ofCCD in 2018 and the business has delivered called a Business Manager, to directly manage and asignificant reduction in losses.
Provident remains support CEMs in delivering the right quality of service the clear market leader in the home credit market to our customers.
The aim of the new structure is to with astrong franchise and Satsuma is showing strong better define roles and responsibilities, improve spans growth.
We believe that we have now developed an of control, provide greater support for CEMs in dealing operating model for our UK business that meets the with arrears and provide better structured training with standards expected by the FCA.
Importantly, we believe a clear focus on enhancing the control environment.
the key requirements oftherecent high-cost credit Following a successful pilot, including a number of review can be best evidenced through the recording branches being visited by the FCA in July, we rolled ofcustomer interactions, particularly at the point outthe new structure across the field organisation ofcredit being issued.
However, due to the events inthesecond half of the year.
of 2017 and the subsequent need toimplement the Both of these changes, together with numerous other recovery plan, the customer base and receivables actions undertaken by management, will allow the bookhas contracted significantly over the last business to give customers the best possible service 18 monthsand the business isnow sub-scale.
whilst maintaining high levels of regulatory compliance.
14 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Chief Executive Officers review continued As a result, the business has two main objectives in 2019: Vanquis Bank refund programme The business i stabilising the customer base to set the business up andregulatory changes successfully for growth in the future: and ii reducing the cost base.
implemented Both of these objectives will be necessary to return the The ROP refund programme is now over 99% the necessary business to run-rate profitability in due course and then implemented, with around 1.3 million current and deliver the Groups target ROA of approximately 10% measures to meet formercustomers refunded by early March 2019. inthe medium term.
the affordability The team at Vanquis Bank have done very well todeliver this in line with the timetable agreed with the FCA and principles In respect of growth, we saw good momentum on new within the provisions established at the end of 2017. customer recruitment in the last quarter of 2018 and arising from the It is pleasing to report that there has been no material encouragingly this has continued in early 2019.
We also FCA review of change in the level of complaints arising in relation plan to expand the products we offer our customers creditworthiness to ROP.
Following agreement in consumer with the FCA, we will be trialling an enhancement of Vanquis Bank has successfully delivered a number credit which our home credit product offering during the second of business model refinements during 2018 in order took effectfrom quarter of 2019, leveraging the capabilities in home to adapt to changes in regulation and to improve 1November 2018. credit and Satsuma.
The product enhancement will the customer proposition, including: i reducing the continue to be relationship managed in the home by cash interest rate to be in line with the purchase rate: Malcolm Le May a CEM, but payments will be collected remotely via ii implementing voluntary controls allowing changes Chief Executive Officer continuous payment authority CPA.
We anticipate that to repayment dates and alerting customers when this will allowus to attract new and former customers promotional periods are expiring or they are nearing who do not wish to have a weekly collections visit by a their credit limit: iii introducing credit line increase CEM and are of suitable credit quality.
Secondly, as well consents: and iv early interventions have been as continuing to increase the distribution of the core implemented so that customers in potential financial Satsuma small-sum, short-term loan product, following difficulty are being contacted quickly.
In addition, agreement with the FCA, we intend to undertake a trial inresponse to the FCAs definition of persistent debt of larger, longer duration personal loans at rates below within the Credit Card Market Study CCMS, Vanquis 100% APR during the thirdquarter of 2019.
We believe Bank increased its minimum due payments by around continued innovation in Satsuma is a crucial tool for 50bps in the third quarter of the year and will shortly the Group to enhance its digital customer proposition roll-out the use of recommended payments which which is increasingly important in responding to ongoing weexpect to be typically between 100bps and 150bps changes in customer needs and preferences.
higher than the minimum payment due.
Together with the implementation of other communication strategies In terms of costs, we will continue to align the cost base across the customer base, these measures should of the business to the current size of the customer base.
reduce the risks that customers meet the definition We have recently announced a voluntary redundancy ofbeing in persistent debt and lose access to the programme with a view to reducing headcount by benefits of owning a Vanquis Bank credit card.
approximately 200 in CCDs central support functions.
This will mean that over the last 12 months we The affordability principles arising from the FCAs have reduced headcount in CCD by approximately review of creditworthiness in consumer credit 1,000 around 20%.
Whilst redundancies are always tookeffectfrom 1 November 2018.
Following regrettable, we believe that we need to continue to implementation of a new underwriting platform in reduce the cost base which, together with delivering November, Vanquis Bank successfully migrated all growth, is necessary to achieve run-rate profitability distribution channels to the new decision module in due course.
The actions we have already taken, and with enhanced creditworthiness assessments.
continue to take, demonstrates that we are prepared All of the Groups businesses are compliant with to make the hard choices required to ensure that the theFCAsaffordability requirements.
Groups operations are lean in order to remain the most competitive player in the sector.
In June 2018, we were deeply shocked and saddened bythe death of Tina Cantello, a CEM in Romford.
Tina wasa well-liked and respected colleague who had been with Provident for over 25 years.
She will be sorely missed and we are supporting her family through these difficult times.
The safety of our employees remains ofparamount importance.
15 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report 2.4m customers We serve 2.4 million customers through our four brands: Vanquis Bank credit cards, Provident home credit, Satsuma online loans, and Moneybarn car finance, all of which have market-leading positions.
5,700 colleagues work together across our divisions to deliver our objective of being the leading provider of credit products to provide financial inclusion to the 10-12 million customers not well-served by mainstream lenders.
I am very pleased that Vanquis Bank has managed Moneybarn delivered strong growth incustomers, todeliver stable profits in 2018, despite the significant receivables and profits in 2018 and this has continued focus on the ROP refund programme and adapting into early 2019.
We have been developing a number tochanges in regulation.
Looking into 2019, we expect of additional growth initiatives which should provide the impact of the regulatory measures implemented further traction as we go forward, including using the Corporate Governance section in2018 to moderate Vanquis Banks receivables growth Vanquis Bank app to offer bespoke Moneybarn products www.
com asthey fully flow through the receivables book.
However, to Vanquis Bank customers, expansion of relationships we expect new customer bookings in 2019 to be at with lead generators and quotation search partners, a similar level to 2018 and the business is working introduction of an existing customer re-solicitation on a number of a new initiatives to support growth programme toretain high-quality customers and the in2020 and beyond including enhancing the credit line introduction and development of new asset classes increase programme, improved targeting of customers thatresonate with Moneybarns target customer base.
within Vanquis Banks risk appetite such as thin file consumers, development of partnership opportunities and marketing of credit cards to the Moneybarn customer base.
Moneybarn FCA investigation The FCA has completed the information gathering phase of its investigation into affordability, forbearance and termination options at Moneybarn.
We have made significant progress with the FCA in reaching an agreed resolution to the investigation and are working towards concluding the matter in the coming weeks.
The combined cost of the agreement reached with the FCA is expected to be within the scope of previously made financial provisions of 20m set aside at the end of 2017.
The FCA will be issuing its final notice in respect of the investigation in due course.
This represents the closure of a significant operational headwind and demonstrates the effectiveness of our remediation process and the constructive relationship we have established with the regulator.
16 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Chief Executive Officers review continued Governance and culture Funding and capital We help put The completion of the rights issue to recapitalise people on a We have made significant progress in strengthening our theGroup was undertaken with a view to maintaining governance framework, improving our relationship with path to a better theGroups investment grade credit status and regulators and implementing the changes necessary everyday life.
re-establishing normal access to funding from bank toculture to place the customer firmly at the heart of the and debt capital markets.
The Groups CET 1 ratio Malcolm Le May Groups strategy.
This provides the basis for delivering Chief Executive Officer at31 December 2018 was 29.7% compared with a attractive and sustainable returns to shareholders.
fully loaded minimum regulatory capital requirement We have invested further in strengthening our of 25.5%.
This provides headroom of approximately governance framework by recruiting a central risk 95m, and is consistent with the Boards risk appetite teamto work under the Interim Chief Risk Officer, of maintaining regulatory capital headroom in excess the co-ordination of IT under a new Group Chief of50m.
IT Officer and the recruitment of a new Interim See our Customer interviews We have made very good progress in strengthening Group Chief Internal Auditor and a Group Head of www.
com the Groups funding position during the year.
A permanent Group Chief Risk 2018, we issued 250m of 5-year fixed rate bonds Officer has recently been appointed and the process carrying a semi-annual coupon of 7%.
The proceeds for recruiting a permanent Group Chief Internal ofthe bond issue were used to finance the tender Auditoriswell advanced.
offerfor the 250m existing senior bonds which carry The ExCo, which was established in early 2018 and acoupon of 8% and mature in October 2019.
89% of the comprises Group and divisional senior executives, existing bonds were tendered and redeemed at an 8.0% is now playing a far greater role in delivering on the premium on 30 May 2018.
The remaining existing senior Groups vision through enhancing information flows bonds of 27.5m will mature on their original maturity and collaboration.
As previously announced, the Board date in October 2019.
The retail deposits programme is finalising plans to establish a Customer, Culture and at Vanquis Bank continues to be strong.
During the Ethics Committee, which is intended to be a committee year, retail deposits have increased from 1,301.0m of the Board and will be chaired by Elizabeth Chambers.
to 1,431.7m which allowed Vanquis Bank to repay its We have undertaken significant activity to realign the residual intercompany loan from Provident Financial Groups culture more closely to the developing needs of 55m in November 2018.
Vanquis Bank is now fully of the customer, and to collaborate across businesses funded with retail deposits.
to deliver better customer outcomes.
We have All of this means that the Group has sufficient debt recently launched a new Blueprint throughout the facilities, together with access to retail deposits, to fund Group to support our new purpose of: We help put growth and contractual maturities until May 2020, when people ona path to a better everyday life.
I am very the syndicated bank facility matures.
It is our intention passionate about our new purpose and PFGs role torefinance this facility 12 months in advance of maturity insociety.
Our purpose is underpinned by a number in line with our treasury policy.
These aim to The actions we have taken during 2018 mean that deliveran appropriate balance between the needs of wehave a strong balance sheet and access to a diverse ourcustomers, the regulator, equity and debt investors range of funding sources, including retail deposits and our employees in order to ensure that PFG is which fully funds by far the largest portion of the Group successful and sustainable for all of its stakeholders.
The Groups businesses outside of Vanquis Bank are funded by the bank and debt capital markets through a combination of syndicated bank facilities, retail bonds, institutional bonds and private placements.
Our funding position underpins our confidence in our ability to realise the opportunities to grow and successfully develop all of our businesses across the Group.
17 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report The Board is confident in the strategic direction for the Looking forward We expect Group, anchored in both the opportunities presented 2019 tobe a 2018 has been a year of recovery and we have byVanquis Bank and the ability of the Groups other successfully delivered against the operational objectives continuation of businesses to work more closely with Vanquis Bank we committed to at the start of the year.
We expect the progress made going forward.
The management team is in the to build on this progress in 2019 as we continue to process of developing and implementing a number in 2018 as we adapt the businesses to changes in regulation, further of planned growth and efficiency initiatives which the continue to adapt strengthen the relationship with our regulators, Board believes will have benefits both for customers the businesses refinance the Groups syndicated bank facility, embed interms of improved experience and for shareholders to become more our new purpose and Blueprint and continue the in terms ofdelivering attractive and sustainable returns.
turnaround of our home credit business.
All of these The Board confirms that PFG continues to trade in line actions enhance the Groups ability to create value for with expectations.
We also recognise that we are managing Chief Executive Officer Finally, I would like to thank all of my colleagues for their the Groups recovery at a time when the UK macrohard work over the last year.
economic and political outlook is uncertain and we have proactively tightened our underwriting standards throughout the Group overthe last two years.
Malcolm Le May PFG is a leading provider of credit products which Chief Executive Officer provide financial inclusion for the 10 to 12 million 13 March 2019 consumers who are not well served by mainstream lenders.
As a leader in credit cards, home credit and motor finance for this market and with a strong trajectory in digitally originated and delivered instalment loans, the Group has strong growth potential and attractive product line diversification.
Given our breadth of customer base and product offering and through our core capabilities of credit, collections, distribution, data and analytics, the Group is very well positioned to deliver attractive and sustainable shareholder returns and to further strengthen our market-leading positions through greater capture of the commercial and financial synergies that exist between our businesses.
Continuing to develop our digital capability will be centralto maintaining our market-leading positions and will also allow enhanced management of the customer journey and greater collaboration across divisions.
18 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Jennies day With the help of Vanquis Bank I have built up my credit score.
Jennie Vanquis Bank customer, London I have been with Vanquis Bank for quite a few years and have built my credit profile upoverthatperiod.
I saw a leaflet initially and applied as my credit was not very good and I had been refusedcredit elsewhere.
I received acard with a200 limit and was able to meet myrepayments so qualifiedforfurther credit.
With the help  up my creditscore and nowusetheir Blackcard.
The customer service isreally good and Iwould recommend it.
I have nowrecommended tomyson who  for the first time.
