Group Chief Executives report Mike Wells Capturing the structural opportunities ahead of us I am pleased to report that we have delivered another year of positive financial performance across the Group.
Through the combination of our consistent strategy, our diversified portfolio of businesses and our disciplined execution, we have continued to produce high-quality earnings and deliver consistent returns for our investors and good outcomes for all our stakeholders.
Our purpose is to help people fide-risk their that enables us to meet our customers, 4 Operating profit lives and deal with their biggest financial needs more quickly and efficiently.
by business and currency mix concerns.
Whether they are starting a In March 2018, we announced our % 2018 family, saving for a childs education or intention to demerge M&GPrudential from planning for old age, we provide them the Group, in order to create two separately 38% with the freedom to face the future with listed companies with distinct investment confidence through our long-term savings characteristics and opportunities.
After the and protection products, retirement Asia demerger, our shareholders will have other GBP income solutions and asset management 17% shares in Prudential plc, which will be even 15% capabilities.
At the same time, we invest better positioned to capture the structural US$ our customers savings in the real economy, linked opportunities ahead of us, and helping to drive the cycle of growth and 28% % M&GPrudential, with greater freedom to 29% build stronger communities.
deploy its capital where and how it likes to We serve this purpose through our clear, meet the changing needs of customers.
US$ consistent strategy, which is focused on 40% We are making good progress towards the long-term structural trends and gives us 33% demerger.
On the structural side, we have unrivalled access to the worlds largest and established the holding company for fastest-growing markets.
In Asia, our M&GPrudential, and we have completed distinguished brand, extensive footprint Asia the first stages at the High Court of England and broad product and distribution reach United States and Wales for the transfer of part of the across 14 markets leaves us well positioned M&GPrudential M&GPrudential annuity book to Rothesay.
to serve the health, protection and savings On the operational side, we are moving needs of the rapidly growing and Segmental earnings of key businesses and excludes forward with separating the functions of restructuring costs and other income and expenditure.
We are the two businesses and building new ones also a leading provider of retirement to prepare M&GPrudential for its postsales in Asia, the benefit of higher US products in the US, where the number of demerger future.
We have also raised interest rates and a resilient performance people aged 65 and older is expected to 1.6 billion of subordinated debt, with in the UK and Europe.
grow from 55 million in 2020 to 72 million substitution clauses to be activated on 1 by 2030, and we are continuing to Group adjusted IFRS operating profit demerger, supporting the capital enhance our product set and distribution 4 based on longer-term investment returns rebalancing of the two businesses, and reach to capture the opportunity in this 3 operating profit was 6 per cent higher we continue to work with our regulators.
In the UK and Europe, where at 4,827 million up 3 per cent on an actual ageing populations provide growing Our financial performance exchange rate basis.
Operating profit demand for managed savings solutions, Our financial performance in 2018 reflects from our Asia life insurance and asset M&GPrudential is transforming itself to our focus on high quality execution of our management businesses grew by meet those needs in new ways.
In Africa 3 strategy, and is again led by our business 14 per cent, reflecting continued broadwe are building a presence in one of the in Asia.
based business momentum across the region worlds most under-penetrated insurance and high-quality sales, with over 85 per cent As in previous years, we comment on our markets, with operations in five markets.
of operating income from our preferred performance in local currency terms sources of insurance income, fee income We are continuing to develop our product expressed on a constant exchange rate and with-profits.
In the US, Jacksons total offering and improve our capabilities in basis to show the underlying business 3 operating profit was 11 per cent lower, order to meet the needs of customers in all trends in periods of currency movement.
with higher fee income outweighed by these markets.
Across our businesses, we 2 New business profit increased by an increase in market-related deferred are listening to our customers and creating 3 11 per cent to 3,877 million up 7 per cent acquisition costs DAC amortisation new and better products in response to on an actual exchange rate basis, driven expense and the anticipated reduction in their changing needs.
At the same time, we by the favourable impact of our strategic spread earnings.
In the UK and Europe, are constantly upgrading our capabilities, focus of increasing health and protection M&GPrudentials total operating profit was including, by investing in digital technology 04 Prudential plc Annual Report 2018 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 06  EEV basisresults 07  Innovation through partnership In 2017, Prudential Singapore announced planning service that uses sophisticated a commitment to the Monetary Authority algorithms to predict money needs across the of Singapore to be a Grand Sponsor of the customers lifetime, and Prudential Singapores Singapore FinTech Festival from 2018 to 2022, new PRUworks service, which provides demonstrating our dedication to fostering a range of legal, HR and employee benefit a culture of innovation, collaboration and services for SMEs in one convenient app.
co-creation among financial institutions, Singapore is a key innovation test-bed for fintech companies and regulators globally.
Prudential as it harnesses technology to The Singapore FinTech Festival is the largest make insurance simpler and more accessible.
festival of its kind in the world, with the 2018 Recognising that customers are demanding event hosting more than 250 speakers, more greater speed, seamlessness, convenience than 400 exhibitors and 16 international and control over their finances, we have been pavilions, and drawing close to 45,000 investing in understanding customers needs participants from almost 130 countries.
more deeply and in creating a distinctive Prudentials stand at the festival featured some Prudential customer experience across new tools powered by partnerships between multiple touchpoints.
We are also creating Prudential and local start-ups.
Initiatives on digital tools to help our more than 4,900 show included an instant health check through financial consultants in Singapore work an app that determines body fat using pictures more efficiently and serve our customers taken on a mobile phone, a new financial even better.
3 19 per cent higher than the prior year, which to a 14 per cent increase in new business of 8.5 billion and the PruFund contribution 3 principally reflects the benefit from updated profit in Asia, and also reflected a 2 per cent to shareholder operating profit increasing 5 longevity assumptions and an 11 per cent growth in APE sales.
Our growth in new 30 per cent to 55 million.
New business increase in the shareholder transfer from the business profit was broad-based, with 10 profit increased by 3 per cent, broadly in with-profits business, which includes markets delivering double-digit percentage line with the increase in APE sales.
5 3 a 30 per cent increase from PruFund.
Our asset management M&GPrudential asset management saw net business, Eastspring Investments, has outflows of 9.9 billion from external clients, The Groups capital generation is continued to grow, with operating profit including the expected redemption of a underpinned by our large and growing 3 up 6 per cent to 182 million.
single 6.5 billion low margin institutional in-force business portfolio, and focus on mandate.
Overall M&GPrudential assets profitable business with fast payback of In the US, Jackson remains focused on 10 under management were 321 billion capital invested.
Overall, underlying providing financial security to increasing 2017: 351 billion, reflecting net outflows at 6 free surplus generation increased by numbers of individuals approaching or in M&GPrudential asset management and the 3 14 per cent to 4,047 million and cash retirement, broadening its product range impact of the 12 billion annuity reinsurance remittances to the Group from business and extending its distribution network, agreement announced in March 2018. units were 1,732 million 2017: including new relationships announced 1,788 million.
The Groups overall with State Farm, Envestnet and DPL Our financial Key Performance Indicators performance supported a 5 per cent Financial Partners.
In 2018, higher charges KPIs continue to reflect the outcome increase in the 2018 full year ordinary for deferred acquisition costs amortisation, of the Groups strategy.
Our Asia life dividend to 49.35 pence per share.
largely as a result of equity market businesses are driven by growth in our movements in the year, contributed to recurring premium base and focus on The Group remains robustly capitalised, Jacksons operating profit being 11 per cent health and protection business.
Elsewhere with a 2018 year-end shareholder lower.
US new business profit increased by we are benefiting from our prioritisation of 7,8 Solvency II cover ratio of 232 per cent.
5 per cent, as favourable movements in fee-generating products across our Asia Over the period, IFRS shareholders funds interest rates and spread assumptions asset management, US variable annuity increased by 7 per cent to 17.2 billion, balanced a reduction in APE sales.
and UK and European savings and reflecting profit after tax of 3,013 million Jacksons hedging programmes performed investment activities.
2017: 2,390 million on an actual as expected in the period of equity market exchange rate basis and other movements A clear and proven strategy weakness experienced towards the end that included dividend payments to Our clear, proven strategy is key to our of 2018, contributing to an increased shareholders of 1,244 million and long-term positive performance, and is risk-based capital ratio at year-end of favourable foreign exchange movements focused on strong and growing 458 per cent 2017: 409 per cent.
EEV shareholders funds opportunities in Asia, the US, the UK and increased by 11 per cent to 49.8 billion, In the UK and Europe, both our life and asset Europe and our nascent markets in Africa.
2,9 equivalent to 1,920 pence per share.
management businesses performed well In Asia, a large and increasingly wealthy in 2018, with operating profit 19 per cent In Asia, we have maintained our focus on population with low levels of insurance higher driven by a number of items that are value, whilst continuing to develop our and asset management coverage is not expected to recur at the same level capabilities and reach, which build scale creating a huge and fast-growing market including the effect from updated longevity and enhance quality.
Our strategic for our health, protection and savings assumptions.
Our core PruFund proposition emphasis on increasing sales from health products.
Asia is driving global continues to perform well, with net inflows and protection business has contributed www.
co. uk Annual Report 2018 Prudential plc 05 Group Chief Executives report Mike Wells continued growth, with average annual GDP growth powerful opportunity for M&GPrudential.
in our Asia life markets of 10.4 per cent in Those approaching retirement have been 11 the decade to 2017, compared with just looking for new ways to ensure a 11 1.9 per cent for the rest of the world.
comfortable future, and since pensions Furthermore, despite potential headwinds, freedoms were introduced in the UK in between 2017 and 2023 Asia is expected 2015 that demand has been increasing.
At to deliver 39 per cent of the worlds GDP the same time, the total value of household 11 growth.
This is creating a rapidly growing cash deposits in the EU is estimated at 20 middle class in the Asia region, which is 10 trillion, indicating the scale of the expected to double by 2030 to reach opportunity for asset management in the 12 3.5 billion people.
Private assets under management insurance penetration in Asia is just are expected nearly to double between 13 21 2.7 per cent of GDP, compared with 2017 and 2023.
M&GPrudential, which 13 7.2 per cent in the UK, leaving the region already has established international vastly under-insured with an estimated distribution, a clear focus on customer 14 mortality protection gap of US$40 trillion solutions and a broad-ranging investment and a health and protection gap of capability, is transforming itself to meet 15 US$1.8 trillion.
Similarly, mutual fund this opportunity.
16 penetration in Asia is only 12 per cent, 16 New and better ways compared with 96 per cent in the US, to serve customers whilst 65 per cent of wealth in Asia is held 17 We are continuing to improve the way we in cash.
With private financial wealth in serve our customers in every part of the the region growing by US$5 trillion per Prudential, for the second year in a row, 17 world in which we operate.
We constantly year, there is considerable latent demand won the insurance category of Management update our products and our capabilities Todays Britains Most Admired Companies for our savings solutions.
These structural to ensure that we are fulfilling our purpose awards in December 2018. drivers of growth are expected to persist and maximising the effect of our strategy.
for many years to come and create a historic opportunity for us.
In Asia, we are continuing to develop and expand our products, distribution We are also developing our businesses Standard Chartered Bank, which has been capabilities and footprint and to meet the in our newer markets in Africa, which is a huge success in Asia, to Ghana, and in evolving needs of our customers.
During one of the worlds most underserved life November we signed a long-term exclusive 2018, we broadened our product suite to markets, and where the population is partnership with Zambia National 1 include tailored propositions for the forecast to grow by a billion by 2045.
Commercial Bank Plc Zanaco, Zambias high-net-worth and corporate segments We are now operating in five countries in largest bank, to enable our market-leading and developed new products for customers Africa Ghana, Kenya, Nigeria, Uganda products to be offered to more than with specific needs, such as pre-existing and Zambia which will increase further a million new customers across the country.
Our distribution with the announced acquisition of a In the US, we have a long and durable track capabilities were enhanced by new digital majority stake in Group Beneficial, technology and provide a seamless and record of delivering financial success for our and we are excited about the growing consumers.
We are offering new products differentiated customer experience from opportunities in this dynamic region.
point of sale through to making a claim.
for fee-based advisers and have launched We have a strong and growing opportunity new versions of our fee-based variable At Eastspring, we also continued to roll in the US.
About 40 million Americans are out BlackRocks Aladdin system across annuities.
We are changing the narrative expected to reach retirement age over the around retirement and lifetime income, our markets to improve efficiency.
At the same time, broadened our reach through new demonstrating the value proposition of 72 per cent of American workers do not our products to regulators, investors, partnerships with leading banks in have access to a defined benefit retirement several markets, including Thailand and policyholders and influential industry 18 plan.
A study conducted by the Insured figures.
In September, we announced our the Philippines.
Meanwhile, Eastspring Retirement Institute and Jackson showed consolidated its position as the leading collaboration with the Envestnet Insurance that 80 per cent of Americans think that Exchange, to offer our products on its retail asset manager in Asia excluding social security will not provide enough Japan by establishing an on-the-ground platform.
In October, we announced a key 19 income for retirement, and the same distribution partnership with State Farm, presence in China and Thailand.
Early in percentage are willing to pay more for 2019, we also renewed our successful further strengthening our market-leading 19 guaranteed lifetime income.
Early in 2019, we regional strategic alliance with United with our retirement income products, which Overseas Bank UOB, one of our most partnered with DPL Financial Partners to are designed to help customers avoid provide our protected lifetime solutions to successful distribution relationships in running out of money and provide them with South-east Asia, until 2034 and added independent registered investment advisers a reliable cushion against volatile markets.
RIA, providing access to new opportunities Vietnam and UOBs digital bank to an existing partnership presence in Singapore, in the independent RIA channel.
In the UK and Europe, notwithstanding the Malaysia, Thailand and Indonesia.
uncertainty related to the UKs intended In the UK and Europe, as M&GPrudential exit from the European Union, a prepares for the demerger, we have been We are also expanding our footprint in combination of global trends and our Africa markets.
In August 2018, we continuing to transform what we do for our competitive advantages is creating a customers and how we do it.
Our PruFund extended our long-term partnership with 06 Prudential plc Annual Report 2018 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 06  EEV basisresults 07  offering continues to impress customers evolves and we embrace the possibilities insurance and asset management industries, with its combination of clarity, capital that lie ahead.
Our sponsorship of and our presence, scale and distribution growth and lower volatility.
We are Singapores FinTech Festival, which in 2018 reach position us well to participate strongly investing to transform the experience of had more than 400 exhibitors from 35 in this growth.
In the US, we continue to our fast-growing digital platform, launched countries, showcasing the very latest in provide Americans with the retirement in 2016, to ensure it offers a comprehensive digital innovation, is testament to this and strategies they need, and we are confident range of solutions for customers.
In our presents all kinds of partnership that this will enable us to capture additional investment management business, we possibilities.
Indeed, our Singapore growth into the future.
In the UK and Europe, continue to develop our private asset business has since partnered with three of we will continue to improve service levels and capacity and now have 59 billion of the propositions showcased at the event.
launch new offerings, and we are making private assets under management, making good progress towards the intended Our leadership us one of the largest private credit investors demerger of M&GPrudential from the Group, In July 2018, we announced that Anne in the world, and we are looking to expand which will result in two distinct businesses Richards was resigning as Chief Executive of our differentiated capabilities across that are able to focus more clearly on the M&G and from the Groups Board.
I would geographies and asset classes.
In 2018, opportunities open to us.
We have an like to thank Anne for her contribution to M&GPrudential also signed a new established track record of delivering the Groups continued success.
In October partnership with Tata Consultancy important benefits to our customers and 2018, we announced that Barry Stowe had Services TCS, a global leader in IT, profitable growth to our shareholders.
decided to retire as Chairman and Chief business process and digital services, to I am confident that, post demerger as Executive Officer of Jackson and as an enhance service for our UK and Europe independent companies, both Prudential plc Executive Director of the Group.
Barry savings and retirement customers.
and M&GPrudential will be positioned to made an exceptional contribution over his continue to do well in the future.
Throughout our businesses, we are 12 years at the Group, first at our Asia continuing to develop our digital business, which under his leadership grew capabilities.
In Asia, such initiatives are to become the market-leading operation it enabling us to provide valuable and is today, and in the US since 2015.
Barry innovative services to our customers.
has been succeeded at Jackson by Michael In August, we announced our exclusive Falcon.
Formerly CEO of Asia Pacific for JP partnership agreement with the UK-based Morgan Asset Management, Michael has healthcare technology and services deep expertise and an impressive track company Babylon Health.
Through the record in the industry and is well placed to deployment of cutting-edge artificial lead the next phase of our development in intelligence technology, this partnership North America.
We continue to invest in the will offer customers, in up to 12 of our right people at all levels across the Group.
markets in Asia, access to a comprehensive set of digital health tools, complementing Delivering value into the future Prudential Corporation Asias existing suite Our clear strategy, discipline and improving of world-class protection products and capabilities have enabled us to deliver strengthening our digital future.
Similarly, a broad-based financial performance in 2018, at Eastspring, our robo-advice platform in based on a close focus on our core purpose of Taiwan, in partnership with Alkanza, helps helping people to fide-risk their lives and deal our clients meet their savings goals.
We with their biggest financial concerns.
In Asia Mike Wells recognise that technology continually we continue to see a strong runway for the Group Chief Executive Notes 1 United Nations, Department of Economic and Social Affairs, 7 The Group shareholder capital position excludes the 14 Swiss Re Mortality Protection Gap Asia Pacific 2018.
World Population Prospects: contribution to Own Funds and the Solvency Capital Represents Prudential Corporation Asias life business The 2017 Revision.
American population reaching Requirement from ring fenced with-profit funds and staff footprint, and use per capita income of working population retirement age over the next decade is based on 2019 pension schemes in surplus.
The estimated solvency as the base unit to calculate the size of the gap.
population, aged 55 to 64. positions include managements calculation of UK 15 Swiss Re Asias health protection gap: insights for building 2 Embedded value reporting provides investors with a transitional measures reflecting operating and market greater resilience.
Represents China, measure of the future profit streams of the Group.
The EEV conditions at each valuation date, which for both 2018 India, Japan, Korea, Indonesia, Malaysia, Taiwan, Vietnam, basis results have been prepared in accordance with EEV and 2017 reflects the approved regulatory position.
the Philippines, Singapore, Hong Kong and Thailand.
principles discussed in note 1 of EEV basis results.
See note 8 Estimated before allowing for second interim ordinary 16 Investment Company Institute, industry associations III of the Additional unaudited financial information for dividend.
definition and reconciliation to IFRS balances.
9 See note III of the Additional unaudited financial information 17 BCG Global Wealth 2017.
Navigating the New Client 3 Year-on-year percentage increases are stated on a constant for definition and reconciliation to IFRS balances.
exchange rate basis unless otherwise stated.
10 Represents M&GPrudential asset management external 18 U. S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, National Compensation.
4 Adjusted IFRS operating profit based on longer-term funds under management and internal funds included Survey: Employee Benefits in the United States, March investment returns is managements primary measure of on the M&GPrudential long-term insurance business 2017.
Workers defined as those employed in private profitability and provides an underlying operating result balance sheet.
industry and state and local government.
based on longer-term investment returns and excludes 11 IMF.
2017 GDP at January 2019 current prices.
19 The Language of Retirement 2017 study conducted non-operating items.
Further information on its definition Asia represents Prudential Corporation Asias life on behalf of the Insured Retirement Institute and Jackson.
and reconciliation to profit for the period is set out in note business footprint.
B1 of the IFRS financial statements.
Global Economy & Development 21 Preqin Future of Alternatives Report, October 2018.
5 Growth rate on an actual exchange rate basis.
Asia represents 6 For insurance operations, underlying free surplus generated Asia Pacific.
represents amounts maturing from the in-force business 13 Insurance penetration Swiss Re Sigma No 3 2018. during the period less investment in new business and Insurance penetration calculated as premiums as a excludes non-operating items.
For asset management percentage of GDP.
Asia penetration calculated on a businesses it equates to post-tax operating profit for the weighted population basis.
Restructuring costs are presented separately from the underlying business unit amount.
Further information is set out in note 10 of the EEV basis results.
co. uk Annual Report 2018 Prudential plc 07 08 Prudential plc AnnualReport2018 www.
