04 PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2018 Chief Executive Officers Review Strengthening our portfolio amidst toughtrading conditions A re-prioritisation of the Groups new Review of the Year Our renovation strategy product pipeline in all markets to focus It has been an extremely challenging keeps our brands alive on fewer, bigger projects requiring year for the Group.
Trading conditions lower levels of complexity.
in our largest market Nigeria have been and relevant to our A review of product costs across the toughest we have experienced for international consumers, all categories with a focus on areas many years.
In our second largest market such as packaging reduction and in the UK, a tightening retail landscape helping us to hold and conjunction with a drive to reduce significantly affected the performance grow brand shares in plastic consumption.
ofour Washing and Bathing division.
An evaluation of other growth most of the Groups main Nevertheless, brand shares in all our opportunities utilising the Groups markets and categories markets, including the UK and Nigeria, product portfolio and distribution remain strong, demonstrating that our capability.
lower results have mainly arisen from theimpact of macroeconomic factors.
The Future Despite the disappointing results for the However, we cannot simply wait for year, the Group is energised to pursue these macro conditions to improve the initiatives set out above and return and therefore a number of initiatives the business to sustainable profitable are underway to strengthen our brand growth.
portfolio and reduce our cost base.
The CANDO spirit and determination of Initiatives our people will allow us to successfully A further optimisation of the Groups rise to this challenge and I am extremely operating model.
This will reduce the proud of the potential that still lies overhead base, as well as improve ahead.
the speed at which new products are brought to market.
The cash cost will Alex Kanellis be circa 10m over the next two years, Chief Executive Officer offset by lower capital expenditure 24 July 2018 requirements.
A detailed review of the Groups product portfolio in Nigeria across the Home and Personal Care HPC and Nutricima milk businesses.
The objective is to restore margins in the HPC business and restore the Nutricima business to profitability.
PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2018 05
