Strategic report CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW STRATEGY DELIVERING SECOND YEAR OF GROWTH We are pleased with the progress we have made in FY18, reversing five years of falling revenue with a second year of organic growth.
We delivered 3% organic revenue growth and grew our international revenue to 27% of revenue compared to 21% two years ago.
Overall, underlying earnings per share increased 7%, cash conversion was strong and we continued to grow our dividend progressively with a 5% increase for the full year.
The progress we have made demonstrates QinetiQs ability to capitalise on the opportunities in our markets as well as our growing international presence.
Through international growth we were able to overcome well-flagged headwinds in the UK from the lower baseline profit rate set by the Single Source Regulations Office SSRO which made for a tougher trading environment in FY18.
Whilst this headwind is expected to intensify in FY19, with the anticipated repricing of the remainder of the Long Term Partnering Agreement LTPA which was not part of the December 2016 amendment, we expect the headwind will moderate in FY20 and beyond, enabling growing revenue to deliver increased profitability.
Steve Wadey We are making progress in a number of ways that are as a direct result of Chief Executive Officer our strategy.
We have engaged with our core customers to help them achieve their objectives of maintaining or increasing their capabilities while also driving cost efficiencies.
Our ability to respond to our customers challenges has enabled us to deliver greater value to them and create opportunities for us.
This is a reflection of the more agile and customer-focused organisation that QinetiQ has become, driven by our people.
This change in approach has increased the level of bidding activity for a number of new opportunities with the UK Government.
We are investing into our core contracts, such as the LTPA, allowing us to modernise our facilities and the services we offer.
This makes them more relevant to our customers for test and evaluation T&E and training and rehearsal T&R against current and future threats.
By investing in our contracts we can extend their duration, increasing our long-term visibility, and attract a growing number of international customers.
We are becoming a truly international company, expanding the skills and experience honed in the UK to support customers in attractive international markets.
We have The progress increasing opportunities within some of the largest and fastest-growing defence, we have made security and critical infrastructure markets.
We have made two successful acquisitions to date that are helping accelerate our progress and create revenue demonstrates synergy opportunities across the Company.
They are integrating well into our QinetiQs ability to operations and we are pleased with their performance to date.
QinetiQ is providing vital advice and support in modernising or developing indigenous defence capabilities capitalise on the across the globe, leveraging our core expertise.
opportunities this We are at the forefront of innovation, and are better than we have ever been at market can present effectively deploying real, commercial innovation.
From advanced future laser as well as our weaponry to autonomous robotics to innovative approaches to business models and contracting, we are leading innovation in support of our customers objectives.
growing international We have been disciplined on costs, ensuring we remain efficient in how we resource presence.
Our investment programme significantly increases 6 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Unique capabilities critical to national sovereignty: helping our customers prepare for emerging threats Hosted by QinetiQ, and led by the US Navy, Formidable Shield brought together eight NATO countries in the Hebrides to test integrated air and missile defence capabilities.
Through a series of live QinetiQ employees are real missile firings and demonstrations, the allies improved interoperability in live-fire integrated air and missile defence environments.
professionals who run Utilising our MOD Hebrides Range, which is part of the Long Term ranges and have got Partnering Agreement LTPA, over the 18 month planning process, we managed the command and control centre, supported the specialisations that we planning, data capture and analysis as well as the logistics and safety for what was the most complex exercise of its type ever wouldnt have anywhere conducted in the UK.
In line with our strategy to lead and modernise else in UK defence.
Test and Evaluation, and supported by our investment, we can provide offerings which are more relevant to our customers, for training, testing and rehearsal against current and future threats.
Rear Admiral Paul Bennett Assistant Chief of Naval Staff, Combining our unique facilities with the skills and experience honed Royal Navy in the UK, and deploying them to support customers broadens their appeal to a growing number of international customers.
capability and reduces the operating costs of a number of our facilities.
We appointed six new senior leaders to the Executive Committee over the past two years, and we have improved our internal structures, modernising them to deliver efficiencies and enhancing our ability to operate at pace.
We are now far better able to deploy our people and their skills to best support our customers and reduce costs.
And finally, we remain financially strong.
We have one of the strongest balance sheets in UK defence and we are reinvesting the cash we generate back into the Company to support our long-term growth ambitions.
As well as supporting our international expansion, this investment delivers an attractive return in its own right.
Outlook FY19 We enter FY19 with confidence, having delivered a second successive year of organic revenue growth.
In the UK, the impact of changes to single source pricing regulations to QinetiQ is expected to intensify this year with the anticipated repricing of the remainder of the LTPA which was not part of the December 2016 amendment.
The Groups Global Products division has shorter order cycles than EMEA Services and its performance is dependent on the timing of shipments of key orders.
As a result of its strong FY18 orders performance and pipeline of opportunities, we expect the division to make continued progress in FY19 with further organic growth partially offset by a translational impact from foreign exchange at current rates.
FY19 cash flow will reflect continued investment including capital expenditure of 80m 100m, the majority of which will be invested into the LTPA and returned over the contract life, as well as an anticipated working capital outflow of 15m 25m.
Overall we are maintaining expectations for Group performance in FY19, excluding non-recurring trading items, with an approximate 6m profit headwind on UK singlesourced revenue.
We anticipate continued modest organic revenue growth in FY19, with the associated profit improvement largely offset by the impact of foreign exchange at current rates.
Outlook longer term Our performance in FY18 demonstrates that we can create opportunities for growth, provided we are customer focused, innovative and competitive.
In the UK, our customers have the challenge of overcoming new threats within the constraints of tight budgets.
We are well placed to help support our customers develop their capabilities while also delivering efficiencies.
Through our international businesses, we are operating in attractive and growing markets that provide long-term growth opportunities.
Based on changes to the profit rate for single source contracts and our contract mix, we expect a reduction in the headwind to our EMEA Services divisions profitability in FY20 and onwards, enabling growing revenue to deliver increased profitability.
Steve Wadey Chief Executive Officer, 24 May 2018 Strategic report | Chief Executive Officers review QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 7
