Strategic Report Chief Executive Officers statement 2018 was a momentous year in the history of Quilter.
We are amodern, purpose-built UK wealth management company thathasmany opportunities ahead of it.
enhance our position in the UK platform market by providing us with a modern, resilient system built on current technology rather than legacy code as is the case with the current platform.
We see four key stages to the successful completion and delivery of our new platform: First, the core system completion enabled us to commence the soft launch phase in early February 2019.
Soft launch was deliberately structured to be on a limited basis and this valuable phase is being used to verify core system functionality, processes and controls in a live environment and it continues to progress well.
Secondly, the final platform system, which will incorporate full adviser functionality, is in Paul Feeney Chief Executive Officer the last stages of development and, given the critical nature of this, is undergoing rigorous testing.
Subject to these testing results, Execution management company.
The full consideration weare targeting this to be completed by As our Chairman, Glyn Jones, has noted, received from the sale of the business to its earlySummer.
2018 was a landmark year in the history of management team and funds managed by Quilter.
Six years after we set out to build a TA Associates, which completed at the end The third key stage is migration planning modern UK wealth management company of June 2018, was 583 million.
We paid a and this is at an advanced stage.
We will and after two years of hard work to get the special interim dividend of 12.0 pence per undertake a phased, controlled migration business ready for Listing, on 25 June 2018 share from the proceeds of this transaction, of our existing book.
We aim to migrate an we completed the Managed Separation from equivalent to a 221 million return of capital initial c. 10% of assets under administration Old Mutual plc and our shares began trading to shareholders.
This represented the net from our existing platform, representing the on the London and Johannesburg Stock surplus proceeds from this disposal after the assets from around 100 adviser firms, in Exchanges.
I would like to thank all of those repayment of the outstanding 300 million early Autumn.
Once we have incorporated who worked tirelessly to deliver this outcome.
feedback from this into our processes, we We were delighted with the level of investor will continue migration of the remainder of engagement and interest in Quilter from both Transformation the book in appropriate phases considering, new and existing investors throughout this As I have said on many occasions, we know amongst other things, the time of year and process, and we look forward to delivering that Quilter is not the finished article.
prosperity for both shareholders and our task that my team and I are undertaking is broader stakeholders.
nothing less than a multi-year transformation Finally, our overriding principle is that high of our business.
There are two principal quality delivery is of the utmost importance The Listing of Quilter was the beginning of strands to this process: successfully delivering and we are enhancing our detailed plans our journey as an independent company.
upon our UK Platform Transformation to ensure customers and advisers are well In that context, we are pleased to deliver Programme and optimising our business.
supported throughout the transition period.
a strong set of maiden full year results, This, together with the challenges imposed with an increase in adjusted profit of 11% Our new UK Platform, once operational, will by the need to train a large number of to 233 million and a 30% operating margin allow us immediately to widen the product advisers on a new system, are key issues 2017: 29%.
Our IFRS profit before tax set we currently offer to include SIPP which have been highlighted in our reviews from continuing operations was 5 million capabilities, Junior ISAs and cash accounts of a number of problematic high profile 2017: 5 million.
as well as allowing us to hold a broader platform transitions across the UK financial spectrum of assets on behalf of clients such services industry in recent years.
As a result, Given the limited linkages between the as ETFs and investment trust shares.
This we are considering adding additional adviser Single Strategy asset management business will provide us with the opportunity to target customer call centre capacity and or taking a and our retail-focused wealth business, the a broader and higher net worth customer more gradual approach to migration, which sale of that business was consistent with our segment in the UK market than we are could extend the project timeframe slightly.
objective of building the UKs leading wealth currently reaching.
It will significantly 08 Quilter Annual Report 2018 As at 31 December 2018, we had incurred Operational performance Our strategic priorities costs of 79 million since the programme Good customer outcomes remain central commenced in May 2017.
If migration is to everything we do.
Delivering this starts We have a strong track record in terms of completed by the end of 2019, we would with trusted advice.
Client confidence in growth and delivering against our promises.
expect total programme costs towards our proposition is demonstrated through We are well placed to grow sustainably, the upper end of our 120 160 million the strength of our integrated business providing wesimplify and unify our business.
Should we decide that it is model and is shown by our net client cash Post-Listing our strategic priorities over in the best interests of both customers flow NCCF and the resilience of integrated thenext few years are as follows: and advisers that programme completion is flows which have held up well despite more extended into the first half of 2020, we would challenging conditions in the second half of expect modest additional programme costs, the year.
Integrated flows were down just Delivering on largely reflecting the incremental potential 10% to 4.7 billion in the year.
customer outcomes initiatives referenced above and a longer Ensure we deliver good customer period of dual system running than Despite the significantly less buoyant 1 outcomes, strong investment originally planned.
market conditions in the second half of the returns and quality customer year and more cautious investor sentiment, service.
Optimisation we delivered NCCF of 4.7 billion in 2018, means making Quilter the best version excluding Quilter Life Assurance.
This of ourselves that we can be.
We want to represents 5% of opening Assets under Advice and Wealth eliminate the inefficiencies in our Management and Administration AuMA Management growth operational processes.
in line with our medium-term target.
Overall Grow our advice business by adding NCCF of 2.7 billion was down 57% on 2 financial advisers and investment First, we see an opportunity to deliver an prior year 2017: 6.3 billion with this largely managers, supporting them improvement in operational performance due to the pre-announced run-off of the toimprove their individual and efficiency of middle and back office low margin institutional life book within productivity.
We will also complete activities.
Business areas which are involved our Quilter Life Assurance or Heritage the build out of our Quilter in the new UK Platform Transformation business and the natural attrition of the Investors team.
Programme will be ring-fenced and largely rest of that book.
protected until that project is complete to avoid any risk of disrupting the programme We have also demonstrated resilience in Wealth Platforms growth delivery timetable.
AuMA excluding Quilter Life Assurance Deliver our UK Platform which declined by just 2% over the year.
Transformation Programme which In addition to those Optimisation savings This contrasts with an overall decline in 3 will bring benefits including greater which have already been achieved through AuM across the industry of 6% during 2018, capability and functionality.
cost avoidance during 2018, we believe according to the Investment Association.
that the potential benefits from running our existing businesses better can deliver We added to our distribution capabilities Optimisation around a two percentage point uplift to our within our Private Client Adviser business We will grow our business by 2020 operating margin target of 30%.
This through 14 small acquisitions during the year, enhancing our scale and efficiency is despite ongoing investment in distribution with a corresponding total consideration of 4 whilst reducing unnecessary which has a negative short-term impact up to c. 12 million that may be paid, with costand complexity.
We also expect a just over half of this subject to performance further two percentage point improvement conditions being attained.
This provides us For detail on performance in 2021.
This increases our previous 2020 with the potential to build our base of client towards our strategic objectives, guidance to around 32% and our 2021 assets over time.
see pages 19 to 23. guidance to around 34%, although, given that the outcome here is a function of income and Across our appointed representative firms, costs, this target assumes broadly normal we achieved satisfactory growth of 4% in market performance from around current adviser numbers, and finished the year with levels together with steady net flows.
The 1,621 restricted financial planners RFPs.
uplift will be achieved from cost savings with This is below our historic growth rate of 5% an expected cost to achieve of c. 75 million and reflects a disappointing rate of growth inclusive of identified IT spend to deliver in the first half and so this was an area of the programme over the next three years.
particular focus in the second half of the year when the majority of this growth Once the UK Platform Transformation was achieved.
Programme is complete, we will then be able to consider further efficiency initiatives from On 14 February 2019, we purchased the those areas previously ring-fenced until the remaining shares in Charles Derby Group UK Platform Transformation Programme that we did not already own.
Our goal will be to transition will be positioned as part of our national towards a simpler, higher-growth business, advice business instead of being an over time.
appointed representative firm within our network.
We see significant opportunity from broadening the existing Quilter Private Client Advisers business model into the affluent See page 204 for alternative performance measure definitions.
Strategic Report | Chief Executive Officers statement Quilter Annual Report 2018 09 Strategic Report | Chief Executive Officers statement continued market instead of solely servicing high Quilter Wealth Solutions achieved net inflows Managed Portfolio Service compares well net worth clients.
The acquisition and of 3.1 billion, down 31% on prior year.
Gross against its peer group and met its investment repositioning of Charles Derby Group will sales of 7.7 billion 2017: 8.9 billion were objectives in 2018, defending well in the last provide us with meaningful scale and strong down 1.2 billion as a result of the slower quarter of the year.
It hit its fifth anniversary market positioning to serve customers in the trading environment seen in the second in good shape.
affluent and mass affluent segment and will half of the year as well as reduced transfers complement Quilter Private Client Advisers of defined benefit DB schemes to defined Turning now to Quilter Cheviot, overall which focuses on high net worth customers.
contribution DC schemes, which were performance remained consistently good We will continue to consider acquisitions down 24% to 1.6 billion.
We believe that across all time periods relative to ARC in advice and distribution capacity on a this was driven by the impact of increased benchmarks to the end of September.
This selective and targeted basis but only where FCA scrutiny and resultant impact on isthe most recent quarter for which we have quality and culture are a good fit with Quilter the availability and affordability of IFA the detailed ARC comparisons which are as well as offering a strong business and professional indemnity insurance.
our pension propositions continue to perform well, with gross sales of 4.7 billion, Stewardship As part of our commitment to advice we representing 60% of total Quilter Wealth We monitor employee engagement on a have developed the Quilter Financial Adviser Solutions gross sales 2017: 5.4 billion quarterly basis and are delighted that it has School, which has been in operation since representing 61% of 2017 gross sales.
remained at a consistently high level despite 2016.
The School has contributed to growth the significant work pressures that arose in financial advisers across the industry with We continue to reposition our International through the Listing process.
an average student age of 29 years and with business and inflows have been particularly 33% female participation.
Our strategy is to focus our Building an environment where our people 100th student graduated, and currently we international geographic footprint and can thrive is important to me.
One of the have 94 students enrolled on courses which maintain the quality and value of new principal benefits of Quilter being a cover all stages of financial advice: of these, business.
We have deliberately taken an standalone business is the reinforcement 46 are potential RFPs.
In light of the success early adopter strategy to the shifting of the of our identity, and strengthening of the to date we are increasing our investment to regulatory environment and, as previously ties that bind our people in their delivery expand the capacity of the School to deliver reported, this has had an impact on new of our purpose.
Virtually all of our staff were a higher level of new RFPs to Quilter.
At business flow but we believe this is the right awarded shares in Quilter on Listing and so current capacity we can accommodate approach for both customers and Quilter.
have a direct stake in the outcomes of their around 100 students per annum.
The efforts as we build the UKs leading wealth focused RFP programme takes 14 months Quilter Life Assurance had net outflows management company.
to complete and so we expect to see this of 2.3 billion, up from 1.6 billion in start to contribute to growth in our adviser 2017, principally due to the closure of the We believe that an organisation needs numbers later this year.
institutional life book of business announced to have a broader moral compass than in 2017.
The remainder of the Quilter Life merely profit maximisation.
Our Shared Quilter Cheviot NCCF slowed over the course Assurance book ran off at a rate of c. 14% Prosperity Plan, which is part of our of the year mirroring the broader market which is broadly in line with expectations.
Responsible Business strategy, seeks to trends.
Whilst disappointing, this reflected improve financial capability across the UK lower levels of gross inflow and broadly Investment performance population.
By equipping people to make stable outflows.
We expect the first half of 2018 was a challenging year for investors.
better financial decisions, we enable them 2019 flows to be impacted by the loss of a Most major asset classes declined, and the to have a secure financial future and we c. 0.2 billion client where notice has been broad nature of the decline, particularly in aim to protect customer assets over the given and with the funds expected to move the fourth quarter, made it difficult to achieve long-term through inclusive and early in the year.
The near institutional-type positive outcomes from Quilter Investors responsible investment.
mandate of this portfolio means that we diversified solutions.
expect the loss to have minimal impact We were delighted to launch The Quilter on2019 profitability.
Whilst we are conscious that short term Foundation at Listing.
As a registered charity, performance in certain portfolios was the Foundations mission is to tackle the During the last 18 months we have been disappointing, our multi-asset solutions barriers to prosperity in our society.
investing in the Quilter Cheviot investment are aligned to the advice process, led by The Foundations first step is to work in team with Investment Manager IM well-regarded portfolio managers, with good partnership with charities that support headcount increasing to 168 by mid-2018.
We remain particularly young carers in the UK to help overcome Following Listing we saw a small number pleased with the medium and longer term the challenges they face such as isolation, of resignations from a particular cohort of performance of our biggest ranges, Cirilium mental health issues and poor outcomes IMs.
As a result, IM headcount fell to 155 by and Wealth Select as delivering to these goals in education and employment.
year-end and, while we have mitigation plans here is how the products are positioned in in place to reduce potential client departures, the market.
We also continue to make good progress we are expecting this could lead to higher in undertaking our voluntary redress for than trend outflows for Quilter Cheviot in the Our largest multi-asset range, the 8.3 billion customers within Quilter Life Assurance second half of 2019 and early 2020.
Growing Cirilium active, had a disappointing first who were subject to the terms of the FCAs our IM count is a key focus for 2019 and half of 2018, but, I am pleased to say, it has thematic review into the fair treatment of recruitment is ongoing with a number of new started this year strongly.
Over the three, long-standing customers.
We, of course, starters in the pipeline.
five and 10 year periods the performance welcomed the FCAs decision to close their continues to be strong.
The 6.0 billion investigation without any sanction on the 10 Quilter Annual Report 2018 Company.
Of the 69 million provision taken Early 2019 has seen a partial recovery in markets.
By the end of February 2019 our in 2017 relating to our voluntary redress AuMA had increased to c. 113 billion up of historic business written, we have paid from 109.3 billion at year-end.
While this out 27 million and we remain confident recovery in markets has been ahead of our that the remaining provision will be expectations, the trend in net client cash sufficient to meet the costs that were flows has remained subdued.
Brexit and identified from our review process.
market uncertainty continue to temper momentum in year-to-date flows and Outlook therefore we remain cautious on net flows The UK wealth management industry going into 2019.
However, as we set out in continues to offer strong secular growth our Prospectus ahead of Listing, we are potential notwithstanding the short-term confident in our strategic path and growth headwinds.
As it became apparent in the prospects.
We are a modern, purpose-built second half of 2018 that global macro and UK wealth management company that geopolitical uncertainty was impacting flows has many opportunities ahead of it.
Our and market sentiment, we increased our focus remains on embedding last years focus on cost management and accelerated Paul Feeney visiting a carers centre cost successes into our 2019 performance, some of the benefits we expected to deliver inCamden, London.
delivering organic growth and executing from our first stage Optimisation initiatives.
The Carers campaign makes me incredibly upon our transformation plans.
Im so thankful were hugely excited about the journey ahead As most of the decline in markets came inaposition to support these amazing and look forward to continuing to deliver late in the year, the impact on our 2018 youngpeople.
Closing AuMA of 109.3 billion was 5.4 billion less than the average AuMA for 2018 of 114.7 billion.
Lower average asset values, if sustained, would impact revenue generation in the current year.
While we cannot avoid external headwinds, we aim Paul Feeney to keep 2019 costs broadly flat on 2018 Chief Executive Officer excluding acquisition activity, through Optimisation and other initiatives, to partially offset the anticipated tougher revenue environment.
We remain resolutely focused on growing our business and supporting our clients towards achieving their savings and investment goals.
During 2019 we plan to increase adviser numbers, expand our national advice business including through the recently announced acquisitions, add Investment Managers in Quilter Cheviot, finish the build out of our Quilter Investors operation and complete, or substantially complete, the safe delivery of our new UK platform.
2019 will throw up other challenges for Quilter.
Brexit and market uncertainty are having an impact upon investors appetite to put new money to work.
In addition, we anticipate that the migration of advisers to our new platform may contribute to a slowdown in the flow of new money into our platform services as advisers familiarise themselves with, and are migrated to, the new platform.
As a result of both of these factors, while we remain confident in a target of 5% growth for NCCF on a medium-term basis, we may undershoot this target during calendar year 2019.
See page 204 for alternative performance measure definitions.
Strategic Report | Chief Executive Officers statement Quilter Annual Report 2018 11
