Strategic report Chief executives q&A IN THE SPOTLIGHT Q&A Rank is undervalued and there is a real opportunity to develop and grow this business.
John oreilly Chief Executive Officer Q1 Q2 WHAT ATTRACTED YOU YOU HAVE NOW BEEN IN THE TO RANK?
BUSINESS FOR four MONTHS, With over 25 years of experience in the betting WHAT HAVE BEEN YOUR FIRST andgaming industry, both in the UK and IMPRESSIONS?
internationally, I am often referred to as an industry veteran or stalwart.
In truth I Since joining I have been made to feel very welcome love the gambling sector, and I have met a lot of committed and hardworking It is a privilege always have and always will, colleagues who are focused on making this business and it is a privilege and a more successful.
anda pleasure to pleasure to be involved in Over the last four months I have visited many of our be involved in determining its future direction venues, our digital operations in Gibraltar, the at the helm of one of the Enracha business in Spain, the customer solutions determining the industrys major businesses.
hub in Sheffield, and spent a great deal of time with Having been a non-executive all our leadership teams.
future direction at director of various companies Based on what I have seen and experienced, we need the helm of one since leaving Gala Coral in to be better across four key areas by: 1 increasing 2015, I was keen to return to our focus on the customer: 2 growing our digital ofthe industrys anexecutive role at a gambling business: 3 driving cost efficiencies: and 4 company, but only if the right improving our organisational capabilities.
The More recently I have identified the detail behind roleof CEO of Rank has always these four areas which will form our key priorities been one that I wanted if the chance arose.
In recent over the coming year.
years, as an outsider looking in, I have viewed the Rank business as being undervalued with a real opportunity for development and growth.
18 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial STATEMENTS 1.
Increasing our focus on the customer 3.
Driving cost efficiencies Continue to support the recently rolled out Our central costs are too high for a business of our Project Experience, a standards-setting and size.
We will be reviewing central costs to ensure training programme focused on delivering the appropriate sizing and control going forward: and optimal customer experience in our Mecca and the transformation programme will have a key Grosvenor venues: focus on cost efficiencies across the Group.
continue with the good work already started on 4.
Improving our Organisational customer segmentation at a venue level within capabilities the Grosvenor estate to provide the right Central to the transformation programme is the experience to the right customer, moving away objective of creating a better quality, more from a one size fits all approach: effective organisation: and increase the focus on offering a wider portfolio of the programme will create opportunities for our entertainment within our Mecca venues to attract best people to develop and grow and improve the new customers and diversify our customer base: attractiveness of Rank as an employer of choice.
significantly increase data-driven customer insights within the business and use our data to ensure a stronger performance orientation: be forensic in evaluating capital investments in our venues and in our product offering: and Q3 it is essential that we create a sustainable business do you see a need to and all initiatives will be viewed through a sustainability lens to ensure we are growing a change ranks strategy?
business founded on responsible gambling.
Ranks strategy as defined by the five pillars is right 2.
Growing our digital business for our business and I agree with the Groups Continue the work around optimising user ambition.
That said, with the backdrop of a journeys on our digital sites to make sure they are disappointing performance in 2017 18, we must frictionless for customers: move quickly to realise the significant underlying potential which I have now seen first-hand since our delayed omni-channel service, Grosvenor joining the Group in early May.
One, will be delivered across the estate within the second half of the year.
This is critical to growing both our Grosvenor venues and digital business: having delivered Grosvenor Since joining I One we will be reviewing the minimum viable omni-channel have been made service for Mecca customers: cost savings delivered within to feel very the transformation programme welcome and I will be reinvested in marketing within the digital business to have met a lot of increase customer acquisition and loyalty: and committed and the acquisition of YoBingo hardworking provides an opportunity to significantly drive growth colleagues.
within the Spanish market under both the Enracha and YoBingo brands.
com | 19 Strategic report Chief executives q&A continued The programme will be centrally run to ensure it is co-ordinated, properly measured and changes the way we operate going forward by enhancing the performance culture of this business, creating Q4 opportunities for personal growth and enabling ambition to be rewarded.
How will you ensure Rank The transformation programme has only just kicked realises this underlying off.
All senior employees will be involved as it potential?
progresses and it will shape what we do and, just as importantly, what we dont do over the year ahead.
As highlighted earlier, we need to improve our organisational capabilities to deliver our strategy andwe will do this through the establishment of a transformation programme.
We have to become more efficient, but we also need to grow revenue so Q5 the transformation programme will be a mix of cost savings and revenue generation initiatives.
Where do you see Rank in It is a rigorous process involving multiple approvals for initiatives with overall review by theRank four years time?
Our aim is to deliver a responsible, growing and Ideas to grow revenues and or reduce costs are successful business which is responsive to changing identified, validated, planned, prioritised, executed consumer needs and therefore relevant to todays and realised with tight management and customer.
We want to be an employer of choice to measurement at every phase.
attract and retain the very best talent to ensure we have the organisational capability to drive increased The start point is in determining the workstreams, loyalty from our customers and to create enhanced responsibilities and initiatives and validating the value from our shareholders.
P&L benefits and timetable for delivery.
This programme of work has just begun and will run There is a lot to do over the coming months to overthe next three months.
getRank fit for the future but this is an exciting journeyand one which the Rank team is now The transformation programme will then follow a gearing up to take.
strict weekly cadence, enforced by a transformation office which will support the programme and makesure the initiatives stay on track.
To help runthe programme we have recruited a Chief Transformation Officer, Jim Marsh, from McKinsey& Company.
Jim will join the business on1 October 2018.
The programme will be a challenge to all of us at Rank and as yet we dont know what the initiatives will be, but our employees are best placed to determine what we should be doing to grow revenues or where we can save money.
It may be inscheduling, multi-skilling, new products, procurement, central systems, digital customer acquisition, customer bonus controls, promotional effectiveness, improvements in customer due diligence processes, or estate management.
20 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018
