Strategic report Chief Executives report We continue to deliver one of the highest yields on net asset value in the sector, with our performance underpinned by a strong balance sheet and a significantly improved portfolio.
Mike Watters Chief Executive Officer I am pleased to report on a period of EPRA NAV increased by 3.4 per cent to Highlights continued progress against our strategic 42.8pence per share 31 August 2017: objectives.
Despite macroeconomic and 41.4pence per share supported by Superior income political uncertainty, underlying occupational disposalproceeds of 255.8 million at an One of the best cost ratios and investment markets have proven average 8.9per cent premium to book value.
in the sector, efficiently resilientfor the majority of the sectors in Despite the continued fall in UK Shopping converting rental income which we are invested.
Centre values, the likeforlike portfolio value increased 0.1 per cent, testament to into underlying earnings The RDI portfolio has been enhanced through the strongvaluation performance delivered the recycling of capital from mature and 15.6% elsewhere.
The acquisition of the IHL and exgrowth assets into locations and assets London Serviced Office LSO portfolios benefiting from stronger occupier demand in the first half of the year are excluded and rental growth prospects.
Acquisition from the likeforlike valuation movements and disposal activity over the period totalled but increased in value by 14.0 per cent and Sustainable income 519.7 million resulting in a lower net debt 1.0 per cent respectively relative to their position and loan to value ratio.
Underlying Weighted average unexpired purchaseprices.
earnings and dividends are in line with lease term to first break medium term guidance, a pleasing result given The Board has declared a second interim the level of capital recycling and the resulting dividend of 1.35 pence per share taking the reduction in balance sheet gearing.
full year dividend to 2.70 pence per share, a 3.8 per cent increase on the same period 7.0yrs Results and dividend last year.
The dividend reflects a pay-out Underlying earnings increased by 7.4percent ratio of 95.1 per cent of underlying earnings to 53.5 million 31 August 2017: 49.8million.
for the full year, in line with our objective of Underlying earnings per share increased distributing superior income returns fully Growing income by 3.3 per cent to 2.84 pence per share covered by underlying earnings and aligned Growth in underlying 31August 2017: 2.75 pence per share, in line with operating cash flow.
The total accounting earnings per share with our medium term growth target of 3.0 to return for the year was 9.8 per cent.
3.3% 04 RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 Our strategic priorities remainunchanged with a focuson delivering sustainable and growing income returns forourshareholders.
Holiday Inn Express, Southwark, London The acquisition of an 80 per cent interest in Strategic priorities Efficient capital structure the 161.7 million LSO portfolio in January Our strategic priorities remain unchanged Following a period of net disposals, our cash 2018 provides us with exposure to a sector with a focus on delivering sustainable and position was circa 59.0 million at year end.
benefiting from positive structural change as growing income returns for our shareholders.
Net debt has been reduced to 748.4 million occupiers move towards more flexible lease Tosupport this we have invested in assets 31 August 2017: 788.8 million resulting in structures, higher quality services and an which can deliver long term sustainable and a reduction in our LTV ratio to 46.2 per cent office environment which helps employers growing rental income streams, strengthened 31 August 2017: 50.0 per cent.
Following two toattract and retain talent.
the balance sheet and aligned our dividend post year end acquisitions, LTV has increased with underlying earnings and operating to 47.3 per cent on a pro forma basis, which is Exposure to the industrial and distribution cashflow.
still 270bps lower than the prior year.
Despite sectors was increased post period end the increase in available cash balances, we through a 26.0 million forward funding of Enhancing our income remain disciplined in assessing reinvestment a development of two distribution units in focusedportfolio opportunities both in terms of pricing and Bicester and the acquisition of an industrial It has been an exceptionally active year asset quality.
estate in Farnborough for 26.3 million, with a number of major transactions being atanet initial yield of 6.2 per cent.
The weighted average cost of debt increased concluded which has enhanced the overall to 3.4 per cent 31 August 2017: 3.1 per cent The retail sector suffered several retailer quality of the portfolio.
The Leopard portfolio driven largely by a net increase in the average failures and restructurings with retailers of German supermarkets was sold in cost of debt associated with acquisitions and business models and physical store portfolios December 2017 for 205 million, 20 million disposals.
Interest cover improved to 3.5 times continuing to adjust to changes in consumer above the combined 31 August 2017 market 31 August 2017: 3.2 times as a result of lower behaviour and spending patterns.
Two significant acquisitions were leverage which, combined with an average capital values across our UK Shopping also concluded during the period totalling debt maturity of 6.7 years and covenant Centre portfolio are down, this was largely 266.1million.
headroom, ensures strong operating cash attributable to increased investment yields Our investment in IHL was increased from flowcover and limited refinancing risk.
as we maintained occupancy and income 17.2 per cent to 74.1 per cent with IHL through active management.
Occupancy in subsequently being delisted and fully the UK Shopping Centre portfolio remained integrated into our hotel portfolio.
TheIHL high at 96.4 per cent 31 August 2017: portfolio was valued at 104.4 million 96.7percent whilst like-for-like net rental immediately prior to acquisition.
income was broadly flat over the period.
Our retail park portfolio, although not immune to the challenges in the retail sector, increased in value by 1.6 per cent largely the result of asset management initiatives.
RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 05 Strategic report Chief Executives report continued We are responding to the changing investment market by increasingour exposure to stronger demographics and focusingonareas of growth inoccupier demand.
2-6 Boundary Row, Waterloo, London Im pleased to welcome Gavin Tipper as our Strategic priorities continued Growing our business sustainably new Chairman.
Following a comprehensive Financial discipline We are committed to measuring and search process including both internal and improving our environmental, social and In addition to the reduction in leverage, external candidates, the Board selected further progress against key financial metrics governance performance.
We participate Gavin as the strongest candidate.
Gavin annually in the Global Real Estate has been delivered.
The full year dividend is has been an independent Nonexecutive covered by underlying earnings with a payout Sustainability Benchmark GRESB Real Director of RDI since August 2011 and brings Estate assessment and have increased ratio of 95.1 per cent.
While the payout ratio is significant experience and expertise to the at the upper end of our target range of 90per our GRESB score for the third consecutive role, whilst also benefiting from a thorough year.
In our Annual Report we report cent to 95 per cent, net disposals during the understanding of the Companys strategic period resulted in a higher cash balance and on sustainability performance using the direction and duallisted shareholder base.
latest EPRA Sustainability Best Practices lower LTV.
The EPRA cost ratio, a measure of the Groups administrative and operating Recommendations sBPR and we are Appointment of KPMG UK as auditor proudto have received our first EPRA Best costs relative to rental income, decreased to KPMG Ireland have acted as the Companys 15.6 per cent 31 August 2017: 19.8 per cent Practice sBPR award for our 2017 report.
With the scheduled enhancing the conversion of gross rental rotation of the audit partner due at the end Outlook income to shareholder dividends.
ofthis year, the Board took the opportunity to We are witnessing a polarisation in retender the audit.
Three firms were invited Appointment of new Chairman investmentdemand and widening in pricing to tender and after a rigorous process, and between prime and secondary assets, with I would like to take the opportunity to thank a recommendation from the Audit and Risk Greg Clarke for his leadership of the Board investors taking an increasingly narrow Committee, the Board appointed the UK firm view ofthe definition of prime real estate.
over the past seven years, having overseen of KPMG to act as the Companys auditor for the Companys growth and transformation Thesame trend has been marked in the the financial year ending 31 August 2019. pricing of assets and sectors benefiting from into a leading income focused UK REIT.
Theappointment of KPMG UK will be subject Hewasan outstanding Chairman and positive structural change in occupier demand to the approval of shareholders at the AGM to compared to those experiencing challenges steered the Company forward in a strong yet be held in January 2019.
Our sincere thanks balancedmanner, ensuring that the highest from many of the same structural trends.
and gratitude are extended to Niamh Marshall Thestrength of the industrial and distribution corporate governance and ethical standards and her team at KPMG Ireland.
were met at all times, whilst providing support market compared to weakness in the retail sector is the most obvious example and is for our entrepreneurial culture in assessing business opportunities.
clearly evident in the divergent performance within our own portfolio.
06 RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 We have responded to these changes Longer term, our investment strategy will take account of the pace at which real estate by increasing our exposure to stronger demographics and focusing on areas of is changing with increasing requirements from occupiers for flexibility and service.
growth in occupier demand such as London serviced offices, distribution and multi-let Technology, demographics and transport infrastructure are all impacting future real industrials while retail, and more specifically UK shopping centres, now form a smaller part estate strategies and the ability of assets to deliver long term sustainable income of the overall portfolio.
This is a trend we will look to continue, subject to market conditions, returns.
The changing nature of real estate over the short to medium term.
and occupier demand is placing a far higher emphasis on operational platforms and Given the level of uncertainty around the UKs services.
We believe RDI has a unique market exit from the EU, the outlook for interest rates position to capitalise on this trend, with our and the change in occupier requirements, leading operational partners in RBH and Office we are prepared to be patient with the Space in Town.
reinvestment of recent disposal proceeds and will retain a disciplined acquisition strategy.
Mike Watters In the current environment, we believe the Chief Executive Officer benefit of maintaining reasonable levels of liquidity and lower leverage outweighs the 25 October 2018 risk to earnings growth in the short term.
However, we remain active in looking for value enhancing opportunities to support our commitment to delivering our medium term earnings targets.
The changing nature of real estate and occupier demand isplacing a far higher emphasis on operational platforms.
Holiday Inn Express Southwark, London RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 07
