Strategic report Chief executives review The case for independent wealth managers providing discretionary investment management through a personalised client relationship model continues to be compelling.
A discretionary service can respond dynamically to volatile market conditions and deliver a quality outcome.
Philip Howell Chief Executive A resilient year A strong 2018 financial performance and the completion of the acquisition of Speirs & Jeffrey The wealth management industry continues to grow, with sector assets reaching close to 1 trillion according to a recent The 12.8% growth in our total funds under management and Compeer study.
The case for independent wealth managers administration in 2018 reflected continued net organic growth providing discretionary investment management through and the completion of our acquisition of Speirs & Jeffrey in a personalised client relationship model continues to be August 2018, which added funds of 6.7 billion at the time compelling.
A discretionary service can respond dynamically of completion.
Total funds in our Investment Management to volatile market conditions and deliver a quality outcome.
business were 38.5 billion 2017: 33.8 billion, whilst our Capitalising on the market opportunity requires continuous Unit Trusts business totalled 5.6 billion 2017: 5.3 billion.
investment in technology and professional talent, which in This growth helped deliver underlying profit before tax of turn calls for the advantages of scale.
In this environment, 91.6 million 2017: 87.5 million, resulting in an underlying Rathbones is well-positioned.
operating margin of 29.4% for the year 2017: 30.6%.
Underlying earnings per share of 142.5p, increased 2.7% from Markets during the first half of 2018 were slow to react to the 138.8p in 2017.
Profit before tax of 61.3 million 2017: 58.9 growing economic and political uncertainties that were widely million reflected a number of non-underlying items including reported.
They did however begin to reflect sentiment more costs associated with the acquisition of Speirs & Jeffrey.
closely during the second half of the year when we saw the considerable falls in asset levels that have perhaps reset Net new organic inflows totalled 1.1 billion in 2018, expectations for 2019.
Our own funds under management representing a growth rate of 3.4% 2017: 3.0%.
This was and administration grew to 44.1 billion at 31 December 2018 a relatively steady performance compared to last year.
Outflows reflected the ongoing use of funds for lifestyle and property, as well as the departure of a small number The year was characterised by some additional demands of investment managers over the past year.
On the one hand, we needed to adapt to new regulatory regimes and navigate increasingly Net flows into Unit Trusts totalled 543 million in the year complex investment conditions.
On the other, we continued 2017: 883 million representing 10.1% of opening funds under to progress our five-year strategic initiatives and completed management.
Encouragingly, this meant Rathbones funds the most significant acquisition in our history.
Our positive ranked 11th overall for net retail sales in 2018, according to financial results despite this significant level of activity numbers published in the February 2019 Pridham report.
demonstrate the resilience of our business.
As reported on page 30, our balance sheet remains stable with a consolidated Common Equity Tier 1 ratio at 31 December 2018 of 20.6% compared with 20.7% at 31 December 2017.
We remain very lightly geared with a consolidated leverage ratio at 31 December 2018 of 8.9% compared with 7.8% at 31 December 2017.
Our underlying return on capital employed was lower at 16.9% as a result of the 60 million share placing to part-fund the acquisition of Speirs & Jeffrey 2017: 19.5%.
A detailed analysis of our regulatory capital position at 31 December 2018 can be found on page 30. rathbones.
com 11 Chief executives review continued Performance against our strategy Supplementing our growth through acquisitions Our aim to build trusted relationships with our clients and be Our growth strategy has always been supported by the accountable for the outcome of their portfolios is as relevant acquisition of teams and businesses, and our approach today as it was five years ago.
here has and will remain opportunistic.
Our acquisitions and recruitment have added 137 investment professionals The combination of organic growth, earnings-enhancing over the past five years.
In 2014, we acquired Deutsche Bank's acquisitions, positive investment performance and effective London and Jupiter's private client businesses 2.6 billion cost management has helped Rathbones create and and in 2018 we acquired Speirs & Jeffrey 6.7 billion.
This maintain value for shareholders and employees alike.
In was in addition to the acquisition of Vision Independent an environment of continued growth and favourable markets, Financial Planning in 2015. we have delivered underlying operating profit margins at around the 30% mark over a period of significant change.
Our acquisition of Speirs & Jeffrey makes Rathbones the This has been achieved while investing in our infrastructure, largest independent discretionary wealth manager in Scotland managing regulatory developments and pursuing a number and further reinforces our long-held commitment to the of growth initiatives.
Like Rathbones, Speirs & Jeffrey has a long-standing heritage and client-centric philosophy and our combined scale Market growth has not been particularly strong over the last enables greater financial and organisational capacity to invest five years, with the FTSE 100 Index average of 7269 for 2018 in our people, technology and processes.
Work to bring the representing only a 13.2% increase over the average in 2014 business into Rathbones is progressing well and the migration of 6419.
In spite of this, our underlying profits over that to our systems is intended to complete by mid-2019.
Our period have grown 81.4% to 91.6 million in the year ended commitment to keeping clients at the forefront of what 31 December 2018 31 December 2013: 50.5m.
we do will remain as we bring our two businesses together.
Funds under management and administration in the We will continue to focus on our key competencies to take Investment Management business have grown 90.6% advantage of industry trends and drive organic growth, while to 38.5 billion at 31 December 2018 from 20.2 billion five also seeking out acquisition opportunities that fit our culture.
While our average net organic growth of 3.3% did not meet the 5% we aimed for, it does reflect somewhat the headwinds of a sustained period of low yields and a Steady investment in our infrastructure continuing client appetite to invest away from public Capital expenditure excluding property costs was relatively investment markets and into property.
stable at 9.7 million in 2018 9.3 million in 2017 but as an Our strategic focus on distribution of our discretionary fund overall trend it has been increasing in recent years.
Our management services through UK IFA networks continues investment systems remain market-leading and these have to positively contribute to organic growth.
been enhanced, offering the ability to deal more efficiently, better manage asset allocation and measure investment Our charity and Greenbank specialist mandate businesses performance.
The roll-out of our asset allocation modelling have continued to perform strongly.
Rathbones is the software across Rathbone Investment Management five fourth largest charity investment manager in the UK, with years ago was an exciting step for us and enabled each of 5.3 billion of charity-related funds at 31 December 2018, our investment managers to better manage client portfolios and now competes for some of the largest charity business through the ability to actively compare them to model in the country.
Our specialist ethical investment business, strategies.
This tool is now a critical part of our infrastructure.
Rathbone Greenbank Investments, has also benefited from Over the same period, we have steadily grown our research momentum in this period, growing funds to 1.2 billion at skills and capability, which now represents a strong backbone 31 December 2018. to our investment process and a considerable source of The Unit Trusts business in particular has gained considerable investment intellectual property.
momentum and is now a 5.6 billion business funds under Like many other businesses, we continue to strive to make management at 31 December 2018 in its own right and all our desired improvements to our client relationship importantly does not rely on internal funds for growth.
We management systems and will continue to work diligently now manage three funds of over 1 billion and have launched this year to achieve our goals.
Our other operational systems several new funds and strategies to keep up with growing remain well controlled, supported by a technology demand and the ever-changing investment market.
infrastructure that is considerably more resilient than Some other growth initiatives have been slower to bear it was five years ago.
Our in-house financial planning business has been restructured recently.
It will require investment in the short term to ensure that all of our key offices have an appropriate level of access to financial advisers to support business development.
We will continue to invest selectively in financial planning talent in 2019.
The Rathbone Private Office has also recently been restructured to simplify its proposition and build closer links with private client discretionary managers.
We will continue to leverage the professional network it has established to add to growth.
12 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Outlook and succession The combination of organic growth, earningsWe have made some significant progress over the last five years, but there is still work to do to develop our services enhancing acquisitions, positive investment and strive for greater operational efficiency.
This year will performance and effective cost management be a busy one, with strategic investment decisions being has helped Rathbones create and maintain made amid the heightened uncertainties in investment markets.
During 2019, we will not only focus on ensuring value for shareholders and employees alike.
that the transfer of Speirs & Jeffrey clients to our platform is successful, but we will also improve our customer relationship management systems and client reporting tools, while continuing to develop other systems and processes as we progress our digital agenda and continue to grow.
We will Managing the impacts of greater regulation continue to maintain our cost discipline, investing as market 2018 was a year in which significant new regulation was conditions allow and ensuring that our infrastructure supports implemented, adding to both capital and operating costs the business and manages operational risks appropriately.
and involving some considerable internal resource.
We On 27 November 2018, we announced that I will be retiring were not alone as many industry participants wrestled from my role as chief executive by the Annual General with MiFID II and GDPR implementation projects whilst Meeting in May 2019.
When I joined Rathbones in 2013, continuing to pursue a busy change agenda.
Notwithstanding we were a business with 22.0 billion of funds under a sustained period of heavy regulatory change in 2018, we management, 41,000 clients and around 800 people.
expect the impact to continue to be felt in 2019.
Income in Back then, I could not have imagined the opportunities 2018 for example continued to benefit from the generation and challenges that we would face along the way but, of risk-free managers' box dealing profits 3.4 million in the five years later, at the end of 2018, we have emerged as the year ended 31 December 2018 and 3.1 million in 2017 in our largest independent discretionary fund management provider Unit Trust business, but such profits will not recur in 2019. in the UK, with 44.1 billion of funds under management and Alongside the wider asset management industry, we also administration, some 60,000 clients and over 1,400 people.
expect to face greater public scrutiny of costs and charges These achievements are down to the many talented following the implementation of MiFID II.
We remain employees who compose Rathbones.
confident in our value proposition but will continue to improve our services to clients.
Paul Stockton will take on the role of chief executive and, having worked closely with him for several years, I believe he is the right person to lead the company into the next Employees chapter of its history.
Our employees remain the most valuable part of our I leave Rathbones with great confidence that the business business and without them we would not be the leading is well-positioned for the next phase of growth, which will be wealth manager we are today.
We explained last year that announced in the second half of 2019.
It has been my privilege current employee share ownership had been falling and we to lead Rathbones and I thank you all for your support over the are pleased to have addressed this during the year with our last five years.
From May 2018, this adds 4.5 million per annum over five years to operating expenses.
We also continue to support the Share Incentive Plan SIP and it is encouraging to see that 1,055 nearly 80% of employees now Philip Howell actively participate in that plan.
The increased employee share Chief Executive ownership provided by all of these plans ensures employees are directly incentivised by, and motivated to ensure, the 20 February 2019 positive performance of the group and its continuing longterm success.
Training and career development is important to us and we strive to provide a high-quality learning and development experience for all of our employees to ensure they are wellinformed and to help them achieve both their professional and personal potential.
In 2019, we also expect our emphasis to move away from the considerable amount of regulatory training completed in recent years to pay greater attention to other areas such as leadership development and succession planning.
