Chief Executives statement 2018 was a year of significant strategic progress.
RB 2.0 is the platform for future growth and outperformance.
Rakesh Kapoor Chief Executive Officer Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 08 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Our purpose is to make a difference, by giving people Our aim is to expand on our position as a global leader in innovative solutions for healthier lives and happier homes.
consumer health with a strong presence in major categories Inour first fully operationalised year under RB 2.0, we have and a strong geographic spread.
We are developing a sharper focused sharply on fulfilling this.
consumer health expertise along with a strengthened focus on science and R&D.
Performance in 2018 At the beginning of 2018, we set a target for Net Revenue The MJN portfolio has now been fully integrated into our growth of 13% to 14%, which implies like-for-like LFL Health business unit as part of our IFCN category.
Its growth in the range of 2% to 3%, in line with the overall performance is on track with improved top-line growth as well market.
In July, we increased these targets to 14% to 15% as back office and procurement synergies from the acquisition.
total Net Revenue growth, due to the strong H1 delivered by Despite the supply disruption in the third quarter, IFCN saw a our infant and child nutrition IFCN category.
We achieved strong turnaround in every geographic region during the year.
the enhanced targets we set.
We continue to make progress in accelerating innovation, improving in-market execution and developing new channels, From a margin perspective, we delivered Adjusted Operating particularly in e-commerce.
We have made significant Margin expansion of 20bps to 26.7% on a pro-forma basis, investments in infrastructure and people to provide a sustainable ora decline of -60bps on a reported basis as we consolidated platform for long-term growth and outperformance.
During the the lower-margin MJN business for a full 12 months in 2018, first half of the year, we benefited from the launch of our new compared with only six-and-a-half months in 2017.
Enfamil NeuroPro range in the US as well as expanded distribution in Mom and Baby stores in China.
We earn high-in-class margins in both Health and Hygiene Home business units from our portfolio of high value products.
In Health, our new product initiatives for the second half of the Our goal is to maintain that position.
We will continue, year-in year included Nutramigen with LGG, which reduces the impact year-out, to improve the efficiencies of our business as we of cows milk protein allergies, and Durex AiR a new variant have always done.
We will also emphasise top-line growth and of our thinnest condom.
We also introduced K-Y Duration Gel resilience and will support this with appropriate re-investment for Men, our Scholl Aid treatment range, our Mucinex Fast Max of our efficiency savings.
Cold & Flu All in One, a new range of Move Free supplements and our MegaRed omega-3 supplements.
In infant nutrition, The first year in our RB 2.0 journey we also launched Enfamil NeuroPro, with a ground-breaking Our two business units Health and Hygiene Home fat-protein blend that supports brain function and immune commenced operations on 1 January 2018.
Each business is fully health in babies.
accountable on an end-to-end basis from innovation, through brand development to supply.
Innovation is the lifeblood of RB Hygiene Home and our performance in 2018 once again demonstrated the During 2018, we improved Hygiene Homes portfolio of leading strength and depth of our skills in bringing successful new global brands.
This business unit is now solely focused on the products to the market.
We are very excited about our current household sector and has the management agility on which we pipeline.
We believe RB 2.0 is the right platform to deliver future pride ourselves at RB.
During the year, we were able to speed growth and outperformance.
up innovation, create more opportunity to invest in our brands, and sharpen our go-to-market focus.
Health Our Health business unit has the focus and expertise it needs Growth in our Hygiene Home business unit was encouraging, to build on its strong portfolio of market-leading and trusted with a particularly strong performance in North America.
brands, which support people to live healthier lives.
We focus Thiscompensated for weaker growth in Europe, where we on five consumer health categories: sawsignificant pricing pressure in the first half of the year.
OurHygiene Home business unit has a lot of growth potential IFCN in developing markets, the two largest markets Brazil and India experienced good growth in 2018.
From a brand Health relief perspective, growth was strong across our leading global brands, including Finish, Lysol, Air Wick and Harpic.
Health hygiene Health and wellness In Hygiene Home, our Harpic Swachh Bharat Clean India is anew format that makes Harpic affordable to more Indian Vitamins, minerals and supplements VMS households.
We also announced Finish In-Wash Dishwasher Cleaner tabs, the Air Wick 2018 season range, new fragrances for Air Wick ViPoo spray, and the SBP Repellent PRO spray.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 09 Chief Executives statement continued Expanding our reach The right organisation for success Achieving a strong platform in developing markets We have entered 2019 with encouraging momentum, although is an important goal for RB.
At the beginning of this all of us at RB recognise that there is much work still to do.
decade, RBs business was around 25% in developing Intheir first full year of operation our two business units have markets and 75% in developed markets.
We now have benefited from the new focus and accountability provided by a more balanced split with around 40% of our business RB 2.0. in developing markets.
Thisreflects our strategy to move RB into the right geographies, not just the right Our work on creating two structurally independent business categories.
MJNs strong presence in developing markets, units called Project Gemini made good progress in 2018.
It especially in China the worlds largest infant nutrition comprises seven workstreams: legal entity restructuring, ERP market has enhanced this geographic footprint.
systems, shared services, operating model, financial reporting, We continued throughout the year to build our expertise in application separation and readiness, and Product Lifecycle digital and e-commerce to drive transformational growth.
These are important practical steps towards Inaworld of increasingly fragmented channels, in 2018 we achieving the structural independence of our two business made excellent progress in creating tailored solutions across a units which we aim to achieve by mid-2020.
This is a particular focus in China andwe have been highly successful in using that market as We have a very strong platform for growth in our priority anincubator for our e-commerce strategy.
markets including US, China and India.
This is complemented by digital and e-commerce excellence that has become a key Doing good by doing well contributor to growth.
Our IFCN portfolio gives us a major We sustained our strong record in health and hygiene value-creation opportunity in this fast-growing and higheducation during the year in review.
Highlighting the important margin category, where we can play a role in nurturing the role of clean water and good sanitation, our Harpic and Lysol best start in life.
RBs deep understanding of consumer needs brands launched the More than a Toilet campaign to support and its expertise in scaling global brands can help achieve Water.
significant growth in this category.
Our Durex campaign with RED is contributing to The Global Looking ahead, I am confident that as we fully realise the Funds fight against HIV and AIDS.
This programme is funding benefits of RB 2.0, we will deliver growth and outperformance the Keeping Girls in School programme in South Africa, which while delivering on our purpose of giving people innovative aims to reduce new HIV infections and pregnancies among solutions for healthier lives and happier homes.
young women and encourage them to stay in education.
Our culture and our people As part of our work to make our products more sustainable, Our many achievements in 2018 owe much to our strong and we marked World Environment Day on 5 June 2018 by distinct culture.
We have the right management teams to announcing RBs own Plastics Pledge.
This underlines deliver our ambitions.
Throughout RB, it is easy to see passion, responsible use of plastics in packaging as our overriding aim, drive, discipline and an acute sense of ownership, along with and details our adoption of the 4Rs approach reduce, replace, agility and courage to disrupt the status quo.
Recognising the need for collective effort to effectively tackle plastic, we also joined the Ellen MacArthur We continue to celebrate that culture and one of the things Foundations New Plastics Economy Global Commitment and Iwould like to highlight looking back over 2018 is the sheer The UK Plastics Pact.
spirit of our people right around the world.
In this year of transition, Ive been really encouraged to see that our people Building business resilience believe RB 2.0 to be the right strategy and 86% of employees Following the 2017 cyber-attack, we have enhanced the level are proud to work for RB thats industry-beating levels of of protection for our business.
There was good progress in pride.
It takes a very special company not just to meet the 2018 on building our resilience, through a significant upgrade significant challenges arising from our RB 2.0 reorganisation, of RBs IT infrastructure, systems and capabilities.
We are but to go a step further by delivering an improved performance working with a number of leading cyber security companies on the previous year.
and implemented protection that meets the specific needs of our business model.
Together, we navigated successfully through difficult waters ina year that implemented immense change.
I would like In South Korea, RB Korea continued to work with the tothank all of our employees for their unrivalled dedication government to support the victims of the tragic Humidifier and professionalism.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 10 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements I indicated in January 2019 my intention to retire as CEO by the end of 2019.
It has been a huge privilege to lead RB and I am very proud of the hard work and commitment of our It takes a very special people in delivering our success and many achievements.
The company not just to meet last two years, in particular, have been transformational with the acquisition of MJN and the reorganisation of our business the significant challenges under RB 2.0.
2020 will herald a new decade and I believe now is a good time for new leadership to take this great company arising from our RB 2.0 through the next phase of outperformance.
I will remain fully reorganisation, but to go focused on driving the business until a successor is in place.
a step further by delivering Rakesh Kapoor an improved performance Chief Executive Officer 18 March 2019 on the previous year.
FOCUS ON E-COMMERCE Rapid progress in achieving digital and e-commerce excellence in Health Our Health business unit is responding proactively to channel fragmentation.
We focus on e-commerce in all our markets, buthavesuccessfully used China as an incubator for our global e-commerce strategy.
The figures prove our success.
To take just oneexample: by the end of 2018, e-commerce was contributing 58%of our Health business units sales in China, excluding IFCN.
We are also developing our digital marketing techniques based on a better understanding of how people consume content and messaging.
In 2018, we more than doubled the number of people working in our Health e-commerce team.
At the end of 2018, our Health business unit continues to make strong progress in e-commerce as we meet consumers changing shopping habits.
E-commerce now contributes 9% of total Health Net Revenue, led by IFCN, VMS and our Sexual Wellbeing brands.
In China, our VMS brands have been launched exclusively in e-commerce channels.
58% of our Health business units sales in China was attributable to e-commerce.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 11
