STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 32 Redrow plc Annual Report 2018 33 STRATEGIC REPORT Operating Review continued COMMERCIAL & SYSTEMS STRATEGY IN ACTION: Health kiosks project who couldnt attend the kiosk and was RATIONALE sent as a link to our supply chain partners.
At Redrow, Valuing our People and Partners is important to us.
This is As well as our employees and supply evidenced by us recently setting up a new chain partners getting involved with the engagement team within our HR function initiative, we went a step further to enable with a dedicated resource to focus on them to register onto a digital platform Health and Wellbeing.
We already offer a which provided their own dashboard, set range of benefits, services and initiatives their own health and lifestyle goals, to our employees and intend to carry out a communicate and set challenges with comprehensive review of our Health and friends and colleagues and access lots of Wellbeing offering.
In order to do this, we resources and information to help improve wanted to understand the health risks of their health and wellbeing.
our employees and supply chain, looking at the whole picture around physical, RESPONSE mental, social and financial.
This would We enjoyed a fantastic response with 51% enable us to develop a Health and of our employees and 461 of our supply Wellbeing offering which was evidenced chain getting involved either by using the based so that future initiatives were much kiosk or completing the online more targeted, their impact could be more questionnaire.
96% said they would measurable and that would enhance the recommend the kiosk to a friend with 83% relationships with our supply chain saying that using the kiosk would inspire outlines what we will be doing to focus on all health partners.
We were really keen to offer a them to make lifestyle changes to improve and wellbeing areas, in particular focusing on the greater range of initiatives and their health.
APPROACH high risks identified by this project.
benefits to improve the health The challenge for us was that having no LEARNING We will be undertaking a communication campaign data on the current health risks of our and wellbeing of all our to our employees and supply chain to raise The initiative focused on a wide range of employees or supply chain, how were we awareness of what we will now be doing to support employees and supply chain.
health points: physical exercise, emotional going to get this valuable information.
We them and how they can get involved with initiatives wellness, sleep, smoking, nutrition, We challenged our newly worked with a specialist consultant to that we will be offering.
alcohol, chronic health conditions as well explore various ways of how we could do created Engagement team to as health metrics such as heart age, blood this and ultimately agreed that to be able Improving mental health in the construction industry set a strategy based on real pressure, BMI and body fat.
Our key to reach as many people as possible, the is an area that we are already working to tackle health risks from this process have been best approach was to have health kiosks needs so we can ensure through developing partnerships with like-minded identified as smoking, indications of poor in our divisions and sites which would organisations and one way in which we have targeted spend for the best nutrition as well as very low levels of provide a snap shot of the current health already committed to is to train Mental Health First physical activity.
These risk factors were results.
We are very pleased risks for our employees and supply chain.
reflected in the cardiovascular risk and with the approach and the health metrics taken at the kiosk.
Over a 4 week period, health kiosks were To support our supply chain, we will be working with results and look forward to strategically located at our divisions and our benefit providers to see what benefits we can GOING FORWARD sites supported by a Redrow lifestyle rolling out enhancements this extend to our partners.
The Employee Assistance questionnaire which was available at the We now have a fantastic robust data set Programme is one that we will be extending in year and next.
A mobile app was also developed to work with and, along with our other September.
that included the online lifestyle data such as absence, we have now Karen Jones questionnaire that was available for those developed a 2 year road map which Group HR Director STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 34 Redrow plc Annual Report 2018 35 STRATEGIC REPORT Operating Review continued COMMERCIAL & SYSTEMS STRATEGY IN ACTION: Build quality review We pride ourselves on ensuring the ability to instantly deal with issues whilst highest quality of our new homes.
communicating the greatest amount of Providing a first class product and detail of the issue and the required excellent levels of customer service goes solution quickly, with the ability to track to the heart of what we strive to achieve.
In order to provide excellent levels of We felt the solution involved an increased service we must first provide a quality use of technology.
We therefore rolled out product and it is important that this is the use of a new ipad based system to all delivered at all stages, so the customer of our site managers and assistant site has confidence that it is not just what they managers last year, a significant see as a finished product but also that we investment by the Group.
have taken pride at achieving this level at We also developed our own internal every stage of the build.
applications to be used on the ipad to Site management has changed allow the site managers to record dramatically over the last few years with a inspections instantly.
The use of this strong emphasis on health and safety, technology, with simple to use apps, accurate programming, build quality and allows our site managers to highlight any customer service, all of which needs to be areas of quality or safety concern and sustainable for the future.
instantly provide photo evidence which is then directed to the subcontractors and With the ever evolving tasks of a site the trade on site.
With the use of a simple manager, we conducted a review of the photo, a brief description and a targeted role with a target on increasing the subcontractor portal, faults are recorded amount of time our site teams have to and action is required via the portal to review quality and the benefits that has.
In evidence the rectification of the works.
order to achieve this we needed to review what tasks we could remove, improve or Works can be monitored to ensure simplify.
remedial action is carried out and data showing common issues can be Following the review of the role of the site highlighted and addressed with the manager, we removed any work that we contractors.
felt was not adding any benefit to the business, or had simply become a We also record areas of good quality and redundant task.
We then wanted to completed works that can be referred reduce the time our teams were taking to back to by our customer service teams, for common faults.
Drawings are also stored on the meets to discuss the issues with a target of closing complete simple tasks.
also helping the customer understand cloud and can be instantly e-mailed to the the loop through training, changing materials, what has been put into the fabric of the contractors own device, again significantly reducing general alerts or changing our details.
We work with a constant moving factory building.
the amount of time involved.
base on a building site, therefore we Over time it is expected that this investment in The initial results are showing that more wanted our site managers to have the We use the data produced, together with that of any technology will improve our communications with time is now available to our site teams to ability to work from any part of the site external audits, to allow us to target our training for our trades, give us a fully monitored system proactively deal with faults and we have a when inspecting quality or safety matters.
our teams and close the loop to ensure repeated identifying common faults, and ultimately reduce the system that will help us review the data We also wanted the teams to have the problems are identified.
A bi-monthly quality panel number of faults that can occur with a new home.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 36 Redrow plc Annual Report 2018 37 STRATEGIC REPORT Operating Review continued CONSTRUCTION To meet the demand for new homes, the construction industry must work with Government and the wider community to inspire the next generation to build.
70 national Green Building Councils transforming INSPIRING THE NEXT GENERATION the built environment.
AT REDROW At Redrow we are committed to training and Building homes can be impactful on the areas development and are evolving our learning and surrounding a development.
As part of our development programmes to better support our commitment to creating considerate working business as it continues to grow and evolve.
environments we became corporate members of Considerate Constructors Scheme CCS, a nonDuring the year we were pleased to launch the first profit-making, independent organisation founded by housebuilding degree course in the UK in the construction industry to improve its image.
conjunction with Liverpool John Moores University Regular scored assessments are carried out, by CCS and Coleg Cambria.
monitors, to assess if sites are being run in accordance with the Schemes code of practice.
At We have also developed a careers app designed our Lyon Square development, Harrow, we achieved using augmented reality to show the housebuilding an exceptional score of 45 out of 50.
The site team environment and career opportunities available in was praised by the CCS Assessor for its innovative housebuilding.
It was launched at the Careers Live CONSTRUCTION multi-purpose illuminated signage board which shows in Birmingham and Liverpool in March 2018. promoted the credentials of the company while STRATEGY IN ACTION: House building degree course We again maintained our proportion of our portraying the industry in an extremely positive light.
workforce on structured training programmes at 15% Home energy use is responsible for over a quarter of and have been listed as a Top 100 Apprentice In 2018 Redrow launched the first there are six block weeks of classroom UK carbon dioxide CO emissions.
At Redrow we Employer in the National Apprenticeship Service 2 Housebuilding degree with Liverpool John learning which will be taught in partnership build energy efficient homes that not only reduce the awards for a fifth successive year.
Moores University and Coleg Cambria.
between Coleg Cambria, LJMUs department environmental impact of carbon emissions but also of the built environment and Redrow We are delighted This year our focus was on further improving the save our customers money.
Our homes are designed The programme was launched in February business experts with additional time through quality of our training course days rather than the and constructed to optimise the performance of the 2018, with 14 Redrow employees embarking to be working in virtual learning, site visits and practical quantity of attendees and as a result we delivered building fabric as part of a fabric first approach.
At present the degree is learning.
partnership with c6,500 training days, a small reduction on the 6,800 minimises heat loss through floors, walls, roofs and only open to Redrow employees.
A significant proportion of our training is windows.
Energy performance in homes is measured are hoping to open the degree out to the Any Redrow employee with a level three delivered at our Tamworth Training Centre, at using the Standard Assessment Protocol SAP rating, housebuilding industry going forward.
qualification or five years experience in the Liverpool dedicated training facilities at our Colindale and which shows the energy performance of a property housebuilding industry can be nominated to John Moores The three year degree gives candidates a full Daresbury offices or at our Head Office.
on a scale of 1 to 100, with A to G. The average SAP the programme, Redrow are hoping to have overview of housebuilding skills including University on this rating for a Redrow home this year was 84 B Rating, around 15 employees each year on the We created c100 new directly employed jobs in the housebuilding quality, surveying, land compared to the national average of a UK home of programme.
innovative and year, ending the year with c2,300 employees.
Our purchase, Health & Safety, law and project 59 D rating.
exciting new business benefits many more employees management.
The first two years will form a foundation throughout our supply chain.
Redrow are one of the partners supporting Barclays degree with the final year topping up to qualification.
Six modules will be delivered over each year bank Green Home Mortgages offering which become a full degree in BSc Hons BUILDING RESPONSIBLY using a variety of assessment methods provides lower mortgage rates for new Redrow Nick Tyson Construction Management Housebuilding.
including examinations, coursework and a We became Gold Leaf members of the UK Green homes in the energy efficiency bands from B A.
Assistant Principal final year dissertation project.
Each year Building Council UKGBC in 2018 reinforcing our This scheme is part of the Energy Efficient Coleg Cambria commitment to building sustainable homes and Mortgages Action Plan EeMAP which is intended to communities.
UKGBC is part of the World Green incentivise and channel private capital into energy Building Council network, a global network of over efficiency investments.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 38 Redrow plc Annual Report 2018 39 STRATEGIC REPORT Operating Review continued Project CDP.
In our most recent submission we Our all accident figure for 2018 was 3% lower at 382 MANAGING RESOURCES EFFICIENTLY BUILD OUTPUT have been awarded a B grade which reflects our than the previous year 2017: 393 despite a 9% As well as ensuring our sites are safe and operate in Build handovers increased by 12% in the year as the positive management of climate-related issues, increase in legal completions.
There was however a a manner that is considerate of the local community, Group continues to improve and smooth our including awareness and taking actions to reduce small increase in reportable accidents resulting in we are mindful of our responsibilities in caring for productivity to meet our growth targets.
an increase in our accident incident rate to 0.35 the environment.
In our work protecting and closely with our suppliers to manage pressures, 2017: 0.30. enhancing biodiversity on our developments, and notably this year in the material supply chain.
We are working to further reduce our carbon reducing our use of energy, waste and water in our emissions, of which a significant contributor is use of In 2018 Redrow received five commended and one activities, we are striving to become environmentally Colindale Gardens remains the largest single diesel for site activities.
Our diesel generator project highly commended safety awards from the NHBC.
We have maintained our ISO14001 development within the Group and delivered its first is currently reviewing use of diesel generators on The NHBC H&S Awards are the UKs only health certification this year, with regular audits by the legal completions in the year whilst continuing to and safety awards scheme for home builders and sites, including reducing the length of time they are British Standards Institute, as we continue to reduce make excellent progress on further phases.
There are provides us with external acknowledgement of our required on site, ensuring they are sized correctly our environmental impact across the business.
currently c650 homes under construction there and commitment to improving our overall H, S&E for their required purpose and examining hybrid on an average day a workforce of c600 is on site.
In addition, in our Yorkshire division we WASTE AND RECYCLING have been trialling new energy efficient site cabins, 2 We are producing 10.63 tonnes of waste per 100m coupled with new eco-heaters and solar 2 of build 2017: 10.65 tonnes 100m.
Early results indicate significant strengthening our focus on reducing waste with the energy and carbon savings will be achieved by commencement of a new waste minimisation rolling the system out across the business.
project, investigating the root causes of waste and taking steps to tackle these.
Our 2018 Greenhouse Gas GHG emissions expressed in relation to the quantity of build we have Ensuring we minimise the amount of waste going to 2 undertaken are 2.48 tonnes of CO e per 100m 2017: 2 landfill remains a priority for us, with the amount 2 2.5 tCO e 100m.
Our GHG emissions are 2 diverted from landfill increasing again this year to independently verified to a limited level of assurance.
At our North West division, the appointment of a new project engineer focusing on HEALTH & SAFETY management of soils and excavated materials has Redrow remains committed to improving our overall resulted in c93,000 tonnes of materials being Health, Safety and Environmental H, S&E re-used and diverted from landfill.
During the year we significantly We continue to work with our suppliers on restructured the teams, both increasing resources increasing recycling rates, with c23,000 paint cans and reorganising into two distinct areas of being recycled in 2018, and we have been sharing responsibility: Assurance & Compliance and our experiences of this successful project with the Development to better support this commitment to HBF to help increase recycling rates across the improvement.
We also continue to work with A new Group Health, Safety & Environmental Community Wood Recycling a social enterprise Director was appointed during the year to facilitate who collect and reuse waste timber at the same the restructure and to build on the positive work time as providing jobs and training for already achieved by the existing team.
Assurance & Compliance side of the new structure is The issue of packaging waste has been high on our a dedicated set of H, S&E inspectors whose primary agenda for a number of years and we have objective is to ensure that all live developments arranged numerous take-back schemes, where receive an internal scored inspection that identifies suppliers take responsibility for recovering and both areas for continued improvement as well as recycling packaging waste from our sites.
This year areas achieving recognised operating standards.
we have gone back to our suppliers and reThe Development side provides the divisions with engaged them on the issue of single-use plastic dedicated H, S&E Managers who will provide more waste.
We are looking to work with them to develop front end engagement and support in terms of resource efficiency programmes which embrace the pre-planning of H, S&E issues on future principles of the circular economy as a means of developments.
They also provide assistance and eliminating avoidable plastic waste.
We are also guidance on the practical application of recognised active members of the HBF Waste Forum, working operating standards and the sharing of best practice.
in partnership with other leading housebuilders to tackle waste across the sector.
Subcontractor engagement remains essential to Each year since 2010 we have disclosed information promoting a positive health & safety culture.
We about our carbon emissions, carbon strategy and continue to support our supply chain by organising reduction programmes to the Carbon Disclosure and hosting events during the year in our divisions.
