OVERVIEW CEOS REVIEW GOOD FIRST YEAR OF PROGRESS Renewi has had a successful first full year Strong cash management continued through by a combination of improving inbound since the transformational merger of Shanks the year.
We delivered an underlying free cash waste volumes and positive pricing, strong with Van Gansewinkel Groep VGG which flow of 79.8m in the first full year which was operational gearing and initial synergies, completed on 28 February 2017.
Reported driven by a good working capital performance, offsetting a reduction in wood income and in underlying profit before tax doubled to well controlled replacement capital expenditure paper and plastic recyclate income during the 51.5m, and we produced a strong cash and delayed soil offset expenditure at ATM.
The Division focused on enhancing performance.
Over the year we made good core net debt at 31 March 2018 was 438.7m, margins through the renewal of medium and progress with the post-merger integration, representing a multiple of 2.9 times EBITDA, long term contracts at commercial prices to exceeding our first year synergy target and comfortably within our covenant level of 3.5x reflect the improving broader market conditions establishing Renewi as a new and powerful and better than our expectations for the year.
and successfully delivered a net gain in brand in our core markets.
The particularly strong Divisional summary growth rate in the Netherlands reflects the Our core Commercial Division delivered a strong Commercial: strong performance in stronger market recovery in that country and performance, particularly in the Netherlands, improving markets, particularly in the the opportunity for greater margin recovery.
and along with a strong performance by the Netherlands, where profit grew 67% at Divisional synergies amounted to 9.2m during Monostreams Division, offset headwinds in our constant currency the year, ahead of our initial expectations.
Hazardous Waste and Municipal Divisions.
Our overall results demonstrate the scale, breadth Hazardous Waste: underlying profit decline Addressing the short term challenges of soil and resilience of the Groups expanded portfolio of 20% at constant currency, as anticipated, offset in our Hazardous Waste Division of businesses.
reflecting soil issues at ATM Hazardous Waste was impacted by the previously reported challenges in the offset of DELIVERING A GOOD Monostreams: 24% underlying profit growth remediated soil at ATM following a dispute with GROUP PERFORMANCE at constant currency, with encouraging IL&T, a Dutch regulator, over the use of washing performance from Mineralz, Orgaworld and waters in our treatment process.
Revenues Group performance Maltha increased by 3% at constant currency to 203m Group revenues grew by 8% to 1,566m at but underlying EBIT reduced by 20% to 17.4m, reported currency and 3% at constant currency.
Municipal: loss reflects difficult market with margins decreasing by 250 basis points Underlying EBIT increased by 30% to 69.1m conditions and operational challenges: to 8.6%.
Intake of contaminated soil remained at reported currency and 23% at constant recovery plan being implemented strong, as was throughput of contaminated currency.
Reported underlying profit before water and packed chemical wastes.
However, tax doubled to 51.5m at reported currency.
Driving strong growth in our core with limited outlets for the treated soil, we Reported underlying earnings per share grew Commercial Division temporarily reduced soil throughput to around by 30% at reported currency to 4.8p 2017: Our Commercial Division, representing 50% of capacity with a corresponding impact 3.7p.
Exceptional items totalled 101.5m 2017: around 65% of our revenues, had a strong on ATMs profitability, particularly in the 87.1m, principally reflecting the planned year, increasing underlying EBIT by 36% at second half.
As a result of the ongoing market synergy delivery and integration costs of the constant currency to 64.6m on revenues up challenges with soil offset, an exceptional merger and the previously reported actions to 5% to 1,020m.
Margins increased by 140 basis charge of 2.7m has been reported.
manage the Groups portfolio of UK Municipal points to 6.3% and returns on operating assets assets, which resulted in a loss before tax for increased 620bps to 20.6%.
The Netherlands Whilst discussions continue with IL&T, we remain confident that our treatment process the year of 50.0m 2017: 61.4m.
The total increased underlying EBIT strongly by 67% has been in line with all permits and applicable dividend for the year was maintained at 3.05 to 38.8m, while Belgium grew underlying laws.
We are making good progress in pence per share, in line with the Groups policy.
Growth was driven For investors: www.
com 8 RENEWI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OVER THE YEAR WE MADE GOOD PROGRESS WITH POST-MERGER INTEGRATION, EXCEEDING OUR FIRST YEAR SYNERGY TARGET AND ESTABLISHING RENEWI AS A NEW AND POWERFUL BRAND IN OUR CORE MARKETS developing new opportunities to place the treated soil during 2018 19 and for the long term.
The Reym VGIS industrial cleaning business performed well and also made good progress in integrating VGIS operationally into PETER the larger Reym organisation, delivering initial DILNOT Chief Executive synergies of 1m during the year.
Officer Building downstream product opportunities in our Monostreams Division Our Monostreams Division delivered a strong performance in its first full year.
At constant currency, revenues increased by 7% to 180m and underlying EBIT grew by 24% to 16.0m.
Margins increased by 120 basis points to 8.9%.
Growth was particularly strong in the Mineralz segment, with progress in both project related landfill volumes and the growing conversion of bottom ashes into products for building materials.
This market will grow in the coming years as companies comply with the Green Deal between incinerator companies and the Dutch Government.
In Orgaworld the main drivers were strong source segregated organics SSO volumes and good digester output performance.
In Maltha, strong glass volumes in a diversifying customer portfolio, combined with operational improvement programmes, improved margins significantly.
We also signed a new shareholder agreement with our joint venture partner Owens-Illinois for the Maltha business, strengthening the long term relationship between the two partners.
Coolrec continued its innovative projects with a growing number of leading industrial partners in the use of recycled plastics and metals.
Action to address and fide-risk performance in the Municipal Division As previously reported, Municipal, which operates in the UK and Canada, had a challenging year.
Revenue fell by 7% to 193m For customers: www.
The figures above are reconciled to statutory measures in note 3 in the consolidated financial statements.
All comparisons to the 2017 results refer to the performance that year on a pro forma basis as if Van Gansewinkel VGG had been owned throughout the financial year ended 31 March 2017, except where stated as reported.
Pro forma includes 12 months of VGG as extracted from management accounts and unaudited.
The definition of non-IFRS measures is included on page 182. primarily as a result of reduced construction of planned integration and cost reduction.
revenues following the completion of the Our initiatives support our total 40m target, Surrey facility in Canada.
The Division recorded with further potential new projects being an operating loss for the year of 9.3m, with identified.
Lower than expected exceptional 36% increased losses in both the UK and Canada.
synergy delivery costs of 14.6m 2017: 4.5m Ongoing operational and portfolio initiatives have been incurred in the year to deliver these include signing new refuse derived fuel RDF benefits.
Increase in underlying EBIT in export agreements to reduce cost, the sale Commercial Division of Westcott Park and planned termination of Waste is on the agenda for the Dumfries & Galloway PFI contract and the Brexit discussions resolution of operational issues in Canada.
The Brexit vote on 23 June 2016 created These initiatives are expected to reduce losses some uncertainties in the waste market.
The materially in the year ahead.
As previously short-term impact has been limited to the flow announced, an exceptional charge of 73m has through of a weakened Sterling on our results, 24% been recorded in the year relating to onerous both transactional and reported.
Through the contract provisions and portfolio management.
Brexit process, we expect the export of waste from the UK to continue as there is a strong Increase in underlying EBIT in Synergy delivery in 2017 18 ahead of plan, economic incentive for both the Netherlands Monostreams Division with forecast 40m synergies on track and the UK to do so.
Longer term, we also The delivery of our commitment of 40m of cost believe the impact on the Dutch market is likely synergies by 2019 20 underpins the expected to remain limited.
This is because an ultimate initial value creation of the merger and we reduction in UK imports was already expected due to the commissioning of incinerator made good progress towards that target during capacity in the UK and also new waste imports 2017 18.
We delivered 15m of initial synergies into the Dutch incinerators are being identified compared with our target of 12m and for a to take up any vacated capacity.
Providing that lower cost to date than originally planned.
there is no significant degradation in Dutch incinerator utilisation and pricing, the impact of In addition, the run rate of secured Brexit on our Benelux Divisions is therefore likely annualised cost savings as at March 2018 to be limited.
We understand that the Minister was approximately 24m, underpinning our for DEFRA is aware of the importance of having confidence in our 30m target for 2018 19. transition, and then permanent, arrangements The balance will be achieved in the second half, in place in any Brexit deal to address this waste primarily from the process and IT migration issue.
We also believe that the UK Government projects which are critical to the next phases For investors: www.
com 10 RENEWI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 will continue to drive environmental policies that will encourage recycling after the exit from SUCCESSFUL BRAND ROLL OUT the European Union.
The rebranding of the legacy Shanks and Van Gansewinkel VGG businesses ACTIVE MANAGEMENT TO OUTPERFORM to Renewi has been an essential part of showing our stakeholders that we IN DYNAMIC RECYCLING MARKETS are building something new, drawing on the heritage and the strengths of both legacy organisations.
The Renewi brand itself reflects our wasteStronger incoming waste market supported to-product business model and our role at the centre of the growing by positive macroeconomic backdrop circular economy.
Renewi benefited from generally stronger markets for inbound waste in 2017 18, with broad based volume growth supported by increasing GDP growth in our core Benelux market.
Specifically: GDP grew by 3.1% in the Netherlands and 1.7% in Belgium.
While total waste arising generally increases by a little less than GDP, for Renewi this is more than offset by an increasing structural shift towards recycling from landfill and incineration: Dutch construction continued to grow We are increasingly encouraged by the reaction to our new brand from both the strongly for a third consecutive year, market and our people.
There has been a genuine commitment to the new brand increasing by 5.6% during 2017 compared within the organisation and a growing pride in what it stands for.
Initial market with 7.1% and 8.0% in 2016 and 2015 research has also shown both increasing recognition and very positive associations respectively.
The particularly strong growth for the new brand.
in residential activity of 9.0% in 2017 is expected to moderate in 2018 19, replaced The heart of the roll out has been the physical rebranding of our assets.
Over 120 to some extent by increasing infrastructure sites and 1,500 trucks have been rebranded and we are on track to finish rebranding investment: and of trucks and sites during this year.
We are now underway with the process of applying Renewi stickers to all roll-bins at customer locations as well as a long term Specific niche markets all showed underlying programme to repaint and rebrand our larger metal skips and containers.
It is now input volume growth, including green waste common to see Renewi vehicles and assets throughout the Benelux.
and sludges for Orgaworld, WEEE materials and fridges for Coolrec, glass waste for Maltha, bottom ashes for Mineralz and contaminated soil for ATM.
Volumes were particularly strong in the first half of the year, most notably in Dutch construction.
However, growth slowed during the winter season compared with the first eight months, partly due to an unusually cold February and March.
As a result of the volume growth over the past two years, capacity is increasingly well balanced and we have successfully put through selective price increases both to offset cost inflationary pressures, as described in the Operating Review, and to increase margins as the market improves.
Overall, The physical rebranding has been supported by online activity through Renewi social inbound waste markets are expected to media accounts and building on our very successful launch Day one video.
We have remain positive in 2018 19. also carried out small-scale publicity campaigns, such as one in partnership with the Belgian cinema chain Kinepolis in which Renewi encouraged visitors to cinemas to Volatility in recyclate markets largely recycle their waste bottles and cartons.
We launched a Renewi-wide collaboration mitigated by contractual agreements platform in February 2018 and, as part of this, all Renewi employees transitioned In July 2017 the Chinese government to a renewi.
com email address from 1 March 2018, further enhancing our peoples announced the National Sword programme affirmation with our new brand.
to reduce the import of paper and plastic For customers: www.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2018 RENEWI plc 11 | OVERVIEW CEOS REVIEW CONTINUED recyclates, especially lower grade and Tightening capacity in outlet markets for have proven to be inappropriate in the current contaminated materials.
Given that China uses residual waste market environment.
Within this unfavourable approximately 50% of the worlds recycled Another continuing market trend in 2017 18 market, our Municipal Divisions portfolio of paper, this naturally lead to overcapacity in was the tightening of capacity at the assets has been vulnerable contractually to the market for recycled paper.
The immediate incinerators in Belgium and the Netherlands for the volatile recovered fuel markets, rising impact was a fall of around 20% in recyclate burnable waste, including RDF.
All the Benelux continental European incinerator gate fees prices from relatively high levels of 155 per incinerators are now effectively full and there is and the weakness of Sterling.
We are actively tonne for cardboard in July to around 125 per a lack of capacity to treat any significant volume managing this through ongoing operational tonne by September.
Prices then stabilised until growth.
Accordingly, incinerator gate fees have improvements, contractual negotiations February 2018 when they fell sharply, with a low continued to rise.
Renewi is well placed to with customers and, where appropriate, in March 2018 of around 70 per tonne, due in manage these market trends, being the largest management actions to exit specific activities.
part to inventory accumulation in the supply commercial Benelux supplier with around 2.4 chain.
Prices stabilised again in April 2018. million tonnes of burnable waste a year and a DELIVERING SUSTAINABLE well-balanced contract portfolio for the off-take LONG TERM GROWTH Renewi is not materially impacted by of its residual waste streams.
The tightening movements in the plastics market but does market capacity is also evident in the rising Our vision have an exposure to the paper market.
costs of disposal of other residues from sorting Our vision is to be the leading waste-to-product Importantly, around 80% of Renewis paper lines, such as sieve sands.
This differentiates Renewi as a output in its Commercial Division is subject to company that focuses on extracting value from dynamic pricing within its customer contracts On balance, a lack of incinerator capacity and waste and supplying high quality secondary raw through which Renewis margin is largely increasing incinerator gate fees is positive for materials, rather than on the disposal of waste protected.
This is because changes in paper Renewis Commercial Division as it broadly through mass burn incineration or landfill.
prices are automatically passed through to the supports pricing recovery for Benelux recyclers.
Our vision positions us higher up the value waste producing customer.
In addition, paper It is possible that further strong inbound chain in the segments expected to show the prices have broadly fallen by significantly less volume growth could result in challenges to highest structural growth rates in an industry c20% for the high grade paper in which the find sufficient outlets for our residues and a driven by increasing environmental legislation, Commercial Divisions Destra plants specialise, requirement to limit some commercial intake in particularly in the European Union where the as this paper generally goes directly to the short term.
Increasing gate fees is inherently majority of our business operates.
We believe European paper mills.
a negative for our Municipal Division, however that our unique focus addresses social and this has been largely mitigated by our strategy regulatory trends and also offers the most The impact of lower paper recyclate prices of locking in the vast majority of our output to capital-efficient solution to waste management.
on Renewi was around 3m in the second long term contracts at fixed rates.
half of 2017 18, as previously reported.
Looking The Circular Economy a growing forward, the mitigated full year impact of PFI market remains challenging in the UK end market current paper and plastic prices on Renewi in The PFI sector in the UK has continued to The markets in which we operate are 2018 19 is expected to be around 4m, of which face significant challenges.
An increasing structurally set for long term growth, stimulated half is in the Municipal Division which produces number of PFI contracts have come under by environmental need, customer demand and lower grade product and is unable to pass pressure as a result of austerity measures, by increasing regulation.
Renewi is uniquely recyclate price changes back to its customers.
poor performance or because the contracts placed to meet the needs of the growing circular economy with our waste-to-product model.
The circular economy is a growing business model in which the concept of waste is obsolete.
The waste produced by society is seamlessly reconverted back into secondary raw materials so as to prevent contamination and preserve scarce virgin materials.
There are three reinforcing drivers that are combining powerfully and increasingly to build a new and vibrant circular economy.
These are a clear environmental need, greater customer demand and increasing regulation.
We discuss these in more detail on page 20 of this report.
Our strategy We have a clear Group strategy to deliver sustained growth and attractive returns through: Delivering merger benefits, including committed annual cost savings of 40m in 2019 20: For investors: www.
com 12 RENEWI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Driving margin expansion across the The creation of Renewi has widened the range As expected, we are seeing a wide range of benefits from combining the logistics scale and Group through our self-help initiatives of products and services to our combined expertise of VGG with the broader treatment of commercial effectiveness, continuous customer base.
For example, we are now not capabilities of Shanks.
Significant synergies improvement and off-take management: only providing the Dutch incineration industry have been delivered through the rerouting of with high quality recovered fuels from the waste collected from VGG customers to Strategic expansion by investing in Netherlands, the UK and Belgium, but also be treated in Shanks facilities, expanding innovation, broadening our products recycling its bottom ashes into products for margins and optimising asset utilisation.
Our and services, and investing where we are building materials and immobilising its fly merger has also resulted in better prices and structurally advantaged in the growing ashes through our Mineralz business, providing capacity utilisation.
circular economy and can deliver superior industrial cleaning services through our Reym returns: and business and managing some of its non-core We are also progressing a further initiative waste streams such as bulky or green waste.
We regarding the potential benefit of digitalisation Managing our portfolio of assets and have also been able to extend our Total Care on our industry and on Renewi.
We will focus businesses: exiting those that are nonoffering that provides industrial cleaning, waste initially on driving efficiency within our own core or under-performing and redeploying collection, logistics and treatment to larger company through automation, robotics, and capital into segments where we can deliver industrial customers under a single service.
digitalising interfaces with customers and increased returns and growth.
In the longer term, we will focus on As a result of combining the two legacy emerging technologies for the industry such as The merger has combined two similar businesses, we have also expanded and smart bins, web-based customer relationships, businesses with complementary inspiring strengthened our geographical footprint and asset light strategies and other potentially visions, organisations, product portfolios and now cover the whole of the Benelux and other disruptive models.
It is on track to deliver European countries such as Germany, France significant synergies, far greater than just cost and Portugal.
We can serve customers across Setting new values reduction.
Renewi plays an important role as a the Benelux more efficiently, saving on logistics Finally, an essential part of the creation of recycler and supplier of high quality secondary costs, improving customer care and reducing Renewi is the establishment of a set of values, raw materials in the growing circular economy our carbon footprint.
Our increased scale also and associated behaviours, that we believe to meet the increasing needs of its customers, means that we can procure certain assets and both represent Renewi but are also appropriate regulators and society.
supplies at more competitive prices.
OUR STRATEGY Commercial Hazardous Monostreams Municipal Integration delivery Margin improvement Strategic expansion Portfolio management For customers: www.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2018 RENEWI plc 13 | OVERVIEW CEOS REVIEW CONTINUED to supporting the delivery of our vision and GENERATING VALUE develop new sustainability initiatives with OEMs business strategy.
Over the past year we IN THE YEAR AHEAD to capture the long undertook an in depth project to shape these term growth opportunities from the values based on our vision and input from our Underpinning our value delivery plans for growing circular economy.
leaders and from workshops with employees at the year ahead is driving a strong business all levels and in all divisions.
As a result of this performance across the Group.
In particular, we POSITIVE FUTURE OUTLOOK we were pleased to launch our new values on are focused on three specific commercial goals 28 February 2018, our first birthday as a merged to improve our performance, comprising: Divisional outlook business.
Against a backdrop of positive overall volumes Driving post-merger margin enhancement in and improved pricing across the Benelux waste Three values capture what we do: Safe, the Commercial Division through commercial markets, the Commercial Division is expected Innovative and Sustainable.
Detailed effectiveness and continuous improvement: to make continuing progress in the current programmes are being built up now to ensure year.
We expect that slightly slower growth in that we deliver on these values.
For example Securing new soil outlets which will enable the construction market, reduced income from we will be launching new and more ambitious ATM to return to full production during the paper and plastic recyclates and increased cost safety targets as we enhance our group-wide second half: and pressures will be more than offset by increasing safety culture: we will be rolling out our prices for inbound waste, our commercial continuous improvement programme to be Reducing operating losses in the effectiveness and continuous improvement better every day and thereby enhancing Municipal Division.
initiatives and the delivery of our synergy productivity and margins: and we will be targets.
In addition, our active use of dynamic investing to improve our sustainability and Alongside these important objectives, we pricing in customer contracts will continue to environmental impact going forward, including will generate value through the delivery of mitigate the impact of volatility in recyclate a transition to using cleaner EURO VI trucks.
our synergy commitments and the prices.
development of an effective platform for Three further values capture how we act: long term growth across the Group.
This The Hazardous Waste Division is expected Accountable, Customer Focused and Together, will include the rollout of existing post-merger to deliver a similar performance to 2017 18. the latter focusing on the teamwork required margin enhancement tools and the selective Whilst we expect to continue to operate at to build our new business in an open and investment in an innovation pipeline, which 50% production at ATM during the first half of transparent way.
currently comprises over 100 projects at various the year, we are in well-advanced discussions stages of development.
We will also continue to with a number of potential new soil outlets MANAGING CHANGE The integration of Renewi and the delivery of the synergy programme constitutes a significant change programme through which we wish to lead our people with confidence, great communication and empathy for the discomfort that can come with change.
We have launched a change programme called the iRenew Network which delivers change management training to all leaders in impacted areas and which creates a network of leaders and ambassadors to ensure that we are listening to the concerns of people impacted by change and are addressing those concerns effectively.
com 14 RENEWI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 MEASURING FUTURE PERFORMANCE DIVISIONS: COMMERCIAL HAZARDOUS WASTE MONOSTREAMS MUNICIPAL To deliver long term growth from To deliver growth increasing To deliver growth from the To deliver recovery plan to increasing demand for recycling capacity, increasing the range of existing businesses and through stabilise and fide-risk the business services and through delivery products that can be treated and a larger product portfolio of including reducing losses and of synergies and application of considering geographic expansion secondary materials for the commissioning new assets.
GOALS 2018 19 Deliver synergy commitments Open new outlets for treated soil Commission powder line at Successfully commission Surrey and resume full production Dintelmond and continue to and Derby projects Increase margins through deliver growth through operational extension of commercial Optimise waterside volumes and Implement new off-take contracts improvement effectiveness programme seek additional sludges at improved prices Increase margins at Coolrec through Manage volatility in downstream Manage Reym VGIS productivity Address ongoing operational dynamic pricing and a focus on markets, including sieve sands and cost base to meet expected challenges in less profitable optimised product quality and burnable waste market demand contracts Secure extension for Maasvlakte Implement one way of working Deliver synergy commitments Continue to reduce costs at lossspecialist treatment landfill across Netherlands and Belgium making contracts Secure greater returns from as per Target Operating Model Drive growth in Orgaworld through industrial cleaning Exit Dumfries & Galloway improving end markets operating contract GROUP: MARGIN IMPROVEMENT STRATEGIC EXPANSION MANAGING THE PORTFOLIO INTEGRATION DELIVERY GOALS 2018 19 Use commercial effectiveness Build innovation portfolio Continue to release value from Deliver 30m of synergies in FY19 CE programme to manage and and progress most attractive under-performing or non-core Be on track to deliver 40m in FY20 improve margins opportunities assets to recycle capital Position business for further Commence roll out of continuous Expand in areas of expected market Remain alert for expansion synergy opportunity once way of improvement CI initiatives across growth such as treatment of bottom opportunities through accretive working established Group, starting in Monostreams ashes and recycling of plastics M&A, exercising capital discipline Drive programmes to secure Ensure enlarged Group takes Develop and progress digital Complete exit from Dumfries & revenue synergies from crossadvantage of scale opportunities opportunities Galloway contract selling, waste internalisation and with regard to group-wide Complete IT strategic roadmap commercial effectiveness coordinated management off-take to support integration and drive disposal efficiency in the coming years which, if secured, would enable the return to materially reduced losses in the year ahead increase significantly in the coming years with full production from October.
Stable pricing as a result of improvements in Canada from the support of European Union and government is anticipated for these new soil outlets.
In London volumes and Surrey commissioning, legislation.
Moreover, the fully integrated addition, we are working on concepts to further and ongoing commercial and operational gains Renewi has a compelling offering for customers, refine our soil product portfolio and to open in ELWA and Cumbria.
combining local service, international expertise up new long term markets.
Ongoing synergy and an unrivalled breadth of products.
delivery in Reym VGIS will offset volume falls Group outlook arising from fewer major refinery shutdowns in The Board expects continued good progress in Our strategic and commercial positioning 2018 and contracting onshore gas production.
2018 19, in line with its expectations.
Volumes will continue to drive sustainable growth, remain positive and both cost inflationary supported by the delivery of our integration The Monostreams Division is also expected pressures and lower recyclate income are activities and synergy targets, as well as ongoing opportunities for margin expansion and cost to perform at similar levels to 2017 18, with largely being passed on to inbound waste reduction.
With an increasing pipeline of growth underlying growth offset by the non-recurrence producers.
New soil outlets for ATM are opportunities through innovation and strategic of certain high margin projects in Mineralz.
We expected to be open by October, enabling us to expansion, Renewi is well positioned to deliver anticipate further growth in the processing resume full production in the second half and long term growth and attractive returns.
of bottom ashes into secondary products at we anticipate a modest recovery in relevant Mineralz alongside broader benefits across recyclate prices towards the year end.
With the Division from the roll out of a continuous run rate annualised synergies of 24m as at improvement programme.
We remain confident March 2018, we remain confident of delivering that we will secure a long term expansion synergies of 30m in 2018 19 and 40m in permit for the specialist landfill at Maasvlakte, 2019 20. securing earnings streams from that site for approximately the next twenty years.
Looking forward, our growth drivers are strong.
Peter Dilnot Renewi plays an important role in the growing Chief Executive Officer The Municipal Division is expected to report circular economy, a market that is expected to For customers: www.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2018 RENEWI plc 15
