Its been another exceptional year for M&A, with 47 businesses acquired.
Is this level of activity really sustainable going forward?
The markets in which we operate, particularly in Pest Control and Hygiene, remain very fragmented with tens of thousands of competitors around the world.
We tend to think of our business as multilocal, city-based operations and if you think about it that way, there are a lot of city-based local competitors and our objective has always been to find the best of those, in cities which we think represent good growth Q&A for the Group, and to combine them with our own operations.
With M&A, ANDY RANSOM it is somewhat opportunistic however.
Sellers decide if and when they want to sell and therefore our visibility is always somewhat limited Chief Executive howfar into the future can you really see?
but based on what we can see today, the pipeline of available opportunities looks very strong.
My own view, therefore, at the moment is there is no reason to doubt Q.
The Company has once again delivered a strong that this remains a very strong and viable strategic lever that we can financial performance in 2018.
What were your highlights expect to pull on for some time.
The first highlight for me is our Organic Revenue growth of 3.7% Q.
We are hearing more and more within the pest control thisyear, 4.3%in the second half which represents a good improvement industry about the importance of innovation, and Rentokil on the first half.
So, thats certainly something I am pleased about.
appears to be leading the way in this regard.
Can you tell Weexplained why our performance in the first half was a little below us more about this?
where we would have liked earlier in the year, so to have come in at A.
Like all businesses, the pace of change in todays world is as fast as 4.3% in thesecond half is more of a return to form.
I am also very pleased we have ever seen it.
My view is that those companies which have been with our Hygiene business which grew strongly, so thats also looking successful over the years are those which invest in the most innovative good.
Iam also particularly encouraged by our performance in France.
products for their customers and also invest in the most innovative This year we set an ambitious objective to get our French Workwear systems and processes that they use throughout their businesses.
We and our overall French business into positive revenue and profit feel very positive about the investments we have made in new products growth in 2018 and we have achieved that goal.
Our Ongoing Operating for our customers, like Lumnia and our connected suite of Internet of Profit delivery this year is also well above our medium-term target of Things products.
We are equally excited by the work we are doing on 10.0% at13.3%, and this represents very good progress from all business robotics and artificial intelligence and perhaps even more important lines across all regions.
Europe made excellent progress in 2018 and than both of these things is the culture of innovation we have developed although were not fully out of the woods in France Workwear, I am within the Company.
We believe that innovation is everyones responsibility veryencouraged by this years results.
So, Ongoing Revenue has and if any of us see an opportunity to change the way our job is done been good, Ongoing Operating Profit has been good and we have that results in a better service for customers and or a lower cost for us to had another year of continued cash delivery which at 192m, and operate, then we are all encouraged to do that.
So, the combination of representing 94.2% cash conversion, is ahead of our target of 90%.
an innovative culture, our investment in the Power Centre in the UK our centre of excellence for technology and science and innovation in Pest M&A is another highlight once again for the Company.
We said we Control and Hygiene and the new technologies that are increasingly would spend 200m-250m this year and have ended up spending available, well, that combination is very exciting.
I firmly believe that if we 298m on 47 deals.
Looking ahead into 2019 we have a very active continue to make these investments and thrive on change then we will pipeline of good quality prospects, so that feels good too, and all of continue to be successful over the coming years.
this is underpinned by very good progress across our people agenda which we call Employer of Choice which has a particular focus on short-term retention.
In a world where access to high-quality people andretention is becoming an increasing challenge and differentiator, for us to have focused on this for the past two years is bringing its ownresults.
Are there any areas of performance with which you areless pleased?
We set very high expectations and standards within the Company so we are never complacent and rarely fully satisfied with our performance.
Areas that I would like to see us make further progress on over the next one to two years would include customer retention.
We have set an aspirational long-term view of world-class performance being 90% retention and currently we are around 86% which is a good, steady performance but it hasnt moved in 2018 and so I think there is an opportunity there, particularly in North America, which is our largest regional operation.
Second, we are making good progress inour NorthAmerica operations but the opportunity to drive our Net Operating Margins higher and harder is a significant one and, whilst weve made progress in 2018, I would like to see stronger progress in2019.
We provide a more detailed update on our progress towards our aspiration to become a $1.5bn, 18% Net Operating Margin business on page 15 of this report.
If I was picking a third area for improvement, I would say while we have an amazing suite of innovations and technology deployments that have gone extremely well this year, I would like us to deploy these even faster and deeper across the organisation in the coming year.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 13 Q&A with Andy Ransom, Chief Executive Q.
Digital technology and applications are also changing the way in which pest control services are being delivered.
What are some of the initiatives you are developing at themoment?
A. I guess the main answer to that, from a customer facing perspective, is our suite of connected pest control products and their ability to remotely monitor pest activity.
Increasingly we are using technology in the field to identify pest problems earlier than a customer would otherwise become aware of them which enables us to take proactive, preventative or earlier action to deal with a pest problem.
Technology also enables us to take vast amounts of data from the field and through artificial intelligence and machine learning interrogate that data in a helpful way.
For example, in the future we think it will give us more precise diagnostics of where problems are coming from and how they are being caused but also potentially on the preventative side, to anticipate where problems are likely to occur in the future.
So its the combination of the monitoring which gives us earlier visibility of problems and our ability to analyse, interrogate and interpret the data coming from those devices which enables us to deliver great customer service.
So that is probably the most exciting area.
Do you think Brexit will have any major impact our myRentokil online customer portal, used primarily by our commercial onyourbusiness?
We took a decision two years ago to have 100% of our No, not really, and weve given this a lot of thought as youd expect.
commercial customers on myRentokil and we are now around 84%.
Our business model and global footprint have a number of advantages This gives us a secure, digital channel to communicate directly with our that we think naturally protect us from exposure to any single market customers and we can give them data and trend analysis coupled with event.
Our businesses are local in each country, we dont move people tremendous transparency on their estate and their account with us.
or products across borders very much, and our costs and revenues are We can also use it to market offers and new innovations to customers in the same currencies limiting our foreign exchange risk.
Pest control and this, we think, is a unique selling proposition.
I guess a third good in particular is a highly resilient industry with great defensive qualities.
example would be the work we are doing in areas such as scheduling Our services are often key to our customers retaining their licence to ofour people in the field and using digital technology to drive better operate, whatever is happening in the wider global economy.
We have route efficiency and optimisation.
This results in more efficient days for however taken some prudent steps to cover any short-term transitional our colleagues, less driving time which leads to better margins and a difficulties.
Where we have seen an effect, though, is on our Property reduction in the number of miles wetravel, and gallons of fuel we burn Care business in the UK.
The business is closely linked to the housing in our vehicles.
So, its a win win not just for us, but for our customers market which has weakened since the Brexit referendum result in 2016 and shareholders and it also helps us as we endeavour to meet our and the snap General Election.
So, we have put an improvement plan ambitious target to reduce our CO emissions by 20% by 2020.
2 inplace to counter these ongoing pressures, and we talk more about Q.
We know that your Employer of Choice agenda is that on page 38. ofparticular importance to you.
What progress have youmade this year?
We have made excellent progress on our Employer of Choice initiatives.
All our branches are focused on becoming an attractive, ANDY RANSOM world-class employer.
We monitor the number of vacancies we have, Chief Executive the number of applicants per vacancy, the average number of days 27 February 2019 a vacancy is available so we have tremendous transparency and can focus on employment hotspots where it is more difficult to find new, high-quality colleagues.
We have made very good progress on programmes designed to support colleagues in their first 012 months with the Company, often a period of great uncertainty and change, involving lots of training, lots of meeting new colleagues and learning new customer routines and have concluded that if we can support colleagues through their first year, they are much more likely to stay with us for several years.
Im really pleased that weve made such good progress in all of our regions on increasing colleague retention within this period but we still have more work to do to achieve better results in the 12-24 months period.
There are lots of other initiatives going into Employer of Choice and obviously safety remains our key priority.
Once again in 2018 we are operating at world-class safety levels but that said, we have seen a slight deterioration in our Lost Time Accidents LTAs rate and Im not pleased about that but overall the focus in the business is at a very high level and we have LTAs of around 0.63, All our financial metrics were which is still a very good result.
strong this year, underpinned by excellent M&A and good progress on our people agenda.
ANDY RANSOM Chief Executive Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018
