Strategic report Governance Financial statements Strategic report | Chief Executives review Peter Brooks-Johnson Chief Executive Officer Rightmove, the UKs number one property portal, has delivered Our strategy making home moving easier another year of strong growth.
Trust, continued delivery of increased value to all our customers and consumers and The place consumers turn to restless innovation have taken on increased significance first and engage with most against a backdrop of continuing political and economic uncertainty, and these are all proven strengths ofRightmove.
Our position at the heart of the home moving process in the UK comes from being the place where consumers turn to first Over the past year we have reinforced our position as central when thinking about property.
Rightly, home movers are ever to the UK home moving process.
Visits from home movers more demanding of the technology and services offered to grew by over 4% and they spent over a billion minutes on them.
Rightmoves focus on continual improvement and Rightmove every month in 2018, up 5% year on year.
This innovation to simplify the start of the home moving process growth has seen our market share of time spent on the top and create the most compelling experience for consumers 1 four property portals grow to 76% 2017:73%.
2018 highlighted the resilience of our Agency customer base, We continue to achieve this by providing consumers with with only 2% fewer branches at the start of 2019 than the the most up to date, engaging and comprehensive property previous year.
Our number of advertisers remained at an content together with the best search, research and home all-time high of nearly 20,500 with the slight reduction in moving tools to support their home moving journey.
Of the Agency branches being balanced by an increase in New hundreds of updates to our platforms each month, recent Homes developments, which are at their highest levels improvements included Keyword Sort which provides since 2009.
Less certain times underline the value of our the ability to sort search results by keywords taking into proposition to our customers and the robustness of the account natural language such as not as a negation and Rightmove business model.
Our revenue increased by the use of synonyms.
2 10% to 267.8m with underlying operating profit up 10% to 203.3m and operating profit up 11% to 198.6m.
For those home hunters who are struggling to find their dream home we have also introduced an auto-suggest feature to Our continued progress is testament to our unwavering focus help consumers who find no properties matching their criteria.
on the UK property advertising market and the huge effort The feature suggests changes to their search criteria to help Rightmovers have made to build our business in partnership them explore other properties nearby or at a similar price.
We remain confident in our ability to deliver further growth as we continue to shape the UK Consumers expect the platform they rely on to be available property market, and innovate to make our marketplace all of the time.
Testament to the engineering prowess and simpler and more efficient.
dedication of the team, Rightmove again recorded an industry leading level of uptime of 99.997%.
More consumers than ever turned to Rightmove in 2018 with over 1.5 billion visits across all our platforms.
Those consumers spent a record 12.3 billion minutes on Rightmove, up 5% on 2017.
Our market share of traffic across both desktop and mobile was 1 1 76% with the mobile component even higher at 79%.
2 Before share-based payments charge of 4.3m 2017: 4.9m and NI charge of 0.4m 2017: 1.2m on sharebased incentives.
Rightmove plc annual report 2018 5 Strategic report | Our strategy Developing our brand investing in our market leading brand Our TV adverts tell human stories to illustrate why people move, covering all segments of the market Our marketing connects with the strong positive emotions that moving home often generates and reaffirms that the UK public moves with Rightmove.
The place consumers turn to first and engage with most.
Rightmove is a trusted brand with 80% of our visits coming from consumers typing the brand directly into their web browser or launching our app.
Our presence in London includes 400 branded taxis and an exclusive partnership with the London Evening Standard 6 rightmove.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Strategic report | Chief Executives review A significant proportion of people buying a home also have a Unrivalled exposure, leads and home to sell.
Researching the property market is an important products for our customers step for many potential home sellers and is a vital step for potential landlords.
The comprehensive, simple tools we With visits to our platforms again growing year on year we provide for researching the market help sellers and landlords continued to increase the exposure of our customers brands understand the market more easily and give them another and properties.
This exposure generated over reason to turn to Rightmove first.
Our research tools, such as 42 million leads for our customers.
This was down 3% year sold prices data, are by far the most widely used in the UK and on year mirroring the fall in property transactions as a result provide the unique benefit of access to our catalogue of one of a slightly cooler housing market in 2018. million currently listed UK properties and 41 million historical property records.
Perhaps reflecting the increase in pent-up Winning the right to an instruction to sell or let a property demand in the marketplace, consumers spent over 450 million is critical to an agents success.
Our premium packages, minutes using our research tools in 2018 which was up by over Enhanced and Optimiser, help our customers to generate 8% on the previous year.
more opportunities to win instructions cost effectively.
The packages include branding and property promotion We have consistently invested in our brand and product since solutions to boost agents performance in the awareness 2001 creating a trusted brand where 80% of the visits to stage of the marketing funnel, while our popular Local Rightmove come from consumers typing the brand directly Valuation Alert and Rightmove Discover products fast-track into their web browser or launching our app.
agents to the consideration stage.
Local Valuation Alert and Our brand strength has been reinforced by our find your Rightmove Discover delivered over 200,000 leads from happy campaign.
Our always on activity has focused equally people asking for a valuation on their home in 2018.
Together on the rental market as well as those looking to sell and or the products lead to our Optimiser customers, on average, buy.
The campaign tells human stories to illustrate why having over twice the share of voice on Rightmove than an people move, not just the search process.
T opics vary from average customer and, combined with agents skill at downsizing and growing families, setting up home with a new converting the opportunities into business, helps them partner, finding a new home after a divorce and, in our latest list on average twice as many properties.
TV advert, having insufficient space for a growing family.
Our customers continue to focus on getting the maximum These stories cover all segments of the market from first return from their marketing investment to drive their brand time buyers through to downsizers.
exposure and gain market share.
This creates significant Our investment in brand building will continue to focus on headroom for Rightmove to grow product revenue as we national television through our partnership with Channel 4 leverage data to increase the penetration of existing products, supported by online video on demand and digital advertising.
evolve their value and pricing, and continue to innovate and We will also continue to focus on our presence in London introduce new digital solutions.
In 2018 despite the slightly with 400 branded taxis and our exclusive partnership with cooler housing market Average Revenue Per Advertiser the London Evening Standard.
ARPA passed 1,000 for the first time to reach 1,005, demonstrating the value of the products and services we offer our customers.
Rightmove plc annual report 2018 7 Strategic report | Chief Executives review continued Our Commercial property advertising business is bringing the Innovation to create a simpler efficiency benefits of the Rightmove platform to commercial and more efficient marketplace property transactions.
We have a considerably larger audience than any other commercial property marketing proposition We continue to focus on making the property marketplace with 29 million visits to our specialist commercial property more efficient, from the renting process to property valuations.
This unrivalled commercial property specific audience has created a cost effective marketing platform for our Renting a property is a time-consuming process for commercial agent and landlord customers, leading to both tenants and agents.
Tenants must collate a raft of increased customer numbers across all segments.
documentation and submit it with each tenancy application, which must be processed and verified by agents.
The Tenant Our Data Services business continues to help the property Fee ban, which comes into force in June 2019 and restricts industry by leveraging our unrivalled repository of property the ability of agents to charge tenants, places extra focus data.
In addition to providing our Agency and New Homes on this time intensive process.
customers with invaluable data-driven insights and tools, we use our data and technology to run a market leading The Rightmove Tenant Passport aims to make the process automated valuation model for some of the largest lenders of renting a property simpler, quicker and more efficient for and help the surveying industry to drive efficiencies in their tenants and agents.
We began the roll out of the first phase of businesses.
During 2018 the Surveyors Comparable Tool, this Passport solution in Q4 2018.
Phase one of the Passport which helps surveyors make accurate, quick and compliant allows tenants to pre-qualify themselves when sending a lead valuations, assessed and scored over 1.8 billion comparable to agents by including their full property requirements and property records to create over 2.2 million property basic household details.
We will be releasing further phases comparable reports for surveyors.
It is the fide facto standard of the Passport solution in 2019 which will focus on making it used by surveyors in over three quarters of mortgage easier and more convenient for agents and renters alike to transactions in England, Scotland and Wales.
arrange and manage property viewings and increase the speed and efficiency of the referencing process.
Despite the continuing uncertainty about the UKs relationship with the EU our Overseas property business By combining our softwares whole of market dataset and our continued to grow due to the value we deliver to advertisers.
dedicated account management teams, we help customers The dream of owning a property abroad continues to be a drive operational efficiencies and inform their business popular one for many of the British public with the total decisions.
Our focus is in the areas our customers value number of site visits and leads during 2018 remaining most, which in the case of our agents is identifying potential broadly consistent with our levels in the last two years.
business and winning and retaining that business.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements The slightly tougher market conditions in 2018 made it harder Our data continues to provide the basis for a rich seam of for our New Homes developers to grow their sales volumes.
We launched Rightmove Active Display in 2018, In these conditions our market intelligence tools, based on which allows our New Homes customers to target their our unique perspective of the UK property market, together potential audience on Rightmove based on the home hunters with our digital marketing solutions, have become even more usage of Rightmove over time, not just their current search valuable to them.
New Homes developers are using the criteria.
Utilising this data has resulted in our customers analytics to help understand market dynamics and home adverts receiving 50% more exposure.
Following successful moving patterns to define efficient marketing strategies for experiments during 2018, we intend to launch the second their developments and uncover hitherto hidden markets phase of Active Display in 2019 allowing our customers to for their developments.
micro-target their potential audience on other websites based on their Rightmove search behaviour.
Whilst our software tools are already recognised as being best in class and widely adopted with 90% of our customers using We care about our customers business success and building our tools each month, it is not in our DNA to stand still.
In 2018 strong partnerships is vital to support their ambitions.
To that we continued to enhance our market intelligence software for end we are spending more time with customers than ever agents, Rightmove Plus.
before and making sure that our recommendations add value to their business.
Rightmove Plus, which is included free of charge as part of all Rightmove membership packages, helps customers In 2018 we continued our successful customer seminar throughout the property marketing lifecycle.
Seminars covered topics which relate directly agents tell us that the Best Price Guide, which helps them to Rightmove, such as how to create the ultimate listing on gather comparable properties to support their suggested Rightmove, and also topics which relate to the wider agency property price, saves them up to 45 minutes per market industry such as how to build a world class agency team.
The Best Price Guide was used over 10 million times We also recognise our role in helping our customers keep in 2018.
2019 will see us continue to focus on agent efficiencies.
up to date with a changing industry, covering subjects as In November 2018 we released a beta version of an improved diverse as the General Data Protection Regulation and Best Price Guide and early feedback suggests this might save the upcoming Tenant Fee ban legislation.
The seminars agents a further 15 minutes per market appraisal.
are always well attended with over 11,000 agents attending seminars and webinars throughout the year.
In addition, our Marketing Report shows the interest a property is generating compared to similar properties on the In keeping with an online culture these events are hosted market, to help agents more efficiently communicate the on the Rightmove Hub, which is an on demand platform, marketing performance of properties to their customers, the meaning our customers can benefit from this content property sellers.
As an indication of the value agents place on irrespective of whether they were able to attend on the the effectiveness and efficiency saving the Marketing Report day.
This easy access to compelling content has seen brings, it was run on nearly 700,000 different properties for more than 13,000 agents register on the Hub.
sale in 2018, 50% more properties than in 2017.
Rightmove plc annual report 2018 9 Strategic report | Chief Executives review continued We are proud of our development culture and the role mobility Build great teams with it promotes.
In 2018 alone 12 members of our customer a culture to innovate experience team joined our technology teams in a variety of technical roles.
Development is not limited to role relevant Rightmove is people and our people define Rightmove.
For example, 2018 saw our first Wellness Week which Rightmove has a culture which is both restless and focused.
covered topics such as the impact of good diet and sleep on Restless, as no Rightmover ever believes we have achieved wellbeing.
Rightmove was also an early adopter of the Spill all we can, and focused, because everything is guided by mental health app which gives every employee anonymous doing the right thing for both our customers and consumers.
access to a qualified counsellor at the touch of a button in thefamiliar environment of an app or text message.
We strive to create one team of Rightmovers with as few barriers as possible to rapid growth and innovation.
Great talent and passion to perform is not enough to make We believe that this comes from a process-light, highly a great Rightmover: the way in which we behave towards connected organisation with little constraining hierarchy and each other, our customers and consumers is vital.
It is about employing the right people, giving the very highest standards of ethical behaviour from all them the freedom and authority to innovate and lead, and employees.
How we go about our work is central to our then guiding them to succeed.
Every Rightmover is both recruitment, feedback and personal development processes.
The actions and behaviours of our people create the sense of A diverse Rightmove is important to us, we recognise that a belonging and connection and allow the business to continue diverse team will provide a wide range of perspectives that to thrive and attract great people.
In our 2018 Have Your Say promote innovation and business success.
Drawing on people survey, 91% 2017: 90% of Rightmovers responded what is unique about individuals adds value to the way we that they think Rightmove is a great place to work.
do business and helps us anticipate and provide what our Our vibrant culture sets us apart from many organisations customers want from us and what home hunters want from the Rightmove platforms.
and is defined by every one of the 500 people who are proud to call themselves Rightmovers.
I would like to thank In the design of our offices we have taken care to create a them all for creating a culture which continues to drive our physical environment that encourages open and honest business success.
discussion, including social spaces for the teams to enjoy each others company.
Our workplace is free from offices and the usual trappings of hierarchy.
We believe in sharing early and often, and reinforce this through events such as town halls, showcases, stand-ups, team away days and company days which share progress, successes and challenges.
Everything together creates a Peter Brooks-Johnson unique and driven environment that we believe results in Chief Executive Officer people feeling a sense of belonging and a passion to perform.
By striving to make Rightmove a great place to work we can 1 March 2019 attract and retain the best talent and provide the best service for consumers and customers.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Strategic report | Real stories Supporting our customers Supporting agents all over the UK as they grow their business is fundamental to the success of Rightmove.
Joanne Hughes, director of Liverpool-based Greenbank Property Services, explains how Rightmoves higher value Optimiser package has helped her agency flourish.
Joanne Hughes, director of Liverpool-based Greenbank Property Services The change to digital advertising How Rightmove makes a difference Our Rightmove account manager Sam Were far more visible on Rightmove Our package includes a free Premium also visits us once a month and always than when we were in a little box in the Listing on Rightmove as standard, gives us great tips and advice.
We used to advertise in the helping all our properties stand out to be an estate agent, so she knows local daily paper and itd cost us 2,000 a ahead of competitors.
the industry and knows what shes month, but times change.
If a property is struggling, Rightmove With Rightmove, its the number helps as we can use Rightmoves Local experts one platform where people look for marketing report to encourage Our local market is buoyant, its really houses.
When we visit sellers, the first vendors to reduce their price.
Weve begun the year brilliantly question they ask isnt when is it going and have started as we mean to go The proof is in the pudding.
They can on your website?, its when is it going on.
Going by last years figures, we see the Rightmove logo and know on Rightmove?
have already beaten January 2018s straight away it isnt something weve numbers.
Everyone is coming around to the made up.
When we go on valuations we fact that digital is everything now.
can show a potential seller a market Our biggest selling point is the respect Even my nan has an iPad and shes 85!
share report from Rightmove that that we have in the area and getting our Older people are becoming more and shows we sold at least double the fees right.
Weve got a good reputation more educated about how to use the amount of properties last year as our and people know were honest.
nearest competitor, and its backed by people buy into a person before a respected brand.
Rightmove plc annual report 2018 11 S St tr rat ate eg gi ic r c re ep po or rt t | | XXX Real s ?
tories continued Sam Pesce, business analyst within the product development team Developing our people Developing our people is the cornerstone to Rightmoves success.
There are several career paths to explore, and our very own Sam Pesce, business analyst, reveals the story behind her own ambitious journey.
Aiming high The foundations for progression We all have space to put any ideas My favourite of the Rightmove values, My job is brilliant, I love it here.
I feel forward, which is great.
or Hows as we call them, is to be bold.
like I have a real purpose working at Just one person can affect change, It gives us carte blanche to experiment Rightmove and Im able to make and I think thats rare.
We have a flat and to fail and to understand that, things happen, which is such a fun structure at Rightmove: people say provided we learn from the process, part of the job.
weve achieved an open hierarchy this is OK.
I started in the finance department free of office politics and I believe back in 2009, so I have now been at thats true.
We set a very high bar for where we Rightmove over ten years.
Were 18 years old as a Moving to London from the Milton company so were still figuring things Im now a business analyst within Keynes office was such a big change out and were constantly maturing the product development team, but for me, I was terrified at first.
Being a part of that is previously I was in internal systems.
interview process was rigorous, which awesome.
I started there as a one-man-band gave me confidence as I know we set but in five years Id grown my corner high standards.
My advice to junior Rightmovers would of the business to a team of five.
be to tell your manager what you want, My last boss grew my confidence and because they need to know.
They will Rightmove is a community helped me progress my career.
He was help you get to where you want to go.
I really enjoy having the freedom to full of guidance and support.
He wasnt We employ great people and were all explore my new role and to explore just a manager, he was a mentor and ambitious and want to try new things, myself as well.
so dont be afraid to express what solve problems and figure things out.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Homemovers Roohi and Bally Supporting our consumers Rightmove helped a young Birmingham couple, Roohi and Bally, find their dream home.
Their story resonates with millions of home-hunters searching for their next move on Rightmove, so we spoke to them about their journey.
The light at the end of the tunnel And, bam, it was literally a couple of Its so beautiful and calming and really We were living in this sprawling urban days later that we found our new place makes us appreciate the move and environment and now weve come to on Rightmove.
As soon as we saw it where we have come from to what this beautiful, rural and picturesque we were blown away and were just we have now.
countryside setting we feel like imagining what we could do with it.
Our quality of life has increased weve won the lottery.
We never thought of getting something massively.
Its perfect: this home is just like the house were in now.
We were looking on the outskirts everything we always wanted, its ideal.
of the city for quite a while and we A new beginning I think we got lucky to find this and couldnt find anything we liked, and We only realised after moving into our were healthier and happier living here.
thats when I expanded the map area home that we have so much on our Wed say to other first-time buyers on Rightmoves draw a search feature doorstep and therefore so much to be searching for a home that they to include Warwick.
We got what we wanted shouldnt fixate on one area, if you and a lot more.
know the region that youre after try to be more open-minded.
