Strategic report Chief executives statement Our business In a relatively stable pricing environment, we delivered $40.5 billion in consolidated sales revenue, $18.1 billion of underlying EBITDA, andanEBITDA in 2018 margin of 42%.
This year, we madeasignificant investment in capabilities and technology to unlock future productivity, which we expect to ramp-up and deliver an incremental $0.6 billion in free cash flow in 2019.
We remain on track to deliver $1.5 billion a year in additional free cash flow from productivity improvements from 2021.
Operating cash flow for the year was $11.8 billion, and we ended the year once again with a strong balance sheet, reducing net debt by $4.1 billion and ending the year with net cash of $0.3 billion.
With expected outflows in 2019, including a $4.0billion special dividend to our shareholders, ournet debt is expected to rise in the first half of the year.
These results are in part due to our companys solid 2018 highlights Around the world, geopolitical uncertainty operational performance, in particular at our copper and its economic and social implications are assets, which delivered a 33% year-on-year challenging long-held traditions.
Our industry increase in mined production.
Iron ore shipments is also evolving, as changes in technology add and production also rose, while bauxite and $13.5bn to both the opportunity and challenge before aluminium were slightly lower.
At Rio Tinto, our absolute focus on safety, our business safer and more efficient.
In 2018, for of cash returns declared to shareholders performance, portfolio, partners and people the first time, our driverless trains up to 2.4 is why I am confident we will continue to meet kilometres in length delivered iron ore from our challenges, leverage opportunities and mines in the Pilbara, to our port in Cape Lambert, pioneer human progress.
With the programme fully $18.1bn implemented by the end of 2018, we have now underlying EBITDA This year, we start by remembering Francis completed more than 1.6 million kilometres Lalancette, Muzi Patrick Nhlenyama and Daniel indriverless mode.
Patterson our colleagues who went to work but did not return home.
Like all of us at Rio Tinto, I am Portfolio 42% deeply saddened by their tragic deaths and the We continued to significantly reshape our portfolio EBITDA margin irreplaceable loss to their families, friends and in 2018, with the sale of our interests inthe Hail colleagues.
We must do better on safety.
Nothing Creek and Kestrel coal mines and the Valeria and ismore important and I can assure you we are fully Winchester South coal development projects in focused on this across our entire business.
Australia, marking the end of our coking coal $11.8bn activities.
We divested other assets, including our operating cash flow We also remember the tragedy in Brumadinho, in stake in the Grasberg copper mine in Indonesia Brazil, in early 2019.
Our thoughts remain with the andthe Dunkerque aluminium smelter in France.
many who lost their lives or are still missing, and We also took steps to divest our interests in the their families and communities.
Our industry must Rssing Uranium business in Namibia.
returning $7.2 billion to shareholders from theproceeds of sales completed in 2018. return on capital employed ROCE At Rio Tinto, we have had a global tailings standard since 2015, and three levels of governance: Indeed, over the past three years, we have asset-level, which includes reviewing facility design significantly reshaped our portfolio, realising and operational controls: assurance of compliance $12billion in sales proceeds, pre-tax.
However, $8.8bn with the standard through business conformance thishas not come at the expense of growth: with underlying earnings audits and technical reviews: and a programme of asmaller but higher-quality asset base, we grew independent external audits.
We continually assess production by just under 3% year-on-year on a ways to further strengthen these processes work copper-equivalent basis.
Many of these disposals that will receive additional focus in 2019. have also changed our exposure to environmental, $4.1bn social and governance risks, differentiating our reduction in net debt Performance portfolio from those of our industry peers.
2018 marked another solid year for our company: we declared $13.5 billion of cash returns to We also invested in high-quality growth.
In shareholders the highest in Rio Tinto history.
December 2018, we shipped our first tonnes of Wealso delivered on a number of our strategic bauxite from our Amrun mine in Queensland, priorities strengthening our portfolio, advancing Australia six weeks ahead of schedule.
our growth options and divesting assets for value, while maintaining balance sheet strength and building critical capabilities.
com Strategic report We declared the highest cash People As I travelled around the world this year, visiting ourassets and offices, what energised me most was returns to shareholders in our people their ideas, their enthusiasm for our business and the commitment they have to making Rio Tinto a safer, more productive and more RioTinto history, delivered responsible company.
Our success this year is due to their hard work and dedication, and I thank them for all they do, every day at every asset, and in areshaped and improved every office.
portfolio, further strengthened In 2018, we focused on building our technical and leadership capabilities to equip our people and our company for continued success.
A new programme our balance sheet and invested RioExcel lets technical specialists build a career as experts in their respective fields, from geology to process engineering to asset management.
We also established three centres of excellence underground mining, surface mining and processing that bring together the companys In November, we announced the development In Western Australia, where automation may have a foremost technical experts to partner with our ofthe $2.6 billion Koodaideri iron ore project disruptive impact on our communities, we launched assets, mitigate risk and deliver value.
ourmost technologically advanced mine in the a partnership with the government of Western Pilbara, Western Australia.
The world-class Australia and South Metropolitan TAFE Technical Our aspiration is to continue to pioneer our industry, underground copper project at Oyu Tolgoi, in and Further Education to develop the first with a culture that welcomes and nurtures new Mongolia, also progressed, including the signing nationally recognised courses in automation.
This ideas and higher performance.
Cultures that do this ofthe Power Source Framework Agreement.
partnership aims to train and certify people in new are also, by definition, inclusive and diverse.
We are Thedetailed engineering design work and overall skills, making them easily transferable so that working to bring more women into our business.
construction is mostly on track, but more detailed people can follow opportunity wherever they findit.
In2018, 36% of our graduate intake were women: geotechnical information and difficult ground we aim to make this 50%.
We also have a target conditions have required a review of the mine And in Canada, the home of our aluminium toimprove the proportion of women in senior design.
This, combined with fit-out and business, we strengthened our partnership withthe management by 2% every year.
commissioning challenges with the main provincial government and renewed theQuebec production shaft, is ultimately expected to result Agreement, a framework for further investment A look ahead in a further revised ramp-up schedule to inour aluminium business in theprovince.
As we look to the future, we see markets remaining sustainable first production beyond the ninevolatile, with some risk of a trade war and a month delay indicated in October 2018.
Detailed We know we can be part of the solution on deceleration in economic activity.
At RioTinto, design work is underway to estimate the impact sustainability issues, which today are becoming we will continue our strong focus on value over these issues will have on cost and schedule.
more complex and intensifying the challenge before volume, growth and mine-to-market productivity.
In 2018, we developed an integrated approach Partnership and sustainability must remain Partners tosustainability, linked to the United Nations important priorities.
We will continue to make Our focus on partnership continued and intensified Sustainable Development Goals, which we every effort to keep our people safe, healthy, in 2018, with the launch of a collaboration to further introduced to investors and civil society and equipped to meet the challenges of develop  aluminium groupsinthe latter half of the year.
smelting technology: our Elysis joint venture with Alcoa is supported by Apple and the governments Rio Tinto has been recognised as a leader in With a world-class portfolio, a strong balance sheet of Canada and Quebec.
We also announced that transparent tax reporting.
We were the first in the and people who I am convinced are some of the wewould provide Aluminium Stewardship Initiative industry to disclose our payments to governments, best in the business, we are well positioned to ASIcertified responsible aluminium to Nespresso and we have been reporting on our taxes and withstand these challenges and to create new Rio Tinto is the first company to have its metal royalties paid, and our economic contribution, in opportunities.
We will continue to drive productivity certified by the ASI.
Our 2018 Taxes paid and aim to deliver superior value as we produce report, which details this contribution, will be the materials essential to human progress.
We continued to strengthen our partnership with published in April 2019.
Also in 2019, we released China, and our Chinese customers.
In June, we our first report in line with the recommendations ranthe first of five learning programmes in Perth, ofthe Task Force on Climate-related Financial Australia, with Chinas State-Owned Assets Disclosures.
This articulates our climate-related Supervisions and Administration Commission risks and opportunities, including those related SASAC, which supervises and manages statetoa2C climate change scenario.
J-S Jacques Chief executive 27 February 2019 Chief executives statement Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
