Royal Mail plc | Chief Executives Committee Chief Executives Committee In addition to the Royal Mail plc Board, the Chief Executives Committee CEC manages the key strategies of the Group within an overall framework of financial risk and business controls to meet the needs of stakeholders.
Moya Greene Stuart Simpson Chief Executive Officer Chief Finance Officer Member of TopCo, see page 56.
See Board of Directors on pages 58-60.
Rico Back Sue Whalley Chief Executive Officer, GLS Managing Director of Royal Mail Letters and Network Member of TopCo, see page 56.
Current role Rico was appointed as Chief Executive Current role Officer of GLS in October 1999.
Sue joined Royal Mail in 2006 and was appointed Chief Operations Officer in Previous work history January 2014, and, subsequently, Managing Rico has been a senior Royal Mail Group Director of Royal Mail Letters and Network.
executive and CEO of the Royal Mail Sue has been responsible for leading a major European subsidiary, GLS, for transformation of the UK business, with 18 years.
He was a founding member specific focus on safety, quality, efficiency, of German Parcel in 1989, which Royal culture and innovation.
This business was subsequently rebranded as GLS and under Previous work history Rico's leadership, it is now the leading Sue was previously the Regulation and ground-based deferred parcel company Government Affairs Director and led the in continental Europe.
Rico has nearly programme for privatisation at Royal 30 years' experience as a senior executive in Mail.
Prior to that, Sue was a Consultant the international parcels industry.
at McKinsey & Company for 17 years, the last six of which were as a partner in the Rico Back will assume the role of Group CEO of the London office.
Company and join the Board on 1 June 2018.
Sue Whalley will join the Board on 1 June 2018, when she will also assume the expanded role of Chief Executive Officer of Post and Parcels, Royal Mail UK.
Biographies For further detail on the biographies, please see our website at www.
com 62 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information Stephen Agar Stephen Cameron Maaike fide Bie Managing Director, Consumer and UK Operations Director General Counsel Network Access Current role Current role Current role Joined Royal Mail in 1985, appointed UK Joined Royal Mail in January 2014, Joined Royal Mail in 1991, appointed Operations Director in March 2016. appointed General Counsel in April 2016.
Managing Director, Consumer and Network Previous work history Previous work history Access in October 2011.
Responsible for the Previously Deputy Chief Operations Officer Appointed Acting General Counsel in regulated letters business both USO and alongside role as Operations Strategy September 2015, previously General Access, Philatelic and Postcodes.
Successfully led the initial phase of Counsel for the EMEA division of GE Previous work history Royal Mails comprehensive transformation Capital Commercial Distribution France, A barrister who started his career in the programme across UK operations.
a financial services unit of the General Government Legal Service before moving to Electric Company.
Jon Millidge Mick Jeavons Group HR Director Chief of Staff Current role Current role Joined Royal Mail in 1985, appointed Group Joined Royal Mail in September 1993, HR Director in February 2014.
Pension appointed Chief of Staff in June 2015.
Scheme Trustee of the Royal Mail Defined Previous work history Contribution Plan.
Has performed a wide range of senior Previous work history roles, most recently, Corporate Finance Previously Company Secretary from May Director responsible for Group Investment, 2010 to February 2014 and prior to that was Procurement and the UK Finance teams.
the Acting Group HR Director.
Phil Morris Shane O'Riordain Group Chief Technology Officer Managing Director, Corporate Affairs, Marketing, Regulation and Customer Experience Current role Joined Royal Mail in January 2012, Current role appointed Group Chief Technology Officer Joined Royal Mail in November 2010. in April 2017, following his interim Appointed to current role in 2016.
Previously appointment as Group Chief Information had responsibility for Strategy and Pricing in Officer in May 2016. addition to Corporate Affairs and Regulation.
Previous work history Previous work history Previously IT Director for Strategy, The Corporate Affairs Director for a range of Architecture, Security and Service.
major financial services organisations, including Partnership at the PA Consulting Group.
Flemings, Halifax, HBOS and Lloyds Banking Group.
Previously a diplomat in the Irish Foreign Service.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 | 63
