Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information Our performance We are the UKs number one delivery company for letters and parcels.
This was due to a good performance in UKPIL parcels, where revenue was up four per cent: letter revenue declined by four per cent.
Parcels growth was primarily driven by Royal Mail domestic account parcel volumes excluding Amazon, they were up four per cent and international import parcel volumes.
Addressed letter volumes excluding political parties election mailings declined by five per cent, in line with our forecast range.
GLS revenue increased by 15 per cent, including the impact of acquisitions, on a constant currency basis in the year.
It rose by 10 per cent on an underlying basis.
Volumes were up nine per cent.
GLS now accounts for 33 per cent of the Groups adjusted operating profit after transformation costs, up from 29 per cent in 2016-17.
Winning in parcels Competitive landscape The UK is Europes most competitive parcels market, with 15 key competitors.
Consumers are spending more online per head than in any other major market, including the US 1 and China.
Pure play e-retailers those that trade online only are now the leading drivers Chief Executive Officer's of market growth.
They overtook online retailers with a store presence for the first 2 time in 2016. review As the Universal Service Provider, we provide the delivery backbone for e-commerce in the UK.
We have 53 per cent of total market This has been a challenging year.
I am pleased that, in my share by volume, in an addressable market 3 final review, I can report that we continued to grow, thanks to growing at around three per cent per annum.
Our strategy of targeting faster growing the hard work and dedication of our people.
Group revenue sectors like clothing and footwear and reached 10 billion for the first time.
We exceeded our cost winning and retaining volumes is paying off.
This year, we delivered our biggest parcel avoidance target, avoiding around 640 million of annualised volume growth since privatisation.
Royal Mail costs over the three financial years ending 2017-18.
Tracked 24 48 and Tracked Returns growth is ahead of the market by some distance.
Adjusted operating profit before transformation costs was E-commerce is also fuelling international 694 million.
The largest European B2C parcels markets outside the UK are Germany, GLS has had another strong year, growing revenue Italy and France GLS largest markets.
organically and through targeted and focused acquisitions in Having recently expanded its international higher growth markets.
UKPILs performance was driven by FlexDeliveryService across 20 European countries, GLS is well placed to capitalise growth in parcels and a resilient performance in letters.
on opportunities for growth, particularly in cross-border parcels.
We are pleased to have reached a ground-breaking agreement with the CWU on pensions, pay and a number of customer-focused operational changes.
It will help us to grow our business, which means we can continue to provide the best pay and terms and conditions for our people.
1 Ofcom International Communications Market report, December 2017.
2 Mintel online retailing report, July 2017.
3 Excludes Amazon Logistics and other retailers' own delivery networks.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 | 07 Royal Mail plc | Chief Executive Officer's review We won more new business and new traffic Protecting customer data and treating it Our progress from existing customers.
with respect is a key priority for us.
We have Winning business with UKs leading been working closely with our customers GLS is a growth engine for the Group.
It has e-retailers and industry stakeholders in the lead up to delivered consistent, strong underlying the introduction of General Data Protection More barcoding and delivery growth.
This is driven by its focus on B2B Regulation GDPR in May 2018.
We have also confirmation on UK parcels parcels and the premium B2C market.
Its outlined how mail can help our customers recent acquisitions in the western US and Expanding our parcels thrive in a GDPR world.
Spain have helped further establish GLS as automation programme a major player in and outside Europe.
It now Scam mail is a scourge.
We launched a Strong performance from GLS operates in 41 European countries and seven new initiative impounding scam mail at US states.
Its largest markets Germany, distribution centres before it reaches the Our service and product developments Italy and France account for 60 per cent of customers letterbox.
This is part of our are designed to meet customer demand GLS revenue.
In Italy, GLS is now within the rolling programme of moves to stop postal for faster delivery and more tracking top three players in the market.
We have stopped three million information.
We won a number of new and France, it is in the top five.
items of scam mail since stepping up our contracts with large customers in our target drive against fraudsters in November 2016. sectors of clothing and footwear.
They include Defending letters New Look and Inditex.
We also secured Adding value and expanding more business from existing customers.
Resilient performance in UK letters This includes growing the share of revenue our networks Maximising the value of letters generated by our largest account customers.
including the rollout of Mailmark GLS scale up and grow strategy Parcelforce Worldwide volumes were up progressing well two per cent, driven by new contract wins Coordinating with the industry and and existing customer relationships.
Expansion in Spain following targeted our customers in the lead up to the and focused acquisitions introduction of GDPR Over 70 per cent of Royal Mail parcels now carry a barcode.
In April 2017, we began Introduction of International Tracked Leading industry response to stop offering delivery confirmation for the majority email notifications service scam mail of those barcoded parcels.
We introduced new Letters performed as expected.
Addressed GLS occupies a leading position in all its automated parcel sorting machines at our letter volumes excluding the impact of major markets.
Its scale up and grow Chelmsford, Home Counties North, Greenford political parties election mailings were down strategy to strengthen its position in its core and Warrington Mail Centres, following the five per cent.
Total letter revenue benefited markets and grow in higher growth areas successful installation of a parcel sorting from 2017 General Election mailings and is progressing well.
It has delivered strong machine at our Swindon Mail Centre in the prior declined by four per cent.
Unaddressed letter volume growth in key markets and targeted year.
They enable quicker and more accurate volumes which typically have low average acquisitions in Spain and the western US.
Preparations are unit revenue, were up six per cent.
Our underway for our sixth machine in the South In February 2018, GLS acquired Spanish performance in marketing mail was resilient.
Automation serves to express parcels delivery company Redyser Revenue was up one per cent.
complement and enhance: it does not replace Transporte.
Redyser will further strengthen our existing parcel sortation processes.
GLS position as Spains second biggest The UK continues to have a relatively high national express parcels network following number of letters per capita compared to Our International business performed well.
the acquisition of ASM Transporte Urgente other major countries.
So, we continue to This was driven by growth in cross-border in 2016.
Since acquiring Redyser, the focus forecast a medium-term four to six per parcels, mainly from Asia into Europe.
This is going cent annual decline in UK addressed letter It accounts for 20 per cent of UKPIL parcel well.
The business is performing in line volumes excluding political parties election volumes and 18 per cent of revenue.
The decline is broadly driven by In exports, we are focusing on major e-substitution.
But, GDP is also a material e-commerce retailers.
We are also upgrading Following its acquisitions of GSO 2016 driver.
We are closely monitoring the our processing automation at our Heathrow and Postal Express April 2017, GLS now economic environment in the UK.
It is helping to improve quality of service provides a parcel service with full US west and reduce cost.
GLS coverage in this area We introduced a number of strategic enables it to offer shorter delivery times than initiatives to demonstrate the value of While negotiations are ongoing and the its competitors.
This, in turn, is helping it to letters.
Our Scheme for Growth incentivises future UK-EU relationship remains unclear, win more business and benefit from growth companies to grow their direct mail.
It does it is not possible to predict with any degree in interstate deliveries.
We are integrating so by giving them discounts on incremental of accuracy what impact Brexit could have Postal Express into GSO, with the first GLS volumes.
We launched a Joint Industry on Royal Mail Group.
The main issues for us branded vans being deployed in the region Committee to make the case for advertising relate to any potential economic downturn, shortly.
Integration costs and inflationary mail.
Our Keep Me Posted and MAILMEN and changes associated with customs and pressure have negatively impacted our campaigns are gaining traction.
We are working closely operational costs and profitability in the commenced the rollout of Mailmark to with Government on alternative models region in the period.
This offers customers more for customs and tax collection after the UK detail on the progress of their mailing, and leaves the EU.
We were pleased that the UK GLS is making the most of the opportunities online, customised reporting.
It also ensures Government explicitly referenced Royal Mail's to harness growth in cross-border that we bill accurately and are fairly paid for role in its recent Customs Bill White Paper.
Its FlexDeliveryService is a the work we have done.
Around 90 per cent great example of this strategy in action.
GLS revenue growth was achieved in almost of in scope mail now has a Mailmark.
FlexDeliveryService makes it easier for online all its markets.
Volume growth was driven shoppers to take delivery of goods purchased by both international and domestic parcels.
08 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information abroad.
GLS also now offers its international Investing in technology and innovation members overwhelmingly voted in favour returns service, ShopReturnService, across is a core part of our growth strategy.
of the agreement in March 2018.
This is an seven European countries.
We completed the rollout of our Postal Digital affordable and sustainable agreement: it Assistant PDA technology.
This technology enables us to continue to innovate and grow.
In September 2017, we announced our has been used in the rollout of estimated It puts us in a better position to serve our International Tracked email notifications delivery windows for customers using our customers evolving needs.
This enables overseas customers of Tracked 24 48 service.
As part of our contains commitments to work together to UK-based retailers to track the progress of negotiations with the CWU during the year, extend last letter delivery times and later their parcels.
The service, initially available we reached an agreement on the use of 'PDA Latest Acceptance Times LATs.
These to customers who have a business account outdoor actuals'.
This enables us to gain a changes are fundamental to our objective to with Royal Mail, has received positive initial better understanding of our outdoor delivery be the chosen delivery partner of e-retailers.
We also now have the capability and collection activities.
This will help us meet A joint review will help us to design a more to offer tracked cross-border outbound and the increasing demand for new and improved efficient and responsive pipeline.
This should returns services to our larger customers.
It will also ensure that workload enable more flexibility in our working is fair and balanced for our postmen and practices, new delivery methods that benefit Strategic focus on costs and women.
We are carrying out further trials the single operational pipeline and add more investment before national rollout.
value to our service for our customers.
The phased introduction of a shorter working Exceeded our three year 600 million Parcelforce Worldwide is expanding its range week is dependent on the completion of trials cost avoidance target of digital tools to enable customers to send and the successful implementation of a range parcels more quickly and easily.
It launched Extended our Collection on of initiatives.
its own app to give customers more control Delivery programme over their deliveries.
We also launched the Just after the reporting period, we were also Ongoing investment programme Parcelforce one-hour delivery timeslot pleased to announce that, following extended notification and My Parcel Live.
A new discussions and difficult negotiations, we Underlying UKPIL operating costs before online tool also helps marketplace sellers have reached agreement with Unite on transformation costs were flat.
We have customers to link their eBay and Amazon pay, pensions and working arrangements exceeded our three year cost avoidance accounts to their Parcelforce Worldwide for junior and middle managers in Royal target.
We avoided around 640 million account.
This makes it easier and quicker to Mail.
Unite will ballot its members on the of costs, while simultaneously delivering send several different parcels at once.
agreement with a recommendation that they service and product improvements.
This is a positive position to reach and We are disappointed to have missed our At GLS, comprehensive technology solutions much of the agreement commits both parties productivity target of a two to three per scanning devices and customer tracking to ongoing discussion to make Royal Mail the cent improvement per annum.
This was systems have been employed at every stage success we all want it to continue to be.
driven by the challenging industrial relations of the parcel process.
They help customers environment for much of the year, high levels track their parcels delivery status for both As previously announced, the Royal Mail of sickness-related absence and adverse national and cross-border shipments.
We also Pension Plan closed to future accrual in its weather conditions in the last month of the launched GLS-ONE for customers in Belgium previous Defined Benefit form on 31 March year.
We continue to focus on controlling and Luxembourg.
There are plans to expand 2018.
This step was necessary to avoid an costs and making investments in technology this next year.
GLS-ONE offers maximum expected increase in cash contributions to drive productivity.
flexibility as customers can now send a parcel to around 1.2 billion per annum an using the online portal, GLS app or one of unaffordable amount.
I know how important We are constantly looking at ways to deliver 5,500 ParcelShops.
They can either order a pension benefits are to our colleagues: I have efficiency improvements across our cost pickup service from their home or workplace heard from and spoken to many of them on base.
For example, we are extending our or receive and send goods easily and securely this subject.
The pension arrangements we Collection on Delivery programme.
This is using a parcel box.
We also upgraded the have put in place are a good and fair outcome.
where colleagues collect mail while they GLS app this year.
Recipients can track the They compare favourably with the retirement are out on delivery.
Over 50,000 post boxes current position of a delivery vehicle and the benefits offered in our industry and by other are now covered by this programme.
We are expected delivery window of their parcel.
Working together with also reducing costs in central functions, also carried out a Europe-wide upgrade of the the CWU, we are lobbying Government to marketing, property and technology.
scanning terminals for incoming shipments at make the necessary legislative and regulatory Since privatisation in 2013, we have invested its depots and hubs.
changes to enable the introduction of a over 1.8 billion in our UK operations.
This Collective Defined Contribution pension year, we made a net cash investment of around Our workforce scheme.
In the meantime, from 1 April 2018, 445 million.
Our ongoing investment programme the Company has put in place transitional Agreement with the Communication is one of the largest of its kind in the UK.
For Royal Mail Pension Workers Union Plan members, we implemented a Defined Becoming more Employee engagement in line with Benefit Cash Balance Scheme.
Members large company average of our Defined Contribution Plan have also digitally-enabled benefitted from an increased contribution Gender pay report shows men and PDA rollout complete from the Company.
women are paid broadly the same Parcelforce Worldwide one-hour We saw an increase in our employee In February 2018, we announced delivery timeslot notification and engagement score, up from 57 points to 59, our agreement in principle with the My Parcel Live which is in line with the Ipsos MORI norm Communication Workers Union CWU on for large organisations.
Engagement levels GLS app and private customer portals pensions, pay, a shorter working week, also play a part in employee turnover.
This in Europe culture and operational changes.
CWU influences training and recruitment costs.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 | 09 Royal Mail plc | Chief Executive Officer's review Our employee turnover rate remained low these issues into consideration.
It will be for forecast 130-150 million range due to the at 7.2 per cent.
This compares well with the Ofcom to decide.
4 average UK turnover rate of 23 per cent.
We were disappointed that we have seen GLS has performed consistently strongly We were pleased but not complacent as an overall increase in complaints.
This was over the past few years and we expect there is more to do with the results of our driven principally by an increase in Denial continued good performance in 2018-19 annual pay review.
The average salaries for of receipt claims.
We continue to highlight although margins may be impacted by male and female Royal Mail employees are the importance of correct doorstep scanning continuing labour market pressures in many broadly the same.
On a mean basis, women and ensuring that if an item is left with a of its markets.
are paid 2.1 per cent more than men.
This neighbour, the appropriate details are written Total net cash investment is expected is because we have a greater proportion of on the Something for You card.
to be around 500 million in 2018-19, women in senior positions.
On a median We make the seventh biggest contribution within which transformation operating basis, men are paid 1.5 per cent more than to the UK economy of any UK company expenditure will reflect the expected women.
This compares to an average UK pay through our high quality employment, our productivity improvements.
gap, according to the Government, of 9.7 per procurement activities and the taxes that 5 cent.
Our difference in median pay rates is In-year trading cash flow in 2018-19 we pay.
That is why we are delighted to be due to men being more likely to select work will reflect the payment of the 2017-18 named global sustainability leader of the that qualifies for allowances, such as shift frontline pay award in the first quarter of Transportation industry group in the Dow work during the evening or at night.
Given the good cash generation Jones Sustainability Indices.
characteristics of the business we remain Customer focus committed to our progressive dividend policy Current trading and outlook going forwards.
Mean business customer satisfaction Trading in the first few weeks of 2018-19 has score of 78: in line with last year been in line with our expectations.
As in previous years, the outcome for the full year will be dependent on our performance Named global sustainability leader of The UK parcels market remains highly over the important Christmas period.
the Transportation industry group in competitive.
We anticipate that UKPIL the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices parcel volume and revenue growth rates Thank you in 2018-19 will be at least the same as in For 2017-18, our mean business customer As you may know, we announced that 2017-18 due to the expected growth in our satisfaction score was 78, in line with our the Board and I agreed that I will retire in tracked and international products, as well as performance in 2016-17.
In a recent survey September 2018, and step down as CEO additional initiatives.
conducted by Ipsos MORI, 81 per cent of on 1 June 2018.
It has been my pleasure customers said they were favourable towards We maintain our outlook for addressed letter and a great privilege to serve as CEO of this Royal Mail in 2017: 88 per cent said they were volume declines of between four to six per cherished UK institution.
I am proud of what satisfied with our services.
This was well cent per annum excluding political parties we have achieved over the last eight years.
above the average for all the brands in the election mailings over the medium-term.
I would like to warmly congratulate Rico Back survey.
The majority of our customers rated However, due to the potential impact of GDPR and Sue Whalley on their new roles, as our us as delivering extremely or very good value and, or, if business uncertainty persists, we Group CEO and CEO of Post and Parcels, 6 for money.
expect to be at the higher end of the range Royal Mail UK.
I have had the privilege of of decline for 2018-19 and may fall outside We were disappointed that our full year working closely with Rico and Sue for many the range in a period.
In addition, we are not regulatory First Class Quality of Service years.
They are the best possible team to expecting any benefit from political parties performance was 91.6 per cent, below our continue to transform our business.
I am election mailings in 2018-19. target of delivering 93 per cent of First Class delighted that they have both been promoted mail the next working day.
For Second Class The new Pensions, Pay and Pipeline to the Board and into expanded roles.
mail delivered within three working days, agreement provides a framework for the next We are pleased to have come to an our performance of 98.4 per cent was within phase of transformation of our UK business agreement with the CWU during the year.
the 98.5 per cent annual regulatory target into a truly customer-focused organisation.
We are determined to continue to provide range when allowing for the margin of error In this first year of the agreement we will the best pay and terms and conditions in in sampling.
be working with our unions and people our industry by some distance.
Good labour to implement operational changes to We are talking to Ofcom about a number standards lead to better service standards help retain and grow parcel volumes and of exceptional events during the year.
Our commitment to serving to lay the foundations for future growth impacted our Quality of Service performance.
our customers throughout this period has and productivity opportunities through These factors included a very challenging enabled our good trading performance to operational trials.
industrial relations environment, some very continue and helps to secure a sustainable severe weather, Cyber Week falling outside Our cost avoidance programme in UKPIL future for our people and our business.
the exemption period and significantly is targeting to deliver around 230 million I am honoured to have worked alongside reduced staffing levels caused by the costs avoided this year.
This encompasses Royal Mail's people and the union leadership.
We believe that, if the productivity improvements towards the It is their hard work and dedication that 2017-18 performance was adjusted for these upper end of our targeted two to three per connects households, communities and factors, we would have achieved our First cent range.
Higher variable costs associated companies across the UK every day.
We are asking Ofcom to take with increasing volumes of tracked and international products are expected to 4 Total UK turnover rate taken from www.
co. uk create some incremental cost pressures.
survey-analysis  162496 Moya Greene Transformation costs for the year are 5 Data reported by over 10,000 companies with Chief Executive Officer expected to be at the upper end of our more than 250 employees to the Government 16 May 2018 Equalities Office.
6 Ipsos MORI Corporate Image Survey Winter 2017.
10 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18
