Chief Executives review Ross McEwan Chief Executive 2018 was a year of strong progress Business Banking businesses supported In 2019, we are committing to reducing on our strategy - we settled our total lending of more than 100 billion our operating costs by c. 300 million.
remaining major legacy issues, in 2018.
Our consistent delivery on cost targets paid our first dividend in ten years in recent years gives me the confidence and delivered another full year We have also committed an additional we will achieve this.
However, while 2 billion to our Growth Fund to support our financial performance is more British business, taking the total Our strategic plan has served us well assured, we know that a significant fund to 3 billion.
This fund is helping and we will continue to focus on our five gap remains to achieving our businesses manage their supply chains key priorities, as set out below, as we ambition to be the best bank for in what is a very uncertain time.
These strive to become the UK and Republic of customers.
We are fully focused on actions help maintain our position as Irelands best bank for customers.
the largest supporter of UK business.
Strength and Sustainability Today we are reporting a pre-tax A good financial performance in The banks financial strength is much operating profit of 3.4 billion and a uncertain economic conditions improved.
Our Common Equity Tier bottom line attributable profit of 1.6 Our financial performance is good, 1 ratio has increased from 8.6% at billion for 2018.
In addition, we are given the uncertain economic outlook.
the end of 2013 to 16.2% at the end pleased to propose a full year ordinary In 2018, we continued to take costs out of 2018.
This progress helped us to dividend of 3.5 pence per share, and a of the business and reduced operating obtain a clear pass in the 2018 Bank of special dividend of 7.5 pence per share.
This means England stress test - a very important These are in addition to the ordinary that we have now reduced operating milestone.
Alongside our financial dividend we paid at our interim results.
costs by more than 4 billion in five strength we have continued to build Together, we will have returned 1.6 years.
greater resilience into our systems, billion to shareholders, and around 1 helping to protect our customers who billion to the UK taxpayer in dividends.
Our long-term target remains to reach are at greater risk of fraud and scams We also have shareholder approval to a cost to income ratio of below 50%, more than ever before.
We are the participate in a directed buyback should however we note that as an industry first and only UK bank to partner with the government seek to dispose of a we are required to carry additional National Trading Standards on their portion of its shares.
costs to deal with Brexit and the Friends Against Scams initiative.
More ongoing operational obligations of ringthan 31,000 colleagues completed the The UK economy faces a heightened fencing.
Given the continued low rate training in 2018 and we have committed level of uncertainty related to the environment and highly competitive to training a million customers by 2020. ongoing Brexit negotiations.
We have mortgage market, coupled with the continued to support our customers, uncertainty in the economy, income Customer Experience providing 30.4 billion in gross new remains under pressure.
We continue While our financial performance is more UK mortgage lending in 2018, and to focus on cost reduction to ensure assured, we know that a significant gap Commercial Banking made or renewed we are preparing our business for the remains to achieving our ambition to commitments of around 30 billion future and to meet our customers and be the best bank for customers.
We are of term lending facilities to mainly shareholders needs.
very aware that we need to deliver UK businesses.
Our Commercial and 08 better service, more consistently.
The lower our cost base and deliver a 24 7 experienced 19 Criticality 1 Incidents, Competition and Markets Authority customer experience.
Take Cora for compared to 318 four years ago.
CMA results, which now provide instance our AI Chat Bot which we the public with a ranking of banks launched in partnership with IBM Our customers continued to migrate to performance for customers, bring this Watson - she now handles an average our mobile app during 2018.
In UK PBB into sharp focus.
With the large major of 83,000 queries a week.
Given the we now have 6.4 million regular mobile legacy issues behind us, we are putting success in the personal business, customers, 16% higher than 2017. all of our focus into improving our we have recently rolled out Cora to Today close to three quarters of active customer experience.
current account customers in UK PBB are regular digital users.
Sales through We are investing in innovation, with Supporting sustainable growth our digital channels in UK PBB are up 1 billion committed to invest in 2019 Supporting our customers ambitions 19% on last year and now represent aimed at improving legacy systems is a key part of our role in society.
We almost half of all product sales.
Four and delivering better solutions for have focused on growing lending in our years ago this figure would have been customers.
We continue to develop our target markets.
mobile app which for NatWest now in UK Personal and Business Banking scores 41 for customer advocacy.
increased 1.5 billion in 2018, and we At the same time we are trying new Our Commercial Bank, the UKs largest helped around 45,000 customers buy things outside our core banking supporter of business, remains ahead their first home.
We are piloting B and Mettle of the rest of the market for customer only extend to lending, we now have as two standalone digital banks.
B is advocacy and in Coutts we have a 12 NatWest accelerators.
These our digital personal bank targeted at market leading private banking brand.
hubs make up the UKs largest fullyhelping people to manage their money funded business accelerator network, better.
Mettle is our digital bank for Customers want and need to do their capable of supporting up to 1,000 business customers.
help them to do this, and combine it with We are learning a lot from these expert advice, we see advocacy scores NatWest Markets continued to support innovations and applying our findings increase.
That is how we are focusing large corporate customers with a range back into the core bank.
the business, and we are confident the of financing needs in 2018.
Our FX team changes we are making will deliver a was voted number one for customer These innovations complement the consistently higher quality of service.
satisfaction in the 2017 Greenwich wider eco-systems that we want to build Associates FX Survey and we helped around key customer experiences be Simplifying the Bank clients raise 312 billion on the debt it buying a home, or running a business.
We are a simpler bank, but we cant capital markets.
Building or acquiring complementary yet call ourselves simple to deal with.
services to the core banking services While we are now more efficient with a Employee engagement we already offer in these areas will lower cost base, as we have shrunk in The turnaround of the bank would allow us to deepen our relationships size, many of our processes are still too not have been possible without the with customers, and ultimately grow difficult for our customers to deal with, hard work and determination of our revenue.
and are frustrating for our colleagues colleagues.
Over the last four years we as they try to serve our customers.
have seen a significant reduction in the 2019, a year of focusing forward Whether it is booking travel, watching number of roles across the bank, as a In 2019, we will focus forward, into a film or shopping online, customers result of divestment and restructuring a rapidly changing market.
We have now expect a fast and reliable service.
Despite this set annual goals for 2019 based Banking is no different from any other activity, colleague engagement is around our five priorities in order to customer focused industry, and we at its highest level since we started keep up momentum on the delivery are responding to those changes in measuring in 2002.
The independent of our strategic plan.
There are two customer behaviour.
Banking Standards Board report on areas in particular that we need to culture also showed improvements focus on customer experience and Our first digital lending journey for in every category.
Of course, there is simplifying the bank.
This year we Commercial Banking customers is always more we can do, and we have aim to spend 1 billion on upgrading now live.
The new platform allows set stretching targets as we strive to legacy infrastructure, improving existing customers to apply digitally become a more diverse and inclusive systems, processes and delivering new for secured and unsecured loans up to organisation.
innovations which will improve our 750,000, subject to eligibility criteria.
We will simplify Customers are able to complete their Innovating and investing to the bank further in 2019, given this we loan application in a matter of minutes, improve customer service have set a operating cost reduction and usually get a decision in principle We have taken a dual approach to target of c. 300 million for 2019, and within 24 hours.
We have simplified and innovation by transforming our core continue to strive for a sub 50% cost to streamlined the customer experience, banking services and delivering income ratio.
giving our customers a rapid response, new products and services outside all the while supported by the vast of traditional banking.
In 2018, we We have made good progress on industry knowledge and insight of our continued to invest in our existing making RBS a much simpler, safer and Relationship Managers.
infrastructure, improving system more customer focused bank.
From resilience and migrating to latest in a position of capital strength, we will We are also embracing artificial cloud technologies.
Last year we aim to improve returns for you, our intelligence AI, which is helping us shareholders.
