Our Growth Acceleration Programme is CHIEF EXECUTIVE'S on track and already delivering results.
STATEMENT It gives me great pleasure to write my first Following a thorough review of our routes annual review as Chief Executive of Rotork to market, innovation funnel, operations and to report on a strong set of full year footprint, supply chain, talent development results in a year of significant development and IT systems, we identified scope for for the Group.
improvement, validating our five-year ambition to deliver sustainable mid-to-high Having spent time getting to know the single digit revenue growth while also business after joining in February, I was returning to operating margins in the struck by Rotork's exceptional reputation for mid-20s.
quality, reliability and service, the depth of expertise and dedication of our employees, We began the implementation phase of and their willingness to drive improvements the Growth Acceleration Programme in the throughout the organisation.
Feedback from second half of the year.
This is the first customers was also very positive, but phase of a multi-year process, but already identified scope to refine how we do things the results have been very encouraging, to make us easier to do business with and to and are testament to the calibre of our maximise the value we create for all of our people and their ability to execute stakeholders.
day-to-day operations while implementing the initiatives identified in our workstreams.
Our progress and results are especially pleasing in the context of an increasingly challenging macroeconomic and political backdrop and with considerable volatility in oil prices.
Financial performance Revenue grew 8.3%, 11.3% on an organic constant currency basis.
Growth in Group order intake was 2.3% or 5.4% on an organic constant currency basis, reflecting the variation in the timing of project orders and deliveries compared with 2017.
Despite inflationary cost pressures, adjusted operating margins improved 70bps to 21.0%, with new products and a greater emphasis on cost management and productivity contributing to this.
The strength of our return on capital employed and cash flow provides further evidence that our Growth Acceleration Programme is beginning to yield results.
Our balance sheet is strong, with a net cash position of 43.6m at the year end, which will provide firepower for our organic investment plans and flexibility to pursue targeted M&A.
Key external drivers 2018 began with a rising oil price, leading to greater stability and increased confidence in the oil and gas sector, which represents just over half of our revenues.
As a result, we saw a return to more normal buying behaviour in the maintenance and upgrade markets, and some recovery in larger projects as breakeven costs - which continue to fall as the industry adopts newer and more efficient technologies - became more closely aligned to the oil price.
PMI Purchasing Managers' Index and Operating profit GDP economic indicators were largely supportive of steady growth in our water and industrial markets, while our power markets continued to be challenging, 122.9m particularly in high carbon sectors such as 43.0% coal fired power applications.
Towards the end of the year the PM I GDP Adjusted operating profit data pointed to a weakening in business sentiment and confidence and the oil price declined.
We continue to monitor developments closely.
"146.0m 12.2% Growth Acceleration Programme Our Growth Acceleration Programme, while wide-ranging, We identified 12 distinct initiatives and grouped these within is not about the fundamental reinvention of Rotork but rather four pillars, with an underlying drive to simplify our business C 0 about refinements that build upon the Group's strong and to improve the quality of our portfolio through an ::: ""' foundations, through people, processes and systems."
More evaluation of our strategy, portfolio and product lines.
"The z z detail may be found on pages 18 to 21, but an overview of four pillars are defined as Commercial Excellence, Operational m "" our progress is outlined below."
Excellence, Talent Acquisition & Development, and IT & Core Business Processes.
The themes of the programme include: Reinvesting in our customer focus and intimacy: We have made very good progress, and are on track with all Driving operational and supply chain efficiencies: of the initiatives and plans announced at our half year results.
Improving our processes and focus within our Innovation Having previously recorded a seven year decline in revenue and New Product Development activities: and profit per employee, our productivity has now begun to Enhancing our talent acquisition and development recover.
We added a net 31 to our headcount in the last year programmes: equating to a 0.8% growth yet grew the revenue by 8.3%.
Increasing the alignment between our long-term strategy, Revenue per head has therefore improved 7.5% to 180k per our near-term goals and our desired behaviours and our head and adjusted operating profit per head 11.
3% to 38k rewards systems: per head.
A renewed emphasis on headcount productivity: and A critical review of our strategy, portfolio and current product lines.
"Commercial Excellence Operational Excellence Talent Acquisition & IT & Core Channel optimisation - Targeted manufacturing Development Business Process shifting to end-market improvements Internalising our talent Improving and orientation Supply chain review process standardising core Key account and globalisation Aligning our strategy, business processes 0 "" :::: end-user focus Footprint optimisation behaviours and enabling back z Innovation & NPD rewards systems office leverage - Services expansion Redefining our IT Systems enhancements z 0 Rotork culture Emphasising operating ""' :::: efficiencies 6 z Strategy, Portfolio and Product Line Assessment S1mpl1 fy1ng our core business and preparing for acceleration Growth Margin enhancement Key enablers ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ] CHIEF EXECUTIVE'S STATEMENT CONTINUED With the hiring of our new Group Director We did not undertake a formal employee End market focus of Strategy and M&A, we will further refine engagement survey in 2018 as we wanted Our strategy continues to focus on critical applications and higher value fluids and Rotork's strategy and will take our time to to allow time for the changes to bed in."
make sure we understand where Rotork Feedback from our town halls, dedicated gases, where the Rotork brand is strongest has its most attractive opportunities for email address for people to ask me and most differentiated.
Although there is a long, ongoing trend towards growth before pursuing acquisitions.
We questions, and my lunches with colleagues have enough medium to low hanging fruit of differing seniority throughout Rotork decarbonisation, oil & gas will continue to to keep the team focused on delivering in demonstrate a real sense of excitement, be our largest and most profitable sector for the foreseeable future, due to the the near term, such as supply chain and optimism and renewed energy around the operational improvements, facility business.
More information about our complexity, critical nature of our consolidations and pivoting our commercial people may be found on page 40. application set and high value of the fluids and gases.
As operators seek to drive down organisation.
There's a lot of work to be done, and we intend to stay focused on the their costs, our product and service Customer satisfaction Growth Acceleration Programme initiatives solutions can play a key role in helping We have acted upon the feedback from the them to generate operating efficiencies.
c. 200 customer interviews and first net promoter score assessment we undertook We have renewed our focus on industrial Stakeholder engagement last year, seeking to build on our strengths applications by realigning our approach, and address the areas where our People and culture putting in place dedicated salespeople and We recognise that there are several factors performance fell short of expectations.
hiring distribution partners to focus on critical to the success of our Growth Both our lead times and quote turn-around those markets.
Part of our extensive review times have improved significantly over the Acceleration Programme and internal of the business was an analysis of how we communication is one of these.
go to market for our different types of ensure that we manage our programme products, and this exercise yielded a effectively, we have hired a Director of Our communities significant number of opportunities to Internal Communications and focused on Corporate social responsibility remains core pursue in the industrial market sector.
communication throughout the to our business model.
Our CSR Committee Food, pharma, petrochemical and HVAC organisation to ensure that we bring our considers the impact of our business on all are the largest areas in which we're gaining team along.
We'five created new messaging our stakeholders and ways to improve our traction within the industrial sector, largely for the company consistent with our areas performance.
This year we reviewed the to do with our more focused and of focus: six key themes for the business, charities we have been supporting and accelerated new product development our vision, mission, and what we define as have now chosen areas that are more efforts targeted at these markets.
We have also produced aligned to our business focus.
We continue efforts have been reflected in a 14% several internal CEO videos to communicate to work with Water Aid, but are pleased to revenue growth in industrial applications.
where we're going and what we need.
Our have added Engineers Without Borders, new One Rotork theme is about working Pump Aid and Renewable World to the Capital deployment strategy collaboratively and behaving as a single causes we support with fundraising and We remain a highly cash generative collective company.
There is more business and have returned to a net cash information about this and all aspects of position.
The priorities for use of our cash In addition to tackling structural our CSR work on page 44. continue to be investing in organic growth inefficiencies, there was a need to build new markets, new product development upon Rotork's strong culture by introducing Summary or capital expenditure, then a progressive more of an operational performance We have made significant progress with dividend policy, followed by M&A.
Our training and development our Growth Acceleration Programme, but Thereafter, if we decide at any point we work, changes to the performance this is only the beginning of a multi-year have excess cash, we would look to return management system, our business initiative.
We have a strong intelligence dashboards and the external balance sheet which provides the Group operating talent we have brought in have Under the commercial excellence pillar, we with considerable optionality in uncertain all contributed to a renewed focus on are focused on creating a more customer market conditions.
oriented structure, which is ongoing and will take a year to execute, since we are taking great care to implement this in a measured, considered way.
"8 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2018 0 ""' ::: :i: Under the operational excellence pillar of our Growth Acceleration Programme, our facility rationalisations are underway and on track."
We have identified a specific set of initiatives to be driven by our nine largest facilities, and our largest subsidiary locations have teams focused on driving tangible operational improvements, including inventory optimisation to improve our cash generation.
"Cl We will begin rolling out elements of our :, o ""' z new IT platform within the next six months."
"z "" ""' Essentially, our current focus is on advancing the initiatives we have already started to implement."
Whilst the macroeconomic outlook is difficult to predict, we are proactively planning for different scenarios and have a very good understanding of what we would do under different circumstances.
After a very good performance in 2018 which exceeded our expectations, aided by a reduction in lead times, we expect revenues for 2019 to deliver modest OCC growth on 2018.
However our self-help initiatives should mean that we see progress on margins in 2019.
Whatever unfolds, the initiatives we are pursuing will strengthen Rotork's cyclical resilience and position the Group to compete effectively in all economic contexts.
I am confident that we can continue to build upon what is a strong foundation.
I see clear opportunities and potential for Rotork.
It is an honour to be steering the Group through the next stage of its 8 development as a leading global flow l:: control and instrumentation company, z capitalising on Rotork's proud history while - z positioning the organisation for sustainable 0 growth.
I would like to thank my colleagues :, o l:: throughout the Group for their drive and :!'
0 enthusiasm in embracing the Growth z Acceleration Programme.
There is a lot to do, and we have a great team in place to achieve our goals.
Kevin Hostetler Chief Executive 4 March 2019 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2018 9 Our products and solutions play a critical role in OUR MARKET ensuring the safe and efficient operation of global infrastructure in energy, power, water and industrial markets.
Increased demand for our products arises from population growth and greater urbanisation supported by pressure for greater automation, improved information using digital technology and greater efficiency and effectiveness.
Oil & gas Water Demand for oil and gas remains strong, In emerg ing markets, the population growth particularly in faster growing emerging and trend towards urbanisation is driving markets.
Growing gas reserves are generating investment in the water infrastructure.
high interest in LNG related projects.
Shifts in In developed markets, capacity expansion and energy mix wi ll dampen growth for oil scarcity of conventional water sources requires and gas in the longer term.
Population growth, ongoing urbanisation We have seen significant volatility in the price of Water markets are typically highly regulated oil with double-digit declines in the second half with pressure to limit price increases to end of 2018.
Oil spot and futures appear to be in the customers providing good opportunities where $50 - $60 per barrel range but is still considered we can provide more cost effective solutions.
likely to remain 'lower for longer' as lower cost Ageing water infrastructure is driving spend on US onshore production places a ceiling on price.
However we are Oil price reduction and continued pressure on observing some municipal water projects being refining margins has placed cash cost reduction postponed due to uncertainty in interest rates at the top of the agenda across the value and the bond markets.
Many operators are becoming more An ageing workforce and knowledge willing to adopt new technology as a result.
management has also been cited as a Lower cost, We differentiate by engineering cost out of challenge in this industry, implying that there the system and providing innovative, efficient is opportunity to deploy more automation and greater efficiency solutions and aftermarket packages.
Many players across the value chai n have Technology development is currently focused developed ambitious digital agendas in order on monitoring leakages, however, water to reduce cost and improve productivity.
The shortages are driving cont inued evolution in data gathering and analysis capabilities of smart grids w ith automated valves, wh ich our solutions and service offerings enable us w ill stimulate increased demand for our to respond we ll to this growing requirement, solutions, and investment in water reuse and particularly regard ing predict ive maintenance, desalination technology.
assisting customers to minimise downtime Wireless technologies are highly prevalent in and improve process optimisation.
Virtual t he water distribution network and wi ll be rea lity applications are fu rther enhancing field adopted in t he rest of the network upstream service productivity.
Real time data as the roll-out of 5G networks gains traction.
and fast response Operators are aiming to reduce energy Regulation is evolving on a number of fronts consumption and methane emissions.
We across different geographies regarding reuse, are developing a number of new solutions sludge treatment and water quality, requiring that will lower energy consumption.
We have more processing and additional capital recently launched new fugitive emissions expenditure.
We ant icipate positive impact monitoring technology as part of our from the America's Water Infrastructure Act of solutions portfolio.
2018 signed into law in October 2018.
Regulatory or environmental change and structural change, 1 Q ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Power Chemical, process & industrial Revenue Population growth and the trend towards Organisations continue to seek greater urbanisation is driving global growth in automation to respond to the lack of availability power demand.
The shift from coal and of labour, reduce costs and improve efficiencies 8.3% gas to renewable energy sources drives the and safety.
Greater automation drives demand requirement to supplement intermittent for flow control and instrumentation.
renewable sources with responsive gas generation.
This requires higher quality, more responsive actuation.
There is continual cost pressure between Inflationary pressures on labour and other Cl competing generating technologies.
"This gives operating costs are driving manufacturers to '14 '15 '16 '17 '18 rise to a focus on lower operating expenses invest in process improvements, maximising ""' z and continuous improvement in efficiency production efficiency and plant uptime."
Our z which provides further opportunities for new, solutions can play an important part in this.
"m "" more efficient technology.. z To date the digitalisation in the power industry Digital automation is underway across the z has been largely focused on the power block value chain and is at a more advanced stage "" but it is likely this will extend to the remainder of development and acceptance than in our of the power plant to drive maintenance other markets."
Real-time monitoring allows E efficiency gains.
Proliferating Distributed problems to be fixed before they escalate, m Energy Resources DER feeding power into improving safety, productivity and performance z.... the grids requires power plants to improve and optimising asset life.
Wireless control and V, the ability to respond quickly to manage the predictive maintenance are growing trends to stress on the power grids which requires more which we are responding.
Environmental regulation encourages the shift Key regulatory changes are largely around the 8 to renewables and an increased requirement use of power and emissions.
Our innovation :::: for desulphurisation plants which are actuator funnel includes solutions to lower energy z - intensive.
consumption and reduce leak rates.
