GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT In 2018, RSA delivered growth in pro ts and earnings per share, further dividend growth and underlying return on tangible equity of 12.6%, Delivering substantially above our cost of capital.
However, for us 2018 was a disappointing year since RSA posted the first decline in underwriting pro ts since 2013, driven primarily by higher pro t growth weather costs and a range of loss challenges in our Commercial Lines businesses, most notably through our London Market results.
While we can never be immune from external volatility, we have taken decisive action to address these losses and expect a good recovery in 2019. in a challenging Since 2013, a wide range of fundamental improvements have transformed RSAs competitive position and capabilities.
These programmes, aimed towards our best-in-class strategic ambitions, market continued to deliver across 2018.
While there are many positive examples, the strong results from our Personal Lines businesses 57% of the Group are a ne example delivering for both customers In the face of some disappointments and shareholders despite weather headwinds.
in 2018, we have taken decisive Strategy and focus RSA is a focused international insurance group.
We have actions to improve performance complementary leadership positions in the major general insurance and we expect a good recovery markets of the UK, Scandinavia and Canada together with supporting international business.
The Group is well balanced between personal in 2019.
57% and business customers 43%, across our regions, product lines and distribution channels.
Our business strategy is to sustain a disciplined focus on RSAs existing areas of market leadership, whilst driving operating improvements in pursuit of best-in-class performance levels.
RSAs strategy remains a strong one, best suited for our markets.
However, tough conditions in Specialty and Wholesale insurance markets in 2017 and 2018 have prompted a reassessment and substantial cutback of our London Market presence 4% of 2018 Group premiums which forms part of the UK & International Commercial Lines business.
External conditions General insurance markets are relatively mature, consolidated and stable, though with some intrinsic underwriting volatility.
Attractive performance can be achieved through intense operational focus within a disciplined strategic framework.
2018 was a year with some major external underwriting challenges for the insurance industry.
In common with 2017, it was an unusually poor year for both Nat Cat losses and commercial large loss activity.
Other weather related losses were also higher than long-term averages.
Additionally, selected insurance lines continue to see claims in ation higher than CPI, motor most notably.
Despite this backdrop, for many participants overall pro tability is robust and hence competitive intensity remains high.
Nevertheless, there are now real signs of pricing increases and capacity withdrawals in the worst performing lines which should help portfolio remediation where necessary.
Insurers are exposed to financial markets, and through them to political and macroeconomic challenges, despite core insurance activities being relatively well insulated in themselves.
From RSAs perspective, 2018 was comparatively uneventful in financial market impacts: although there was an adverse FX translation effect 4% of underlying EPS from sterling strength, and bond yields did not hold the increases initially forecast as political and trade worries impacted markets in the second half of the year.
Volatility remains a risk for 2019, not least in the UK via the continuing Brexit debate.
RSA earns the large majority of its pro ts overseas which is at least a comfort.
12 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2018 rsagroup.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS The fundamentals of our business are solid.
Overall premiums rose 2018 actions 2 3 1% on an adjusted basis down 3% on a reported basis, driven by 2018 was an active year at RSA with our actions falling broadly into growth in Personal Lines.
two categories continued operational improvement in pursuit of our best-in-class ambitions and speci c underwriting actions to address Our Personal Lines businesses 57% of total showed a combined ratio the underperforming areas of our business.
of 92.4% despite higher weather costs than 2017.
Financial strength: RSAs A grade credit ratings are where we want In Commercial Lines we had poor results a combined ratio of 101.9%.
The Solvency II capital ratio strengthened further during 2018 Proforma for portfolio exits and 2019 reinsurance additions, the ratio 1 170% versus 163% in 2017.
We also successfully negotiated a longer would have been 97.6%, and a range of other improvements are term funding settlement for our UK pension plan liabilities, designed to targeted for 2019. provide a more stable, lower risk future for the plans themselves and for On a geographic basis, our Scandinavian business continues to be RSA as sponsor.
the most important pro t contributor.
A combined ratio of 86.8% was Business improvement: our pursuit of best-in-class operating behind the 2017 record, held back by Commercial Lines large losses, metrics and capabilities continues to drive much activity.
This is but strong nevertheless.
Canada fell back due to adverse weather grouped across three areas customer service, underwriting and costs and poor Commercial Lines results.
A signi cant recovery is cost ef ciency and enabled by data, technology and our own targeted for 2019. human capital.
As in 2017, our UK & International business recorded poor results a Where underlying pro tability is good, we have been successful combined ratio of 101.4%.
Proforma for business exits, this improves 1 at growing our business and receiving positive customer support.
to 97.4% and within it were excellent Ireland and Middle East Personal Lines policy counts rose in 2018 in all regions.
successful in winning a major bancassurance partnership in Canada We have proposed a final dividend of 13.7p per share making 21p per with Scotiabank.
This represents a 62% payout of underlying 1 Cost ef ciency remains a critical element of competitiveness.
RSAs EPS and a 50% payout of proforma EPS and in so doing we are excellent progression continued in 2018 and our cost programmes aiming to smooth the impact on shareholders of underwriting volatility reached gross annual savings of 460m, meeting our 450m target in the light of our belief in improved future results.
Our strong capital a year early.
This effort now becomes business as usual but has position and in-year free capital generation support this stance.
RSAs contributed a 4 point improvement to our combined ratio since 2013. dividend policy is unchanged, targeting 40-50% normal payout levels with additional possible where free capital generation so supports.
Insurers are the original data scientists that is what actuaries do and capability development through technology and data remains Looking forward at the heart of our improvement efforts.
Hand-in-hand goes the contribution of our people who are increasing productivity every year 2018s challenges have not changed our view of RSAs attractive through technology and better ways of working, and in so doing raising performance potential or any of our targeted financial metrics.
We their own skills and value-added contribution.
recognise the importance of demonstrating resumed progress in 2019 and believe the actions are in place to support that.
No business Underwriting actions: substantial actions were taken in 2018 and is free of challenge, and the insurance industry will undoubtedly are continuing to address areas of underperformance in underwriting: continue to present volatility.
We nevertheless are con dent that good In Personal Lines, the primary challenge was weather volatility which improvement can be achieved.
is hard to speci cally manage.
Canada was our worst affected territory.
Auto Lines claims in ation also remains a market challenge.
Thanks Extensive rate increases are going through in affected portfolios, RSA bene ts enormously from the support of our stakeholders every together with selected broker cancellation where rate alone is unlikely year.
Customers and shareholders represent our key audience.
to have the required result.
However, the contributions of my colleagues are what makes possible In Commercial Lines more extensive action is needed.
My sincere thanks to them for their efforts in 2018. announced portfolio exits for c. 50% of our London Market business The future for RSA is bright if we make it so.
and the two remaining UK generalist MGAs.
Across all our remaining Commercial Lines businesses, underwriting action and rate increases are being deployed against underperforming areas.
And for 2019 we have added new reinsurance aggregate covers aiming to reduce large loss volatility in each of our regional businesses.
Stephen Hester Financial results: at a headline level, pre-tax pro ts rose 7% to Group Chief Executive 480m and earnings per share rose 21%.
Underlying return on tangible 27 February 2019 equity was 12.6% versus 13-17% target range.
Nevertheless, it was a disappointing year nancially with the first decline in underlying pro ts since 2013.
Underlying EPS was 34.1p per share 1 2017: 43.5p, although proforma results were c. 42p.
1 Proforma for UK exits and or reinsurance, see fide nition on page 185.
3 Underlying measure, refer to page 183 for further information.
