14 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW Our performance reflects the robustness of the Sabre business model and a clear focus on the long-term corporate strategy 2018 was a positive year for Sabre, with strong results considering the competitive underlying market conditions.
I am pleased to present the first full year Throughout the year, despite the challenging Geoff Carter Chief Executive Officers review following our market backdrop, the management team has Chief Executive Officer successful listing on the Main Market of the successfully delivered across all these targets.
London Stock Exchange in December 2017.
Our key priority throughout the year has been 2018 was a good year for the business within to successfully counteract the claims inflation the context of continuing competitive market seen through 2018, ensuring that we continue conditions.
At the IPO, we outlined the to price new business at a mid-70%s long-term objectives of Sabre, which drive combined operating ratio.
This has resulted in the strategy of the business.
We reiterated a pleasing financial year COR of 70.6%, which these objectives again at our interim results.
has delivered a profit before tax of 61.4m Those objectives are: with a broadly flat premium position.
This compares well to the position we believe 1.
Deliver market-leading underwriting is being seen across the market, where performance premium increases are lagging claims inflation.
C ontinue to generate strong levels of Despite these challenges, we were pleased capital through our profitable underwriting to report profits for the year in line with our expectations, delivered through our strong 3.
Deliver attractive returns to shareholder and disciplined underwriting performance.
Controlled growth across the cycle Sabre Insurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements 15 Our preferred capital range is 140160% of These are long-term trading principles which While we will maintain a cautious approach to our solvency requirement.
Our capital position have contributed to the success of Sabre to this, ensuring developments do not undermine at the end of the year increased to 213%, date.
Looking forward, there are a number the profitability of Sabre, in 2018 we took which is well above this preferred range.
of forthcoming changes and trends in our the opportunity to expand in the van market.
This has allowed us to return a proportion industry which we continue to monitor closely, This was done both through enhancement of this excess capital through a proposed we are confident that consistently focusing of a broker distribution product for this market special dividend resulting in an attractive on these principles will deliver sustainable rolling out in Q1 19, and the soft launch of full year dividend of 20 pence per share.
profitability and dividends in all market a direct to customer van product under our conditions.
In addition, across the cycle we Insure 2 Drive brand.
Both of these initiatives Our strategy also believe that delivering on these principles offer a low risk way to broaden our offer and We focus on underwriting private motor can deliver high single-digit growth, albeit not increase our market reach.
We have established necessarily on a year-by-year basis.
We are a strong market position in the parts of the In addition we have continued to test and happy to maintain our size or contract in market we choose to focus upon, with roll out numerous new rating factors and unattractive market conditions.
our success underpinned by several core data sources.
trading principles: Maintaining an optimal combined operating Outlook ratio is the primary focus for our business.
Maintaining market-leading underwriting The underlying challenging dynamics and We target a mid-70%s COR across our book.
performance through a disciplined and changes in the UK private car insurance actuarially driven pricing strategy When considering the mix and volume of market have been well publicised.
Whilst it Expanding our extensive and proprietary business we underwrite, the focus is on appears that these dynamics have continued dataset combined with investment whether that business will deliver our target into early 2019, the Board remains very in data enrichment margins not premium growth.
Whilst we confident in the outlook for Sabre.
quote for the vast majority of risks, across Maintaining a broad underwriting We will continue to remain focused on our distribution channels, we continue to benefit footprint but with unique skills that allow long term and well established strategy to from attracting a higher percentage of the us to bias towards the specialist, higher focus on prioritizing underwriting profitability above average premium section of the premium segments over premium growth.
This profit focused market when compared to the mainstream Utilising our robust and effective claims business model, aided by a bias toward to the motor insurers.
management function to ensure a firm higher premium market segments, will allow but fair approach to claims Strategic developments Sabre to maintain its underwriting margins and Sabre has a clear, long-term strategy in place continue to deliver strong capital generation, Effectively leveraging our diversified, which will deliver sustainable returns for its supporting attractive and sustainable returns multi-channel distribution network shareholders, based on its long-standing to shareholders, through the cycle.
Using our streamlined operating model trading principles.
However, Management to efficiently control expenses Further, our proven ability to move into does consider opportunities to diversify Sabre adjacent product areas and take advantage of Ensuring a prudent case and a consistent further, within the parameters of those core market opportunities from a solid foundation at portfolio reserving approach trading principles.
Sabres well established the appropriate time leaves us well positioned Maintaining a conservative approach claims database and strong underwriting for growth into the medium and longer term.
to risk management through the use skills does provide opportunity to consider I look forward to updating shareholders on of reinsurance, a simple and low risk expansion into adjacent vehicle sectors our ongoing progress through the year.
investment strategy and prudent and niches.
Sabre Insurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 16 The market Ogden discount rate All of these will be subject to an affirmative The UK private motor insurance market We have continued to price and reserve at resolution procedure, which means that the is entering a period of significant change, the -0.75% discount rate, arguably a relatively draft statutory instruments will be debated potentially of a scale that hasnt been seen conservative position.
It is increasingly in both Houses of Parliament before they for many years.
There is a convergence probable that this discount rate used in can come into effect.
of a number of external events that will the valuation of larger personal injury claims Alongside the statutory instruments, have a significant impact sometimes awards will revert back sometime in 2019 there will be a significant IT build to contradictory on claims expenditure and towards a positive discount rate.
The primary support the presentation of claims by premiums.
We continue to monitor these impact on Sabre will be reinsurance costs and unrepresented claimants.
developments closely and have prepared we will reflect this change when the quantum extensively for them.
Sabres very is more certain.
This suite of reforms are slated to go live in experienced Management Team and April 2020, although many commentators feel Whiplash and associated reforms employees ensure it has the necessary this is an ambitious timescale given the new The Bill to support these changes has now knowledge to navigate through these technology required to support the changes.
passed Royal Assent and is now the Civil industry changes successfully.
Taken at face-value, these reforms would Liability Act.
decrease claims spend industry predictions To very briefly outline the most significant The key details of this Bill relating to Part 1 centre on a 30 per policy saving.
This, for the of these market changes: Whiplash set out that regulations are to majority of underwriters, would result in a near Claims inflation be made in a number of areas including: 10% reduction in premium, for Sabre it would The increase in technology in vehicles is be about half this amount given our higher Tariff: the levels of the tariff for claim types having a marked increase in bent metal average premium.
and how they are applied in duration and claims costs this is a change from the recent combination of injuries We believe there are several reasons to be past where personal injury claims have been Uplift: specify the circumstances for uplift cautious about these potential savings.
These the key driver of claims inflation.
We believe and the maximum percentage by which an include possible lawyer response, potential overall claims inflation is running at in excess award could be increased new claims types and the possibility of new of 6%, somewhat higher than recent years.
types of claims management company Medical Reporting: define appropriate We responded to this through successfully involvement.
Our approach will be to reflect evidence of injury and accreditation.
increasing prices throughout 2018 and into benefits in pricing if and when we are sure 2019, and so do not anticipate any meaningful they truly exist.
Sabre Insurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements 17 The Board remains confident in the outlook for Sabre.
We will continue to focus on our long-term and well established strategy to focus upon underwriting profitability against premium growth.
Competitor pricing activity Our approach to this dynamic market Why invest in Sabre Insurance?
Given the number of legal and regulatory will be to: changes underway, which may impact Continue to monitor these ongoing market A simple UK only, motor only insurer market premium rates, there is a risk that developments closely Long track record of market-leading more growth orientated companies will underwriting performance, driven Continue to understand these trends and overestimate the benefits before correcting by an absolute focus on profitability plan for possible outcomes pricing levels at a later stage.
over volume Maintain our very clear and consistent FCA pricing review strategy focused on underwriting discipline Unique business model focused on Potentially the most significant development generating profit from underwriting Amend our pricing as appropriate once we for the motor insurance market as a whole is activities, not ancillary products are confident in the financial implications, the FCA review of pricing techniques in the Extremely broad underwriting and not to speculate on future benefits.
This focuses on two areas new footprint, with unique skills in the business renewal price differences and The timing and result of these various higher premium market segments the use of behavioural non-risk factors in factors is uncertain but our strategy remains Very strong capital generation determining pricing, both of which appear consistent.
We will maintain our underwriting supports attractive dividends to be common market practice.
discipline and continue to price at a mid-70%s in all market conditions COR, treating volume as an output not target.
Sabre does not utilise either of these Market-leading expense base that We are confident that this approach will approaches.
All of our premiums are based can be rapidly flexed to take continue to deliver attractive returns in the on risk factors, and we seek to maintain new advantage of growth opportunities short term, and positions us well to take business and renewal prices at the same level.
advantage of growth opportunities at the It is too early to speculate on the FCA right time.
response, but given our current stance we would anticipate ending up in a neutral or possible slightly positive position relative to the market.
Geoff Carter Chief Executive Officer Sabre Insurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
