Strategic Report Group Chief Executive Officers strategic review his is Sagas fourth set of results as a public company.
It has been a challenging few months during which the share price has been under Treal pressure.
This is in contrast to the four years since IPO, in which we have achieved a great deal.
I am a passionate We came to market with a target to grow profits every year and reduce the 700m of inherited bank debt.
believer in the We set out a strategy that replaced riskier and more capital-intensive Underwriting earnings with earnings uniqueness of the from Broking and Travel.
As part of this we needed to grow profits in the Broking business, especially via the motor panel: grow profits in the Travel business: and Saga model.
deliver growth in Emerging Businesses.
We have made good progress in achieving these objectives while also upgrading most of our IT platforms.
However, while we have achieved excellent growth in earnings in our Travel business, we have not delivered the expected profit uplift in Broking.
In recent years, we achieved profit growth from a static customer base.
In December 2017 we announced our decision to increase our targeted spend by 10m a year to allow us to focus on growing our customer numbers.
While it will have an impact on profitability in 2018 19, I am confident that this investment will lead to a larger customer base and a return to sustainable profit growth.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 8 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements In addition to the targeted investment and So, whats next?
enhancements to our platform, our new membership scheme, Possibilities, increases our ability to attract, Strategic priorities for the coming year target and retain people who are likely to develop a In order to deliver long-term sustainable high affinity with our brand.
It will also help the broader earnings, our strategic priorities for the business, and particularly the Retail Broking business, coming year are: to grow customer numbers.
Early signs show these initiatives are working: in the first two months of the year there has been a 14% increase in the volume of new business in Retail Broking.
A membership scheme to reward our loyal customers The launch of our new membership scheme, Possibilities, 1.
Becoming increasingly customercentric in September was a significant achievement for the Group.
Eighty per cent of customers who have been Read more p18 invited to join the scheme have signed up and we now have over half a million active members.
After a successful launch, the Group is now ready to drive a fundamental change in how we interact with our customers which will reward loyalty and encourage the take up of multiple Saga products.
Increased product holdings by HACs The number of products held by High Affinity 2.
G rowing our Retail Insurance Customers HACs has increased to 1,143k 1,129k in and Travel businesses 2017 due to a combination of a slightly lower number of HACs 471k versus 483k in 2017 offset by a higher Read more p18 number of average products of 2.4 versus 2.3 in 2017.
Our new product propositions and marketing activity have also driven a 5.5% increase in revenue per HAC.
Spirit of Discovery and Spirit of Adventure We are now just over a year away from the delivery of Spirit of Discovery.
We have achieved over 50% of our sales target for the first 19 cruises, at per diems that continue to be in line with our expectations.
Investing for future growth The highlight of the year for me was the decision to Read more p19 invest further in our shipping capacity.
Our second new ship, Spirit of Adventure, will be delivered in August 2020.
Having two new efficient ships will significantly change the profit trajectory of our Travel business.
Systems improvements We continue to renew and refresh our systems to enhance our customers experience and to provide efficient operating platforms across the Group.
Important achievements which position us well for 4.
Maintaining our efficient the next phase of our development include: operating model our new claims platform was launched in the first Read more p19 half of the year.
It is delivering an enhanced customer experience at a reduced cost: work throughout the year culminated in the launch of our broking platform, Guidewire, in April 2018: and we started work on a new reservation system for our Tour Operating business which will be used for reservations from FY 2020.
D eveloping our people Read more p19 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 9 Strategic Report Group Chief Executive Officers strategic review continued Summary and outlook I am a passionate believer in the uniqueness of the Saga model.
The fundamentals have not changed: we are focused on an attractive and growing demographic which has strong loyalty to the Saga brand and we continue to evolve our products and services to ensure that they remain relevant to our customers.
A comprehensive overhaul of our systems, a clear focus on the development of our offering, and progress in developing our Retail Broking model, give us a strong foundation from which to increase customer engagement and retention.
We are also beginning to see the benefits of our targeted investment in Retail Broking and Travel.
These early signs, together with the arrival of our new ships in 2019 and 2020, give me confidence in our ability to return the business to sustainable profit growth.
Lance Batchelor Group Chief Executive Officer 11 April 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 10 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements A focused team Introducing our Executive Team from left to right Stuart Beamish Lance Batchelor Group Marketing Director Group Chief Executive Officer Gary Duggan Jules Christmas Chief Executive, Insurance Broking Group IT Director Andrew Button Robin Shaw Chief Executive, AICL Chief Executive, Travel Karen Caddick Jonathan Hill Group HR Director Group Chief Financial Officer Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 11
