Group Chief Executives review Investing to grow our business in a changing market 2018 was an important year for Schroders, with significant progress in a number of key areas.
We have concluded some critical and strategically important initiatives that have positioned the firm well to meet the headwinds facing the industry.
Our focus continues to be on investing for growth.
We see growth opportunities across our business, but most notably in the Americas, Asia and in private markets.
We also see clear benefits of moving closer to the end client through our wealth management capabilities.
Our initiatives in 2018 helped us to continue to realign the business to take advantage of these opportunities and to bring us closer to realising our strategic objectives.
At the same time, we have continued to differentiate ourselves through a strong focus on sustainability and responsible investing.
One of the highlights of the year was the announcement of a wide-ranging partnership with Lloyds Banking Group LBG.
We were delighted to announce that LBG selected us to manage around 80 billion of its clients assets.
This is one of the largest mandates ever awarded and is testament to the quality of our investment offering and leading technology capabilities.
One of the highlights of the year was the announcement of a wide-ranging partnership with Lloyds Banking Group 6 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report In addition, we will enter into a strategic wealth and financial planning We remain committed to investing for future growth, notwithstanding joint venture with LBG called Schroders Personal Wealth.
This will see the current market conditions, and recognise the importance of us combining our skills with its branch network to enhance the realising efficiencies.
We have therefore taken the opportunity to products and services available to UK savers and investors.
undertake structural changes to the Group, realigning our resources to focus on areas of strategic growth.
These one-off initiatives have Generating sustainable, profitable growth requires investment in led to certain costs that, together with other exceptional items, mean technology across the firm.
Following a multi-year project, in 2018 we profit before tax was 649.9 million 2017: 760.2 million.
successfully transferred the majority of our clients assets on to a new front office technology platform.
This provides the opportunity to More information on our financial performance is set out in the improve efficiency, reduce operational risk and, importantly, enhance business and financial review from page 22. our service to clients.
Role to play for our stakeholders Our employees have worked particularly hard during 2018 to deliver Our overall purpose is to help build long-term future prosperity for the many projects and initiatives we are focused on.
I am immensely our clients, and to do the right thing for our stakeholders.
We believe proud of what they have achieved and grateful to them all.
that we have an important role to play in driving better outcomes forthe world around us.
Despite this hard work, the market background has provided challenges.
After a strong first half of the year, markets retreated during the second half in the face of trade disputes, rising interest None of this would be possible without a rates and slowing growth.
These weaker markets significantly reduced the amount of performance fees we were able to earn, talented and engaged workforce compared with the unusually high levels achieved in 2017.
Indextracking strategies continued to take share from active management and put further pressure on prices.
We focus on helping our clients to meet their financial goals through active, long-term, responsible investing.
Using a combination of In spite of these headwinds, our growth initiatives in the Americas fundamental research and data-driven insights, we can construct proved particularly beneficial.
Within Asia, one large client outflow in solutions that meet their changing needs.
fixed income in Japan offset an otherwise good performance in South East Asia.
An increasing sense of risk aversion, particularly This approach offers benefits to the wider economy.
We actively in continental Europe and the UK, had an impact on demand for engage with companies across the world to drive high levels of equity products.
corporate responsibility, governance and transparency.
Our thoughtful engagement helps to promote sustainable growth, both In 2018, we generated net operating revenue of 2,070.7 million for our clients and society as a whole.
With an increasing proportion 2017: 2,010.2 million and achieved a ratio of total costs to net of the world stock markets owned passively, we believe the income of 64% 2017: 61%.
Pre-exceptional profit before tax was responsibility of active managers to appropriately allocate capital 761.2 million 2017: 800.3 million.
None of this would be possible without a talented and engaged workforce.
We pride ourselves on creating an inclusive and diverse culture, and a working environment that promotes collaboration andinnovation.
More information on our approach to sustainable investing can be found on pages 36-37.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 7 Group Chief Executives review continued Investment performance Our Wealth Management business is an important part of how As an active asset manager, we prioritise consistently delivering we can do this and is a strategic priority for us.
In 2017, we acquired positive investment outcomes for our clients.
Investment the wealth business of C. Hoare & Co. and in 2018 we further performance over three years our key performance indicator increased our investment in Benchmark Capital, both of which have remained strong to 31 December 2018, with 74% of Asset been successful.
Over five years, 76% of assets Our strategic partnership with LBG is a further important outperformed and over one year the figure was 43%, as market development.
It is exclusively focused on the needs of UK savers and movements in the fourth quarter impacted performance over the investors.
We expect to launch Schroders Personal Wealth later in short term.
More information on how we measure investment 2019, combining our investment expertise and leading technology performance is set out on pages 24 and 178-179. with LBGs significant client base, multi-channel distribution and digital capabilities.
Evolving industry trends Twelve months ago, I set out my views on the trends we were seeing We will also continue to pursue closer, longer-term relationships with across the industry.
I discussed how, in an increasingly challenging our asset management clients.
As we demonstrated with the award environment, we had identified areas of future growth and how we ofthe LBG mandate, we are well placed to offer broad-based, tailored are investing behind them.
Wherever possible, we focus on evolving solutions to meet complex client needs.
In 2017, we launched our the business to benefit from these changing market dynamics.
range of strategic capabilities, focused on our clients goals, be they income, growth, retirement or sustainability.
In 2018, we invested One year on, we have continued to see these trends develop.
further in developing our ability to offer complex solutions for Geopolitical risks have grown and the economic uncertainty clients globally.
surrounding the slowing of quantitative easing is clear.
Our clients are facing a difficult new environment of lower returns and increasing A focused active offering volatility.
Technology offers new ways to engage with end consumers, We are committed to active management and believe the ability to to better understand markets and to drive efficiencies.
add value over a benchmark or make choices between markets will be Against this backdrop, the strategic decisions that we make to evolve more highly prized in a world of low returns.
Furthermore, as clients our business in response to these changes have never been more increasingly recognise the value of better corporate governance important.
They are what will shape our future growth.
andsustainability, the value of deep and close relationships with companies will become increasingly important.
We continue to invest A closer relationship with our end clients in new tools and sources of data to give our portfolio managers an One of the challenges of our business is the high level of edge in outperforming markets.
intermediation between us, as manufacturers, and our end customers.
This can have the effect of increasing client turnover and the costs to clients.
We aim to develop and maintain long-term We continue to focus on strategic relationships with our end clients, reducing the impact of this areaswhere active management can intermediation and aligning our interests.
demonstrate clear repeatable benefits We are continuing to develop strong Unquestionably, the growth in index-tracking products has been relationships with end clients as well significant across equity markets and has increasingly spread to fixed income and multi-asset products.
We recognise that passive asinstitutions strategies have an important role to play in keeping clients costs low.
However, the growth of exchange-traded funds, which remain untested in challenging conditions, poses an ongoing threat to market stability.
As market volatility rises, we will need to be especially vigilant in understanding the potentially significant impact of this risk as it emerges.
8 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Diversification away from public markets I remain a passionate believer in the value Increased regulation, growing public scrutiny and a diminishing need for growth capital has significantly undermined the attractiveness that we can deliver by investing in ofcompanies listing on western stock exchanges.
As a result, the innovative technology across the firm number of public companies continues to shrink rapidly.
Institutional investors have shifted their focus to private markets, where investment returns and risks can be more attractive.
The final area is in improving operational efficiency.
Our industry In line with our stated strategy, we have continued to focus on further isexperiencing top-line pricing pressures and in order to maintain diversifying our product offering by expanding our capabilities in profitability we are investing today to improve efficiency tomorrow.
In 2018, we broadened our expertise The transition to a new front office technology platform was a in real estate with the acquisition of Algonquin Management Partners significant step in this direction.
We have also invested in robotics S. A. Algonquin, a hotel management company.
We also made an projects in a number of locations across Europe, Asia and the investment in A10, a loan origination business based in the US.
The automation of multi-system dynamic processes allows us to improve efficiency and free up resources to focus on areas 2018 also saw the first full year contribution from Schroder Adveq, ofvalue add.
theprivate equity business we acquired in 2017.
This has grown to 7.4 billion of assets under management AUM, benefiting from Success through our people thecombination of investment expertise and Schroders wider We are proud of our distinctive and collaborative culture, which distribution footprint.
We have supported this growth with focuses on doing the right thing for our stakeholders.
Throughout investment in specialist infrastructure support and a dedicated private this year, we have continued to work hard to build upon and protect assets and alternatives distribution team.
We continue to look for this culture.
I am delighted that our employee opinion survey showed opportunities to further develop our offering in this area.
that 92% of our people are proud to be associated with Schroders.
In aggregate, private assets and alternatives account for 9% of our Our industry suffers from poor diversity.
In common with much of total AUM and 11% of our net operating revenue and we have a financial services, it has consistently failed to attract and retain diverse target of growing the latter measure to 20% over the long term.
We are actively working to address this through new recruitment methods, better policies, unconscious bias training, clear Technology investment across the business targets and a tangible commitment from the executive team.
I remain a passionate believer in the value that we can deliver byinvesting in innovative technology across the firm.
The asset Whilst we have made measurable progress on many metrics, this will management industry has historically under-invested in this area remain an important focus for 2019.
Achieving real diversity of andthere are opportunities across our business.
The benefits of thought will require further improvements.
technology investment can be categorised into three main areas.
More information on our achievements against diversity and inclusion The first is in delivering investment returns for clients.
We have objectives can be found on page 32. continued to invest in our data insights unit, which has now grown Well-positioned for future growth tomore than 20 people globally.
This is a team of data-scientists and As we have demonstrated, our diversified business model and global geo-spatial engineers who use non-traditional and bespoke data sets to deliver proprietary insights for our fund managers.
We have footprint mean we are well-positioned to drive future growth over thelong term.
undergone behavioural biases training with our investment professionals, helping them identify their blind spots.
We are also There are headwinds facing the industry, but we remain confident in using technology to achieve more efficient trading processes, our ability to identify new opportunities across the regions and asset decreasing costs and achieving better outcomes for our clients.
classes in which we operate.
The second area is in improving the client experience.
Automating We will continue to invest behind these and maintain the long-term some of our processes gives clients timely and personalised access strength of our business.
We will retain our intense focus on achieving totheir portfolios and relevant information, based on their holdings, positive investment outcomes for our clients and helping them build behaviours and preferences.
We have simplified client onboarding their future prosperity.
processes and real-time data provides us with insights into changing client demands.
I look forward to working with the talented people across our business and continuing to lead our ongoing success.
Peter Harrison Group Chief Executive Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 9
