06 SEGRO PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT ANOTHER YEAR OF DELIVERY David Sleath reports on SEGROs performance during the past year and looks to the future.
n 2018, SEGRO has delivered another set of WE APPLY OUR strong financial and operating metrics, completed a STRATEGY TO MAXIMISE Irecord volume of developments and continued to PERFORMANCE: strengthen its capital structure.
We have stayed true to our strategy, committing to Operational Excellence and Disciplined Capital Allocation, and as a result our business is in robust health and well positioned for 1 the future.
The main highlights of 2018 include: 2 3 A strong performance in contracting new rent.
66.4 million was signed in the period, including 11.7 million of rent for over 200,000 sq m of 4 development at our flagship SEGRO Logistics Park East Midlands Gateway.
OUR GOAL Continued asset recycling to take advantage of 2.
DISCIPLINED CAPITAL ALLOCATION investor demand for warehousing, while also reducing our exposure to assets with limited future 3.
OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE growth potential and to non-core markets.
EFFICIENT CAPITAL AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE Another record year of development, completing 673,400 sq m of space, of which 83 per cent is already let, generating over 40 million of new income.
This includes our first multi-level warehouse in Paris.
READ MORE ABOUT HOW WE ARE DELIVERING ON Celebrating a successful five years of partnership SEGRO has delivered another OUR STRATEGY: with PSP Investments through our SELP joint OUR BUSINESS MODEL set of strong operating metrics, venture.
The portfolio has grown significantly over PAGES 12-13 the period, now totalling 3.5 billion of big box completed a record volume of OUR STRATEGY warehouses, and has delivered a return well ahead PAGES 21-30 of target, triggering the payment of a performance developments and continued to PRINCIPAL RISKS fee to SEGRO as venture manager.
PAGES 52-58 strengthen its capital structure.
Acquiring the management platform of Roxhill, KPIs DAVID SLEATH PAGES 38-39 having entered a partnership with them in 2016 CHIEF EXECUTIVE which gave SEGRO phased access to a portfolio of big box warehouse development sites in the OUR RESPONSIBLE SEGRO Midlands and South-East regions of the UK.
FRAMEWORK HELPS We welcomed the Roxhill team into SEGRO in the GUIDE OUR BUSINESS DECISIONS: fourth quarter and look forward to working together on an exceptional pipeline of development sites.
Completing a US Private Placement of 300 million, using the proceeds in part to repay our remaining 2019 bonds and to provide further capacity to fund investment opportunities, particularly in our development pipeline.
READ MORE ABOUT HOW WE ARE COMMITTED TO SUSTAINABILITY ON PAGES 40-51 07 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS This activity has been reflected in a strong set of In our urban markets, industrial land continues to results: adjusted profit before tax is up 24.4 per cent be converted into other higher value uses primarily ADJUSTED PROFIT to 241.5 million IFRS: 1,099.1 million, up 12.6 per residential and this makes urban warehousing ever BEFORE TAX cent and adjusted earnings per share are up 17.6 more scarce.
As a result rental values have continued per cent to 23.4 pence IFRS: 105.4 pence, up 7 per to increase, particularly in urban warehouses in the cent.
Our 2018 earnings include a non-recurring UK, and there are increasing pockets of growth in 241.5m performance fee from our SELP joint venture of France, Germany and Poland.
It also means that 2017: 194.2m 13.1 million which has an impact of 1.2 pence on developers are looking at ways to intensify land adjusted earnings per share.
Our EPRA NAV per share use and in 2018 we completed our first multi-level is up 16.9 per cent to 650 pence IFRS: 644 pence, warehouse on the outskirts of Paris, which is already IFRS PROFIT up 16.2 per cent driven substantially by a 10.7 per fully let.
BEFORE TAX cent increase in our portfolio value, which now totals Industrial asset values have improved even further, 9.4 billion reflecting our share of 11.0 billion of due to continued demand from investors who seek 1,099.1m assets under management.
exposure to the favourable market dynamics, and 2017: 976.3m Our balance sheet is also in good shape.
Our yields are now around 10 to 20 basis points lower than average cost of debt remains low at 1.9 per cent a year ago.
ADJUSTED EARNINGS 31 December 2017: 2.1 per cent with an average PER SHARE duration of 10.2 years 31 December 2017: 10.8 A PORTFOLIO WELL PLACED TO MEET OUR years.
SEGRO remains conservatively funded with a CUSTOMERS REQUIREMENTS loan-to-value ratio of 29 per cent 31 December 2017: 2 3.
4p The portfolio reshaping that we have carried out in the 30 per cent and we have over 1.2 billion of cash and early-mid part of the decade has left us well positioned 2017: 19.9p available facilities at our disposal, providing significant to benefit from the structural drivers at play in our financing flexibility.
Our portfolio is well occupied on long IFRS EARNINGS The combination of a strong set of financial results in leases as customers invest more in automation and PER SHARE 2018 and our optimistic outlook for 2019 and beyond fit-out and seek to secure space close to their end means that we are recommending a 16.7 per cent customers for the longer term.
increase in final dividend to 13.3 pence per share, 1 05.4p The majority of our acquisitions in 2018 have been making a total distribution of 18.8 pence for 2018 as a 2017: 98.5p focused on urban warehousing in Continental Europe, whole 2017: 16.6 pence.
and we have continued to invest in land to provide future development opportunities.
EPRA NAV MARKET ENVIRONMENT CONTINUES PER SHARE TO BE SUPPORTIVE Our development team has delivered 673,400 sq m of new space for a diverse range of occupiers across Our business continues to thrive as e-commerce and our markets and we continue to focus on sustainability 65 0p convenience retailing, as well as urbanisation, continue in all of our developments, helping us to meet our to drive the re-engineering of supply chains and the 2017: 556p SEGRO 2020 environmental targets.
associated increasing demand for both big box and urban warehouses.
These powerful structural drivers Our development pipeline is an important source of IFRS NAV are proving to be more significant influences on growth and we have over 800,000 sq m of new space PER SHARE occupier and investor demand for warehouses than under construction, capable of generating 46 million the rather sedate pace of economic growth.
of new rent, of which almost three-quarters has been 64 4p secured through pre-lets.
As a result, we continue to see healthy occupier 2017: 554p demand across all our markets and our portfolio of well-located, modern space is highly desirable for a wide range of occupiers, in particular online retailers, PORTFOLIO third party logistics operators and parcel delivery VALUE companies.
The supply response continues to be controlled and although there has been a modest 9.4bn increase in speculative development in the UK big box market, it is generally well supported by levels of 2017: 8.0bn occupational demand.
We continue to take a low risk approach to development and have already pre-let TOTAL DIVIDEND 73 per cent of our current pipeline, all of which is PER SHARE expected to complete in 2019.
1 8.8p 2017: 16.6p 08 SEGRO PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT PEOPLE AT THE CORE OF OUR SUCCESS DELIVERING INCREASING Our balance sheet is in good shape too, with DIVIDENDS conservative leverage and over 1 billion of cash and Attracting and retaining talented people is key to available lending facilities.
These give us the capacity to our success.
We have a strong company culture and pence take advantage of investment opportunities that arise, 1 8.8 continue to be guided by our Purpose and Values in while also providing a healthy buffer against broader every part of our business.
macro-economic challenges that the future may bring.
Over 300 people now work in our 14 offices across We believe that the structural drivers of demand in Europe and our cross-border working groups ensure our sector particularly e-commerce and urbanisation that ideas and best practices are shared amongst the will continue regardless of short term economic and wider business.
Our social media style intranet also political volatility and this should underpin occupier enables more informal communication.
demand for the foreseeable future, helping to We want everyone to be able to maximise their minimise the impact on our business.
potential at SEGRO and continue to develop in our As a result, we continue to see potential for further Space to Grow programme that offers a broad range rental growth across the portfolio, particularly from of training.
We have invested in technology that allows the continued imbalance of limited supply and strong our employees to work more flexibly and encourage occupier demand in our urban warehouse markets, diversity and inclusion throughout the workplace.
realisation of reversionary potential in our UK portfolio We held our third SEGRO-wide Day of Giving during and from our significant pipeline of developments the year and over 200 employees across Europe spent currently under construction.
Investor demand for a day out of the office participating in a wide variety of prime warehouses also remains healthy and, whilst it charitable activities.
is difficult to assess the outlook for capital values, our portfolio is well let to a diverse range of customers and Every two years, we conduct an independent survey customer sectors on long leases.
of all our employees, to ensure that we maintain our position as an employer of choice.
The survey was Whilst we remain alert to market risks, we are carried out in December 2018 and the early results optimistic about our prospects for the coming year indicate a very high level of employee engagement and beyond.
We will continue to focus on active asset and satisfaction, placing SEGRO at the upper end of management to ensure we are maximising returns 1 the top quartile of companies surveyed by our external 7 from our existing portfolio while also developing new 6 provider, and showing further progress from our warehouses where we see strong occupier demand.
Our customers come from a wide range of industries and sectors and whilst they continue to grow and 4 Our successes are a testament to the skills and adapt their business models, we will respond by dedication of our people and I am grateful to them for 3 2 creating the space that enables extraordinary things all of their efforts throughout 2018. to happen.
OPTIMISTIC OUTLOOK DESPITE WIDER POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC UNCERTAINTY HIGH QUALITY EUROPEAN PORTFOLIO We own a portfolio of prime warehouses located in BY VALUE SEGRO SHARE Europes most important cities and logistics hubs.
Thames Valley 17% Our urban warehouses, making up almost twothirds of our assets, are concentrated in and around 3.
National Logistics 11% Europes largest cities, where land supply is tight and 4.
Germany 10% occupier demand is strong.
France 9% capture further growth in both rental income and 6.
Rest of Europe 8% Our big box warehouses, located along Europes Total 100% main transport corridors and in its major logistics hubs, are increasingly core parts of countries national infrastructure, as companies seek to improve the efficiency and speed of their supply chains.
These form an important part of our development activity: the total returns are attractive, and the development risk is mitigated by securing pre-let agreements on most of our projects.
