Strategic report Chief Executives review GETTING THE BALANCE RIGHT What truly matters is balance... balance between today and tomorrow, between making improvements where customers value them most, keeping bills affordable and providing a fair return to our investors.
Liv Garfield, Chief Executive 18 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Times have changed.
Today, all of us, across all walks Our environment: everybodys most of life expect the companies that serve us to be socially important priority responsible.
Its time for leading businesses to step up Climate change has focused everybodys minds on the need to the challenges of running a sustainable operation and to look after the planet we call home.
At Severn Trent were to embrace all aspects of their performance: social and fortunate that our estate, which is one of the largest corporate environmental as well as financial.
land-holdings in the UK at over 53,000 acres, includes several Success is not as easy to quantify as it was in the past.
Gone are Sites of Special Scientific Interest SSSIs as well as many the days when a company was judged purely on its balance other areas that are important for plants and wildlife.
But with sheet and income statement.
At Severn Trent, this is a change great fortune comes great responsibility more than most we welcome wholeheartedly.
companies, were in a position to have significant impacts on Thats not to say that financial performance no longer matters.
It does, and were extremely proud of our track record in that So we work very hard to make sure that these impacts are as respect, as you can see from the figures for 2017 18 that youll positive as possible.
That means encouraging greater biodiversity find elsewhere on these pages, notably in James financial by working with groups such as The Wildlife Trust and farmers.
What truly matters is balance... balance between Over the last year, we improved biodiversity on 9.86 hectares of today and tomorrow, between making improvements where SSSIs and are targeting many more by 2020.
We also encourage customers value them the most, keeping bills affordable and and empower our people to focus their volunteering efforts on providing a fair return to our investors.
local rivers and other habitats near their homes.
And last year, We can debate what has caused this shift of opinion well into 40% of our colleagues chose to clean up 50 km of riverbank the early hours: whether its the financial crisis or global through our volunteering scheme.
political unrest, government action or the poor behaviour of Environmental responsibility also means reducing sewer a handful of companies, or something else entirely.
What is flooding where we reduced the number of external flooding undeniable is that this change has happened.
And that the new events by around 2,000, which is a 49% outperformance against world its ushered in is here to stay.
our target and serious pollution incidents, which came down So, instead of a traditional CEO review, I want to use these 1,500 from seven to two.
We continued to improve the quality of water words or so to tell you what Im really proud of and what makes entering our rivers, for example by working in partnership with Severn Trent different, through the lens of social responsibility.
farmers and rewarding them for using less metaldehyde on their I want to show you how have we performed when the metrics of fields.
It was great to see all these achievements come together success are extended beyond financial returns.
and we believe they will help us regain the mark of exceptional environmental performance in our sector, the coveted 4 status from the Environment Agency.
Looking to the long-term future of the environment, were continuing to invest heavily in renewable energy and I was delighted that we generated the equivalent of 38% of the energy we consumed last year, and also sold green gas back into the grid.
Group PBIT Group turnover Underlying Group PBIT 528.4m 1,694.1m 541.0m 2017: 536.7m 2017: 1,638.0m 2017: 520.1m Dividend increase Net ODI outperformance payment 6.2% 80.2m 2017: 1.0% 2017: 47.6m Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 19 Strategic report Chief Executives review continued Customers also tell us that its important that were available for Our customers: the reason why were all here them when they need to talk to us.
We all lead busy lives, and we There are two ways of behaving when youre a natural monopoly.
all know how frustrating it is when you cant talk to somebody You can simply take advantage of the opportunities your situation when you need to in the five minute slot that you have in between presents, or you can work night and day to create a service thats dealing with more important work or family matters.
So weve so good that your customers would still choose you, if they had extended and improved our contact channels.
Were now the only the choice.
We firmly believe that this is vital for any business that water company that customers can contact at any time of day or wants to still be a business in the years ahead.
night, on any issue not just for emergencies.
Firstly by striving to give customers what We need to help our customers understand what they should they tell us they want low bills, less sewer flooding and high and shouldnt put down the loo or the sink, and how to use water quality water at the turn of a tap.
Our Upper Quartile positioning more efficiently.
While I passionately believe that most people in the UK Customer Service Index and our Customer ODI want to do their best for the environment, they dont always have performance show that were making good progress.
the right knowledge to do so.
Thats why we spend so much time Affordability is right at the top of our agenda and Im delighted and effort on education, particularly in schools.
If we can get to report that at an average of 348 in 2018 19, Severn Trent young people to value water and support what were doing to Waters bills will once again be the lowest in England and Wales.
preserve and supply it, then we will all be in a much better place Thats 57 lower than the average household bill, 35 lower than as well as our children and grandchildren in years to come.
the next cheapest and if we look beyond the UK half those in Berlin and a quarter of those in Copenhagen.
Our people: the assets that make it all happen Were also increasing our efforts to support the most vulnerable Severn Trent is its people.
Theyre the ones on the front line, people in our communities.
As well as providing discounts to the ones who talk to customers, the ones who innovate and customers who are struggling to pay their bills, weve started implement the bright ideas that help us deliver a service you to work more closely with other agencies and use our close would choose to have.
relationship with local communities to identify where a little bit To be your best, you have to be happy and supported in your of extra understanding and financial help can go a long way to workplace.
So were constantly looking for new and better ways easing pressure on customers facing difficulties.
This isnt the to help them thrive, fulfil their potential and show them how best way to improve our bottom line but it is demonstrably the much we value their expertise and commitment.
Over the last right thing to do.
year weve increased our focus on training.
Ours is a technical, engineering-led industry where theres absolutely no substitute As Ive already mentioned, the number of sewer floodings are for the right expertise.
Of course, investing in training is good one of a number of measures in which we have outperformed, for our business, because it helps us be more technically but it is disappointing when our customers are left with competent.
But its also good for our colleagues, because it gives nothing coming out of their taps, as happened too often this them a platform for growth, promotion and more rewarding year.
Our performance on supply interruptions was our worst careers and its good for local communities and industry too, performance in five years and the first time weve missed because it improves the skills base across the Midlands.
This is our target on that measure during that time.
Some of these what businesses like Severn Trent can and should be doing... interruptions to supply can be explained away by the extreme building our employees talents and playing our part as members freeze-thaw-freeze cycles of the bitter winter, which also meant of society to benefit everybody.
that we missed our challenging target on leakage despite strong performance for 11 months of the year.
But the fact As a significant employer in our region and presence in local remains that we know we have let some of our customers down communities across the Midlands, we can also do a lot to help in an area that really matters to them.
Although small succour for change general attitudes towards issues that affect individuals these performance failures, customers are rightly compensated everywhere.
For example, according to the World Health for them through compensation when our performance falls Organization, one in four people in the world will be impacted below regulatory standards and by virtue of the ODI penalty by mental or neurological disorders at some point in their lives.
system, through reductions in future bills.
So last year we decided that we needed to remove the stigma associated with mental health, particularly for men.
We now have Were working really hard to improve our ability to cope with over 400 qualified mental health first aiders at Severn Trent, who extreme weather, as this is a fact of life for us all now, through have undertaken formal training programmes and also listened initiatives like leakage detector robots and other high tech tools to first-hand stories of how mental health can affect lives that can give us extra eyes on the network.
including personal contributions from my senior team.
Now were turning our attention to the menopause, which is another area that is a bit of a taboo in society at large but which can have a massively detrimental impact on women and their families.
20 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Our employee engagement score rose by a full six percentage points last year, proving that the things were doing for our people are appreciated, and we are turning Severn Trent into an even better place to work.
Our teams respond to the sense of belonging and community that were trying to create here and an incredible 40% of them turned out to volunteer their time to improve their local environment during the last 12 months.
Dee Valley Water is now substantially integrated, and the people there are already a vital part of the Severn Trent family.
Im so proud of the fact that they havent missed a beat in delivering a great year from an operational perspective, with zero coliforms an important feature of water quality at their sites probably being the standout achievement.
Were learning from each other and adopting each others best practices in order to provide better services to our customers and the environment.
Id like to thank all 6,000 of our people for the passion theyve applied to all they do over the year, sometimes in difficult circumstances, but always with a smile on their faces.
They make it an honour to have my job.
Our outlook: lots to look forward to, but more hard work lies ahead In September, well submit our plans to Ofwat for our next five year business plan.
Make no mistake, from an industry perspective this is going to be tough.
But for customers, this is the right thing at the right time.
Putting the focus fairly and squarely on customer service, affordability and long term resilience is absolutely the correct thing to do and we fully support Ofwats goals.
Weve been working hard over the last few years to make sure were in good shape to rise to these challenges.
As this report highlights, Severn Trent Waters customers again had the lowest bills in England and Wales, and were making good progress in most other areas of the business.
Are we getting it right all the time?
But we know where and how we can improve and we have a total determination with our peoples support to get there.
Liv Garfield Chief Executive Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 21
