1 1 Strategic report Overview Strategic report Overview Q&A with the Chief Executive Brian Bickell answers questions on our performance and activities during the year, the evolution of our business and longer-term challenges and priorities.
How has Shaftesbury performed this year?
It has been another year of good progress with growth in income, earnings and the value of our portfolio.
Our results continue to demonstrate the appeal and qualities of our carefully-curated and iconic destinations, underwritten by the global attraction and exceptional features of London and the West End.
Footfall, spending and the demand for space in our locations continues to be largely unaffected by the widely-reported headwinds affecting the national economy and consumer confidence.
1 Profit after tax for the year was 175.5 million.
EPRA earnings this year have risen by 6.5 million to 51.7 million, which equates to 1 an increase in EPRA earnings per share of 5.6% to 17.1 pence.
Net property income increased by 6.2% to 93.8 million 2017: 88.3 million as a result of an increase in rents receivable, reflecting income from acquisitions and like-for like growth of 6.4%, partly offset by an increase in property costs.
We have benefited from the first full year of interest savings following debt restructuring in 2016 and 2017, which significantly reduced our blended finance cost.
1,2 The valuation of our portfolio now stands at 3.95 billion, reflecting a like-for-like increase of 3.8%, of which 3.0% arose in the first half of the year.
In assessing our portfolio, the valuers take into account growing contracted income, prospects for long-term growth in rental values and continuing high levels of occupancy.
5.6% The portfolio revaluation surplus, together with disposal profits, 1 EPRA EPS 1 have added 39 pence to EPRA net asset value per share, which 1 now stands at 9.91, an increase of 4.1%.
Net asset value return for the year was 5.8%.
What underpins Londons economic resilience and prospects?
London is one of the leading global cities.
It has the largest 3.95bn economy of any Western European city and contributes almost one quarter of UK GDP.
The breadth of its economy encompasses: 1 Portfolio valuation a world-leading financial and commercial centre: a major hub for creative industries, from technology to media: a globally-recognised location for education and research: home to world-class visual and performing arts facilities: and a valuable visitor economy, attracting more international tourists 1 An alternative performance measure.
than any city in the western hemisphere as well as huge See page 140 numbers of local and domestic visitors.
2 Including our 50% share of the Longmartin joint venture Financial results: pages 51 to 54 Shaftesbury Annual Valuation review: pages 42 to 44 Report 2018 3 Strategic report Overview Q&A with the Chief Executive continued This unique combination of features means London is not solely The average period taken to let space, measured from the date it reliant on the fortunes of the wider UK economy.
Although the becomes available to the completion of a contractual commitment, uncertainty surrounding the implications of Brexit for the UK has increased over the year by 4 weeks to around 2 months.
economy are having an adverse impact on business and consumer Potential occupiers have become more cautious, especially confidence, London is much less affected.
It continues to attract where they are contemplating substantial fit-out and rental domestic and international businesses and investment, with commitments.
This is particularly so where they are exposed to medium-term growth projections for London out-performing UK-wide consumer spending trends.
At our three completed larger schemes, 84.4% of the income is now contracted or under offer.
Our mixed use scheme at 57 Why do you focus on the West End?
Broadwick Street, Carnaby, was fully let during the year and we At the heart of the city, the West End draws over 200 million visits completed the letting of Thomas Neals Warehouse, in Seven Dials, annually.
Its huge working population provides a regular, daily in November 2018.
At our retail and restaurant scheme at Central customer base for its retail, restaurant and leisure businesses.
Cross, Chinatown, 47% of the income is now contracted and a Importantly, throughout the week and particularly around further 23% is under offer.
The ERV of space available or under weekends, local, domestic and international visitors arrive in offer is 1.9 million, representing just 1.3% of total portfolio ERV.
their millions to enjoy its tourist and cultural attractions as well Whilst the pace of these lettings has impacted on revenue growth as unrivalled shopping, dining and leisure choices.
Together with in the year ended 30 September 2018, they will now be making a its residential population, the West End offers a busy, sevenuseful contribution to earnings in the current financial year.
days-a-week trading environment, and a more-affluent customer base, which underpins its prosperity and appeal to businesses.
Londons extensive transport infrastructure makes the West End accessible not only to Londoners, but also to the large population in the south east who commute or visit for a day out.
The five main Underground stations in the West End currently handle some 84.4% 225 million passengers annually.
The opening of the Elizabeth Line, now expected late next year, will add 10% to Londons completed larger transport capacity and will improve the West Ends transport scheme income connectivity materially.
All our ownerships are within a short walk of the new Tottenham Court Road and Bond Street contracted interchanges, which are forecast to be handling 200 million or under schemes passengers annually by the mid-2020s.
offer undertaken Has leasing activity across the portfolio been extending to affected by UK-wide economic uncertainties?
With robust footfall and trading in our locations, occupier demand has been stable throughout the year.
We completed 177,200 leasing transactions with a rental value of 31.4 million and, 1,2 excluding our larger schemes, EPRA vacancy over the year has remained in line with our ten-year average.
ft. Are you continuing to invest in improving the portfolio?
During the year, schemes to improve our buildings extended to 31.4m 177,200 sq.
ft. Capital expenditure totalled 25.3 million.
Having completed the development of the three larger schemes we leasing commenced in 2015, and in response to sustained demand for transactions the space we typically have to offer, over recent months we have taken opportunities to accelerate a number of schemes.
Whilst these will temper revenue growth until they become incomeproducing, they will bring long-term benefits to our portfolio.
Leasing and occupancy: pages 45 to 46 Asset management: pages 46 to 47 Why we invest in Londons West End: page 12 Shaftesbury Annual Report 2018 4 1 1 Strategic report Overview Q&A with the Chief Executive continued At year end, the ERV of space held for, or under refurbishment Have you been able to add to the portfolio totalled 10.9 million 7.6% of ERV and extended to 174,700 sq.
In September 2018, we secured vacant possession of 65,300 sq.
ft. We seek to buy buildings which have a predominance of valuable of space at 72 Broadwick Street, Carnaby.
Shortly we will submit a restaurant or retail uses on lower floors already, or where we see planning application to introduce new uses and reconfigure the potential to achieve this.
We focus on high-footfall West End building, and currently expect to start our works in summer 2019. locations, close to our existing holdings, where we can see prospects for long-term rental growth.
Our asset management How do you ensure the appeal of your iconic strategy often brings compound benefits to our existing holdings.
Ownerships in our locations are fragmented and buildings we seek are likely to be privately, rather than institutionally, owned.
Creating prosperous environments for our tenants is fundamental to sustained growth in rental income and, in turn, the value of our Growing macroeconomic uncertainties have not had any portfolio.
Our long-term strategy focuses on curating distinctive, lively discernible impact on the West End investment market during destinations in the West End, attracting footfall and spending to the year or on the availability of assets to buy.
Existing owners support our retail, restaurant and leisure occupiers.
We tend to have a long-term outlook, valuing the security these deliberately focus on an innovative mid-market offer, to appeal investments provide, and, in the absence of financial or personal to the broadest customer base.
Promoting our areas to the widest pressures, they remain reluctant to sell.
For the same reasons, audience of potential visitors and customers is an essential aspect other investors domestic and international are keen and of our strategy.
The environments we create are also important competitive buyers of the limited number of buildings which in attracting office occupiers and residents for our apartments.
In recent years, we have seen considerable growth in interest Despite this supply demand imbalance, we have secured and spending on innovative, casual dining and leisure concepts.
additions to the portfolio totalling 167.8 million.
Our largest It is now widely-acknowledged that a varied and interesting food acquisition was 72 Broadwick Street, in December 2017, for and beverage offer, particularly where there is very high visitor 92.1 million, which has given us control of a 0.5-acre site in footfall, is a significant attraction in its own right and draws the centre of Carnaby.
We are the largest single owner of restaurants, cafs and licensed premises in the West End, and their importance as a source of rental income has grown from 2 28% to 35% of ERV over the last 10 years.
Our largest cluster of restaurants is in Chinatown, where we have a rolling programme to introduce new food concepts from mainland China and across the Far East.
Carnabys casual dining and leisure offer, which now accounts for 21% of its income, 167.8m continues to draw increasing footfall from lunchtime to late evening, throughout the week.
acquisitions How are you adapting to the changing retail environment?
With consumer spending patterns, tastes and expectations changing at an ever-faster rate, often heavily influenced by social media, we recognise the importance of ensuring our locations The forward-purchase of a long-leasehold interest in 90-104 respond to these trends through our choice of occupiers and, Berwick Street, Soho, which we contracted in August 2017 for where appropriate, changing uses.
We seek out, trial and support 41 million, including costs, has been delayed.
The vendor has new concepts, both domestic and international, and have always advised that their redevelopment scheme, which we will acquire adopted a leasing strategy which provides flexibility for tenants once complete, is behind schedule and will not be handed over as well as ourselves.
Importantly, rental levels in our busy to us until mid-2019.
This strategic acquisition will increase our locations are very competitive compared with nearby streets.
ownership to around 50% of Berwick Streets frontages.
Whilst our shops usually have an online presence, we are starting to see internet-based retailers taking physical space in our locations to promote their brand identities.
1 Wholly-owned portfolio 2 % of t otal ERV Acquisitions: page 50 Restaurants, cafs and leisure: pages 22 to 23 Shaftesbury Annual Promoting our destinations: page 21 Retail: pages 24 to 25 Report 2018 5 Strategic report Overview Q&A with the Chief Executive continued How do you see the investment market and In 2016 and 2017, we took important steps to restructure our debt finance, taking advantage of low long-term interest rates to potential for acquisitions changing in the retire expensive legacy finance and hedging.
This initiative was medium term?
completed in early 2018 with the restructure and extension of We do not expect to see an increase in the availability of properties our two remaining revolving bank facilities.
Our earliest debt to acquire in the foreseeable future.
However, we have a forensic maturities are now in 2022 and 2023, with a spread of expiries knowledge of the local market and a focus on purchases which out to 2035. meet our strict criteria, based on their potential and benefits We are now very well placed to continue our long-term investment they may bring to our extensive holdings over the long term.
strategy, with the capacity to raise additional long-term debt Together with readily-available finance, this gives us an advantage finance when appropriate, without the risk of being hampered by in a highly-competitive environment.
At the year end, gearing We are always keen to add to our ownerships.
However, our 1,2, 3 stood at 29.5% and our loan-to-value ratio was 22.8%.
Cash main focus is to crystallise the income potential of the buildings and available debt resources stood at 343.5 million, of which we already own, whilst creating opportunities to grow their 92.7 million is already earmarked for investment.
As a result of voting at the 2018 AGM, we currently do not have authority from shareholders to carry out non pre-emptive share Following last years equity placing, how are the issues.
Should the need arise, this does not preclude issuing Groups finances positioned?
equity on a pre-emptive basis through, for example, a rights issue Our financing strategy has always been based on maintaining a or open offer.
mix of equity and external finance, with debt arrangements which we believe are prudent and support our long-term How do you engage with your community?
investment and asset management horizons.
We operate in the heart of the West End.
By value, some 84% of We monitor gearing levels, taking into account current financial our portfolio falls within the jurisdiction of the City of Westminster, commitments, as well as the need for funding to grow and invest with the remainder in the London Borough of Camden.
We work in our portfolio, which often requires us to act quickly when with both local authorities across a range of activities.
In light of recent and prospective investment we augment their management services such as street cleaning commitments, in December 2017, the Board resolved that it was and security.
Also, we work with neighbouring long-term owners the appropriate time to raise additional equity to ensure gearing and Business Improvement Districts to help address wider West did not increase to a level which would constrain future portfolio End issues such as air quality, biodiversity and freight and waste activity or increase financing risk.
was carried out, issuing new shares on a non pre-emptive basis We identify and collaborate with the local authorities on projects equivalent to 9.98% of share capital at 9.52, raising 260.4 to improve the public realm around our areas.
Schemes this year million, net of expenses.
included a major new public square at Newport Place, Chinatown and the repaving of Earlham Street West in Seven Dials, both of which have improved the streetscapes materially and are already bringing increasing footfall.
260.4m 2 equity placing major public realm schemes 225m bank facilities refinanced 1 An alt ernative performance measure.
See page 140 2 Includin g our 50% share of the Longmartin joint venture Sustainability and stakeholders: pages 34 to 39 3 Based on net debt 4 Ba sed on EPRA net assets Public realm improvements: page 72 Financial management: pages 55 to 56 Shaftesbury Annual Report 2018 6 1 1 Strategic report Overview Q&A with the Chief Executive continued We are based in the community in which we operate and strive What is your outlook for the year ahead and to be a responsible, accessible corporate citizen.
engagement with the local community provides financial support Uncertainty surrounding our departure from the EU and future and advice for a wide range of local community groups and trading and other arrangements with the EU27, together with charities as well as arts organisations.
We hosted 30 organisations structural changes in traditional national retailing patterns, at our community partners networking breakfast this year, which continue to affect nationwide business confidence and was addressed by the Leader of Westminster City Council.
investment, economic growth and consumer spending.
However, We have evaluated our community investment, comprising the the global attractions of London and the West End to businesses value of time we devote to community activities and contributions, and huge numbers of local, domestic and international visitors, both in kind and in cash, at 0.9 million this year.
together with their broad-based economies, create an operating environment which is insulated from the impact of national Who are the people who work for Shaftesbury?
headwinds and has good long-term growth prospects.
The successful delivery of our strategy is supported by an Although we are seeing longer letting periods for the largest space experienced team, who are committed to ensuring its we have to offer, general demand continues to be firm, buoyed implementation continues to evolve to meet the challenges and by the trading conditions our tenants are reporting.
Importantly, opportunities of change across not only our business, but the our ownership clusters enable us to curate distinctive locations local and wider environment in which we operate.
and we continue to focus on growing their appeal by offering an ever-evolving experience with a variety of affordable, contemporary We operate our business with a staff of just 30 employees but retail, restaurant and leisure choices.
This approach supports the we are supported by over 200 out-sourced advisors across a prosperity of our tenants and sustains demand for the  of professional disciplines, as well as contractors and priced commercial and residential accommodation we offer.
We have a comprehensive code of standards to which these organisations are required to adhere to, including Our experienced, enthusiastic team, which brings flair and matters such as sustainability and sourcing of materials, health innovation to the management of our portfolio, coupled with and safety, London Living Wage commitments, Modern Slavery secure finances and underpinned by the dynamism of, and Act obligations and diversity.
Importantly, we benefit not only prospects for, London and the West End, have always been, and from the knowledge and experience our external advisors bring, will continue to be, the foundations of the long-term success of but also their enthusiasm and support for our business and values.
Brian Bickell Chief Executive 26 November 2018 Gareth Field Passed away June 2018 Aged 54 Our dear colleague Gareth died suddenly on 20 June 2018.
Our Financial Controller and IT manager, he joined the Group in October 1987, and was close to completing 31 years service.
He is greatly missed by all his Shaftesbury colleagues as well as all those who were fortunate to meet him.
He will be fondly remembered by all for his love of life, personality, warmth and humour, gregarious nature, loyalty and support, openness and his commitment to Shaftesbury.
Gareth was the cornerstone of the Shaftesbury team and a great ambassador for the business and our culture: he embodied the best of us.
His love of sport and Wales was second only to that of his family: our thoughts are with his wife Nicki, his children Chris and Annabel, and his mother Carole.
We share the pain of their loss.
Shaftesbury Annual Report 2018 7 We are committed to supporting our diversity agenda At Shaftesbury, we appreciate the importance of diversity in terms of new ideas, fresh perspectives and a variety of skills it brings to our business.
It enhances our reputation as an employer and Shaftesbury and diversity motivates both staff and the people with whom Freehold we work.
A networking group for real Diversity is not limited to gender but includes a estate professionals who identify as LGBT.
Founded in 2011, it now wide spectrum of attributes and backgrounds.
Brian Bickell has been a member of its Outside of our workplace, we promote the board since 2011. diversity agenda in a variety of ways.
Real Estate Balance We are members of Real Estate Balance, whose mission is to improve gender diversity across the industry, particularly at senior levels.
Right: We are sponsors of Pride in 30% Club London.
Across Soho, Carnaby and We have signed up to this global Seven Dials, many of our occupiers initiative to encourage improved actively supported the festival with gender balance on boards to not one-off events and a range of special only encourage better leadership and governance, but also contribute deals and products.
With this years #PrideMatters International Womens Day campaign focused on what Pride Seven Dials celebrated International means to the community, from Womens Day in March with a celebration to diversity and beyond, host of activities and special we were pleased to welcome back events, including a free live panel discussion.
the Pride in London pop-up shop to the heart of Soho, which raised Pathways to Property 63,000 for the organisation.
We support this programme to introduce young people from varying social backgrounds to the real estate sector and its career opportunities.
Shaftesbury Annual Report 2018 1 Case Study one Diversity 9
