Strategic Report Chief Executive Officers review CONSTRUCTION PROGRESS Dear Shareholders, Construction Shaft-sinking activities The past year has been one of significant A key construction milestone in 2018 has construction progress.
Your Companys been the successful commencement of Project sites have been transformed by shaft-sinking activities.
At the Woodsmith theconstruction activities taking place at Mine site, efforts are focused on the safe the Woodsmith Mine site, Lockwood Beck and efficient excavation of the two deep and Wilton, and it is with great pride that vertical mine shafts the service shaft and wesee the design work that formed the production shaft and the MTS access basis of our planning approvals being shaft.
The service shaft foreshaft is constructed at pace.
nowcomplete and the excavation of the A number of significant milestones production shaft foreshaft is underway.
wereachieved in the year, including the Thevertical sinking machine VSM being completion of procurement of the Projects used to construct the MTS access shaft major construction packages.
We have was launched in October 2018 and chosen some of the worlds leading construction has progressed well.
At the construction experts as our contractors time of writing the MTS access shaft has andwe look forward to continuing our reached a depth of over 100m.
partnerships to deliver our world-class Mineral transport system Project.
In addition to our procurement Progress on our MTS tunnel has been success we have also materially exceeded impressive.
During the year the MTS our targeted level of POLY4 supply launchportal at Wilton was completed agreements.
The total peak aggregate andofficial excavation commenced.
At volume of POLY4 under supply agreements thetime of writing, our tunnel has been now stands at an impressive 10.7 Mtpa and CHRIS FRASER excavated to100m and we look forward work continues to expand this further.
MANAGING DIRECTOR AND CEO tothe commencement of mechanical tunnelling following delivery of our first Health and Safety tunnel boring machine TBM in early 2019.
Safety of our workforce is our number one Materials handling facility It is with great pride that we see priority on site, and we are committed to In parallel to the establishment of the the design work that formed the promoting the highest standards of safety in MTSportal, early works to establish the basis of our planning approvals our Group.
The Projects lost time injury MHF construction site have been ongoing frequency rate LTIFR for 2018 stood at 3.54 being constructed at pace at our Wilton site.
The MHF site is now and during 2018 five incidents were reported.
prepared and ready for civil works, Rigorous investigations have been carried out associated with the construction, and changes to working practices have been tocommence.
implemented across all sites as a result.
We work collaboratively with our contractors to Procurement create a one-team approach to health and Through our procurement process, we safety and significant effort is being made to haveestablished strong partnerships with promote a strong health and safety culture world-leading construction companies to across our business.
The calibre of our contractors, their technical expertise and wealth of industry experience will ensure the Project we are building will be a world-class production facility capable of sustaining the long-term operations at 8 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 10.7 Mtpa PEAK AGGREGATE SUPPLY AGREEMENTS our mine.
DMC Mining Services DMC, our Outlook chosen contractor for the construction of The construction and sales and marketing the four Project shafts, have extensive and progress made in 2018 is truly impressive proven shaft-sinking experience across the and we have made good progress towards world.
DMC is one of North Americas our stage 2 financing, including the premier underground contractors and is a US$400m equity issuance launched today.
world leader in shaft-sinking activities.
With Financing the construction of our Project one of the lowest incident and accident remains critical to our business and critical frequency rates in the industry, DMC has to delivering value to our shareholders, the been called upon by many leading mining coming weeks are a crucial time for the companies to fill critical roles.
Our MTS Company as we work towards the contractor, STRABAG, is aglobal leader in successful execution of our financing plan.
Tunnelling requires tremendous skills and extensive experience from all the people involved.
STRABAG is a Thank you to all of our shareholders and specialist in providing technically optimised stakeholders for your support andbelief in end-to-end tunnelling solutions worldwide the strength of our Project.
and we are delighted to be partnering with The calibre of our contractors, this world-leading tunnelling contractor.
their technical expertise and Our philosophy is one of continuous wealth of industry experience will optimisation, as we look for opportunities toreduce construction risk and maximise ensure the Project we are building shareholder value.
Our port strategy is will be a world-class production Chris Fraser onesuch example of this.
During the year facility capable of sustaining the Managing Director and CEO we signed an agreement with Redcar Bulk long-term operations at our mine Terminal RBT which will enable us to export up to 10 Mtpa of our POLY4 product using existing under-utilised local port infrastructure at Teesside.
The agreement reduces construction risk for Sirius and provides benefits to an existing established business in Teesside.
Our adjacent Bran Sands site is some of the last undeveloped river frontage in the UK capable of handlingcape size vessels and, like the RBT berth, isonly 37km from the Woodsmith Mine site.
Ownership of the Bran Sands land has ensured we have room to grow our export capability beyond 10 Mtpa in the future.
We took the decision to move the product storage facility from the MHF site to the port following an agreement to lease land from RBT, adjacent to the RBT port.
This will result in a greater loading efficiency capability, maximising the potential of the out-loading and ship-loading facility we are constructing at the RBT.
Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 9 Strategic Report About POLY4 POLY4 A GAME-CHANGING FERTILIZER MgO What is POLY4?
K O B Se 2 POLY4 is a naturally occurring, low-chloride, multi-nutrient fertilizer Zn certified for organic use.
POLY4 includes four of the six key macro-nutrients that all plants need to grow: potassium, sulphur, Sr magnesium and calcium.
It has no Mo requirement for chemical processing andhas the lowest CO emissions 2 CaO comparedto other fertilizer products.
Fe Cu S Mn Our product is an efficient and effective Macro-nutrients essential fertilizer that allows farmers to maximise for effective plant growth: cropyield, increase quality, improve soil structure and enables more sustainable fertilizer practices.
POLY4 has a number ofpositive characteristics which make it POLY4 suitable for widespread commercial use, 19 Aids plant metabolism, water including suitability for chloride-sensitive regulation and drought resistance K crops, a desired nutrient-release profile Potassium improves disease resistance and andcompatibility for use with other planthealth fertilizerproducts.
16 Is required by plants for healthy growth.
An essential component S Sulphur toproduce proteins, amino acids, How does POLY4 work?
enzymes and vitamins Fertilizers are a fundamental requirement Enhances a broad-spectrum 12 ofmodern agriculture and the global food nutrient uptake.
Mg component of chlorophyll, which Magnesium Every growing season, plants take up makes leaves appear green nutrients from the soil, depleting those that are naturally available.
Unless the nutrients Important for soil stability and 20 Trial results show are replaced, soil will become nutrient plant tissue integrity, particularly Ca deficient and a plants ability to grow for cell wall structure and root Calcium that POLY4: efficiently will be reduced.
nutrient uptake Delivers greater nutrient uptake There are six macro-nutrients that all Other fertilizer products Improves yield and quality plants require: nitrogen N, phosphorus Can be used as a straight fertilizer Increases plant yield bypromoting 7 P, potassium K, magnesium Mg, sulphur or as part of a blend protein formation, which is essential N S and calcium Ca.
Each nutrient serves a Improves soil strength, structure for growth and development in Nitrogen different vital role in plant function, structure and nutrient legacy plants.
Nitrogen determines size, and development, and must be available in Low-chloride and pH neutral vigour, colour and yield of the plant a balance appropriate for a particular crop and soil condition in order to achieve Vital for root development and 15 maximum yield.
playsa key role in the P photosynthesis process Phosphorus 10 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 2025 2020 2015 2010 2005 2000 WELL POSITIONED TO MEET DEMAND Demand dynamics Over the next 35 years more food needs to be produced than has been to date in human history.
Global food security The key demand drivers is the macro-driver which underpins the market demand for fertilizers.
Sirius forfertilizer use include: Minerals has the potential to make a Population growth Reduction in arable land major, positive contribution to global According to the UN Population A reduction in arable land from food security asit becomes one 2 2 Division, the worlds population is 2,100m in 2010 to just 1,800m of the largest producers of multipredicted to increase to 9 billion by perperson by2050 will require nutrient fertilizer.
2050, placing increased demand on moreefficient fertilizer practises food production In many places, soil is becoming As economies become wealthier, the increasingly deficient in the nutrients demand for protein rich and highrequired for plant growth quality diets increases.
Sustaining increased livestock herds requires Increasing nutrient demand greater efficiency from grain Additional nutrient application will production and arable land benecessary to improve crop yields An increase in agricultural production tomeet future anticipated demand of 60% between 2010 and 2050 is forfood required to meet rising global There is an increasing recognition of fooddemand benefits of balanced fertilization which supports the use of multi-nutrient fertilizers such as POLY4 Population vs Fertilizer Consumption 9bn 250 10 FORECAST WORLD POPULATION BY 2050 8 200 6 150 60% 100 4 INCREASE IN AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION TO MEET RISING FOOD DEMAND IN 2050 50 2 0 0 15% REDUCTION IN ARABLE LAND PER PERSON BY 2050 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 11 TOTAL N, P & K CONSUMPTION million tonnes nutrient WORLD POPULATION billions
