Strategic report Group Chief Executives statement This strong financial performance has been delivered against the backdrop of a challenging consumer environment, demonstrating the continual improvement in our broad set of products and services, and our focus on providing value for money to all our customers.
We now have a customer base of over 23 million households across Europe who are taking over 63 million Sky products.
This year alone, we sold a further 3.1 million products, with particularly strong take-up of Sky Q multiscreen, Ultra HD and Sky Mobile.
Importantly, this year has been about establishing and opening up new opportunities for growth.
In the UK, weve agreed a cross-supply deal with BT and renewed our Premier League rights, meaning customers will have the best choice of sport through one Sky TV subscription.
In Italy, we have transformed the business into a major multi-product, multi-platform company.
We reached landmark agreements with Mediaset and Open Fiber Jeremy Darroch that will allow us to expand our product reach to more customers, Group Chief Executive plus launch a triple-play offering as well as developing our Sky over IP service.
In Germany and Austria, we significantly upgraded all of our products and services, and launched Sky Q to transform the The global media and entertainment industry is changing viewing experience.
Additionally, we agreed European partnerships at pace.
Consumers viewing behaviours are evolving with Spotify and Netflix, which will further enhance the whole home and the rate of innovation and technological change entertainment experience on the Sky Q platform and provide our customers with even greater value from their subscription.
Competition continues to intensify, especially for direct relationships with consumers, and More of the very best content available with this the quality and quantity of whats on screen All of this has been achieved at the same time as delivering for is increasing.
In a world of almost unlimited choice, customers today.
We offer our customers the best and broadest consumers are becoming more discerning, seeking out range of content and ensure we have something for every home better curation and quality from brands they trust, while and everyone in that home.
We know our customers want spending more time than ever watching video content.
exclusive, high-quality local storytelling that is differentiated from free-to-air and OTT offerings, which is why we have significantly increased our investment in Sky original productions As the original direct-to-consumer media and entertainment in each of our markets.
Over the course of calendar year 2018 business, Sky is uniquely well positioned to succeed in todays were showing an average of one Sky original a week, including environment.
Weve remained flexible in our approach, building at least 10 big dramas.
Alongside ramping up the quantity, out our portfolio of products and services in order to bring were focused on step changing the quality and scale of what better content and innovation to all our customers, connecting we produce.
Were attracting the very best writers, directors them in ways that most suit their needs.
We package together and acting talent in each of our markets, including global stars programmes from the worlds best partners with our very own such as Benedict Cumberbatch, who starred in the critically home-grown content.
We have a strong brand that now has acclaimed Patrick Melrose, which has now been nominated for significant reach across multiple and growing territories.
five Emmy Awards: Lars Eidinger, our award-winning Babylon Our people are highly engaged and committed and our Berlin actor: Alessandro Cattelan, our X Factor host and one infrastructure is robust, enabling us to deliver the very of Italys most talented showmen: and writer of Britannia, best front-line service to customers.
This in turn is allowing us to increase the international distribution of our programmes, recoup a Weve delivered an excellent set of results and have significant percentage of our costs and thereby enable put in place the building blocks for future growth further investment in the overall customer experience.
Revenue for the period is up 5% to Alongside our great entertainment portfolio, our customers also 13.6 billion, with growth in each of our territories.
EBITDA from 1 benefit from a sports offering that is second to none.
This year, our Established businesses is up 11% to 2.5 billion, and up 9% weve built on important partnerships and secured rights that when taking into account the investments weve made this will enable us to reach even more sports fans.
year in Sky Mobile and our expansion into Spain.
1 This is an adjusted measure and a reconciliation between statutory and adjusted measures can be found on page 135.
Annual Report 2018 5 Group Chief Executives statement continued We successfully renewed our Premier League rights in the UK at a in Germany and Austria in May, Sky Q is now in over 3.6 million lower overall cost versus our contract today, and in Italy secured homes across Europe and well continue to push its penetration a significant increase in the number of exclusive Serie A games in the year ahead.
at a lower price per exclusive game than the previous seasons.
For the first time in Germany and Austria, we will take UEFA Champions League exclusive to pay TV from next season, plus air the Austrian Bundesliga.
In news, the quality of original journalism from Sky News was once again recognised in 2018 with the channel taking home two RTS Awards, including News Channel of the Year, and a BAFTA for its coverage of the Rohingya humanitarian crisis.
The channel continued to champion important causes, leading the way in the gender equality debate with its 100 Women series, and pushing technological boundaries, becoming the only Sky Q broadcaster to show the Royal Wedding in Ultra HD.
In order to help us achieve this, were going to make the platform In Italy, Sky TG24 has completed the transfer of its operations even better.
In February, we announced the next stage in Sky Qs to our Milan headquarters and opened a new editorial office development with a new and improved user interface along in Rome.
The new premises have been equipped with the with enhanced personalisation, allowing customers to find latest technology to ensure the highest-quality news output.
their favourite programmes more easily.
In the year ahead, were rolling out new Kids and Sports modes, plus extending Offering customers the best ways to watch our voice functionality.
The launch of Sky Q in Germany and Austria was just one part of our comprehensive upgrade to our service in these markets.
In order to realise the full growth potential in these territories over the longer term, we used insights and designs from across the Group to transform the viewing experience for our customers across each of our existing platforms.
Combined with the launch of a new, simpler pricing structure and a new customer service centre in Berlin, these significant initiatives will enable us to push ahead with our next leg of growth in this market.
In Italy, Sky Q is at the heart of our segmentation strategy, which is focused on building a solution for every household, combining the best of Group and local initiatives.
When taken together with our streaming platforms, DTT and Sky over IP services, this expansive product portfolio means weve never been in a better position for long-term growth.
Along with our curation of the best range of content, we have further developed and improved the customer viewing We continue to drive deeper product penetration among all experience in each of our territories, making it easier for new our customers.
Sky Mobile is now in over half a million homes customers to watch on a platform that best works for them in the UK and weve recently signed a new deal with Telefnica and giving them the flexibility to join at a price point to suit their that will further strengthen this area of our UK business.
We remain agnostic to how customers choose to watch In the year ahead, we will increase our penetration of fibre their favourite programmes, be it via satellite, through our on broadband customers with the launch of a new router, demand services, on our NOW TV and Sky Ticket streaming ensuring our customers are receiving the best experience platforms, or across DTT.
In fact, over 70% of our customers no matter which platform they use to access our services.
now have the ability to access our content through our hybrid model of both satellite and streaming delivery.
Our investment in Sky Q is paying off.
Sky Q customers are watching more on average, an hour more of TV a day transacting more, and are more loyal to Sky, demonstrating the strength of the Sky Q platform as Europes leading home entertainment service.
We are therefore committed to getting Sky Q into more homes to the benefit of both our customers and our business.
Following its launch in Italy in November and Sky Mobile 6 Sky plc Strategic report Our customer service is best in class We know customers want the best experience whenever they interact with Sky and giving them excellent customer service remains at the forefront of everything we do.
We have embraced data and automation to keep making customer interactions simpler and quicker, driving higher satisfaction scores as well as delivering further efficiency within our business.
In the UK, we have once again been recognised by Ofcom for our superior service and have launched our VIP loyalty programme, rewarding customers the longer they remain with us.
We also continue to make great progress Sky Ocean Rescue partnership with Premier League with our Digital First service We also invest in and are passionate about helping highdelivery through the new My Sky potential young people receive the support they need for their app, which has now been enhanced talent to flourish.
As well as our Sports Scholars programme, to include engineer tracking, which has now expanded into Europe, we have two new putting an end to customers scholarship programmes in the UK.
The first, in partnership having to wait in for the engineer with National Geographic, gives grants to young innovators to arrive.
In Germany and Austria, to enhance the impact of their scientific research into ocean we have similarly launched the health.
The second sponsors female entrepreneurs working Mein Sky service app as we take in technology and underpins our commitment to increase our next steps in digital service the number of women working in this field.
We will also be launching a loyalty programme Skys people are our greatest asset there in September, replicating the success of similar initiatives Engineer tracking The people who work for Sky across our seven territories are in Italy and, more recently, the UK.
on the My Sky app central to our success.
I am very grateful every day for their hard work, enthusiasm and dedication to making Sky an even Our growing social impact better place to work and to creating even better services for our customers.
The restlessness, creativity and ability to get Our contribution to the cultural, economic and social life of the things done, which has always been at the heart of Sky, has communities in which we live and work has never been greater.
never been more apparent and its through our people that Im proud we continue to grow as a business that plays its part our ethos believe in better remains strong.
in making a difference and bringing about change in the issues that both we and our customers care about.
Perfectly placed to succeed Sky has a strong history of taking the lead on environmental We exit the year in a strong position.
In our vibrant and issues that matter to our customers.
We are currently the only dynamic markets, we have the right strategy, infrastructure, FTSE 100 firm committed to eliminating the use of single-use people and culture in place to continue delivering for customers plastics from our operations, products and supply chain by and shareholders.
This will be achieved while meeting our 2020 and are on track to do so.
In the past year, weve already responsibilities as a large business and using our expanding eliminated the use of disposable coffee cups, a simple act saving reach across Europe in the interests of all our stakeholders.
12 tonnes of annual plastic waste, or seven million cups.
We are As direct-to-consumer relationships become more important also using our voice and reach to raise awareness of the crisis than ever before, Sky is a business that is well positioned in ocean health through our Sky Ocean Rescue campaign, and to succeed.
are inspiring others to make changes through new partnerships with the likes of National Geographic and the Premier League.
This year also saw us establish Sky Ocean Ventures, which will help find solutions to the single-use plastics issue we face by investing in breakthrough ideas for the future.
Jeremy Darroch, Group Chief Executive Annual Report 2018 7
