16 SMITHS GROUP PLC Annual Report 2018 CHIEF EXECUTIVES Q&A RETURN TO GROWTH FY2018 marks a very important milestone on our journey.
We said that this would be the year that we returned to growth and weve done that.
Our next objective is to deliver continued, sustainable growth, on the way to outperforming our markets.
This year we also continued to make When I joined Smiths, the thing Q progress on strengthening our portfolio that I felt, and continue to feel the In 2016 you set out your new by improving the market positions of strongest about, is the level of strategy and vision for the Group.
each of our businesses with the aim opportunity and potential that we What progress have you made of achieving and maintaining top three have in this business.
Were now three years into a journey towards delivering our dream of A building a world-leading technology Driving operational improvement Over the last three years weve been company.
Right across the organisation takes time: innovation and putting in place the building blocks that were focused on creating a business bringing it to market takes time: will support sustainable growth into the that executes consistently, is a leader and, developing the culture of future.
Were successfully implementing in innovation and attracts, retains and an organisation that is over the Smiths Excellence System SES, develops the very best people.
160 years old takes time: our Group-wide operating model that helps drive speed and efficiency, ensures but were making real and We are creating the future of Smiths.
consistent execution and supports the measurable progress.
development of a culture of continuous improvement.
Weve also put in place a 3 We said three years ago that around new Group-wide innovation framework, i, 60% of our business was well positioned to ensure that Smiths stays at the cutting in attractive markets and were now at edge of technology and continues to around 80%.
Weve got there through deliver innovative services and products a combination of targeted organic that meet or exceed customer needs.
investment decisions and a disciplined Finally, most importantly, weve developed approach to acquisitions and disposals, and rolled out a global people plan that having sold eight non-core operations ensures we are investing in the right way and bought four businesses that in our most valuable resource.
have increased our momentum and Driving operational improvement takes strengthened competitiveness.
time: innovation and bringing new We aim to buy well and sell well and Im products to market takes time: and, particularly pleased that our acquisition developing the culture of an organisation of Morpho Detection last year, which with a 160-year history takes time: but significantly enhanced Smiths Detection, were making real and measurable is being successfully integrated with progress as you can see from our KPIs on synergies being delivered ahead of plan.
These include, for the first time, our new Vitality Index which measures the effectiveness of our innovation by tracking revenue from products and services launched in the last three years.
17 Company Overview STRATEGIC REPORT Governance Financial statements In the coming years I expect the FY2018 marks a very important milestone Our characteristics and culture are percentage of the Smiths business on our journey.
Our next objective is to wrapped together by the SES operating that is well positioned will continue to deliver continued, sustainable growth, model and, together, these are our improve.
But note that this is not a dash on the way to outperforming our markets.
source of sustainable growth, competitive to 100% portfolio review is a continuous advantage and strong returns for all process.
In parallel, were constantly our stakeholders.
Q thinking about those bigger portfolio prioritisation decisions across the Group As a Group with five divisions, Q that will ensure were allocating our what does it mean to be a capital appropriately to drive maximum What do you see as the Smiths business?
We cant do everything big.
priority to ensure you deliver Were thinking with great clarity around on your vision for the Group?
A the risk and return potential of each of our First impressions may suggest that business areas, from an organic and nonA our businesses are diverse: but they organic perspective.
They are the difference business is targeted in attractive between success and failure.
markets where we can achieve and Were constantly thinking Its critical that we have the right team maintain a top three leadership position.
about those bigger portfolio in place to lead this business into the Our businesses share the same four prioritisation decisions across future, and I believe we do.
The breadth characteristics, which embody how we the Group that will ensure of experience and strength of leadership create value: technological differentiation: throughout the Group is a real differentiator were allocating our capital increasing digitisation: a high proportion for us in executing our strategy.
appropriately to drive maximum of aftermarket and services: and value creation.
sustainably competitive and assetDeveloping and recognising the broader light.
You should expect us to focus talent we have across the organisation is central to the Smiths people plan.
investment in businesses which match We said that FY2018 would be the year these characteristics.
Weve made great strides on that that we returned to growth and weve done this year, with enhanced employee These are the characteristics that define that.
We delivered this growth despite communication, widely available some disappointing setbacks in our the Group and our shared culture and development opportunities, and stronger values guide how we behave.
For us, our Medical division.
Importantly, the Group employer branding.
achieved this growth while maintaining values are more than just words, we use them every day to direct our decisions We have also increased our focus on our underlying operating margin.
This has been enabled by our relentless focus and actions, to make sure that Smiths diversity and inclusion at all levels.
is both a place people want to work and This is a key priority for me.
Im inspired on driving efficiency and productivity improvements to help fund investment an organisation that people want to do by the unique ideas and perspectives that business with.
my colleagues bring to work each day in growth.
Investing in the future is critical, but it has and I truly believe that creating a more inclusive environment is the foundation to come without taking a backwards step in profitability.
All of our efforts in this area are focused on ensuring that we can attract, retain, develop, engage and inspire the very best people.
18 SMITHS GROUP PLC Annual Report 2018 CHIEF EXECUTIVES Q&A CONTINUED Having the right team in place, doing Our execution has become far more Q things the right way is vital to our future consistent and our risk management In the near term how is the Group success.
Integrity is one of our core values system is strong but, as we saw this positioned for FY2019?
and is central to our new Code of Ethics.
year at Smiths Medical, we can all suffer It means we do the right thing, every setbacks.
These were one-off disruptions time, regardless of whether someone is that impacted on the divisions overall A looking its part of our Smiths Way of performance in FY2018.
In advance of In FY2019 we anticipate at least doing things.
the new EU Medical Device Regulation in sustaining the rate of underlying revenue 2020, one of Smiths Medicals European Id like to thank everyone at Smiths for growth.
As in previous years, Group Notified Body service providers was their hard work in FY2018, a year that performance in FY2019 is expected to decertified for some products.
This led has marked our return to growth.
be weighted towards the second half.
to the temporary suspension of some of Foreign exchange will provide a tailwind to Smiths Medicals products in Europe.
reported headline revenue and operating Q profit, if current rates prevail.
As Chief Executive you have Over the medium term we remain In an ever-changing world a lot of responsibilities.
What confident that we can grow faster than where our markets are keeps you awake at night?
This is driven by our strategy moving fast, we need to to focus the portfolio for growth and keep up the pace.
A deliver world-class competitiveness, underpinned by our strong financial Its the need for speed.
In parallel with continued ambitions at Smiths.
Our strategy is on As a result of this, and the termination active portfolio management, the Board of two contracts in the US, the division track but, in an ever-changing world remain confident that this will drive where our markets are moving fast, we didnt deliver the growth that we had been long-term sustainable growth and expecting.
This was very disappointing, need to keep up the pace and make sure attractive returns.
we stay ahead: identifying mega and but we are confident that the regulatory and contract challenges will progressively emerging trends in our markets and in the world to shape our strategy and build abate and the growing contribution of new products should see Smiths Medical ANDY REYNOLDS SMITH our future.
revenues back in growth for the full year.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE STRENGTHENING THE PORTFOLIO In April 2017, we acquired Morpho Improved operating structure with Detection.
The acquisition positions common processes and removal of us well to benefit from global aviation duplication, all of which supports market growth, with: the delivery of the expected $30m cost synergies.
A combined technology roadmap with strong R&D capability: Smiths Detections now Improved commercial positioning with broader product portfolio a broader product portfolio, which supported the $50m contract supported the $50m contract win with win with Airports Authority of India Airports Authority of India this year: 19 Company Overview STRATEGIC REPORT Governance Financial statements OUR EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Our Executive Committee is responsible for implementing our strategy, ensuring consistent execution and embedding our culture and values ANDY REYNOLDS SMITH JOHN SHIPSEY JEAN VERNET Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer President, John Crane Joined Smiths in 2015.
Background: Chief Executive, Automotive, GKN plc: CFO at Dyson for 12 years: 13 years CFO of Expro: Grid Net and Formfactor: Ingersoll Rand: Siebe plc and Delphi in senior finance and strategy roles Director of Risk at Rio Tinto Alcan: Automotive Systems.
For full biography see page 72.
CHRIS HOLMES ROLAND CARTER KAREN BOMBA President, Smiths Medical President, Smiths Detection and President, Smiths Interconnect Joined Smiths in 2015.
Appointed Asia Pacific Joined Smiths in 1991.
Background: President of Smiths Medical in 2017.
Appointed President of Smiths Detection President and CEO of Morpho Detection: Background: Senior VP of Operations & in 2018: previously President of Smiths CEO of Labinal: COO of Zoltek: CEO of Supply Chain at 3M: Executive VP of Interconnect and Managing Director for Messier-Bugatti, USA.
TEDD SMITH JULIAN FAGGE SHEENA MACKAY President, Flex-Tek Group Strategy and M&A Director Group HR Director Joined Smiths in 1991 with acquisition Joined Smiths in 2013 as Group Joined Smiths in 2016.
Appointed Group Group HR Director at Aggreko plc, BBA President of Flex-Tek in 2002.
Prior Strategy and M&A Director in 2017.
Aviation plc and SSL International plc, roles included CFO, Executive VP of Background: Royal Caribbean Cruises: starting her career at GEC plc.
PHILIPPE ROMAN MEL ROWLANDS Group Operations Director Group General Counsel Joined Smiths Joined Smiths in 2016.
Appointed Group General Group Purchasing, Supply Chain and IT Counsel in 2018.
Previously Company Director at GKN plc: Global Operations Secretary and Deputy Group General Director at GKN Driveline: Faurecia: Counsel.
Background: BG Group plc: Valo: PSA: Deloitte Consulting.
Linde AG: Edwards Group: Centrica plc.
