6 Strategic report G Gove over rn na an nc ce e A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018  review At Smith & Nephew, we aspire to be amongst the highest-performing portfolio medical technology companies To support this brand purpose we have These highlight the key multi-year initiatives DEAR SHAREHOLDER developed three culture pillars: Care, in which the Company is now engaged.
Everyone has health issues at some stage Collaboration and Courage which we They also detail the specific plans and metrics in their life.
At Smith & Nephew, we have launched with employees at the end of 2018. for the upcoming calendar year from which the opportunity to help patients get back to Grounded in the service of patients and all employees build their own individual their lives as quickly as possible, and as well practitioners, these simple tenets guide us annual objectives.
Whether it be in Orthopaedics, in our work together and couple the idea of Sports Medicine or Wound Management we continuous learning and improvement with the recognise this opportunity and it inspires and INCREASING CUSTOMER aspiration to lead in all our endeavours.
motivates our work each day around the world.
CENTRICITY One of the most significant changes we are OUR BUSINESS AND CREATING A PURPOSE-DRIVEN making is implementing a new commercial STRATEGICIMPERATIVES model.
In line with industry best practice for CULTURE Smith & Nephew is a portfolio medical global medical technology businesses, we I believe that a successful and sustainable technology company with a broad and deep are moving from a regional selling model to business has a foundation that is built on range of high quality products.
We have a global franchise structure.
We have put a purpose-driven culture.
When I joined, examples of market-leading technology in dedicated presidents of Orthopaedics, Sports we asked our employees which elements almost every area of our business.
We also Medicine & ENT, and Advanced Wound of our culture they liked and that we operate in large and attractive global markets, Management in place.
should retain, aswell as what we needed with solid long-term growth prospects to improve at Smith& Nephew.
6,000 Each president has global upstream marketing supported by favourable demographics and employees responded.
responsibility, as well as full commercial lifestyle trends.
responsibility for the franchise in the US.
It was clear that our colleagues cared deeply At the end of 2018, we launched five new Outside the US, we will have two regions, about the work that we do.
It was also clear strategic imperatives that recognise the Europe, Middle East and Africa, and Asia that they recognised that we could do better.
specific business and markets we operate in, Pacific.
Both regions are now represented on The opportunity was to find an authentic and and form the basis of our value creation plan the Smith & Nephew Executive Committee inspiring purpose that combines this caring for the medium-term.
ensuring continued focus on commercial spirit with a greater focus on working more execution.
As specialists, the presidents bring effectively and instilling a strong accountability 1 Achieve the full potential of our portfolio great insight into our customers current and to deliver consistently on our commitments.
2 Transform the business through future needs, wherever they are in the world Life Unlimited captures the essence of Smith enabling technologies and will be able to direct the full resources of & Nephew and our purpose to address their franchises to meet these.
3 Expand in high-growth segments meaningfully the health issues that hinder 4 Strengthen talent and capabilities I am delighted with the quality of leaders people from living their lives to their fullest.
The focus is now on 5 Become the best owner unlocking the potential of Smith & Nephew, with five members of my executive team directly responsible for driving growth in their franchises and regions.
7 S S Str tr tra a at t teg eg egic ic ic r r re e ep p po o or r rt t t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e A Acc cco ou un nt ts s O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018  REVIEW continued I am delighted with the quality of talent we have attracted.
The focus is now on unlocking the potential of Smith & Nephew, with five members of my executive team directly responsible for driving organic growth in their franchises and regions.
Namal Nawana  ADDING VALUE THROUGH 2018 RESULTS FOCUSED ON DELIVERY ACQUISITIONS In 2018, revenue growth was 3% on a At Smith & Nephew, we aspire to be amongst reported basis and 2% underlying, and we the highest-performing portfolio medical Smith & Nephew completed 2018 with a net 1 2 delivered a meaningful improvement in trading technology companies.
debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio of 0.8x and, profit margin.
with strong cash flows and cash conversion, We start 2019 with a new executive leadership we will look to appropriately deploy capital Geographically, we continued to build upon team and operating structure in place.
to M&A initiatives more significantly than in our strong position in the Emerging Markets, We have clarified our brand purpose with Life recent years as part of our business model which now account for 17% of Group revenue.
Unlimited and have introduced new culture for success.
A solid performance in the US, our largest pillars and strategic imperatives to support it.
market, was somewhat offset by continued Technology acquisitions such as Rotation Together, we are confident that we are building weakness in some European markets.
Medical have proven to be a great success.
the right foundation for sustainable success From its REGENETEN Bioinductive Implant for At a franchise level, highlights included the and an ability to grow consistently with our rotator cuff repair, we have driven performance market beating growth from Knee Implants, markets in the future.
This confidence is well-ahead of our deal model, with more than the strong return to growth delivered in Hip reflected in our financial guidance for further 130% growth in 2018.
We believe there is still Implants, and the increased adoption of our improvements in both revenue and margin much more to come from this product as we NAVIO robotics platform.
Growth from our performance in 2019, explained in detail by add manufacturing capacity and launch in new Advanced Wound Devices franchise also ourChief Financial Officer, Graham Baker, international markets in 2019. stood out, driven by our PICO single-use onpage 37 of this Annual Report.
Negative Pressure Wound Therapy system.
In December, we announced the acquisition There is much to do to achieve our goals Actions are underway to improve weaker of Ceterix Orthopaedics, the developer of and aspirations but we are grateful for the performances from Arthroscopic Enabling the NovoStitch Pro Meniscal Repair System.
opportunity to positively affect the patients, Technology and Advanced Wound Bioactives.
This product is highly complementary to our practitioners and health systems that we serve portfolio and will significantly expand our After a slow start to 2018, its pleasing that globally.
I look forward to updating you on opportunity in the underserved meniscal our team accelerated performance as the our progress.
year progressed, whilst at the same time Yours sincerely, making the important changes to how we run I expect us to continue to enhance our position the Company.
in high-growth, high-innovation markets over time and capitalise on our platform as a global medical device portfolio company.
Namal Nawana Chief Executive Officer 1 Net debt is reconciled in Note 15 to the Group accounts.
2 T hese non-IFRS financial measures are explained and reconciled to the most directly comparable financial measure prepared in accordance with IFRS on pages 194198.
