Chief Executive Officers Statement Our next-generation technology and competitive strength, position us well for FY19 and beyond Cybersecurity has never been more important for enterprises of all sizes, and the demand environment for our solutions has never been stronger Enduser Billings Growth 32% Cloud Subscriptions Growth 112% Total Subscription Base $1B 22 Cybersecurity made simple Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Commitment to Cloud Cloud Platform Success 29% 175% Subscriptions in the cloud Sophos Central 3-year CAGR For the fiscal year 2018 Sophos delivered another brought into sharp focus the significance of the threat successful result.
Among the highlights, the Group posed to organisations by ransomware.
Consequently, delivered 22 per cent growth in billings, a 21 per cent customers have become especially focused on securing increase in revenue, a 20 per cent increase in adjusted their endpoints against these sorts of threats, and our operating profit, a 25 per cent increase in cash flow, and Enduser security business and particularly our nexta reduction in the operating loss.
Loss before taxation generation endpoint solution, Intercept X, have seen increased to $52 million, despite the improvement in strong growth as a result.
operating loss, largely a consequence of currency losses Technology and Innovation on debt revaluation.
Our focus on innovation continues to fuel our growth A key driver of billings growth was Sophos Central, the and enabled us to deliver some of the most advanced companys integrated cloud-based management platform, cybersecurity technology available in the industry, which grew 112 per cent to $186 million.
Sophos Central consistent with our company mission statement: To be has experienced dramatic growth from $1 million in FY14 the best in the world at delivering innovative, simple, and through $9 million, $27 million, and $88 million, to be $186 highly-effective cybersecurity solutions to IT professionals million in FY18.
We posted industry-leading retention rates and the channel that serves them.
In particular, we focused and reached the significant milestone of our subscription on four key pillars that drive our billings performance and renewal base now exceeding $1 billion.
Sophos also saw security effectiveness: endpoint, firewall, Sophos Central, healthy growth in new customers as well, with our total and synchronized security.
customer count now exceeding 300,000 customers, growing by approximately 10,000 net new customers In FY18 we delivered another successful per quarter.
result, with 22 per cent growth in billings, a 21 per cent increase in The need for businesses to secure their revenue, a further improvement in both IT infrastructure and data has never been adjusted operating profit and cash flow, greater, and the well-publicised cyberand a reduction in the operating loss.
attacks of the past twelve months have further raised awareness and In FY18 we saw the first full-year contribution from strengthened demand.
Intercept X, our next-generation endpoint solution which is highly effective in protecting customers against Sophos is a recognised leader in the large and growing IT ransomware, exploits, and zero-day threats.
We recently security market, where we continue to post billings and integrated the deep-learning neural network technology revenue growth rates that exceed the overall market that the Group gained as part of our acquisition of Invincea growth rate.
We have a highly differentiated strategy to into the latest release of Intercept X, providing customers deliver advanced, innovative, and highly-effective with advanced artificial intelligence for unmatched cybersecurity solutions that at the same time are simple detection of previously unknown malware.
Amongst and easy to manage by enterprises of any size, and entirely next-generation endpoint vendors, Sophos is in a unique sold through our global ecosystem of channel partners.
position to leverage industry-leading data science capabilities from Invincea with the expertise and The need for businesses to secure their IT infrastructure knowledge built over decades within our SophosLabs and data has never been greater, and the well-publicised threat research group, in order to deliver best-in-class cyber-attacks of the past twelve months have further detection rates combined with amongst the lowest false raised awareness and strengthened demand.
This was positive rates in the industry.
As a result, we are positioned particularly notable in the first half of our fiscal year when very attractively to be a leader in the dynamic and highthe WannaCry and NotPetya attacks, among others, growth market for next-generation endpoint solutions.
23 Chief Executive Officers Statement continued In October 2017 we launched Sophos XG Firewall version have mixed, unclear, and conflicting routes to market.
Sophos 17, a major new release offering enhanced performance sells entirely through our channel partners, which allows us to and usability and numerous new features and security expand our reach and rapidly scale our business globally in a improvements, including Synchronized App Control, an cost-effective manner.
Our overriding commitment to our industry first that leverages the endpoint and firewall channel partners and their long-term success has been working together to dramatically improve network traffic validated not just by our billings growth and our growth in our visibility, reducing the security risks associated with channel ecosystem, but also by numerous global awards, unidentified traffic.
where Sophos is recognised as the premier channel-focused cybersecurity vendor.
We continued to invest in Sophos Central, a highly differentiated platform that enables both more effective We successfully grew our overall number of partners to security while simplifying management for our partners more than 39,000 partners, compared to 30,000 a year ago.
as well as our end user customers.
Sophos Central allows Encouragingly, the number of blue chip Sophos partners, our individual Sophos security components including endpoint, most active and productive partners who conducted five or mobile, server, encryption, firewall, web, email, and Wi-Fi more transactions in the prior six months, rose to over 7,000, to automatically communicate relevant information from 6,100 a year ago.
with each other to form the foundation of what we call synchronized security.
Enhancements to Sophos Central Sophos sells entirely through our during the period include: management of Intercept X: channel partners, which allows us to deeper integration of XG Firewall: management of Sophos expand our reach and rapidly scale Mobile, Phish Threat, and device encryption: role-based our business globally in a costadministration: improved integration with Microsoft Azure: effective manner.
and Security Heartbeat for Linux servers.
During the year, we saw further strong adoption of Sophos Central by both The success of our channel strategy is reflected in our new and existing customers, with more than 66,000 rapid growth in new end user customers.
Today, more than customers using the platform today.
Customers see 300,000 organisations around the world are protected by immediate benefits from the ease of use and efficiency Sophos cybersecurity solutions, compared to 260,000 at the that Sophos Central brings, enabling them to seamlessly end of March 2017.
This impressive growth in our customer manage all of their Sophos products through a single cloud base is strategically important to our business over the longer interface.
Our channel partners leverage Sophos Central term.
When paired with our best-in-class renewal rates, this not only as a differentiated offering to attract brand new steadily growing group of new customers builds upon our customers, but also to cross-sell and upsell existing future subscription renewal base and the deferred revenue on customers.
In addition, a growing number of partners are our balance sheet, increasing the visibility we have over utilising the Sophos Central platform to offer managed billings and revenues.
In turn, this also enables us to better security services.
plan our investment in innovation and expansion, while also Among other notable new products and features, we added improving margins.
CryptoGuard within Sophos Server Protection, enabling We continue to make progress in our ongoing efforts to signature-less detection capabilities as another layer of enhance cross-sell and upsell, while we in parallel add new protection to combat ransomware.
We ended the year with more than 11 per cent of synchronized security capabilities on Sophos Central customers using both our UTM and Endpoint solutions, up from Server Protection Advanced now enable IT administrators under 10 per cent a year ago: and today more than 24 per cent to leverage the Sophos XG Firewall to automatically isolate of our customers have more than one Sophos product, versus infected servers and endpoints and respond to potential 21 per cent in FY17.
Customers with more than one product compromises more rapidly.
benefit from Sophos synchronized security, which enables Channel Progress layers of protection and automation as Sophos products actively share real-time contextual information.
The success One of our continuing strategic priorities is to invest in of this strategy is also evident from our best-in-class renewal developing and supporting our partner channel, building on rates, including cross-sell and upsell, which rose to 140 per our Channel First go-to-market strategy, which is a key cent in the period, from 129 per cent in FY17.
differentiator compared to other IT security vendors that may 24 Cybersecurity made simple Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Future Priorities Sophos has grown rapidly in recent years, and we plan to continue prioritising investment in technology and innovation to deliver future expansion in line with our objectives.
We have a robust pipeline of exciting new product innovation, especially in our strategic pillars of next-generation endpoint, next-generation firewall, Sophos Central, and synchronized security.
Likewise, we continue to invest in our channel-driven go-to-market strategy, with new channel programs, systems, and marketing initiatives to enhance Sophos brand awareness and visibility.
From an operational perspective, a key ongoing priority is to ensure that we efficiently scale our business as we continue to grow through appropriate investment in our people, products, and channel.
Outlook FY18 was a strong year for Sophos.
Cybersecurity has never been more important for enterprises of all sizes, and the demand environment for our solutions has never been stronger.
We continue to take share in the market, as we execute a differentiated strategy of delivering advanced and highly-effective cybersecurity solutions designed to be simple to use, managed in the cloud, and sold 100 per cent through our channel partners.
We have a massive market opportunity in front of us.
Our strong and growing subscription base, our growth in new customers, our next-generation technology in endpoint and firewall combined with our Sophos Central cloud platform position us well for FY19, and beyond.
Our continued growth and success are only possible through the dedication and teamwork of our global team of employees and partners, who work tirelessly every day to support and protect our customers.
Thank you for all you do to make the world a safer place.
Kris Hagerman Chief Executive Officer 16 May 2018 25
