CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW We were able to build LFL sales growth on the increased 5% momentum across in 2018 our end markets and delivered good like-for-like sales growth.
We expect LFL adjusted sales growth to operating profit moderate in 2019.
7% Consequently, we are in 2018 focusing on what we can control: increasing productivity and LFL adjusted operational efficiency, operating margin while driving sales.
0.3pp in 2018 8 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Focusing on PROFITABLE GROWTH costs and other adjusting items, which were up 15.0 million.
2018 results overview Statutory operating margins of 11.0% were 1.0pp lower than the In 2018, we delivered good organic sales growth, building on prior year.
Adjusted operating profit, after costs of 10.8 million in the progress made in 2017.
Sales for the year increased by 5% relation to Project Uplift, was 237.5 million 2017: 223.5 million.
to 1,604.2 million 2017: 1,525.6 million, reflecting a 5% The Group also recorded restructuring costs of 4.8 million in increase on an organic, constant currency like-for-like, LFL basis, relation to its new profit improvement programme, which have helped by a supportive macroeconomic environment in a number been excluded from the adjusted measures.
of geographies and a strong demand backdrop in many of our key end markets.
Acquisitions, net of disposals, contributed 2% to sales The Groups adjusted operating cash conversion rate was 59%.
growth, which was offset by a 2% negative impact from foreign This was below the 77% recorded in 2017, a similar level to currency exchange movements.
which we expect to return to in 2019.
The year-on-year reduction resulted from higher working capital, due to higher Adjusted operating profit increased by 4% to 248.3 million receivables, driven by sales growth and recent acquisitions, 2017: 239.3 million, which reflected a LFL increase of 7%.
together with increased project completion inventory, and an Adjusted operating margin improved 0.3pp on a LFL basis to increase in capital expenditure.
Average trade working capital, 15.5% as overheads received greater focus in the second half.
expressed as a percentage of sales, decreased by 0.5pp to 11.4%.
LFL sales change Capital expenditure, net of grants, during the year totalled Sales by segment H1 H2 FY 94.1 million 2017: 73.1 million, of which 43.1 million Materials Analysis 11% 6% 8% related to spend by Millbrook, principally on capacity expansion, Test and Measurement 6% 6% 6% as the business invested to access high-growth opportunities in support of customer project demand.
In addition, there was spend In-line Instrumentation 3% 5% 1% of 207.2 million 2017: 39.3 million in relation to acquisitions Industrial Controls 4% 1% 3% and the Group completed a 100 million share buyback Group 5% 5% 5% programme during the year.
After allowing for a net cash inflow LFL sales change of 41.8 million from the divestment of EMS Brel & Kjr into a Sales by destination H1 H2 FY joint venture, net debt stood at 297.1 million 2017: 50.5 million North America 5% 2% 4% at the year end, 1.0 times the full-year adjusted EBITDA.
Europe 6% 1% 3% Positioning Spectris to deliver profitable growth Asia 6% 14% 10% Spectris serves a diverse set of end markets with a number of Rest of the world 1% 1% 1% high-quality businesses, which have strongly recognised brands Group 5% 5% 5% in the target markets they serve.
The LFL sales growth was achieved in all geographic regions, As set out in our November 2018 trading statement, we believe with particularly good growth in Asia, led by strong demand there are significant opportunities to improve the operational in China.
In North America, the pharmaceutical and academic performance of the Group and to drive shareholder value creation research end markets saw good growth while Europe was helped through increasing our operating margin and by taking a more by a strong contribution from the UK, particularly in the first half focused approach to portfolio composition, asset optimisation of the year.
Good demand was seen in many of our end markets, and capital allocation.
and there was notable LFL sales growth across the pharmaceutical, In November, we announced a profit improvement programme and automotive, semiconductor, electronics and academic a strategic review of our operations.
We have progressed this work research sectors.
with vigour we are in the process of focusing the business on its Materials Analysis and Test and Measurement both reported highest growth areas and where we are or can be competitive, in strong LFL growth of 8% and 6%, respectively.
Materials Analysis conjunction with reducing cost to deliver profitable growth.
While saw strong demand in the semiconductor and pharmaceutical there has already been a significant amount of work undertaken, industries, with a rebound in academic research activity also we still have further work to do to complete our assessment.
In Test and Measurement, Accordingly, we plan to provide a comprehensive update on the the automotive sector was the key driver behind the growth.
outcomes of the strategic review and on our strategy to maximise In-line Instrumentation achieved a 1% increase in LFL sales, long-term shareholder value at a Capital Markets Day in June 2019. despite a weaker performance year-on-year in the converting Profit improvement programme and film extrusion industries, and a tough comparator in the wind energy sector which had large one-off sales in 2017.
The implementation of Phase 1 of Project Uplift continued as Industrial Controls achieved 3% LFL growth, benefiting from planned, with savings derived predominantly from improvements improved North American industrial spending, although growth in procurement both direct and indirect, as well as benefits from was constrained given a product refresh underway at Omega.
In 2018, the gross recurring benefit achieved from Project Uplift was 17.3 million Statutory operating profit was 176.4 million, compared with 2017: 2.8 million and the one-off costs incurred were 182.4 million recorded in 2017.
A 4% improvement in adjusted 10.8 million 2017: 15.8 million.
We remain confident in operating profit was more than offset by higher acquisition-related Spectris plc 9 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued our objective of Project Uplift delivering 25 million of annualised focusing on delivering improved yields, productivity, product gross recurring savings by the end of 2019, with a total cost to quality and cost reduction in the extraction and processing achieve of 35 million.
of raw and bulk materials which are fundamental to the manufacturing industry: and Alongside the decision taken last November not to proceed Technology-led industrials: The increased focus on optimising with the global shared services centre model, we initiated production processes in real time, enabled by embedding more a new, comprehensive programme focused on achieving profit sensors on the production line to underpin IIoT and drive further improvement through further cost reductions and targeted improvements to operational efficiency, is increasing demand growth initiatives across the Group.
for smart sensors, testing hardware, control systems and To date, this programme has identified more than 30 million software solutions.
of annualised benefits, of which 15-20 million are planned to be Technology-led differentiation of instrumentation hardware realised during 2019, with the full benefit to be delivered in 2020 continues to progress, particularly within offline applications.
and will help to offset inflationary pressures to our cost base.
There remains significant room for differentiation on various At the same time, we continue to make investments in higher hardware dimensions, to provide greater precision and reliability growth areas and operational improvements.
Delivering these of high-quality data.
Equally, opportunities exist for many of our ongoing savings will result in one-off restructuring costs during operating companies to expand across the technology stack, 2019 of around 35 million.
Benefits and savings are arising from including software and application intelligence, to provide greater improving the sales mix, product profitability, site rationalisation, value-adding solutions for customers.
Consequently, the provision improving organisational effectiveness and driving Lean through of technology-enabled solutions, based on our high-quality our operations.
The merger of Brel & Kjr Sound & Vibration instruments, deep application capability, domain expertise and with HBM has also been initiated.
In addition, the size of the associated software and service offerings, remains at the core centre is being reduced and it will be focused on Group-level of our strategy.
governance, managing financial performance and capital allocation across the Group, driving strategy execution, Lean and organisation To deliver the full potential of the Group, it is clear that Spectris and talent development.
would benefit from becoming a more focused and simplified business.
As such, work is ongoing to identify a group of operating Spectris has strong gross margin businesses, but our operating companies which can deliver greater shareholder value creation, margin performance has been below our historic highs and with sales growth, margin expansion and working capital efficiency operational gearing has disappointed over the past few years.
as the key goals, underpinning growth in operating cashflow.
Our initiatives, which are focused on improving gross margin and These principal operating businesses will include a number constraining overheads to drive future operating margin expansion of platform businesses which are scalable, aligned to attractive as we grow, will continue throughout 2019.
Our aim is to return high-growth markets, with the strongest capabilities and our operating margin to at least our previous highs.
Future capital investment, Strategic review and, in particular, acquisition-led growth, will be focused on these platform businesses.
Spectris has a portfolio of businesses with high-quality technologies, strong market positions and talented people.
The fundamentals So far, the strategic review process has identified Malvern of Spectris core addressable markets are attractive, with many Panalytical, HBK and Omega, which together account for displaying GDP growth characteristics, in particular, the more than 60% of Group sales and adjusted operating profit, pharmaceutical, automotive, electronics semiconductor, as businesses that have this platform potential.
metals minerals mining and technology-led industrial markets.
The remaining portfolio is made up of a number of high-quality Each of these end markets is witnessing significant trends that operating companies.
Work is underway to determine which are favourable for Spectris businesses: of these businesses will remain key to the Group and those where Pharmaceutical: Drug discovery and development is facing Spectris will not be the best future owner.
Operating companies a number of complex challenges.
More stringent expectations with strong market positions, good growth prospects and margins around efficacy improvements, complex disease pathways will receive targeted investment where we are confident that such requiring more sophisticated therapies, personalised medicine investment will yield a strong return.
Potentially, these businesses and a desire to shorten development timelines are increasing may become platforms in their own right.
They will be managed requirements for more precise testing to better predict success, to deliver at least market growth with leading margins within their ensure safety and reduce time to market: segments.
The remaining businesses will be managed to optimise their performance under the Groups ownership and for value.
Automotive: The growing proliferation of car platforms, These businesses may be divested over time and the proceeds either the shortening of platform lifecycles and the introduction re-invested in the development of the Groups platform operations of new technologies e. g. electrification and autonomous or, if attractive re-investment opportunities are not identified, vehicles is increasing the overall volume, complexity and returned to shareholders.
pace of change in research and development, testing and measurement: As well as reviewing the Groups operating company portfolio, Electronics and semiconductors: Electronic components are the strategic review has also focused on capital allocation and becoming increasingly complex and advances in semiconductor returns.
The existing capital expenditure plans of the Group have technology are enabling more chips to be embedded in been reviewed to ensure capital is being invested efficiently and a broader range of products, requiring more sophisticated effectively to create profitable growth and value.
quality control and testing equipment and techniques at the Going forward, the Group will adopt an even more rigorous capital chip fabrication level as well as at the system level e. g. full allocation approach and is in the process of establishing a new vehicle testing, phone performance testing : investment framework to ensure that future spend drives stronger Metals minerals mining: Alongside an increasing health and economic profit growth and value creation.
safety as well as environmental awareness, our customers are 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate development Our people deliver the strategy During 2018, we made three acquisitions of businesses which Great products and services are only as good as the people added further services and software capability to our portfolio.
As I have travelled around Spectris, Concept Life Sciences CLS, which was acquired in January, since I started in September last year, I have continued to be provides integrated drug discovery, development, analytical impressed by the breadth and depth of capability and talent we testing and environmental consultancy services, mainly in the have across the business.
The openness, passion and enthusiasm pharmaceutical, biotechnology, agrochemical and environmental are evident in the way I have seen our people go about their work.
sectors, which complement the activities of Malvern Panalytical.
We will retain and promote these attributes that have driven our Additionally, it carries out development and analytical services success, preserving the entrepreneurial and dynamic nature of the for the food, consumer and environmental industries.
Although Group, as well as continuing to uphold our strong ethical culture performance has been below expectations due to both internal and values.
and external factors, the outlook for outsourcing of R&D remains Following new leadership appointments in Lean, supply robust.
To further leverage the collaboration already started chain, software and digital, we are better able to drive further between Malvern Panalytical and CLS, and to further drive growth performance enhancement across the Group, consistent with our and profit improvement, CLS will become part of the Malvern renewed focus on profitable growth.
This will be further supported Panalytical platform.
via our talent management and organisational capability Since the merger of Malvern Instruments and Panalytical, sales of programmes, which in 2018 have focused on senior succession the joint company have continued to benefit from the re-organised as well as the development of high potential employees.
sales and marketing functions and the cross-selling of MalvernAfter 12 years as Group Finance Director, Clive Watson has decided and Panalytical-branded product lines.
A number of new products to retire and will step down from the Board.
We are very pleased have been launched this year which provide our customers with that Derek Harding will be joining the Board to succeed Clive, significant improvements in the quality and speed of the as Chief Financial Officer Designate, on 1 March, before formally characterisation of materials, provide greater understanding becoming Chief Financial Officer following a months handover.
of material properties or help increase productivity in their Derek brings a wide range of financial leadership and industrial investigations, ultimately saving them development time and cost.
expertise to Spectris, having been most recently group finance Following the success of the merger which formed Malvern director at Shop Direct and previously Senior plc, following Panalytical, in 2018 we decided to merge Brel & Kjr Sound 11 years in various finance and strategy roles at Wolseley plc.
& Vibration and HBM in our Test and Measurement segment I would like to thank Clive for his material contribution to in 2019.
This merger will bring together two leaders in precision developing the Group and driving its success during his tenure and measurement, creating a broader offering of high-quality personally express my gratitude for the support he has provided instruments and simulation and modelling software to better since I started, as well as wish him the best for the future.
deliver more integrated solutions to align with customers requirements.
As our customers undergo a digital transformation Summary and outlook of their industries, we can deliver greater value to them and help I am pleased that our performance in 2018 was slightly ahead of them get their products to market faster.
The new joint business expectations, reflecting the quality of our businesses.
We were able has been renamed HBK Hottinger, Brel & Kjr.
An integrated to build on the increased momentum across our end markets and go-to-market model for the joint sales organisation has been delivered good LFL sales growth.
We expect sales growth to established and the development of joint HBK products and moderate in 2019, given the more cautious macroeconomic solutions has commenced.
Consequently, we are focusing on what we can control: In Test and Measurement, our offering to automotive customers increasing productivity and operational efficiency, while driving has been broadened by the acquisition of Revolutionary sales.
Our profit improvement programme is expected to deliver Engineering, Inc in the USA, which complements the existing test benefits of 15-20 million during 2019, helping drive margin capabilities of Millbrook and extends its reach into North America.
With this focus on improving profitability, we anticipate Millbrook has also added further capacity and test capability at its operating profit to grow ahead of sales, growing our margin in existing UK and Finnish sites.
We also acquired VI-grade Group VI-grade, a leading global Since I joined the Group last autumn, we have taken decisive action provider of vehicle simulation software, systems and services, to improve Spectris performance.
This will continue through 2019 primarily to automotive customers, which complements HBKs as we complete the strategic review and execute our strategy for automotive offering and as such it will become part of the profitable growth, as the basis for delivering a significant and HBK platform.
sustainable increase in shareholder value.
At Omega, there has been a focus on introducing newer, I am convinced that there is significant value creation opportunity faster-growing products to supplement its traditional thermocouple here for our customers, shareholders and people.
In addition, to strengthen market presence and increase setting out in more detail the results of the review and our vision growth prospects, a new e-commerce platform is being introduced for the Group at our Capital Markets Day in June 2019. to enhance the digital experience for customers.
This was initially launched in North America and will be progressively rolled out Andrew Heath globally during 2019.
Omega is well-positioned to take advantage Chief Executive of the continuing trend by process engineers to change the buying 19 February 2019 processes to online purchasing.
Together with Omegas existing strong application knowledge and technical support, the new website will deliver precisely-targeted digital marketing campaigns and enhanced search engine optimisation performance, that we fully expect will see a higher conversion of website traffic to sales.
