Strategic Report Group Chief Executives Statement Engineering sustainable growth Our direct sales business model is highly effective at uncovering opportunities to improve customers steam systems, electrical heating and temperature management systems, or fluid path processes.
As they walk our customers facilities, our We delivered shareholder value specialist engineers are able to identify unrecognised needs.
through increased dividends and The engineered solutions required to meet these needs generally have a relatively short payback period of around 24 months or strong earnings per share, while less and, crucially, are typically paid for out of our customers investing in the business to ensure operational budgets.
Purchasing decisions are therefore made a strong foundation for continued, at operational level from budgets which are less likely to be cut in times of recession.
This self-generated growth element of our sustainable growth.
business, combined with the high proportion of sales that derive from end users maintenance and operating budgets, and the Nicholas Anderson wide diversity of the markets we serve, both geographically and by Group Chief Executive industry sector, makes our business highly resilient, although not immune, to economic downturns.
Strategy for growth 2018 marked five years since we undertook an extensive strategic review and developed our strategy, the aim of which is to deliver self-generated growth that outperforms our markets.
We identified six Group strategic themes which help us to do better what we already do well: increase direct sales effectiveness through market sector focus: develop the knowledge and skills of our expert sales and service teams: broaden our global presence: leverage R&D investments: optimise supply chain effectiveness: and operate sustainably and help improve our customers sustainability.
The strategy remains relevant and appropriate to our enlarged Group and, as we continue to focus on its rigorous implementation, we are Key points in this section: seeing year-on-year benefits as we outperform our markets and Good progress in the implementation of our achieve above industry growth rates in our target industries.
strategic priorities Growth in all of our priority sectors surpassed Strategic implementation market growth rates During 2018, progress continued on the implementation of our Further development of Spirax Sarco Academy strategic priorities, which was a significant contributing factor to programmes: roll out in 16 languages the strong financial results and good organic growth achieved during the year.
Some examples of progress are outlined below.
Geographical expansion in all Group businesses 2017 acquisitions integrating well We have continued to increase alignment between our direct sales force and our target industries, with Growth Programmes designed to increase sales in priority sectors.
Within the Food & Introduction Beverage industry, for example, a Growth Programme is focusing on steam quality audits to raise customer awareness of, and Our Companys purpose is to create sustainable value for develop growth opportunities for, our clean steam products.
all our stakeholders, by helping the users of our products Within the Steam Specialties business Spirax Sarco and Gestra and services to increase operational efficiency, reduce operate independently in the marketplace through a dual brand environmental impacts, improve product quality, provide safer strategy with sectorisation enabling each brand to play to its working environments and achieve regulatory compliance.
strengths in core industries for example, the Power Generation We do this through a direct sales business model, which and Chemical industries for Gestra while still offering customers utilises an extensive global network of over 1,600 sales and the choice between the two brands.
Unique in number and expertise amongst our competitors, these engineers understand our customers Growth in all of our priority sectors in 2018 surpassed market operational and process challenges and have the applications growth rates.
For example, within the Steam Specialties business, knowledge to design bespoke engineered solutions to resolve we achieved 9% growth in the Food & Beverage industry and we them, while utilising our broad product range.
understand that the industry itself grew at around 4% globally.
It is also important to note that growth in our priority sectors was not achieved at the expense of growth in other, non-focus, 10 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2018 industries.
In addition, sales of Thermal Energy Management sales business model and our strategy for growth, as well as his products, solutions and services, which are the target of a number excellent track record of strong performance, position him well of Growth Programmes, grew at a faster rate than our more to lead Gestra at this important time in its history.
Having revived traditional Condensate Management products.
the Gestra brand in 2017, which had been subsumed under the group brand of the previous owners, in 2018 we launched a new, By December 2018, the Spirax Sarco Academy had been invigorated brand at the ACHEMA exhibition in Frankfurt.
The new made available to over 1,200 sales engineers and sales support brand, which retains elements of Gestras heritage, sends a strong personnel globally.
The Academys programmes are structured message to customers that Gestra is around to stay and will in levels, called belts, with each belt being allocated a colour continue to deliver expertise, products and engineered solutions to and representing an increasing level of expertise.
2018, over 1,000 engineers had completed the white belt, just under 1,000 the yellow belt, and nearly 450 the orange belt, The acquisition of Chromalox provided us with an excellent which was created and rolled out in 16 languages during 2018. opportunity to expand our addressable markets through a related Towards the end of the year, green belt materials were created business also dedicated to transferring heat energy into industrial and made available in English, with 15 additional languages to processes.
Following acquisition, Chromaloxs management team follow in 2019.
In September, the Steam Specialties business remained with the company, providing continuity at this time of established a new five day consultative selling course for sales change.
Integration is relatively light, with the company adopting engineers.
This will be rolled out to all English-speaking sales Group policies, reporting processes and HR programmes, and companies during 2019, and later made available to all nonintegrating with the Group Sustainability Strategy, while operating English speaking companies.
independently as a stand-alone business of the Group.
We have invested in strengthening Chromaloxs direct sales presence, Five new operating companies began trading in 2018: Spirax supported the companys R&D programmes and focused on Sarco Maghreb, Spirax Sarco Hungary, Spirax Sarco Romania, increasing Health and Safety performance and standards through Watson-Marlow UAE and Chromalox Brazil.
Watson-Marlow also a combination of engineered controls and behavioural based established a direct sales presence in the Philippines and a new awareness campaigns.
sales company will commence trading in 2019.
We broadened the direct sales footprint of Gestra, establishing a direct sales On 18th February 2019, we announced that we had entered presence in Brazil, Indonesia, Malaysia, the Middle East, into exclusive negotiations with a view to acquiring Thermocoax Thailand and South Korea, and set up an Operating Company Developpement and all its group companies for 158 million in China which will begin trading in 2019.
We also established a 139 million on a cash-free, debt-free basis.
The acquisition will Chromalox direct sales presence in Brazil, Chile, Norway, Spain, be financed from existing cash and debt facilities and is expected Sweden, the UAE and the western USA.
to be accretive to Group earnings in 2019.
Thermocoax will become part of our Chromalox business and will significantly Investments in Research and Development R&D resulted in the enhance our electrical process heating capability, especially in continued expansion of our product portfolio across the Group, Europe.
The transaction will require certain regulatory approvals in with product and range extensions as well as innovative new France, Germany and the USA, which are expected to be satisfied products developed.
In January 2018 we purchased a small, preduring the second quarter of the year.
revenue company to continue expanding the technical capabilities of our peristaltic pumping technologies.
Good progress has been On 30th November 2018 we divested HygroMatik GmbH made and we now have a product that is undergoing testing.
HygroMatik to Carel Industries S. p. A. HygroMatik joined the Spirax Sarco Group in 1988 but due to limited strategic fit has Our Steam Specialties Singapore Distribution Centre, established always operated separately from the Steam Specialties business in 2017, has made a significant contribution to customer service in which it is reported.
This low level of integration limited our ability improvements in the Asia Pacific region.
A key customer service to improve sales growth.
metric, On Time To Customer Request, improved across South East Asia, while air freighting to the region has been significantly Engineering sustainable growth reduced as improved stock management has decreased the need As we outperformed our markets in 2018 we delivered sustainable for expedited shipments.
value to our stakeholders, helping our more than 100,000 direct buying customers to increase their operational efficiency, The implementation of our Sustainability Strategy has continued, delivering shareholder value through increased dividends and with a new Group-wide sustainability training programme rolled strong earnings per share, while investing in the business to out, significant investment in machine guarding and engineering ensure a strong foundation for continued, sustainable growth.
controls in Gestra and Chromalox, as well as improved data quality and reporting processes across the Group.
Acquisitions and disposal Nicholas Anderson During 2017, we acquired two outstanding businesses: steam Group Chief Executive specialist Gestra and electrical process heating and temperature 6th March 2019 management specialist Chromalox.
Throughout 2018 we continued work on their integration into the Group.
Gestra, acquired in May 2017, is led by Maurizio Preziosa, an experienced Spirax Sarco steam business manager.
Maurizios deep understanding of the Steam Specialties business, its direct Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 11 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report
