STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS STRATEGIC REVIEW ERIC HUTCHINSON BUILDING ON NEW MARKET OPPORTUNITIES SPIRENT HAS CLEARLY DEMONSTRATED ITS LEADERSHIP IN TAKING MARKET SHARE IN ITS SERVEDMARKET.
OVERVIEW DELIVERING ON OURPOTENTIAL In early 2017, Spirent launched a new strategy designed to focus on highpotential areas and deliver sustainable, profitable growth.
The Group reorganised into three new segments focused around growth opportunities in each of Networks & Security, Lifecycle Service Assurance and Connected Devices and 2018 saw Spirent deliver a material increase in operating profit and earnings and begin to realise its significant potential.
MARKET The prevailing market trends continue to be favourable to Spirent.
The worlds consumption and generation of data continues to drive relentless traffic growth, while in an effort to increase scale, telecoms equipment manufacturers and network operators need to reduce both operating costs and capital expenditure.
Spirents customers face these issues at the same time as seeking to meet 14 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION end-customer demands for an improved for which we now have more than ten 5G and service assurance across the entire quality of experience.
These challenges customers including five tier 1 mobile portfolio and collaboration with partners.
areparticularly acute for service providers service providers, multiple infrastructure Leveraging Spirents leadership in Global with complex hybrid networks.
Navigation Satellite Systems GNSS, we have also created systems utilised by US These dynamics are driving the need for STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Government and commercial businesses to new high-speed Ethernet technologies, enable the testing of vulnerabilities linked Spirents vision is to be our customers the virtualisation of networks and the trusted adviser, partnering with them to GNSS, like global positioning systems, move to utilise capacity through cloud sensor fusion, connected autonomous to enable and assure their product and technologies.
High-speed Ethernet service offerings secure their ongoing vehicles and transport infrastructure.
increases capacity in physical networks Importantly, innovation also includes business success.
and data centers, while virtualisation improvement in our internal processes, lowers the cost of capital expenditure in Spirents enabling technology allows changing the way Spirent goes to market BUILDING building networks and allows the turn customers to accelerate innovation, across its portfolio, to provide seamless up of new services to be managed more reduce time to market, achieve superior service and support to the customer.
Spirents technology leads in performance with their products, solutions both of these areas, assuring functionality and services, differentiate their quality 3.
Maintain financial strength and flexibility before deployment and during operations of service and enhance their security of to deliver real-time responses to the operations.
Meanwhile, the Groups family The third strategic priority is to ensure Spirent continues to have financial changing conditions in live networks.
of assurance solutions allow customers to manage complexity in an increasingly strength and a strong operational Pervasive security threats are now a daily platform.
2018 saw the realisation of multi-technology world.
It does this occurrence, impacting any individual or through the application of Spirents significant internal efficiency and costbusiness connected to the digital world.
expertise and codified methodologies in The cost of cybercrime continues to grow testing, measurement, assurance, analytics Customer relationships have been and is heaviest in financial services, utilities, and security.
strengthened through the client partner aerospace & defence and healthcare.
executive initiative at our key accounts.
Spirents ability to assess vulnerabilities Our clear strategic priorities are as follows: Our new Pace global channel partner and detect data breaches are therefore programme was launched in 2018 to help 1.
Focus on key markets and customers especially well-suited to the needs of the expand Spirents served markets.
We retain Our first strategic priority is to focus security test market.
a strong balance sheet with $121.6 million on target markets and customers of cash, as we continue to focus on Perhaps most importantly, we have now establishing new growth prospects optimising cash conversion.
For example, in Lifecycle begun to see the major market impact of the development and deployment of 5G.
Service Assurance, through the growth OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS of our VisionWorks solutions, we serve Around the globe, vendors and operators Strategy is delivering on Spirents race to develop and deploy 5G devices, the emerging needs of virtualised potential across all operating segments.
networks and 5G wireless service networks and services.
With mobile Networks & Security delivered strong subscribers and connected devices deployment.
Another major initiative is growth with Lifecycle Service Assurance the development, nurturing and growth saturating the global connectivity market, building scale.
machine-to-machine connections are of our new CyberFlood security products Connected Devices benefitted from cost and services aimed at enterprise networks.
Investment in 5G management actions whilst revenue wireless infrastructure will grow to billions The achievement of new customer wins from ongoing businesses has stabilised.
for both VisionWorks and for CyberFlood of dollars over the next three years, and 5G 5G development is gathering pace wireless deployment will enable innovation shows that the strategy is being executed with positive impact on portfolio successfully, while the focus for 2019 will in the ways in which economic activity is performance across all segments.
undertaken and how entertainment and be about increasing the pace of execution.
Looking ahead, we will continue to focus services are consumed.
The work Spirent 2018 OPERATING PERFORMANCE has done to position itself to benefit from on appropriate investment to underpin Adjusted basic earnings per share growth whilst maintaining an efficient this trend is starting to bear fruit.
increased by 44 per cent to 10.86 cents cost structure.
This reflected the 31 per 5G DEVELOPMENT cent increase in adjusted operating profit 2.
Innovate and continue leading-edge 5G development is acclerating with to $77.1 million 2017 $58.9 million and postitive impact on our portfolio product development the reduction in the effective tax rate to The second strategic priority is innovation performance across our segments.
Spirent has the industrys broadest and to further Spirents leadership in the Group revenue grew by 5 per cent, an development and service assurance most innovative set of 5G test and service increase of $22.1 million to $476.9 million.
Innovation is the life blood of Strong revenue growth was achieved in the business, and we have successfully customer wins in 2018.
Our customers Networks & Security, Lifecycle Service range across tier 1 service providers, evolved capabilities in the high-speed Assurance consolidated its position with Ethernet test market to establish major network equipment manufacturers major customers and Connected Devices and the largest 5G semi-conductor and leadership in 400G Ethernet and all was stable after accounting for the other required variants.
We provide a safe previously reported cessation in certain pathway for our customers across the activity, we have laid the foundations for product lines in 2017. ever-increasing scale.
Innovation also lifecycle as they look to develop, launch and operationalise 5G.
5G drove demand includes the creation of new 5G wireless Eric Hutchinson test solutions for both development test for our mobile infrastructure test system, Chief Executive Officer 7 March 2019 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 15
