responding Strategic Report A strategy for long-term success CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Will a successful transaction reduce Central to our strategy the risk profile of the SSE Group?
is developing, owning and The risk profile will certainly change, but how exactly remains unclear.
The risks operating assets that bring associated with the decision need to be scale, diversity and balance seen in the context of the benefits for the Group outlined in November, namely: a to the business.
greater focus on assets and infrastructure will be more aligned to SSEs core competences: SSE will be more agile and responsive: and What, for you, were SSEs we will have a clearer investment proposition, highlights of 2017 18?
with the majority of earnings coming from There are two high points for me: we regulated and quasi-regulated sources.
were disciplined in meeting our primary A dedicated project team within SSE is financial objective for the year of rewarding managing the demerger transaction process shareholders with dividend growth, and as well as the risks directly associated with it decisive in responding to the changes and is reporting to the Board and Executive we are seeing in the energy sector.
The risk factors directly associated with the transaction That financial discipline can be seen in the will be set out in the Shareholder Circular execution of a 1.5bn capital investment which will be published on 27 June 2018 programme that has added to an already ahead of a vote on the proposal on 19 July.
significant portfolio of quality assets.
In the meantime, the Group Risk and Group That 1.5bn spend is part of an ongoing Strategy teams are working closely with commitment to investment, mainly in the project team and the Board to ensure economically regulated networks and that any material changes to the current renewable energy, in support of the Group Principal Risks continue to be well dividend.
Im also pleased that we managed managed in line with the FRC Corporate to complete over the course of the year a Governance Code.
promised return of value to shareholders in the form of a share buy-back of around Are you concerned about increased 34 million shares at a value of around 500m.
Political and regulatory change are a fact and what were the lows?
of life in our business and we will work The low point for me was reviewing the safety constructively with government and the data that showed 45 direct employees and 59 regulator to introduce reforms that are contingent workers were hurt while working intended to benefit customers, while for SSE in 2017 18.
One injury is too many, cautioning against any unintended but a combined total of 104 is something consequences from pricing intervention.
we are fully committed to tackling and for In response to Labour Party proposals for this reason SSE has set bolder performance a much greater role for the state in energy targets, revisited its Safety, Health and provision, we argue that modernisation is Environment strategy to 2020 and placed best delivered by a competitive, cost-effective, a new emphasis on mental health initiatives.
privatised system that is well-regulated.
Does the planned SSE Energy Brexit is, of course, a continuing source of Services transaction still feel uncertainty and SSEs three key concerns are like the right thing to do?
stability of existing policy frameworks, access The rationale has not changed.
I remain to European energy markets and continued convinced that demerging our GB household inclusion of Northern Ireland customers in retail business and merging it with npower the all-island Single Electricity Market.
is the right thing for customers, the energy market and SSE: and that a refocused energy and related infrastructure and services business is in the best long-term interest of the SSE Group of businesses and our shareholders.
24 SSE plc Annual Report 2018 employees a voice and opportunities to What are your predictions for What is being done to address develop.
I see this as our social contract.
the future of the energy industry?
the looming skills shortage and There are further examples of this active The sector is undergoing a revolution driven the gender pay gap?
stakeholder engagement throughout this by decarbonisation, electrification and the Our strategic aims are wholly dependent on Annual Report and in its sister publication, need to upgrade major public infrastructure the knowledge, skills and commitment of the Sustainability Report.
That revolution is not without its people.
We are working hard to encourage challenges, not least ongoing scrutiny of young people into Science, Technology, Can SSEs dividend growth the cost of energy to end users, but the Engineering and Maths careers and we be sustained?
By focusing on continue to invest in apprentices.
A key area SSE remains committed to remunerating core competencies of energy infrastructure of focus for the executive team and the Board shareholders investment and thats why and related services, and by staying true is creation of a truly inclusive and diverse SSE.
we have formulated a five-year dividend to our commitment to creating value for We published our gender pay gap nearly plan.
In 2019 we intend to pay a full-year shareholders and society as a whole, we two years ahead of a UK Government dividend of 97.5p per share: in the first year can deliver results that are fair to customers requirement to do so.
We have also considered after completion of the planned SSE Energy and be a leading energy provider in a the Hampton-Alexander review of gender Services transaction the full-year dividend low-carbon world.
The challenge is to make balance in FTSE leadership and have clear is planned to be 80p per share: and in each sure we continue to have the capability and ambitions and plans to increase significantly of the three years to 2023 we are targeting agility to succeed as the energy system the proportion of women in senior roles in dividend growth that at least matches RPI changes: and Im confident that we do.
SSE by 2021 see page 81. inflation.
In addition to all this, Im pleased we delivered a 94.7p per share full-year dividend What role will SSE have Finally, what is your ambition in 2017 18, which was our 20th successive in a low-carbon world?
dividend increase since SSEs formation.
Our vision is to be a leading provider of The year will be one of major transition for energy and related services in a low-carbon SSE, and I hope it is one in which we are seen How confident are you that SSE world.
This is supported by our new, longer as being a safe and responsible company that has its ethical house in order?
We aim to does a good job for everyone who depends We have a saying within SSE: Bad things reduce the carbon intensity of SSEs electricity on what we do and contributes positively to can happen in good organisations.
In a large generation by a further 50% by 2030, based the countries we work in.
organisation such as SSE, with many decisions on 2018 levels.
I think SSEs intentions in being made by many people every day, things this area are amply demonstrated by ongoing can and do go wrong and this has caused us commitment to renewable energy in our plans to reflect internally and redouble our efforts to to build a complementary new gas-fired power build a culture where people feel empowered station at Keadby in Lincolnshire which will be to speak up when they spot wrongdoing.
the most efficient plant of its kind in the UK.
Alistair Phillips-Davies Since 2015 SSE has provided a confidential, Chief Executive third party Speak Up hotline, backed up by a What benefit has there been 24 May 2018 dedicated investigations team that deals with to society from two decades issues sensitively.
From 41 reports made in of dividend growth?
2015, the independent line has seen traffic As a public listed company working in grow to 105 over the course of 2017.
We see the public interest, I believe SSE has greater that as a sign not of increased wrongdoing, obligations and higher standards to meet but rather a clear indication that we now than other organisations of comparable size.
have a safe environment for people to raise I am proud of SSEs standing as a responsible concerns in the knowledge that they will be company that has a keen social conscience.
Shareholders finance our operations, customers create revenue through payment of bills, regulators trust us to provide critical services and maintain vital infrastructure and talented people give their time and skills to us as employees.
In exchange, we pay dividends, we work hard to reliably and safely provide the energy and services that people need, we give customers value for money, we engage with government and respect the democratic process, we make a major contribution to the UK and Ireland economies and we give SSE plc Annual Report 2018 25
