8 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT The business has performed well during the year, building on an exceptional outcome in 2017 and despite a difficult external environment in the last quarter of the year.
ANDREW CROFT, Chief Executive Introduction Business performance andrew.
co. uk This is my second report to shareholders as and dividend Chief Executive and I am pleased to say the I am pleased to report another good set business has performed well during the year, of results that once again demonstrate building on an exceptional outcome in 2017 the resilience of our business.
In 2018 we and despite a difficult external environment achieved full-year gross inflows of in the last quarter of the year.
95.6bn 15.7 billion, which represents growth of All of our key financial metrics have grown, 8% over 2017, while net inflows were also FUNDS UNDER MANAGEMENT the Partnership is stronger and larger, and 8% higher at 10.3 billion.
We have now 2017: 90.7bn we have made good progress with our multiachieved compound growth in gross inflows year back-office infrastructure project.
of 18% p. a. over 2, 5 and 10 years whilst over the same periods compound growth in net inflows has been some 20% p. a.
Those net inflows, partially offset by weaker 15.7bn investment markets, provided for funds under management at the end of 2018 of GROSS INFLOWS 95.6 billion, growth of 5.4%.
2017: 14.6bn The financial performance of the business reflects the progression of funds under management together with the contribution of new inflows, resulting in good growth across all the key metrics measured by the 10.3bn Board.
The Chief Financial Officers Report NET INFLOWS and Financial Review on pages 28 to 46 2017: 9.5bn provide a comprehensive analysis of the financial performance for the year.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 9 Shareholders will recall that the Board It is pleasing then that clients of The St. Jamess Place considers the underlying cash result to St. JamessPlace see real value in their Partnership be a key measure the Board considers relationship with the business, as highlighted when determining the dividend.
Indeed, we in the results of our biennial Wealth Account The St. JamessPlace Partnership now announced a year ago that we would expect Survey.
Our survey, which was carried out numbers 3,954 advisers, an 8% increase dividends to be set using a c. 80% pay-out following receipt of Annual Wealth Account over the year as we welcomed a net 293 ratio to the Underlying cash result.
Statements in early 2019, has so far received new advisers through a combination some 34,000 responses and it indicates that of our experienced adviser recruitment With this in mind, the Board proposes a final overall client satisfaction remains high.
89% channels and our Academy initiatives.
In dividend of 29.73 pence per share, making of clients tell us that they are either satisfied 2018 we invested some 10 million in our for a full year dividend of 48.22 pence per or very satisfied with the overall relationship Academy and Next Generation Academy share, growth of 12.5%, marginally above and encouragingly, more than 94% of an investment that will play an important the growth of the Underlying cash result clients said that they would recommend and growing role in developing our next in recognition of the very strong strategic St. JamessPlace to others with 55% generation of financial advisers.
Last progress during the year.
suggesting that they had already done so.
year 142 people graduated from these When asked to describe our proposition in academies and at the end of the year there The final dividend, subject to approval of terms of value for money, 96% of the clients were 379 individuals in the programme.
We shareholders at our AGM, will be paid on who responded, said reasonable, good or are also pleased that 50 Partner Support 24May 2019 to shareholders on the register excellent.
We will build upon these excellent Staff became fully diploma qualified having at the close of business on 5 April 2019.
A results by seeking further improvements to passed through our Paraplanning Academy Dividend Reinvestment Plan continues to be our standards of service and proposition, in 2018. available for shareholders.
ensuring clients continue to receive high Looking ahead, we will continue to seek to quality, face-to-face advice they can trust and Clients attract high-quality, experienced advisers to demonstrable value creation for their wealth.
The success of St. JamessPlace continues the Partnership as we cement our position to be built on establishing and maintaining as a go to place for successful financial long lasting, highly personal relationships advisers through the commitment we with, and between, our Partners and clients make to supporting their clients and their and serving them well.
In addition, we will further expand the capacity of our Academy At its core, this means we seek to achieve programmes with the ambition of enrolling the best possible outcome for our clients 14 new cohorts and graduating around 170 through sound financial planning advice advisers into the Partnership in 2019. provided by our highly skilled advisers, together with our distinctive investment The Partnership is a key differentiator for 142 management approach.
Thus helping St. JamessPlace and we will continue our clients to fulfil their ambitions and ACADEMY AND NEXT GENERATION to ensure we provide the support for our aspirations.
ACADEMY GRADUATES IN 2018 advisers so that they can, in turn, support clients.
co. uk 10 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT C ON T I N U E D Investment Management Approach IMA Red lines indicate fund managers from whom all the strategies we offer are exclusive to St. Jamess Place clients in the UK retail space.
Against this backdrop our Portfolios pared complementary managers in GMO and Investment markets back in line with equity markets in the Jennison have been appointed as coand our Investment last three months of the year, taking them managers of the Balanced Managed fund.
negative for the year albeit they protected These two bring increased diversity and Management Approach clients from the worst of the market fall.
flexibility, as well as scalability in the case 2018 proved to be a challenging one for ofGMO, to our range of managers.
Towards the end of the year, we launched investors.
The market started weakly, the Diversified Assets fund, managed by After the downturn of late 2018, markets recovered in the second quarter, held steady Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L. P. KKR in posted a strong first month in 2019, a in the third, before seeing a sharp correction New York.
This strategy offers our clients the recovery that has been reflected across all in the final quarter, resulting in investment opportunity to access private market assets our Portfolios, reflecting a growing belief returns for the year as a whole being that are typically only available to institutional that initial global growth fears had been negative across almost all asset classes.
We also further improved our overdone.
Irrespective of any future shortA number of factors lay behind the sell-off: approach to responsible investing with term volatility, we remain confident that our Brexit concerns: US-China trade tensions: a change of strategy and subsequent investment approach will continue to support slowing growth in China and potentially, in the refocusing and renaming of the Ethical fund clients in realising their long-term goals.
US: the end of the Trump tax-cuts stimulus to as the Sustainable & Responsible Equity corporate earnings: and, perhaps above all, fund, now managed by Kirsteen Morrison worries over the tightening monetary policy and David Winborne of Impax Asset with the US Federal Reserve raising interest Management.
The other changes made rates four times during the course of the year.
last year saw us add Wellington, who bring a more diverse approach to the Alternative Assets fund, and two very different but ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 11 Once we have completed the project our I also thank Sarah Bates who stepped down Investment for growth business processing will be on a modern from the Board after 14 years as a director We continue to look to the future through our 21st century platform which will provide us and the last four as Chair, and I look forward continued investment into St. JamessPlace with the scalability to accommodate our to working with Iain Cornish who has Asia and Rowan Dartington, both of which growing business needs as well as enable us succeeded Sarah as Chair.
are performing well and complementing to improve service to clients.
In 2018, we grew adviser Our community headcount in Asia to 133 and increased The St. Jamess Place The strength and continued growth of St. JamessPlace funds under management the business is due to the hard work and to some 625 million and total funds under Charitable Foundation and dedication of The Partnership, their teams, our administration to over 1 billion.
community engagement management teams and all our employees Rowan Dartington is also growing in Helping people in need is a very important and administration support teams.
scale, with funds under management now part of the St. JamessPlace culture, with our On behalf of the Board and shareholders I totalling 2.3 billion, and its proposition whole community committed to supporting once again thank everyone connected with is expanding both geographically it is charitable causes and making a positive St. JamessPlace for their contribution now present in Hong Kong with entry into and lasting difference to the lives of those in to these results and for their continued Singapore planned for 2019 and in terms need.
In 2018, some 10 million was raised enthusiasm, dedication and commitment.
of capability as the business explores new for the Foundation, a sum which includes the opportunities, including international multiCompany matching every 1 raised.
Since Outlook currency portfolios and portfolio lending 1992, we have now raised and distributed services.
We will also continue to explore It is pleasing to see a recovery in the over 80 million in support of thousands bolt on acquisitions where we see both global stock markets at the start of 2019 of charities.
We are proud of the fact that complementary fit and value.
which, together with on-going net inflows some 80% of advisers and employees of during January and February have, at the St. JamessPlace now give to the Charitable Back-office infrastructure time of writing, taken our funds under Foundation through their pay or earnings, management to some 102 billion.
The complementing the additional fundraising 2018 was a year of significant progress in business continues to perform well relative activities undertaken by staff and advisers.
our programme to transform our back-office to the industry.
However, challenging administration onto Bluedoor.
During the year Our desire to achieve a positive social external factors, like those currently being we successfully migrated a 24 billion tranche impact extends beyond our commitment experienced, are not in our control and of our accumulation-stage pensions business to the Charitable Foundation and includes the pace of fund flows has moderated as well as all of our 5 billion pensions engaging with the communities in which our compared with last year.
I would note though drawdown book.
This means that we now business operates and those communities that the inflows for the same period last year administer around 77% of all new business that need a helping hand.
As a wealth represent a very strong comparative and on Bluedoor, and 63% of total funds under management business we are particularly March typically accounts for around 50% of management.
Such migration programmes well placed to contribute positively to the first quarters flows.
are complex and the progress in 2018 was financial education across the UK and we the result of considerable work from our Irrespective of these external factors, support the efforts of the Partnership and third-party suppliers, our own administration the fundamentals of our clients financial our employees to allow them to commit centres, and our Field and Cirencester teams.
their time and expertise to such activities.
Last week we launched a new investment With a continued focus on achieving the bond on the platform.
I would like to thank Further details of our CR activities are set best possible outcomes for our clients everyone involved in these migrations for their out on pages 56 to 69. through the provision of trusted face-tohard work and for giving up many weekends.
face financial advice and our distinctive Board changes investment management approach, 2019 will be another year of intense activity As previously announced David Lamb together with the continued growth in the as we focus first on migrating the remaining has recently retired after 27 years with size of the St. JamessPlace Partnership, tranches of our pensions business before the Company and the last 12 as a Board we remain extremely well placed to migrating our existing investment bond Director.
I would personally like to thank continue to grow our business.
David for his 27 years of invaluable service From the outset, our priority has been to to the Company.
manage this transformation safely, ensuring ANDREW CROFT I am also delighted that David has agreed to that clients, the Partnership, and our Chief Executive continue to chair our Investment Committee business suffer minimal disruption as we 26 February 2019 in a non-executive capacity.
That will remain our overriding priority as we continue through the latter phases of this project.
