CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Mark Allan Chief Executive Overview 2018 has been a year of excellent progress for St. Modwen.
READY FOR In line with our expectations, it has been a year of focus, portfolio transition and growth.
We sold 529m of assets, on average in line with book value, increasing our focus on sectors with the strongest structural growth prospects: we completed on 0.9m sq ft of THE FUTURE industrial and logistics developments: we grew St. Modwen Homes volumes by 22%: and we reduced our see-through net borrowings by 39%.
The combination of all this has strengthened our asset and MEANS BEING capital base and therefore leaves us well placed to deliver a meaningful improvement in earnings and return on capital in the years to come.
At the same time, our purpose: Changing places.
ABLE TO MEET Creating better futures.
is starting to be more closely embedded: for example, in the product quality of St. Modwen Homes and the vision for our major regeneration projects.
THE NEEDS OF Our results for the year were solid, especially against a backdrop of significant asset rotation, fide-leveraging and ongoing macro uncertainty.
NAV per share increased 4.3% to 470.4 pence THE MARKET 2017: 450.9 pence which, combined with dividends paid during the year, resulted in a stable total accounting return of 6.0% 2017: 6.0%.
EPRA NAV per share increased 2.7% to 484.1 pence 2017: 471.2 pence.
Despite a further 151m reduction in see-through net borrowings and a 7.5m loss of net rental income due to our disposals, adjusted EPRA earnings increased 7.8% to 31.7m 2017: 29.4m.
As such, adjusted EPRA EPS increased 7.5% to 14.3 pence 2017: 13.3 pence which, based on a 50% pay-out ratio, results in a 13.1% increase in the total dividend for the year to 7.1 pence per share 2017: 6.28 pence.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 8 Annual report and financial statements 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Key financial performance metrics Build a high quality industrial and logistics business Industrial and logistics assets now make up 33% of our portfolio, 2018 2017 Change up from 19% 18 months ago.
We expect this to grow further, NAV per share pence 470.4 450.9 4.3% as we accelerate our development activity and retain most of the high-quality assets we develop.
Non-core retail assets now make EPRA NAV per share pence 484.1 471.2 2.7% up only 6% of our portfolio and we only have a further 6% of other Dividend per share pence 7.1 6.28 13.1% non-core commercial assets, including our residual small assets and surplus land.
Combined, this amounts to c. 180m of assets which Total accounting return % 6.0 6.0 we intend to sell over the next three years.
Having sold 390m of Adjusted EPRA earnings m 31.7 29.4 7.8% non-core commercial assets in 2018, we therefore expect disposals to slow from here.
Profit for the year m 60.5 60.1 0.7% Earnings per share pence 27.1 26.9 0.7% As previously set out, we intend to reinvest the proceeds of our non-core disposals in our industrial and logistics pipeline.
This has Adjusted EPRA earnings the potential to deliver over 15m sq ft of space in the long term, of per share pence 14.3 13.3 7.5% which almost 10m sq ft already has planning.
We estimate the latter 1 See-through net borrowings m 236.9 388.2 -39.0% could deliver over 60m of ERV in the medium term.
With expected 1 associated future capex of c. 635-685m and total development See-through loan-to-value % 16.9 24.2 -7.3ppt costs including land we already own of c. 740-790m, this reflects a See-through loan-to-value c. 8% yield on cost and c. 9% yield on incremental capex, providing 1 excluding residential % 29.3 37.2 -7.9ppt an attractive margin versus current valuation yields and the c. 5-6% net yield on the older, less efficient non-core assets we sell.
1 Including the Groups share of net borrowings and property held in joint ventures and associates.
We continue to see good momentum in accelerating our development activity.
Our committed pipeline currently stands at Our strategy 1.5m sq ft, up from 1.0m sq ft a year ago, with a total development We have made considerable progress in delivering on the objectives cost of 137m.
We intend to retain 87% of this, with an expected we established as part of our new strategy set out in June 2017.
ERV of 9.2m compared to 5.1m in early 2018.
We have terms We sold 814m of assets over the past 18 months, representing agreed on 19% of this and, subject to continued occupier demand, more than 40% of our initial portfolio, including 85% of our London we expect our committed pipeline to grow to c. 2m sq ft in the residential development land, over half of our retail portfolio and next 1-2 years.
around 75% of the c. 100m small assets we identified in mid-2017.
This rate of progress is well ahead of our initial plans and expectations and has allowed us to reduce our see-through net borrowings by more than half to 237m, which has reduced our see-through LTV to 16.9%, providing financial stability and a solid base for investment in the future.
At the same time, we have invested in our people and Q organisational design, accelerated our development activity and prepared our pipeline for further growth.
This successful Your portfolio seems very different now, compared repositioning means that following a period where our focus was to 18 months ago?
on enablement, we can now look forward to the next phase of our strategy.
This phase is very much focused on growth, built on the substantial existing opportunities and expertise in our business, captured in three strategic objectives: build a high quality industrial and logistics business: grow our residential and housebuilding business: and A leverage our regeneration reputation.
In June 2017, we set out a new, more focused strategy intended The natural progression of our strategy, reflected in these updated to improve returns on capital by focusing on sectors with the objectives, focuses our business on three clearly-defined activities best structural growth prospects and accelerating the pace and sectors, each of which benefits from long-term structural at which we work through our land bank.
growth characteristics: industrial and logistics, residential and We have made strong progress in this.
We have sold over 40% housebuilding, and regeneration.
Even though our strong financial of our initial portfolio, including more than half our non-core position provides capacity to source new opportunities in these retail assets, c. 75% of the long tail of other small assets and areas, the scale and scope of opportunities in our existing portfolio 85% of our land in London.
As a result, our borrowings are at is significant, so we have no need to acquire, and equally, as we an historically low level, which means we are now well placed continue to recycle capital from existing assets into our pipeline, for future growth.
we have no need to attract additional funding to deliver on these.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2018 9 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED Grow our residential and housebuilding business We are, by the very nature of our activities, a total return business.
Our residential investments make up 43% of our portfolio.
This is Our ambition is to deliver a sustainable, low double-digit total broadly stable compared to the 40% it was 18 months ago, but we return over time, with a significant part of this comprising income.
have made considerable progress in accelerating the monetisation The portfolio revaluation element of our returns is to a large extent of value in our land bank.
We have sold 286m of residential land cyclical, which makes it inherently difficult to forecast, yet we since June 2017 and increased St. Modwen Homes volumes from expect our improved portfolio quality and focus on sectors with 485 units in 2016 to 848 units in 2018, which has already driven the best structural growth prospects to underpin longer-term a clear improvement in returns.
Our focus remains on accelerating growth.
The development element of our returns is driven by our the pace at which we work through our land bank to further grow regeneration activities and build-out of our industrial and logistics our return on capital and deliver more of the high-quality homes pipeline.
Whilst these returns can vary on a year-by-year basis at an affordable price level that the UK needs.
depending on the level of activity, the depth, breadth and quality of our pipeline is substantial, offering good visibility, and for industrial Our own land bank comprises c. 18,400 plots 2017: c. 19,000 of and logistics in particular, the c. 8% average yield on cost provides which c. 85% have planning, excluding land we hold under option a healthy margin versus valuation yields.
which could deliver a further c. 11,800 homes in the long term.
This provides us with clear visibility and control of a pipeline to continue This leaves the third key element of our returns: income, to grow St. Modwen Homes volumes by up to 25% per annum over as measured by adjusted EPRA earnings.
Driven by a combination 2019-2021, in line with the 22% growth to 848 units we delivered of 1 reinvesting around 150m of the proceeds of our 2018 non-core in 2018 2017: 694 units.
In line with our target, during 2018 our disposals in our industrial and logistics pipeline: 2 recycling capital operating margins increased to 14.4% 2017: 13.9% and we expect out of our remaining c. 180m non-core assets into this pipeline: a similar step up towards our 16-17% medium-term target in 2019.
3 further growth in St. Modwen Homes to c. 1,300-1,400 units per Customer demand has remained resilient since the year-end, so our annum, a level which could be sustained for the medium to longer order book is currently up 36% in terms of private units compared term based on our current land bank: and 4 an improvement in to the same time last year.
St. Modwen Homes margins towards our 16-17% target, we see the potential to broadly double our adjusted EPRA EPS in the In addition to the homes we delivered via St. Modwen Homes, medium term from 2018 levels, assuming markets remain stable.
we also sold 860 plots to third party housebuilders for 53m during This potential growth is broadly evenly split between industrial and 2018 2017: 56m.
We will continue to invest in preparing land for logistics and housebuilding, reflecting the balance between these development to monetise the value in our land bank and expect to two parts of our business.
Whilst we expect our borrowings to sell at least a similar amount of land in 2019 as we sold during 2018. increase from the current low point due to the reinvestment in Leverage our regeneration reputation our pipeline, we maintain our target of keeping our LTV excluding Regeneration sits at the heart of our purpose: Changing places.
residential below 40% over time and intend to keep our overall Creating better futures.
and therefore is an important part of our LTV in the mid 20 percents as part of this.
Over the past three decades, we have built Based on our stated dividend policy, this potential medium-term up a strong track-record and expertise in bringing complicated sites growth in adjusted EPRA EPS should result in a meaningful increase back to life.
This not only comes through in large projects such as in our dividend.
This medium-term growth is not expected to be Swansea Bay Campus, Longbridge and New Covent Garden Market, linear, as the large volume of disposals during 2018 will reduce our but also underpins the two other elements of our business, rental income in 2019 but, assuming no major disruption in current as many of the sites in our residential and industrial and logistics market conditions, we expect the impact on adjusted EPRA EPS to pipeline have been brought forward via our regeneration activities.
be more than offset by further growth in St. Modwen Homes profits, We have made positive progress on our existing large regeneration rental income from new developments and lower interest costs.
We released 141m of capital from the initial phases of Given the heightened levels of uncertainty at present, it is of course development at Longbridge and Swansea during the year and important that we take sensible steps to protect our returns outlook are progressing the next phases of development, with significant in the near term.
In addition to the repositioning of our portfolio opportunities remaining at both sites.
We aim to leverage our towards structural growth sectors and the sharp reduction in regeneration reputation and apply our unique skill-set more borrowings since 2017, over the past few months we have also broadly going forward but, recognising the long-term nature taken a number of proactive steps to insulate the business as of these projects, we will pursue this in a capital-efficient way.
much as possible from near-term disruption, particularly related to Brexit.
For example, we are investing 10m in forward ordering Our returns all construction materials we import directly for six months of Our returns have been resilient during the repositioning of our production in St. Modwen Homes and all our 2019 industrial and portfolio.
While delivering on the disposal of more than 40% of logistics projects: we have front-weighted our sales targets for the our assets and a 343m reduction in see-through net borrowings, year in St. Modwen Homes, resulting in a 36% increase in our private and despite a relatively uncertain market backdrop, over the last order book versus the same point last year: and we are maintaining two years our NAV per share is up 9.1%, our adjusted EPRA EPS a tight control over discretionary spend.
We intend to maintain this is up 47.4% and we generated a steady total accounting return of vigilance until such time as the economic outlook is more settled.
With the portfolio repositioning now substantially complete and our pipeline prepared for growth, the next phase of our strategy should see returns improve meaningfully from current levels.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 10 Annual report and financial statements 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Our people and culture Meanwhile, our pipeline is focused on two sectors which continue The excellent progress on delivering our strategy during 2018 to benefit from structural growth characteristics.
Government would not have been possible without the strong performance policy remains supportive to continue to grow housebuilding in the and dedication of our people.
The new organisational design UK and our focus on the regions, where affordability is much better we introduced in 2017 has provided a clear alignment between than in and around London, leaves us in a good position, whilst individual roles and our strategic objectives, which, combined industrial and logistics continues to benefit from structural changes with a culture of more empowerment and accountability, is already in the way we work and shop.
Combined with our strong balance driving positive results.
This was reflected in our recent employee sheet, this gives us confidence to continue to accelerate our engagement survey, which showed high engagement and a development activity, although the short-cycle nature of our marked improvement in the understanding of our strategy.
projects provides us with flexibility to adjust our pipeline should Our people are key in delivering on the substantial opportunities we there be any unexpected changes in customer demand.
have in our business, so we will continue to invest in our workforce, With clear visibility on the potential to drive a meaningful not only in recruiting selective new roles, but also in personal improvement in earnings and return on capital over time based development and training to support all levels of our business.
on our existing pipeline of opportunities and capital base, without having to acquire, attract new capital or rely on a market upturn, Looking forward we look forward to the next phase of our strategy with confidence.
Following the successful repositioning over the last 18 months, At this time, I would also like to thank our outgoing Chairman, for St. Modwen 2019 is set to be a year of improved focus, growth Bill Shannon, on behalf of everyone at St. Modwen for his and ongoing delivery against our three strategic objectives.
invaluable contribution to the company over the past eight years.
The wider political and economic environment is uncertain and His leadership, support and counsel have been instrumental in this is unlikely to change in the near term.
The UKs planned exit building St. Modwen into the focused, strong business it is today from the European Union is likely to have an impact on international and he will leave the business in excellent shape when he retires trade and the uncertainty around the longer-term effects of this at the upcoming AGM.
could affect consumer and business confidence, although evidence of this in our current trading activity so far is limited.
As mentioned, Mark Allan we have reduced our exposure to potential short-term trade Chief Executive disruption by forward ordering the materials we import directly 4 February 2019 for most of our 2019 pipeline, and having more than halved our net borrowings and reduced our exposure to challenging sectors such as retail and London residential land by c. 400m over the last 18 months, we are well placed to weather this uncertainty.
Q Q Could you explain your three areas of strategic focus?
How will delivery of your strategy improve returns?
A A Our business is focused on three clearly-defined activities Our repositioning over the past 18 months has improved and sectors, each of which benefits from long-term structural the quality of our asset base and provided us with the financial growth characteristics: industrial and logistics, residential and base we need to accelerate the delivery of the significant housebuilding, and regeneration.
opportunities in our existing portfolio.
This paves the way for a meaningful improvement in returns in the coming years.
The rise in online retail and the need for efficient, modern warehouse space is driving structural growth in the industrial We have no need to acquire land or attract new capital to deliver and logistics sector and the UK continues to have a shortage of on this return improvement.
A strong balance sheet, strong cash sensibly priced, good-quality housing, whilst regeneration very flow, a flexible debt structure and low gearing provide us with much sits at the heart of our purpose and builds on our rich a robust financial platform for business growth and the depth, history.
In each of these three areas, we have significant breadth and quality of our pipeline is substantial.
We are well opportunities in our existing portfolio.
positioned for the opportunities that lie ahead.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2018 11
