Group Chief Risk Ofcers STRATEGIC REPORT review Group Chief Risk Ofcers review Embracing innovation across the risk landscape We took positive steps in 2018 to maintain high potential environmental or social impact Strengthen the Groups risk culture lower credit impairment and improve asset in line with the launch of our updated Position Embedding a healthy risk culture quality, helping to further strengthen our Statements, which set out our approach continues to be a core objective across risk position.
At the start of the year we to managing environmental, social and all areas of the Group.
It underpins an implemented our new Enterprise Risk governance risks.
enterprise-level ability to identify and Management Framework, identifying ten assess, openly discuss, and take prompt More information about the Groups Principal Risk Types, including Compliance, action regarding current and future risks.
Sustainability Philosophy can be found at Conduct, Information and Cyber Security and Our Enterprise Risk Management sc.
com sustainability philosophy Financial Crime.
This refreshed approach Framework sets out the guiding principles allows us to view our existing risks more for our people, enabling us to have While we have made great strides in holistically, while improving our ability to integrated and holistic risk conversations establishing a healthy risk culture, we identify and proactively manage new Risk across all our Principal Risks.
We continue recognise that threats to our business are Types.
As of 1 January 2019, we have to assess strategic initiatives and growth constantly evolving, and only by continuing to integrated Conduct, Financial Crime and opportunities from both the financial and explore all available opportunities to improve Compliance risks as a single CFCC function non-financial risk perspective, and our can we keep delivering on our brand promise under the Management Team leadership of improved approach to effectiveness of being Here for good.
In an industry that Tracey McDermott.
We are also developing reviews facilitates challenge, learning from faces much disruption, we are committed our data and analytics capabilities, self-identied issues or weaknesses, and to building partnerships and embracing harnessing digital and technological making improvements that are lasting new technologies to strengthen our innovation to enhance the speed and and sustainable.
Enhance information and cyber An update on our key The Group remains well diversied across security Information and cyber security risk priorities client segments, geographies and industry is an area with an increased risk prole sectors, and maintains a strong liquidity and across financial services and other 2018 was a challenging but productive capital position.
We are well positioned to industries.
Along with other organisations, year for the Group.
Our risk management identify and take new opportunities, while we continue to invest and increase our approach is at the heart of our business and remaining vigilant for any new threats that capability in information and cyber security is core to us building a sustainable platform may arise and areas that need improvement.
through the expansion and strengthening for growth.
We want to embed innovation, We take a proactive approach to risk, with of our operating model.
In 2018, we digitisation and effective analysis as pillars one example being our decision to place elevated Information and Cyber Security of the function.
Here is an update on our stricter standards on industries that have a Risk to a Principal Risk Type, and a key priorities over the past 12 months: new framework was approved for implementation to ensure cyber risks are identied and managed in a consistent way across the Group.
In addition, we are making further improvements through awareness campaigns, active participation in external partnerships including the UK Cyber Defence Alliance, and employment of an external adviser to provide insights to the Board on cyber security matters.
These combined efforts help strengthen our defences and aid our efforts to keep pace with evolving cyber threats.
Manage financial crime risks Financial crime hinders economic progress and harms communities, and we are committed to ghting it.
We have made substantial progress in building an effective and sustainable financial crime compliance programme and improving our controls, systems and processes.
Our progress in this regard was recognised at the end of Mark Smith 2018, when the monitorship ordered by the Group Chief Risk officer New York State Department of Financial Services was permitted to expire as part of Standard Chartered 38 Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Directors report Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information a Second Supplemental Consent Order Enhance our compliance Our subsidiary in Germany is established was replaced by an independent infrastructure In 2018, we established and we are focused on managing the consultant.
The Order acknowledges that a multi-year programme to review and operational and regulatory risks that will arise we had demonstrated our commitment strengthen our existing structures and as a result of Brexit.
We continue to focus on to complying with state and federal processes, and we have already delivered early identication of emerging risks across anti-money laundering and sanctions laws tangible progress in several areas.
We all our portfolios so that we can proactively and regulations and had substantially implemented a new Regulatory Obligations manage any areas of weakness.
We also remediated and enhanced our anti-money Management system, and in the first perform regular reviews and stress tests of laundering compliance programme.
quarter of 2019 we will install a refreshed our portfolio to help mitigate any risks that We continue to advocate for more system for Issue Management and Policy might arise.
Our risk management capability modern ways of ghting financial crime, and Document Management.
We rolled has also improved through investment in maintaining our involvement in publicout an enhanced learning programme for credit structuring and distribution resources.
private information sharing partnerships in our compliance ofcers, as well as a Credit impairment in the ongoing book the UK, US, Singapore and Hong Kong, progressive development path.
In the reduced further in 2018 to $740 million and pursuing innovation by partnering with second half of 2018, we launched a shared 2017: $1,200 million, driven primarily by RegTech rms in the areas of surveillance service centre for surveillance in Kuala improvements in the Corporate & Institutional and investigations.
In addition, we are Lumpur, equipped with staff providing a Banking portfolio where there was a proud to support the United for Wildlife broad range of capabilities across Trade decrease of $428 million 2018: $229 million, Financial Taskforce of which our Group and Communications Surveillance.
This reects an General Counsel, David Fein is Vice Chair, also implemented a knowledge-sharing improvement in the risk prole of the an initiative dedicated to increasing tool that explains important trends in the segment, through a continued focus on awareness of, and improving, how the world of technology and highlights the key high-quality new origination and recoveries financial industry can combat illegal wildlife compliance issues that may arise as a and releases that were observed across all trafcking.
Initiatives like this are in line with result.
These improvements help our segments.
Commercial Banking ongoing our Sustainability Philosophy and target people to make better informed and business credit impairment increased by those at the heart of financial crime from consistent decisions and raise our ability to 45 per cent 2018: $244 million, 2017: multiple angles.
By cutting off their sources innovate in response to the ever-changing $168 million compared to 2017, which saw a of funds, we can help to make the financial regulatory landscape.
release of $63 million of portfolio impairment system a hostile environment for criminals, Improve our efficiency and provisions held against certain sectors of the while supporting economic development effectiveness The Group has portfolios that were no longer required.
Africa across all of our markets.
continued to invest in improvements & Middle East contributed 60 per cent of the to infrastructure, including exposure full-year 2018 charge.
Retail credit impairment More information about the Groups commitment to ghting financial crime can be found at management, data quality and stress continued to reduce 2018: $267 million: sc.
Further enhancements are planned 2017: $374 million driven by portfolio for Operational Risk management, improvements, and run down of high-risk Strengthen our conduct environment workow and reporting.
We are working segments in several unsecured portfolios, Conduct remains a key focus across with ntech partners and innovating as well as one-off provision releases in Korea the Group.
In 2018, we elevated Conduct internally to explore new opportunities and Indonesia.
Risk to a Principal Risk Type and made with machine learning, articial intelligence it a priority to review, rene and further Gross credit-impaired stage 3 loans for the and data analytics infrastructure.
We Group are down 21 per cent in the year, strengthen our approach to conduct, continue to streamline and simplify our having decreased to $6.9 billion 1 January ensuring that Conduct Risk is considered processes to serve clients better and 2018: $8.8 billion with a reduction of not just in the day to day but in all our drive internal efficiencies.
$1.0 billion observed in the liquidation strategic decisions and activities.
While the portfolio as we continued to exit these Group Code of Conduct sets expectations Our risk prole and performance exposures.
Gross stage 3 loans in the for individual behaviour, the refreshed in 2018 ongoing business decreased to $5.6 billion Conduct Risk Type Framework provides a 1 January 2018: $6.5 billion : mainly driven more robust and consistent approach to The Groups portfolios remain strong and by repayments and write-offs in Corporate & allow us to assess and monitor Conduct well diversied.
Our continued focus on Institutional Banking.
Stage 3 non-performing risk across the Groups businesses and high-quality origination within a more granular loan NPL inows in Corporate & Institutional functions.
A key priority in 2019 will be to Risk Appetite has enabled sustained Banking were also signicantly lower, as embed Conduct Risk considerations into improvements in the credit quality of our historically high inows from stressed the other non-financial risks, to ensure corporate portfolios, with the percentage of portfolios such as India and the Oil and Gas that we make the right holistic decisions.
net exposure to investment grade clients sectors were muted.
Stage 3 NPL inows in While incidents cannot be entirely avoided increasing to 62 per cent 2017: 57 per cent Commercial Banking were higher, driven by across the Group, we have no appetite of total corporate net exposure.
The Groups exposures in Greater China & North Asia for breaches of laws or regulations, and client exposures also remain predominantly and Africa & Middle East, with no specic we expect nothing less than the highest short tenor.
Despite this improvement industry concentration.
we remain alert to broader geopolitical uncertainties that continue to affect The stage 3 cover ratio in the total book More information on our Group Code of Conduct can sentiment.
An example is Brexit, although be found at sc.
com codeofconduct has reduced marginally to 59 per cent in the Groups credit portfolio should not be 2018 1 January 2018: 60 per cent, largely materially impacted by the UKs withdrawal driven by the impact of write-offs and from the European Union.
settlements in the liquidation portfolio.
39 Group Chief Risk Ofcers STRATEGIC REPORT review The Group maintains a strong liquidity Through the development and approval of An update to our risk position, with the liquidity coverage ratio these Risk Type Frameworks, we have management approach higher at 154 per cent from 146 per cent in revised the denition of certain Principal In 2018, we made good progress in 2017, driven by an increase in our liquid asset Risk Types to describe the risks or failures delivering the key initiatives started in 2017 position partially aligned to the growth in our more explicitly.
to implement a strong risk management overall balance sheet as we continued to We have also established an Effectiveness approach.
We have continued to build out focus on high-quality liquidity across our Review process for the Enterprise Risk the Enterprise Risk Management function businesses.
The advances-to-deposits ratio Management Framework and Risk Type which allows the Group to identify and 2018: 64.9 per cent decreased from the Frameworks which provides an objective manage risks holistically, ensuring that previous year 2017: 67.0 per cent.
We remain baseline against which progress can be appropriate governance, oversight and a net provider of liquidity to the interbank measured over the coming years.
information is in place to run a safe, secure markets and our customer deposit base is and well-controlled organisation.
It also diversied by type and maturity.
We have a The 2018 Effectiveness Review concluded strengthens the Groups capabilities to substantial portfolio of marketable securities that the Enterprise Risk Management understand, articulate and control the which can be realised in the event of a Framework has been effectively designed nature and level of risks we take while still liquidity stress situation.
towards improving the Groups risk serving our clients effectively.
The Groups Common Equity Tier 1 ratio of The Enterprise Risk Management 14.2 per cent was 60 basis points higher Over the course of 2019, the Group aims Framework, launched in 2018, sets out a than 2017 mainly due to a lower level of to further strengthen its risk management refreshed risk culture and a clear control risk-weighted assets, which reduced by practices.
More details can be found in the framework with sharper delineation of $21.5 billion.
This was driven by a reduction Enterprise Risk Management Framework responsibilities between the three lines of in credit risk-weighted assets of $15.1 billion.
Further details on the Groups The average level of total trading and The framework provides a structure for the Three Lines of Defence model are set non-trading VaR in 2018 was 20 per cent monitoring and control of these risks through out in the Enterprise Risk Management lower than in 2017 because of a reduction in the Board-approved risk appetite.
The Group Framework section page 193.
We have also the duration of the non-trading portfolio in the will not compromise adherence to its risk formalised the links between our strategy, appetite in order to pursue revenue growth first half of 2018.
However, by year end 2018 Risk Appetite and stress testing to facilitate or higher returns.
The table below shows the the non-trading VaR increased, driven by an more dynamic risk identication and the Groups Principal Risk Types and how they increase in the portfolio inventory and reduced integration of risk considerations into are managed.
portfolio diversication in the second half of strategic decision-making.
Further details on Principal Risks are set out in the We have developed distinct Risk Type Risk management approach pages 193 to 217 Further details of the 2018 risk performance are set Frameworks for our 10 Principal Risks out in the Risk update pages 138 and 139 and the which are being rolled out throughout the Risk prole section pages 140 to 192 organisation.
Principal Risk Types are risks that are inherent in our strategy and business model and have been formally dened in the Groups Enterprise Risk Management Framework.
Principal Risk Types How these are managed Credit Risk The Group manages its credit exposures following the principle of diversication across products, geographies, client segments and industry sectors Country Risk The Group manages its country cross-border exposures following the principle of diversication across geographies and controls business activities in line with the level of jurisdiction risk Traded Risk The Group controls its trading portfolio and activities to ensure that traded risk losses financial or reputational do not cause material damage to the Groups franchise Capital and Liquidity Risk The Group maintains a strong capital position, including the maintenance of management buffers sufficient to support its strategic aims, and holds an adequate buffer of high-quality liquid assets to survive extreme but plausible liquidity stress scenarios for at least 60 days without recourse to extraordinary central bank support Operational Risk The Group controls operational risks to ensure that operational losses financial or reputational, including any related to conduct of business matters, do not cause material damage to the Groups franchise Reputational Risk The Group protects the franchise from material damage to its reputation by ensuring that any business activity is satisfactorily assessed and managed by the appropriate level of management and governance oversight Compliance Risk The Group has no appetite for breaches in laws and regulations, while recognising that while regulatory non-compliance cannot be entirely avoided, the Group strives to reduce this to an absolute minimum Conduct Risk The Group strives to maintain the standards in our Code of Conduct and outcomes of our Conduct Framework, by continuously demonstrating that we Do The Right Thing in the way we do business Information and The Group seeks to avoid risk and uncertainty for our critical information assets and systems and has a low appetite for Cyber Security Risk material incidents affecting these or the wider operations and reputation of the bank Financial Crime Risk The Group has no appetite for breaches in laws and regulations related to financial crime, recognising that while incidents are unwanted, they cannot be entirely avoided Further details on Principal Risks are set out in the Risk management approach pages 193 to 217 Standard Chartered 40 Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Directors report Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Principal uncertainties Principal uncertainties refer to unpredictable and uncontrollable outcomes from certain events and circumstances which may have the potential to materially impact our business.
As part of our continual risk identication process, we have updated the list disclosed in the 2018 half year Report.
The table below summarises the current principal uncertainties that the Group faces, and the steps we are taking to manage them.
Risk trend Principal uncertainties since 2017 How these are mitigated next steps Geopolitical events, in We monitor geopolitical events continuously to assess horizon risks and, where appropriate, manage particular: extended trade the impact to the Group and our clients tensions, the Middle East We conduct stress tests and portfolio reviews at a Group, country and business level to assess the political situation and impact of extreme but plausible geopolitical events Brexit implications Macroeconomic conditions, We have a Business Risk Horizon framework that provides a 12- to 18-month forward looking in particular: China slowdown view of the economic, business and credit conditions across our key markets, enabling us to take and impact to regional proactive action economies with close ties We monitor economic trends and conduct stress tests and portfolio reviews at a Group, country to China, and Emerging and business level to assess the impact of extreme but plausible events Market risks We continue to adjust our outlook and ratings based on political events and volatility Climate-related physical risks We have participated in the development of pilot scenario analysis tools for physical and transition 1 and transition risks risks for energy utilities clients and other high-emitting sectors.
We are also involved in a wide range of collaborative initiatives related to climate risk management We have reduced our risk appetite to carbon-intensive sectors by introducing technical standards for coal-red power plants, and restrictions on new coal mining clients and projects.
In September 2018, we announced that we would no longer provide nancing for new coal-red power plants anywhere in the world We achieved, two years ahead of schedule, our public target to fund and facilitate $4 billion toward clean technology between 2016 and 2020 Regulatory reviews, We have invested in enhancing systems and controls, and implementing remediation programmes investigations and where relevant legal proceedings We are cooperating with all relevant ongoing reviews, requests for information and investigations, and we actively manage legal proceedings We continue to train and educate our people on conduct, conicts of interest, information security and financial crime compliance in order to reduce our exposure to legal and regulatory proceedings Regulatory changes We actively monitor regulatory initiatives across our footprint to identify any potential impact and change to our business model We have established relevant project management programmes to review and improve end-to-end processes in terms of oversight and accountability, transparency, permission and controls, legal entity level limits and training New technologies and We monitor emerging trends, opportunities and risks in the technology space which may have digitisation including implications on the banking sector business disruption risk, We are engaged in building our capabilities to ensure we remain relevant and are able to capitalise responsible use of rapidly on technology trends articial intelligence and We continue to make headway in harnessing new technologies, and we are investing in machine obsolescence risk learning solutions that rapidly analyse large datasets and ne-tune the accuracy of our financial crime surveillance tools We are actively targeting the reduction of obsolescent end of support technology following a technology and innovation led approach Increased data privacy and We have existing governance and control frameworks for the deployment of new technologies security risks from strategic We have designed a programme to manage the risks posed by rapidly evolving cyber security threats and wider use ofdata We maintain a vigilant watch on legal and regulatory developments in relation to data protection to identify any potential impact to the business Risk heightened in 2018 Risk remained consistent with 2017 levels 1 Physical risks refer to the risk of increased extreme weather events while transition risks refer to the risk of changes to market dynamics due to governments response to climate change Further details on principal uncertainties, including key changes since 2017, are set out in the Risk management approach pages 213 to 217 Summary The external environment is becoming increasingly uncertain even as the expectations of our customers and shareholders continue to rise.
Nonetheless, we continue to put our clients at the heart of all we do, and are strongly positioned to deliver our vision of increasing prosperity through taking risk.
We are a function that champions innovation, and our focus remains on building a strong and sustainable business which will benefit our clients, our people, and our society for generations to come.
Mark Smith Group Chief Risk officer 26 February 2019 41
