STRATEGIC REPORT Directors report Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Group Chief Executives review Delivering sustainable, high-quality growth We have made tremendous progress Just as it has in the past, our purpose will We grew in all segments and regions on a since 2015 when we set out to build strong continue to enable our success in the future.
year-on-year basis, except for Africa & Middle foundations, get lean and focus on our It therefore underpins the refreshed priorities East, where continued macro-political issues, strengths, and invest and innovate to delight that we are announcing today.
exacerbated by currency depreciations, our customers.
In 2018, we saw further dampened income momentum.
evidence of this strategy coming through 2018 performance Over half of our income is now generated we grew pro ts and returns, reinstated the from the network and wealth management 2018 was a year in which commerce and interim dividend, improved our customer activities in which we have invested.
This prosperity encountered their fair share of satisfaction measures in key products and income is growing quickly and generating challenges.
While the year started strongly segments, invested in exciting transformative premium returns.
This transition to higher with good momentum across all businesses, initiatives and became more agile in capturing quality growth, together with tight cost and client sentiment in our markets dipped later attractive opportunities in our markets.
risk control, means we have improved our in the year, coming under pressure from underlying return on tangible equity RoTE a geopolitical uncertainties, the rapid escalation Our purpose further 120 basis points in 2018 to of trade tensions between the US and China, 5.1 per cent.
While we are encouraged by the Standard Chartered is a unique bank.
as well as slower growth in the global steady improvement, we are acutely aware We have deep roots in, and a non-replicable economy.
Despite these conditions we that this level of return remains below our cost network across, many of the worlds most have continued to make good progress of capital.
dynamic markets, where half of the global on delivering our key areas of focus.
GDP growth is expected to be generated So, what now?
The Group, now on secured Our Greater China & North Asia and Retail over the next five years.
Every day, our foundations and poised for sustainable, Banking businesses overall continue to go 85,000 employees of 125 nationalities help higher-returning growth, is at another from strength to strength.
Our Transaction millions of people and companies succeed in ection point.
The refreshed priorities that Banking business has taken an increasing by growing, investing and protecting their we are announcing today will help realise the share of a competitive market, allowing it to wealth, while supporting sustainable value of the franchise, measured not only in excel on the back of higher interest rates.
economic and social development in the monetary terms but also in the positive Our Financial Markets business, which is communities in which we operate.
It has impact on our clients, stakeholders and one of our higher-returning activities and a become fashionable to talk about purpose, communities.
We expect to reach a major contributor to our network franchise, but this is not new for us.
Throughout our double-digit RoTE by 2021 by continuing to has grown in an environment where most history, this purpose to drive commerce build a purpose-led organisation which others shrank, and we expect stronger and prosperity through our unique diversity propels global trade and investment, helps performance from the refreshed team.
has always guided our decisions, our customers and markets achieve wealth behaviours and everything that we do.
and prosperity, while doing everything that we can to make the world a cleaner, safer and more sustainable place.
Wealth and prosperity We are here to help our clients become more prosperous whether they are international companies fostering trade and investment, or individual customers who seek help in managing their wealth.
We continue to improve our services for the emerging af uent.
We launched Premium Banking in eight markets in 2018.
Priority and Premium customers now make up 56 per cent of our Retail Banking income, compared to 27 per cent in 2014.
This is no coincidence we are laser-focused on improving their banking experience with us, as exempli ed by the fact that the Group is ranked by RFi Group as the best-in-class international bank for the Priority segment in seven of our top eight retail markets.
Our open-architecture wealth management platform, from which we now generate Bill Winters 30 per cent of our Retail Banking income Group Chief Executive compared to 20 per cent in 2014, also appeals to savers and investors.
07 Group Chief Executives STRATEGIC REPORT review Group Chief Executives review continued Invested in 2018 We are investing in our digital capabilities Our refreshed strategic priorities include to drive transformation in pro tability, reinforcing our efforts to support Chinas opportunities and financial inclusion in the opening and Africas development.
As one of retail mass market.
We are combining the largest international banks in China, and $1.6bn world-class expertise with local knowledge the only global bank present in scale across to be nimble and disruptive.
Following the Africa, we are ideally positioned to help 2017: $1.5bn successful testing and launch of our first facilitate cross-border trade and investment 2016: $1.4bn digital retail bank in Cte dIvoire last year, into and out of both regions.
we have rolled out a similar model in Uganda, Beyond China and Africa, our presence in Tanzania and Ghana, and have plans to roll 60 markets, including 45 along the Belt & out in Kenya in the first quarter of 2019, Road Initiative routes, as well as our wider subject to regulatory approval, and in most of network, which serves clients in a further our African markets by the end of the year.
85 markets, is proving highly attractive to our We have also made over 50 banking services clients.
Large multinational corporates and available on a single mobile app in India.
By institutions are signing up in increasing collaborating with best-in-class partners, we Proportion of Retail Banking income numbers because we can help them can rapidly develop and roll out exceptional generated from Priority clients manage their own businesses ef ciently and client propositions.
Not only have we applied safely across multiple borders.
In a report to establish a virtual challenger bank in conducted by East & Partners in 2018, we Hong Kong, we, together with Alibabas ranked first for customer satisfaction 47 % Ant Financial, have launched two real-time, in trade finance across Asia.
About two-thirds cross-border, blockchain-based payment of the income generated by our Corporate 2017: 45% services for the Hong Kong-Philippines and & Institutional Banking business is now 2016: 39% Malaysia-Pakistan remittance corridors, from clients that are using the network, a with plans to do more.
As we advance our signi cant increase compared with 2015 digital capabilities, we remain committed to when the Group was more focused on increasing our investments in our cyber capital-intensive lending to support the resilience and security.
We believe that in-country needs of clients.
easy and immediate access to banking and wealth advisory services, enabled by mobile Our client income is now more diversi ed, connectivity, will drive wealth and prosperity less capital-intensive, stickier and higherin even the most remote corners of our returning.
But there are still some key markets Proportion of Retail Banking clients emerging markets we have an important where we have not yet ful lled our potential.
that are digitally active role to play.
We are targeting higher-returning income and ef ciencies in India, Korea, the UAE and Indonesia.
Realising the opportunities those Trade and investment 49% markets present will signi cantly enhance the As a global bank with deep local expertise Groups financial performance and returns.
2017: 45% in Asia, Africa and the Middle East, we As one of the leading trade banks in the 2016: 40% strongly believe in the powerful bene ts of world, we are investing and innovating in globalisation.
For over 160 years, we have the way global trade finance operates to facilitated trade and investment in and across improve our customers experiences.
our markets, contributing to the rapid In addition to working with blockchain economic development of countries from platforms like Ripple for real-time crossChina to Nigeria, from Singapore to the UAE.
border currency settlement and supply While the bene ts of globalisation have not chain nancing, we are collaborating with been equally distributed, as evidenced by the Siemens Financial Services and TradeIX to rising populism in many countries, it cannot create the industrys first blockchain-based be disputed that global investment and trade smart guarantees, digitising the end-to-end have lifted more than a billion people out of process in trade finance.
Supporting these global capital ows is at the heart of our business: not only is it one of our differentiated customer propositions, but it also enables us to play a key role in tackling inequality.
Standard Chartered 08 Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Directors report Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information We have received a decision notice from the Embed a  and Sustainable banking Financial Conduct Authority FCA concerning innovative culture, which emphasises Since its launch in 2010, our brand promise, the Groups historical financial crime controls conduct and sustainability Here for good, has been deeply embedded and we continue our discussions relating to Invest to further accelerate growth in our into the fabric of our organisation.
At its core the potential resolution of the investigation higher returning international network and is the promise that we will be a force for by the US authorities relating to historical af uent client businesses, supporting good, helping clients navigate complex violations of US sanctions, the vast majority Chinas opening and Africas development threats and manage their nances consistent of which pre-date 2012.
As announced on with their own sustainability goals.
20 February 2019, we have made a provision Eliminate the drag on our returns from for potential penalties relating to the US several low-returning markets, including Our unique diversity helps us to be a force investigation, the FCA decision and previously India, Korea, the UAE and Indonesia, for good.
In addition to being included in the disclosed foreign exchange trading issues.
through cost and capital actions, Bloomberg Gender Equality Index for the Further details are set out in Note 26 on investments in our af uent client franchise fourth consecutive year, the Group has been page 305. and potentially disruptive partnerships recognised by Equileap last year as a top performing UK company for gender equality, It is our responsibility to do everything in our Streamline our own operations to ranking third in the UK and 26th globally a power to make the world cleaner and our ensure we delight our clients, and signi cant improvement from 42nd in 2017. communities more sustainable.
In addition drive productivity However, we still have room to improve.
to launching the worlds first sovereign blue Invest in digital initiatives to transform our Although we have virtually no gender pay bond designed to support sustainable marine business augmenting strong positions gaps in our major markets when adjusted for and sheries projects for the Republic of in more mature markets and disrupting level and business area, we continue to have Seychelles, we refreshed and consolidated elsewhere, and collaborating with an overall gender pay gap in the UK and our Position Statements and announced our best-in-class partners to quickly roll-out other major markets, re ecting the fact that decision not to finance any new coalred top-class products and services we have fewer females than males in senior power plants.
We are developing ways to roles and in businesses where the market measure and reduce our aggregate carbon Rapidly expand sustainable nancing to rates of pay are highest.
You may read more footprint, including those related to our drive a positive social, environmental and in our 2018 Gender Pay Gap disclosure on nancing activities, and will be working with economic impact page 46.
It will take some time and hard our clients and other stakeholders to drive By doing so, we expect to grow income work, but we will not settle until the gap is this commitment around the world.
We are between five and seven per cent, which is fully closed.
also working with a range of partners to well above the anticipated rate of growth increase the industrys understanding of It remains our commitment to be a leader for the global economy, maintain strong its role in stopping the illegal wildlife trade.
in the ght against financial and cyber discipline on costs to generate signi cant crime while partnering with others to do so.
We continue to invest in our communities to operating leverage and improve our funding We continue to invest heavily in improving promote sustainable economic and social and capital ef ciency, producing surplus standards across our markets and with our development.
As Jos mentioned in his capital which can be reinvested or returned to clients.
In addition to our highly successful statement, we began to shift our focus in shareholders.
It is this combination that we correspondent banking and new NGO 2018 to delivering community programmes expect will deliver a RoTE above 10 per cent academies, we along with a group of that promote economic inclusion and by 2021. global banks established a joint initiative address the challenge of inequality in to build a digital Trade Information Network, our markets.
Outlook which will enable better assessment of risks, particularly around double nancing and We remain cautiously optimistic on the From turnaround to fraudulent trade information.
global macroeconomic environment, but transformation the range of possible outcomes from an We are remediating the Groups historical array of matters is wider than it has been Our refreshed strategic priorities build on our conduct issues and have made substantial in a long time.
This creates uncertainty purpose and earlier areas of focus, but mark progress in resolving past financial crime among policymakers as well as our clients.
a change in the way we operate as we go control issues.
The New York State We believe that as multinational companies from turnaround to transformation.
We are Department of Financial Services has grapple with the possibility that barriers to determined to build a culture of excellence, acknowledged the Groups progress in trade could rise and supply chains may grow sustainably, and build long-term returns.
remediating and improving its financial crime be impacted, they will nd it even more We are doubling-down on what we have controls to the point that a monitor is no important to deal with banks like ours that done well, focusing on how we build longer necessary and has been replaced have the sophistication, market presence partnerships with others to deliver better by an independent consultant.
and determination to help them navigate outcomes, and re ning our approach to an increasingly complex world.
low-returning areas where we can and must do better.
We will: 09 Group Chief Executives STRATEGIC REPORT review Group Chief Executives review continued Undoubtedly there will be shocks and bumps I am proud of our achievements in 2018 along the way, but as we are far more resilient and excited for what we have in store for now, we will be ready to absorb them when 2019 and beyond.
There are always external not if they come our way, and will seek to factors which are beyond our control, but take advantage of disruptions if they occur.
they will not be accepted as excuses.
We have what it takes to perform excellently, and we will plough through obstacles we Conclusion nd in our way to deliver responsibly and My colleagues and I have great pride in the innovatively the bank we know we can be.
Group and that for which it stands.
Adding a sharper performance edge to that is essential.
In all the markets that I have visited this year I have delivered one consistent message to our teams: our business can only thrive if our customers feel that we are Bill Winters helping them in extraordinary ways.
We are Group Chief Executive delivering on that commitment.
Group Chief Executive Regional CEO, ASEAN & South Asia 2.
Group Chief Financial Of cer 9.
Tanuj Kapilashrami Group Head, Human 3.
Tracy Clarke Resources Regional CEO, Europe & Americas and CEO, 10.
Private Bank Regional CEO, Africa & Middle East 4.
Tracey McDermott, CBE Group Head, Corporate and Institutional Banking Affairs, Brand & Marketing, 5.
David Fein Conduct, Financial Crime Group General Counsel and Compliance 6.
Mark Smith Group Chief Information Group Chief Risk Of cer Of cer 13.
Group Chief Operating Of cer 8.
Regional CEO, Greater China & North Asia and CEO, Retail Banking, and Wealth Management 12.
Standard Chartered 10 Annual Report 2018 ST STR RA AT TE EGIC GIC RE REPORT PORT D Diir re ect ctor ors s r re epor port t R Risk isk r re evie view w a and nd C Capital apital r re evie view w F Fin ina an nc ciia al l sta stat te em me en nt ts s Su S Sup p ppl plle em m me en ent tar ary y i y in nfo nfo orm rma mat ti tio o on n GROW WITH CLIENTS Supporting a fruitful export business in Mumbai Mumbai-headquartered Patel Retail, a manufacturer and exporter of food and home and personal care items, signed an INR 100,000,000 $1.4 million credit facility with Standard Chartered in January 2018.
The funds were provided in the form of cash credit and packing credit and have enabled the rm to expand its export business and, as a result, its top line growth.
Since taking the facility Patel Retail has seen its sales revenue increase by INR 42.5 million $600,567, or 15 per cent each month.
We are expanding our export business across the globe and Standard Chartered is doing business across the globe, so this facility will help us with our global activity.
Patel Retail CFO | Deepak Jain The companys chief financial of cer, Deepak Jain, stated that it chose to work with Standard Chartered over other banks owing to its unique global footprint.
The company is planning to continue to grow its sales and export business by 20 per cent per annum over the next five years.
Patel Retail was established in 2007 in Ambernath, India.
As well as running a manufacturing and export business for the overseas market, it also owns a chain of Patel R Mart supermarkets in Mumbai.
