Co-Chief Executives overview Transforming our business Defining our culture As we continue work on our transformation its been a priority for us to focus on our culture.
The success of our business is about our people, so we want to ensure the environment we work in is innovative, collaborative and inclusive: a place where people can flourish.
This will help us set the foundation for delivering what our clients and customers need from us today, tomorrow and for the longer term.
Keith Skeoch Absolute Return Strategies GARS, and weakness in most equity Q | How has the business performed in 2018?
classes other than Asia Pacific.
Performance for Fixed income, Adjusted profit before tax from continuing operations of 650m Cash Liquidity and Alternatives remain strong over three and five was 2% lower than 2017 on a Pro forma basis and included the years.
benefit of our share of Phoenix adjusted profits from 1 September 2018.
IFRS profit attributable to equity holders of Standard Life A turnaround in performance may take some time but there are Aberdeen plc increased by 19% to 830m mainly as a result of signs of recent improvement in equity investment performance the 1,780m gain on the sale of the UK and European insurance and stronger short-term momentum in absolute returns.
We business, partially offset by an 880m impairment of the discuss our plans to improve investment performance in more Aberdeen Standard Investments goodwill intangible asset.
Our financial performance undoubtedly reflects challenging market conditions and the impact of outflows and there is work to Q | Can you explain the benefits from selling the UK be done to address this.
This is set against the backdrop of and European insurance business to Phoenix?
fundamental change for Standard Life Aberdeen.
The sale of the business for a total consideration of 3.3bn completed the transformation of Standard Life Aberdeen into a We have transformed the shape of our business through our fee based capital-light investment company.
integration and the sale of our UK and European insurance business to Phoenix, a significant undertaking.
In India, the IPO of We received cash proceeds of 2.3bn from the sale including a HDFC AMC completed in August.
The shareholding we retain in dividend from SLAL of 0.3bn and generated an IFRS gain on the business reflects the potential we see in Indias asset disposal of 1.8bn.
The proceeds enabled us to announce the management sector.
On 11 March 2019, we also announced an substantial return of capital to shareholders of up to 1.75bn.
We offer for sale process in respect of up to 4.93% of the shares of returned 1bn to shareholders by way of a B share scheme in HDFC Life, our associate life business in India at a floor price of November 2018, and have made good progress on our share Rs 357.5 per share.
Assuming the offer is fully subscribed at the buyback programme, with 235m completed by the end of 2018. floor price, net sale proceeds are expected to be c380m.
In addition to the cash proceeds, we received shares representing I am proud of what our people have achieved in 2018 while a 19.98% stake in Phoenix which allows us to benefit from their recognising we have a challenging year ahead to deliver on the strong position in the UK pensions market and significant growth potential of our transformed business.
Our share of the Phoenix results for the four months post transaction contributed 86m to our 2018 adjusted profit.
Q | How do you account for weaker investment The transaction also strengthens our existing strategic partnership performance?
Weve put in place long-term arrangements that It's been a disappointing year for our investment performance, allow us to collaborate across a number of areas, and under and our long-term investment approach is being tested by the which we will be Phoenixs asset manager of choice.
More information on markets can be found partnerships we choose are based on shared values and play a on pages 24 to 25 and on our investment approach on page 19. vital role in allowing us to reach clients across different markets.
We believe that the enhanced partnership will continue to Investment performance over three years was mixed with 50% of generate financial benefits for both ourselves and Phoenix.
total assets under management ahead of benchmark.
Over the longer term five year period 62% of total assets under Under the transaction we have also retained our valuable and fast management were ahead of benchmark.
The weaker three year growing Standard Life branded UK retail platforms Wrap and performance reflects a challenging period with negative returns Elevate, as well as our financial planning and advice business within multi-asset absolute return strategies, in particular Global 1825.
4 Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Q | What is the role of asset managers in society?
Q | How do you retain and attract talented people Finance is indispensable within a modern society.
funds to borrowers like businesses, start-ups and governments, The amount of change we have seen as a business can be and provides a way for savers to accumulate wealth and provide unsettling for our people and they are our greatest asset.
Asset managers are at the centre of this.
were working hard to create an inclusive culture and environment that enables them to work together effectively.
With this As well as acting in the best interests of our clients, we need to motivation in mind, we asked our people to have their say in operate in a way that takes account of our wider responsibilities to helping define our values and culture.
The values we developed society and to help address the long-standing issue of restoring are central to how we will think and act as a business.
They are trust across our industry.
As active managers, we engage with the outlined on page 9 and reflected throughout this report.
companies in which we invest and hold them to account in the way they operate.
As members of civic society we work with In 2018, we also conducted an all-employee survey to find out governments and regulators to improve the efficiency and how our people feel about the significant changes we have been relevance of capital markets and the sustainability of the returns making and how we can help them be more effective.
themes drawn from the survey are already informing new approaches to how we communicate with our colleagues and the work we are doing to enhance our operations.
You can read more Q | Tackling climate change is a growing issue, how about how we engage our employees on page 28.
Our scale and are you addressing the issue?
global ambitions provide opportunities which mean we are an We have been working to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions attractive employer to prospective talent.
for many years, through tracking our consumption, improvements in building management, and encouraging our people to Q | What are your priorities for thebusiness over the reconsider the need for air travel through technology solutions.
Our greatest impact, however, is through how we invest our next year?
We have three key priorities: improving investment performance, which I have touched on, growth which Martin discusses over the In support of the Taskforce for Climate-related Financial page, and transformation.
Our transformation includes the merger Disclosures TCFD recommendations, weve launched two integration, embedding our new operating model and separation Climate Change working groups.
One group is focused on our activity.
investment approach across asset classes.
The second group focuses on our operations such as our greenhouse gas Integration continues to move forward at pace, with delivery of emissions, reduction activities and TCFD implementation, and synergies ahead of the original schedule.
On the investment side, how we integrate these considerations into our risk processes.
we have made considerable progress with our fund rationalisation we have closed 14 funds, 3 umbrella funds and over 100 share Weve also made commitments to renewable electricity.
We have returned over 11m of seed Operationally, we will procure 100% of our electricity in our global investment to enable new product launches and are harmonising offices from renewable sources by 2020, and the real estate features and suppliers across our fund ranges.
Aberdeen Standard Investments manages in the UK will be powered by 100% renewable electricity by 2020.
We are also making good progress in optimising the benefits from our new simplified global operating model that embraces modern working practices, lays the foundations for a common culture and supports the delivery of our targeted annual efficiency savings of over 350m.
We previously announced that we expected to incur one-off costs relating to the separation of the business sold to Phoenix of approximately 250m, and there has been no change to this estimate.
We agreed a transitional services agreement with Phoenix to ensure that both businesses can continue to operate after completion in the same way as they did before.
This arrangement covers functions such as IT, Finance, Risk, HR People and Premises.
We expect full separation to take up to three years to complete.
Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 5 Co-Chief Executives overview Our growth agenda Global ambitions Were focused on building our brand around the world.
In 2018, we launched the first Aberdeen Standard Investments global marketing campaign, highlighting our investment capabilities across asset classes.
We produced dedicated material and content in 11 languages to support our local teams.
Aberdeen Standard Investments was also the global partner for the Ryder Cup in Paris, with an estimated 660 million households watching the TV coverage of this prestigious event.
Martin Gilbert Q | Its been over a year since the merger, how has the Q | Can you provide an update on the dispute with company developed since then?
Lloyds Banking Group Scottish Widows?
There is still work to do to reshape our business but we are On 15February2018, we announced that Lloyds Banking Group making good progress.
Weve co-located over 4,000 employees LBG and Scottish Widows had sent Standard Life Aberdeen across 18 offices worldwide.
Our people are central to our SLA a notice on 14February to terminate the long-term asset success so Im pleased that we have retained talented colleagues management arrangements between them IMAs covering, in through the integration and they understand the journey we are aggregate, around 109bn of AUM at the end of a 12month on.
The work we have done to combine our investment and At 31 December 2018, the AUM was c100bn and no assets distribution teams ensures they are well placed to manage and have currently been withdrawn.
SLA has informed LBG that it promote our diverse investment solutions, our adviser platforms does not agree that, following the merger of Aberdeen Asset and advice businesses.
We'five increased our global scale and are Management PLC and Standard Life plc, SLA was in material seeing the benefits through a more diverse pipeline of new competition in the UK with LBG and that, therefore, SLA does not business across the 27 countries where we operate.
consider that LBG, Scottish Widows or their respective affiliates has the right to terminate the IMAs.
The parties have been We have seen changes in our major shareholdings.
In February engaged in an arbitration process since last year.
this year, Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation, which was one of our major shareholders, sold its stake based on Q | Can you explain why the share price fell changes in the business environment, but reaffirmed that we are significantly in 2018?
an important partner for them in Japan.
The ongoing dispute with Lloyds is covered below.
2018 has been challenging for asset managers across the world due to significant geopolitical developments and uncertain market conditions.
These factors have led to significant share price falls Q | What has caused the high level of outflows in for asset managers generally.
announcement that Lloyds Banking Group and Scottish Widows Net flows have been disappointing in a tough market but wished to terminate arrangements for the assets we manage for redemptions were concentrated in equities and multi-asset.
Net them, together with continued net outflows from our flagship outflows in equities reflected investment sentiment towards products have also had an impact on our share price.
emerging markets and equity markets more generally, and both multi-asset and equities were also impacted by weaker However, as a result of the merger and through the action weve investment performance.
taken to reshape our business, we believe that the Company is well placed to benefit from our broader range of capabilities.
Markets are increasingly volatile, and in those conditions active managers can have the potential to add real value this is an opportunity for us.
Its positive that overall gross inflows are up compared to last year and are well balanced across our asset classes.
In particular, we have seen strong demand continue for some of our newer propositions, for instance our MyFolio range and for services offered through the Parmenion platform.
6 Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Q | What are the primary issues and concerns for Q | What are your plans for growing the company?
In the UK, we want to keep growing assets through our leading clients?
adviser platforms Wrap, Elevate and Parmenion, which Investment performance is, of course, very important.
Aside from continue to benefit from changes in pensions legislation, and our this, individual customers need to take increased responsibility for 1825 advice business.
They want to be confident that their choices are the right ones for themselves and their families.
We are also, With more than 550bn of assets we have the scale to invest and through our decisions and actions, working to restore trust in our innovate and we will continue to build on our strengths in new industry, as the after-effects of the 2008 crisis continue to be felt.
active through product launches and targeted acquisitions in areas where we are seeing growing client demands.
Increasingly, clients are interested in how we incorporate environmental, societal and governance concerns into our We also continue to broaden our capabilities across our global investment process.
This includes topics of societal interest like networks.
Our new joint venture with Investcorp will target social climate change and equal gender representation, both of which and core infrastructure investment projects in Gulf Cooperation are also areas that we can help address through our operational Countries and our acquisition of Orion Partners will expand our and employee engagement activities.
direct real estate capabilities into Asia.
We are investing to build a modern, dynamic global business Q | What are you doing to address these issues?
which has the talent, scale and high-performing investment We look to provide solutions that deliver strong investment solutions to compete against the leading asset management outcomes while also being affordable, inclusive and easy to companies across the world.
On the issue of trust, clients need to see that we are committed to doing the right thing, being transparent in terms of fees and levels of risk.
Managing investments actively allows us to navigate volatility, not simply to weather it.
To deliver the right outcomes, we also consider how we engage and remain connected.
Innovation and technology has made a difference to how we connect our global expertise to support and benefit our investment processes.
Q | What are new active investments and why are they central to the growth strategy?
New active strategies typically invest in private markets, alternatives, active specialities and solutions, and are designed with a focus on meeting clients evolving needs.
The main difference between new active and traditional active asset management is the focus on outcomes instead of benchmarks.
Its also about looking at where the opportunities are beyond core classes like equities and fixed income and into more specialist sectors like infrastructure.
The size of this sector has more than doubled in just ten years so the demand is there.
To be successful though, does take significant expertise and insight.
Thats where I believe we have a competitive advantage and why its core to our strategy, because we have the talent to design and deliver compelling propositions and the scale to market them effectively around the world.
