com Strategic Report Chief Executives Review Euan Sutherland Were clear on how we will achieve this strategy, by focusing on our four distinct strategic drivers that underpin our growth: G. R. O. W. Global Digital Brand, Relentless Innovation, Operational Excellence & World Market Opportunity.
Superdry 5.0 Superdrys purpose is clear, enabling our global customers to feel amazing by making great quality, uniquely designed, value-formoney clothes and accessories.
Our obsessive focus on these The continued development of our Design to Customer Financial summary three key attributes of the brand DNA underpins the Superdry processes allied to the targeted reduction in inventory levels, proposition, which in turn creates long-term growth opportunities in While we have only introduced Superdry 5.0 this financial year, this particularly in stores, during the year have contributed to existing and new markets.
These, combined with an increasing level sharpened focus has already contributed to our success.
Superdry increased operational efficiency which will continue into financial of operational effectiveness, deliver sector-leading earnings growth.
operates through two divisions, Wholesale and Retail, and across year 2019. these two divisions through eight channels to market.
By prioritising In September 2017 we updated and refined our strategic The brands development in China remains in line with our longour capital light channels in Wholesale and Ecommerce, we have framework to reflect the changing world in which we operate.
The underlying performance in North America, other delivered 22.1% Global Brand revenue growth and 16.0% growth Superdry 5.0 builds on the demonstrable progress achieved than the short-term disruption to a significant number of stores in Group revenue in the year.
We grew revenues in Wholesale and since we last articulated our strategy in March 2015 with a clearly within our North American portfolio, continues to be encouraging.
Ecommerce by 29.6% and 25.8% respectively, and will continue to defined brand positioning and a set of genuine corporate values, invest in revenue-driving technology to take further advantage of the Underlying profit before tax increased by 11.5% which reflected which define the way we do business: Fun, Creativation, Quality, consumer trend towards digital shopping.
the continued investment in these two development markets Individuality, Family and Passion.
and the completion of our migration towards multiple distribution Against a challenging consumer backdrop, our store revenue grew We are clear on how we will achieve this strategy, by focusing centres.
This represents the third consecutive year of double-digit by 3.4%, and continues to be a core element of our business both on our four distinct strategic drivers that underpin our growth: earnings growth.
from a brand presence and revenue perspective.
Our disciplined G. R. O. W. Global Digital Brand, Relentless Innovation, approach to expansion means that we will only grow owned The Superdry 5.0 strategy will continue to guide our future growth Operational Excellence & World Market Opportunity.
space in a measured approach, taking advantage of the best and expansion across the highest value geographies, channels Our disruptive multi-channel approach provides us with eight locations where the brand has highest visibility and resonance with and categories.
distinct channels to market, and creates a compelling vision for our consumers and where returns on our capital are faster.
Pages 8 to 9 set out our progress against each of are also enhancing our existing space through cost-engineered, these strategic drivers in more detail, and how we will continue consumer and digital-centric refits to drive incremental profits.
indd 19 26 07 2018 16:57:28 SUPERDRY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Chief Executives Review Recognising the need for the Superdry brand to which saw strong returns.
The scale of the customer resonate through everything we do we changed our engagement with Superdry from all of our campaigns name from SuperGroup Plc to Superdry Plc during this year is significant, reaching over 500 million social the year.
This provides complete clarity and alignment media users and generating 21 million video views.
of the brand and the underlying business.
Based on our consumer insights and research, we As we drive our business forward we apply a digital will continue to extend our social and digital marketing mindset to everything we do, across all of our strategies, partnering with a set of global music events Global functions, markets and channels.
By embracing this where our Superdry Sounds campaign will promote trend and focusing our investment behind technology new and emerging music talent, which we identified we will drive both sales and improve efficiency.
as a key area of interest for the Superdry consumer.
The campaign will involve a global artist and festival Ecommerce represents an established strength programme, and in-store gigs for our most loyal with revenues increasing by 25.8% in the year, and customers, generating engaging content that we can Digital now represents just under a third of our total Retail amplify across our social media platforms.
We continue to invest significantly in user experience with over 700 enhancements delivered We are proud to be the Official Clothing Supplier to by our in-house development team over the past 12 the UK delegation for the Invictus Games in Sydney months, including trials of leading edge technology later this year.
We have delivered our first milestone of Brand such as iBeacons.
Having launched two further sites this commitment, supplying each of the competitors during the year to access new consumers with a at the selection trials with branded t-shirts, while tailored, localised experience, we operate 16 owned measuring each competitor for bespoke, technical websites in local languages.
Our involvement and marketing will Superdry not SuperGroup onward, our Ecommerce consumers will be served build as we progress towards the games in October from all three distribution centres in the UK, Europe 2018, driving a step change in awareness of and Integrated digital and and US, meaning we can offer market-leading technical capability of the Superdry Sport range and marketing campaigns delivery options in all of our key markets.
building on our strong and growing presence in this market.
We continue to strengthen Superdrys presence Continued investment in through fully integrated digital and social marketing Future developments website technology campaigns.
These campaigns reinforce our ownership Our continued investment behind our websites of core product categories by illustrating the breadth Applying a digital mindset means we can offer a market-leading proposition of choice suitable for every occasion and leverage to customers, and will build on this in financial year brand advocacy by building influence across the to all we do 2019 through the development of our Progressive communities in which we operate, allowing us to Web App.
Mobile continues to be the fastest cost effectively introduce new consumers, while also growing element within digital, and this initiative will strengthening relationships with existing ones.
greatly enhance download speeds, capitalising on This was exemplified by our key summer campaign, our consumers shopping preferences.
The Night Is Young, with the central film achieving Recognising our customers loyalty, we will launch more than 7.1 million views, leading to 2.1 million new websites in key growth markets such as website visits, significantly increasing the rate of new Ireland, Poland and Greece, as well as opening up customer acquisitions and driving a strong sales new channels with third party partners to access uplift from the featured products.
Critical within our incremental sales.
strategy are thoughtful partnerships with influencers in the digital arena, each selected specifically to We also have a great opportunity to optimise sales resonate with target consumer types and territories.
to our Wholesale partners, who represent our fastest growing and largest customers.
The launch Building on this approach, we significantly amplified of a new B2B website will enable our customers to our consumer reach in our autumn campaign, This view and purchase from the full range of Superdry Is The Jacket, driving a consistent message from product, streamlining their ability to make in-season all consumers and across all touchpoints, leveraging purchases in response to their sales performance multiple forms of digital media.
For the first time we and new demands from their consumers.
extended our activity into our largest European market, 20 Germany, with a specifically targeted campaign Superdry Front Section.
com Strategic Report which saw strong returns.
The scale of the customer engagement with Superdry from all of our campaigns this year is significant, reaching over 500 million social media users and generating 21 million video views.
Based on our consumer insights and research, we will continue to extend our social and digital marketing strategies, partnering with a set of global music events where our Superdry Sounds campaign will promote new and emerging music talent, which we identified as a key area of interest for the Superdry consumer.
The campaign will involve a global artist and festival programme, and in-store gigs for our most loyal customers, generating engaging content that we can amplify across our social media platforms.
We are proud to be the Official Clothing Supplier to the UK delegation for the Invictus Games in Sydney later this year.
We have delivered our first milestone of this commitment, supplying each of the competitors at the selection trials with branded t-shirts, while measuring each competitor for bespoke, technical competition kit.
Our involvement and marketing will build as we progress towards the games in October 2018, driving a step change in awareness of and technical capability of the Superdry Sport range and building on our strong and growing presence in this market.
Future developments Our continued investment behind our websites means we can offer a market-leading proposition to customers, and will build on this in financial year 2019 through the development of our Progressive Web App.
Mobile continues to be the fastest growing element within digital, and this initiative will greatly enhance download speeds, capitalising on our consumers shopping preferences.
Recognising our customers loyalty, we will launch new websites in key growth markets such as Ireland, Poland and Greece, as well as opening up new channels with third party partners to access incremental sales.
We also have a great opportunity to optimise sales to our Wholesale partners, who represent our fastest growing and largest customers.
The launch of a new B2B website will enable our customers to view and purchase from the full range of Superdry product, streamlining their ability to make in-season purchases in response to their sales performance and new demands from their consumers.
indd 21 27 07 2018 11:08:49 SUPERDRY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Chief Executives Review Innovation is at the heart of the way we do ranges.
By creating a broad product range, we business but is particularly ingrained in our design are able to target a wider range of customer process, and forms part of our unique product demographics and expand the number of stages DNA.
All of our products are designed in-house and events where and every year we update the significant majority of Superdry can play our product range, which is crucial in ensuring we a part in our loyal maintain newness and remain the category leader consumers lives.
Relentless for our core products: jackets, sweats, hoodies The development and t-shirts.
of our Superdry We continue to invest in our Design, Category Sport range Management and Merchandising teams, growing capitalises on from a team of 66 in 2015 to more than 165 today.
growing consumer Innovation These colleagues live and breathe the Superdry demand for brand, understand the core DNA of Superdry and high-quality, have demonstrated over recent seasons an ability fashionable to develop commercial ranges, spot appropriate athleisure Innovation ingrained in our design trends informed by feedback from consumers and product, and process analysis of our sales data, and expand the brand to now contributes adjacent categories.
c. 5% of Group Obsessive focus on quality revenue globally.
By applying our 360 degree approach to design Our confidence in and using the best fabrics, trims and accessories, Leveraging automation throughout the range is best we ensure the product looks and feels fantastic, demonstrated the production process front and back, inside and out.
This means through demand within our Wholesale channel, customers continue to find unique and interesting including the opening of eight dedicated Superdry design details each time they wear the product that Sport franchise stores in financial year 2018. is immediately identifiable as Superdry.
Our partnership with the UK Invictus Games team Our garment technology team ensures that every will further build awareness of the breadth and item in our range is checked multiple times to quality of our sport proposition.
It will also provide ensure the correct look and feel, leading to a us with further valuable technical experience as we fantastic product that delivers on our commitment create product for elite athletes, elements of which to quality.
By focusing obsessively on quality, we will be introduced across the wider Sport range.
are able to achieve sector-leading performance, with less than 1% of our product returned as faulty.
Future goals In partnership with our suppliers we are leveraging We continue to see growth opportunities in automation throughout our production process, established heritage categories such as jackets reducing labour intensity and increasing and hoodies, as well as building categories where consistency and quality across our products.
our approach can be more disruptive such as jeans We will look to accelerate investment in this and in focused new category development.
technology in the coming financial year.
We are Within this, Womenswear remains our most also working with our supply base to allow us to significant opportunity, contributing 36.3% of our react more rapidly to sales and fashion trends, Group revenue, and we continue to see a huge through more frequent, fast-reaction, opportunistic opportunity in this category.
We are investing in production runs as we look to optimise trading building an even more granular understanding performance through each season.
of both the purchasers and wearers of Superdry Our continued focus on range innovation has clothing, which will allow us to broaden and driven significant value, with the launch in recent refine our offer to better meet the needs of the years of our Superdry Sport and Superdry Snow Womenswear market.
com Strategic Report 23 Superdry Front Section.
indd 23 26 07 2018 16:57:47 SUPERDRY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Chief Executives Review We operate a model of continuous improvement In 2016 we established our Hong Kong sourcing focusing on every part of our operation, every year, office which, together with our sourcing offices seeking to reduce cost, improve speed to market in Turkey and India, means that we now have a and enhance the brand experience for Superdry dedicated end market sourcing and quality control consumers.
resource in each of our three key production territories.
We have increased our direct sourcing The majority of the initiatives outlined below have by over 30% since 2015, and are on track to been in development for a number of years, Operational achieve our long-term ambition of over 80% by sequenced to minimise executional risk and financial year 2019. maximise returns.
Many are also interlinked, addressing improvement opportunities throughout During the period we continued to invest in our the process chain.
infrastructure with the extension of our multichannel capability to our European distribution Excellence At the start of the process chain, we continue centre, and the successful implementation of a to target the harmonisation of the global range, new order management system for Ecommerce.
increasing the level of product overlap between our Together, these developments allowed our market Retail and Wholesale ranges.
In financial year 2018, leading Ecommerce delivery proposition to be Global range we had increased this overlap by more than 20%, introduced to key European markets ahead of peak providing a significant opportunity to leverage value rationalisation season.
Both our UK and EU distribution centres throughout the supply chain from lower cost prices are now serving all channels, reducing the speed and consolidated through a more concentrated buy.
to market and by Autumn 2018 our US distribution inventory pools centre will also fulfil Ecommerce sales, reducing This harmonisation is a key enabler to the creation delivery times and enabling us to sell through new of a single consolidated inventory pool across Continued third party channels.
our Retail and Wholesale channels.
Integrating investment in our store, Ecommerce and Wholesale stock will allow us to maximise availability across all of our Future goals infrastructure sales channels, offer the wider retail range to our Investment in technology will enable us to Wholesale customers in-season and as a result Increasing levels continue driving efficiency across our operations.
We anticipate In financial year 2018 we piloted Radio Frequency of directly sourced consolidating our inventory pools by the end of Identification RFID in five of our stores in the UK, calendar year 2018. product driving significant benefits in inventory accuracy and labour efficiency in-store.
Given the significant As we announced in July 2017, we are also actively Successful operational benefits, and the digital marketing rebasing our inventory levels, particularly in-store, opportunities and brand protection enabled by this RFID trials through a programme of managed clearance of technology, we will be rolling RFID out more widely aged stock, utilising all of our channels to market.
By significantly scaling back inventory held in store stockrooms and implementing more effective Aligned with our digital approach, we will also replenishment processes, we can minimise the introduce technology into our store estate, freeing movement of stock from production to sale without up colleague time to serve customers.
Utilising damaging availability, while enhancing margins and enhanced mobile point of sale devices will allow reducing labour and logistics costs.
staff to drive incremental sales, as well as access live inventory and trading data, while still providing Inventory cover has been reduced by nine exceptional service to customers in the store.
weeks to date, and combined with the benefits We will also be trialling more digital store formats, of a consolidated stock pool we expect further leveraging consumer preferences and optimising improvements in financial year 2019. the capital intensity required versus a traditional store layout.
com Strategic Report 25 Superdry Front Section.
indd 25 26 07 2018 16:57:57 SUPERDRY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Chief Executives Review While Superdry currently generates revenue The alignment of our Wholesale and Retail in 157 countries, globally the brand remains operations into a single stock pool in autumn 2018 underrepresented in all major geographies compared will offer both economies of scale to the Group as to brand peers, providing a significant opportunity well as increased choice to our Wholesale and for growth.
Superdry is also uniquely advantaged, Retail customers going forward.
The launch of the having established capability to sell via eight distinct new B2B website is also an exciting development World channels to market, providing channel flexibility and that we anticipate will increase in-season sales.
agility whether entering a new market or deciding the optimal growth strategy where we have an existing Retail presence.
including Ecommerce Significantly, six of our eight routes to consumer are The Retail divisions routes to consumer comprise Market capital-light in nature, each allowing us to expand the three Ecommerce channels and owned and rapidly into locations without deploying our balance outlet stores.
Our strategy is to provide customers sheet, while still driving brand awareness through with the choice of how and when they want to reach, and gaining market share.
shop and there are significant synergies between these routes.
Stores act as a physical showcase Growth opportunities for the brand exist from each Opportunity for customers to experience Superdry and facilitate of the product, geography and channel dimension Ecommerce transactions by allowing customers to and each will be progressed in a disciplined and access the full range of product available via our cautious manner to ensure that the organisation iKiosk technology, as well as being able to return is not overstretched, that resource is correctly Disciplined eight-channel or exchange purchases.
Our websites help to drive allocated and that the brand experience is approach provides flexibility footfall into stores by building brand awareness in protected.
From a geographic perspective, this developing markets, and reinforcing existing brand is clearly illustrated by the focus of the majority of and agility awareness in our more mature territories.
the organisation on building the brand presence in Europe with a small team dedicated to North Focus on EU, US Accordingly, physical stores remain a core element America and, recognising the complexity of of our brand proposition and an important source of and China markets operating in that market, an established joint revenue and we continue to grow our presence in venture in China.
key markets, albeit at a moderated rate and in line Wholesale more than with strict investment criteria, requiring short lease Significant progress has been made within each half Global Brand commitments, a more direct relationship between of our routes to the ultimate consumer.
property costs and turnover and more rapid revenue payback rates.
Targeting 4,000 to 6,000 square Wholesale feet in major cities or prime locations in shopping Strict criteria Wholesale remains the fastest growing division, and malls, we now have 246 owned stores across now drives more than half of our total Global Brand targeting more rapid 12 countries, up 26 over the period.
revenues 59.8% and more than a third of Group store investment revenue 37.1%.
Financial year 2018 saw doubleOur disciplined approach to stores also applies digit growth in our forward order books for the to existing stores.
Our Next Generation store refit payback third year running, with in-season sales growing by programme impacted 11 stores in the year, driving 6.9%.
Continental Europe remains our key growth a 6.8% sales premium compared to the wider market with revenues up 27.1% to 200.1m.
However, recognising our preference for Revenue growth has been strong across our capital-light investments we have further refined the three channels to market franchise stores, major refit model during the current year, allowing us to multiple retailers and local independents which accelerate this programme in financial year 2019. demonstrates the ongoing demand for the brand across our diverse customer base.
This revenue growth has been in part driven by the opening of 75 net new franchise stores across 33 different countries, increasing our franchised locations by 24%.
com Strategic Report 27 Superdry Front Section.
indd 27 26 07 2018 16:58:01 SUPERDRY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 28 Superdry Front Section.
com Strategic Report Chief Executives Review The inherent flexibility built from a commitment to short lease Wholesale growth provided the necessary confidence to terms established since 2015 means that the majority of our bring the previously third party managed operation in-house current stores have an exit opportunity in the next four years.
This profile provides significant flexibility, were it necessary, to Despite the short-term trading impacts in financial year 2018, rationalise or renegotiate the costs of the portfolio on a store-bywe anticipate profitability in financial year 2019, powered by store basis, as required.
growth in our Wholesale and Ecommerce channels.... inherent Embodying our Global Digital strategy, our objective is to make it flexibility built inspiring and easy for people across the planet to buy Superdry China products, and deliver amazing end-to-end experience centred from a commitment China is an exciting market and is forecast to overtake the US as on a sector-leading delivery proposition.
Reflecting this focus and to short lease the largest apparel and footwear market in the world.
Consumer further progress in the year, online revenues grew at 25.8% in tastes are evolving from luxury brands to those influenced by terms... financial year 2018, with Ecommerce participation increasing to pop culture and we believe that Superdry is well positioned to 29.7% of total Retail sales.
This performance benefitted from our be successful.
continued development of the user experience as outlined within Global Digital Brand, investment in enabling technology and the We have a 50:50 joint venture agreement with Trendy shift in consumer preference to shop online, in particular from International Group Trendy.
During the year, we have worked mobile devices.
with Trendy to support an experienced joint venture team who manage the Chinese business with our involvement focused on providing strategic direction, product and brand support as well Development markets as supporting store opening and marketing activities.
Trendy Within the broader World Market Opportunity, the development provides logistical, financial processing and IT support in addition markets of North America and China represent the two most to people development and market knowledge.
significant future growth opportunities for the Superdry brand.
During financial year 2018 we opened seven owned stores in tier North America 1 cities, supported by a further 12 franchise openings, meaning we now have 33 locations across the country.
Brand awareness North America provides us with the opportunity to enhance also continues to build, with our product collaboration with our brand and build the long-term value of our business We expect to more musician Timmy Xu being extremely successful, reaching 500 there.
We have reset the US business over the past two years million social media users in China, and driving significant interest than double Superdrys through remedial actions, the introduction of a broader product in Superdry.
range and better price architecture.
We have seen a positive presence in China consumer response to our actions and we are now well placed We expect to more than double Superdrys presence in financial in financial to accelerate our scale in this market, led by growth in Wholesale year 2019, driven by rapid expansion of the franchise estate, and and Ecommerce.
year 2019 remain on track for the joint venture to achieve profitability by financial year 2021.
We see continued opportunities to expand our physical store footprint from its current base of 30.
However, as with our wider strategy we will focus on the highest demand locations, targeting stores only in the top 70 mall locations across the US.
Reflecting this focus, during financial year 2018 we opened ten stores in key locations including Los Angeles, Boston and Chicago.
While underlying performance in financial year 2018 was encouraging, construction activity by landlords disrupted performance in four existing stores, while lower than anticipated mall occupancy held back performance in two new key locations.
In financial year 2019, we will significantly expand our capital-light channels.
Ecommerce will be strengthened by our ability to fulfil Ecommerce orders directly from our distribution centre in Pennsylvania, which will also open up new third party routes to market which are not available to us today.
