Chief Executive Officers review Delivering growth in speciality chemicals higher than guidance, and consistent with Performance our stated strategy to invest in our principal Despite some challenging market large scale, low cost sites.
We also invested conditions in 2018 Synthomer has delivered in our inorganic growth strategy with the solid growth in Underlying profitability, acquisition of the BASF Pischelsdorf SBR achieving our fourth consecutive year business, the third bolt-on acquisition of growth and another year of record under the current management team, Underlying profits.
especially strong growth in Underlying profits helping to offset the impact of Safety, health and currency and raw material volatility in environment ENA.
Our strategy of driving organic Synthomer sets high standards in and inorganic growth, complemented relation to safety, health and environment by the Groups geographic diversity and SHE activities which are supported product differentiation, continues to deliver by appropriate levels of investment, sustainable growth.
improvement initiatives and by rigorous assurance under the supervision of the Underlying profit before tax increased Group SHE team.
Our performance against by 3.9% from 130.0m to 135.1m.
Calum MacLean those standards is reported at each This reflected a 30.2% increase in Chief Executive Officer executive team and Board meeting.
ARW Underlying operating profits, up from 35.1m to 45.7m.
This significant In 2018, our recordable injury rate increase reflects strong organic growth increased modestly as a result of the higher with improving volumes and unit margins Strategic highlights levels of contractor activity related to our as Nitrile latex growth remained strong Fourth consecutive year of growth and capacity expansion programme, but our and market utilisation increased.
ENA record Underlying profitability underlying trend continues to improve.
Underlying operating profits were lower, Our recordable injury rate has improved going from 117.1m to 111.2m.
This was Continued organic and inorganic in excess of 60% for the three year period principally due to the USD invoicing from investment to strengthen platform 2016-2018 compared to 2013-2015.
This Europe which led to an unfavourable for future growth is underpinned by our SHE Principles and transaction currency impact of 5.3m.
ENA Significant raw material price volatility 10 Golden Rules and our relentless focus was also impacted by sharply falling raw successfully managed on our Permit to Work and Management material prices in Q4 2018 which affected of Change procedures.
To improve customer buying behaviour and led to Record return on R&D investment reporting, cross company learning and a softer trading environment in the final 21% of sales volumes from new the induction of newly acquired sites to quarter of the year.
products launched in the past five years Synthomer standards, a new Global portal New global business structure launched was introduced so that sites, regions and IFRS profit before tax increased by 39.2% on 1 January 2019 to further enhance businesses can report performance on a from 86.4m in 2017 to 120.3m in 2018. customer and product focus consistent and timely basis.
The portal has Alongside the improvement in Underlying also improved communications and the performance, the increase was mainly Well capitalised and conservatively ability to accelerate the implementation of the result of the gains on disposal of land financed balance sheet to fund future actions to improve the safe operation of in Malaysia 16.4m and a reduction organic and inorganic growth Net debt our sites.
in amortisation of intangible assets EBITDA: 1.2x 14.6m, as intangibles acquired with Synthomer has introduced a programme the PolymerLatex acquisition became that focuses on higher risk activities and fully amortised.
has identified gaps which drive action in our site SHE Improvement Plans.
All sites have The operating cash flows of the Group now completed this process.
Our Group of 124.9m 2017: 162.6m were again Process Safety key performance indicators strong and absorbed the investment in show continued improvement.
working capital of 35.2m which was driven by the volatility in raw material prices Innovation and the knock-on impact on customer Innovation continues to be a core pillar buying behaviour.
The cash performance of business growth allowing Synthomer of the business over the year meant that to secure improved market positions and the Groups leverage at the year end was provide solutions to generate added value 1.2 times net debt: EBITDA, well within for our customers.
In 2018, the Group had our preferred range of 1 2 times.
Capital fifteen new product platform launches spend increased to a record 75.7m, a little across a broad base of ten application 12 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2018 Governance 58-92 Group financial statements 93-144 Company financial statements 145-156 Other information 157-160 Strategic report IFC-57 areas.
Our key performance indicator products which drives our plans for better elevated valuation multiples.
We evaluated for innovation is sales volumes of new capacity utilisation, plant debottlenecking a number of opportunities but continued products launched in the past five years and new capacity expansions.
to exercise rigorous discipline on the type, which increased to 21%, ahead of our quality and valuation of targets.
stated target of 20%, building on our strong Our 90ktes Nitrile latex capacity performance in this area in 2017 and 2016. expansion at Pasir Gudang Malaysia was We completed one bolt-on acquisition in We continue to focus on protecting our successfully completed in Q4 2018 safely, 2018 being BASF Pischelsdorf Austria.
This proprietary intellectual property through on time and on budget.
The capacity has been successfully integrated into our patents with eight filings in 2018. will allow us to support the ongoing SBR network and positions us as the market expansion in this high growth market and leader in European aqueous polymers.
The Group has four innovation centres provide capacity for our SyNovus and across its global network.
We have made other market leading products.
A further The integration of PAC Dispersions strong progress to further leverage and investment to introduce an additional is substantially complete with the final extend our innovation capabilities, helping 60ktes at Pasir Gudang will be made two major actions, the sale of the Leuna to accelerate the delivery of our business which we expect to come online in 2020.
Germany site completed in the year and strategies.
In order to enhance our In addition to our Nitrile latex investment, the restructuring of Ribcourt France site innovation activities, we have committed our 2018 capital programme expanded underway.
We have successfully delivered to invest in a state-of-the-art Innovation capacity at our Speciality Polyester Powder run rate synergies of $12m by the end of Centre in Malaysia which will open in Coating facility in SantAlbano, Italy 2018 and confirmed that additional run rate 2020.
Over the past four years we have and our SBR facility in Oulu Finland to synergies of $2m will be delivered in 2019. progressively reduced the time to market for allow the Group to support the growing new innovations.
The recently introduced packaging and speciality paper markets.
Synthomer continues to assess acquisition SyNovus product, which includes patented opportunities, but we will be disciplined in proprietary technology, was developed In 2019, our organic capacity investment our approach.
The Group is well positioned from inception to commercialisation in 18 programme will see additional new to make both bolt-on and transformational months.
The shortened innovation process, capacity commissioned in: acquisitions with a conservatively leveraged representing a reduction of almost 50% balance sheet and the Boards support on previous new product developments, Dispersions: 36ktes capacity of to drive further shareholder value through is a testament to the dedication, skill and made-to-order speciality acrylic lines in inorganic growth.
expertise of our in-house R&D team and will Worms Germany in mid-2019 be further enhanced via the investment in New global organisational improved facilities.
Dispersions: 12ktes increase in acrylic structure capacity in Roebuck USA scheduled to As announced during November 2018, Our operational excellence teams have be complete in mid-2019.
in order to better serve our customers, also supported our innovation success.
provide a global product offering and Through the transfer of products and new SBR latex: Enhancement to our Marl drive operational efficiencies, the Group technologies across our network, we can Germany site to improve output levels to structure has been reorganised with more effectively introduce new products, take advantage of opportunities in the effect from 1 January 2019.
Three new utilise our capacity more efficiently and foam market.
business groups have been created: deliver synergies from newly acquired Performance Elastomers Styrene assets.
Each of our plants has developed Discipline in capital allocation remains a Butadiene Rubber and Nitrile Butadiene a value gap to identify the monetary value key focus for the Group, with hurdle rates Latex, Functional Solutions Dispersions associated with best in class and best in for capital expenditure growth projects and Industrial Specialities.
Group standards which provides the remaining unchanged at a payback of less action plan for operational excellence than five years or a 12% IRR.
Recognising The new structure will enable Synthomer and financial improvement.
the very significant investment made in to leverage its global product portfolio, organic growth capex in 2017 and 2018, expanding the reach of its R&D capabilities Strategy delivering the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and bring greater operational focus to our sustainable growth performance criteria included Return global markets.
Similarly the new structure Our conservatively leveraged balance on Invested Capital ROIC for the first combines sales, marketing, research and sheet provides a strong foundation from time in 2018, aligning management and production into dedicated global business which to deliver our strategy of sustainable shareholder delivery expectations.
The teams, whilst retaining very strong regional growth in the speciality chemical sector.
overall LTIP ROIC target has been set at strength and local focus.
Synthomer has a broad blue-chip circa 20%, broadly aligned with the ROIC customer base with long-term established delivered by the Group in 2018.
Outlook relationships, producing speciality chemicals Looking forward, the Groups leading characterised by high barriers to entry.
In order to consider and mitigate market positions, incremental low cost Our market leading positions, passion for the potential impact of a hard Brexit, production capacity, geographic diversity innovation and global asset network provide Synthomer established a cross functional and product differentiation, ensure we are the basis for our organic growth strategy.
group to focus on supply chain, regulation, well placed to navigate the current global trade compliance and human resources.
2018 has seen the largest organic growth We continue to believe that our ability to do Given this, we are confident of making investment programme in the Groups business will not be significantly affected further progress in 2019 and the Boards history.
This programme commenced but have plans in place to manage, as expectations remain unchanged.
in 2017 and we spent 75.7m of capex far as possible, our ability to service in 2018 across the Group.
Our Project our customers and take any mitigating Calum MacLean Excellence approach has been introduced actions necessary.
Chief Executive Officer Group-wide and aims to ensure that all 4 March 2019 projects are completed safely, on time and Delivering M&A growth within budget.
With global mega trends Inorganic growth through acquisitions of urbanisation, ageing demographics, an remains a key priority for the Group and evolving middle class, increasing mobility a core facet of our growth strategy.
The and ever more stringent environmental speciality chemicals M&A market remained legislation, there is increasing demand buoyant in 2018 with a number of bolt-on from the market for our speciality chemical and transformational deals, many at Synthomer plc Annual Report 2018 13
