ChiefExecutive Officers review We continued to see strong demand for fibre, with 348k net adds.
45% of new acquisition customers now take FTTC services from us, reflecting the rising bandwidth demands from consumers and businesses.
The growth was driven in part by our unique FLPP.
Over 2 million customers have now taken one of the plans.
A materially higher proportion of the base is now in contract 69%, which, combined with service improvements, means churn continues to fall.
2018 sawus record our lowest ever full year churn of 1.22%, a material improvement on 2017 1.45%.
That means we exit the year with a larger, more stable customer base, setting the platform for revenue growth in 2019.
The early behaviour of FLPP customers coming out Tristia Harrison of contract has been encouraging with churn below expectation.
Chief Executive Officer In our TV business we have continued to invest in strengthening the customer experience.
Our customers were the first to benefit from It is just over a year since the updated YouView interface, delivering a faster, more seamless viewing experience.
We successfully rolled out multi-screen and we reset TalkTalk to multi-room features, and launched a new TalkTalk TV app, unifying the TV experience across the set top box, web and mobile devices.
focus on sustained We will be expanding our content range over the summer to continue to offer the widest range of content across free, pay, VOD and OTT players.
customer growth and TalkTalk Business continued its base growth, driven by particularly radically simplifying good performance in indirect services, sold through our network of thebusiness on core, partner and wholesale channels.
2018 saw TalkTalk Business surpass BT Wholesale to become the largest provider of wholesale broadband fixed connectivity.
in the UK, with more than 50% market share.
We see real opportunity to build upon our strength in that market in 2019 and are structuring the business accordingly.
The benefits of a growing base were reflected in rising Headline We made strong progress on both in 2018, whilst also taking long term revenue ex-Carrier and Off-net, which grew to 1,564m.
Thestrong decisions to set the business up for future success, with a strengthened performance of TalkTalk Business saw revenue growth across Corporate balance sheet and the launch of our full fibre strategy.
ex-Carrier 9%, within which Data and Voice revenue wasup 7% and 12% respectively.
This was offset by a 3% fall in On-net Average Market Context Revenue Per User ARPU due to the dilutive impact of FLPP.
We enter 2019 with a clear market opportunity for a value provider 1 However, as expected, Headline EBITDA declined to 233m offixed services.
As the internet becomes an ever more important 2017:361m reflecting the planned investment in base growth utility for families and businesses, consumer demand for connectivity andFLPP ARPU dilution.
Bandwidth requirements on our network rose by 43% last year, creating strong demand for higher capacity, higher Simplifying the business and sale of direct B2B business to Daisy value products.
We made strong progress in simplifying the business as we focus on Economic uncertainty, however, means residential and business core fixed connectivity throughout 2018. customers need value and pricing certainty.
That creates real We completed a strategic partnership with O2, to distribute 4G SIMS opportunity for a value challenger, offering simple, affordable, to our base at discounted prices.
The partnership allows us to continue reliable and fair connectivity to Britains homes and businesses.
offering great value mobile services to TalkTalk customers, but does so in a capital-light way that allows us to ruthlessly prioritise Capex Core Business Performance on core, fixed connectivity.
Early conversion rates are promising and We returned the base to sustained growth after several years of the deal provides a profitable, ongoing revenue stream into 2019 decline.
We reported 192k net adds for the full year, compared to andbeyond.
Crucially, we saw strong growth across the Consumer and B2B divisions.
We have now reported five consecutive We are also announcing further simplification in TalkTalk Business, quarters of growth in net adds.
having reached Heads of Terms on the sale of all the direct B2B business to Daisy for 175m c. 80,000 small, medium and large direct business customers will be transferred to Daisy, which will reduce EBITDA by c. 15m in 2019.
As an existing strategic partner, Daisy are well placed to serve all of our direct customers, who will remain on our network and provide ongoing revenue.
The deal allows TalkTalk Business to further prioritise the indirect market, where it has real strength and where we see opportunity to grow at pace.
It also allows 192k 2m us to remove significant cost and complexity from the business.
1 See note 1 for an explanation of Alternative Performance Measures APMs, non-Headline items, and further details regarding the restatement of 2017 Headline results.
Customer base growth Customers on Fixed in2018 Low-Priced Plans TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 05 Strategic report ChiefExecutive Officers review continued Simplifying the business and sale as CEO of BT Wholesale.
He led the creation of BT Openreach as a of direct B2B business to Daisy continued functionally separate business, as well as BTs network strategy and As we continue to simplify the business to focus on fewer priorities, global technology functions.
He served as Chair of AAPT, one of we are making significant Opex and Capex reductions, which we Australias largest telecoms companies and was on the board of expect to drive material cost improvements in 2019.
We go into the Japanese telecoms company, eAccess.
Most recently Paul served year as a leaner, more efficient business and that cost discipline will on the Board of Eir in Dublin.
continue to underpin our value propositions.
We are also pleased to announce that Charles Bligh will become theCEO of the new independent company.
Charles currently serves Setting the business up for future success as Chief Operating Officer of TalkTalk.
He has also served on the We have made progress in addressing financial challenges.
Prior to this he was the Managing equity raise net of issue costs, combined with a reduction in dividend Director of TalkTalk Business, Technology and Security.
Charles was and the sale of our direct B2B business all strengthen the balance also responsible for the initial TalkTalk JV starting the FTTP journey sheet and reduce net debt.
In turn, that enables us to continue four years ago.
Charles worked at IBM for almost 22 years where he investing in sustainable growth and our full fibre strategy.
held a number of senior executive and board roles and has worked internationally in Australia, US, China and Japan.
He will remain on Given our focus on core connectivity it is essential that our foundations are strong and that we are able to adapt to the changing needs of our the TalkTalk Board until the end of June and leave TalkTalk once the new entity has been formed.
customers, whilst continuing to scale.
As such, we will continue to incur non-Headline items in relation to our multi-year network and We are currently making good progress on the third phase of our full ITtransformation programme, which will fundamentally restructure fibre trial in York.
When completed, the network will reach 54,000 the Groups network, IT infrastructure and technology organisation.
We have begun trialling the use of Openreach ducts and This programme is expected to run until 2021 and underpins the wider poles to ascertain the potential to further reduce build costs.
Group strategy ensuring that it is fit for the future.
Furthermore, as The new company and its shareholders have begun detailed part of simplifying the business we have incurred costs in relation towinding down our MVNO operations as we move to our partnership planning for future cities and will say more about city selection indue course.
with O2 and the reorganisation programme implemented following the reset to deliver a leaner, simpler business.
Looking into 2019 Full Fibre We enter 2019 with strong growth momentum.
We will maintain our focus on growing the base, and forecast net adds of more than 150k, We have made good progress in positioning TalkTalk to be one of the biggest beneficiaries of the transition to full fibre.
We remain on track in line with our previous guidance.
to establish an independent infrastructure company with Infracapital.
We also expect Headline revenue growth, as well as Headline EBITDA Through this partnership we intend to build a new full fibre network, growth of 15% before adjusting for the impact of the Daisy transaction, reaching 3 million homes and businesses.
The partnership builds driven by three factors: onour successful trial in York and takes advantage of the strong 1. the benefits of a larger base and stabilising ARPU flowing through regulatory and political support for infrastructure competition.
Wesee real opportunity to leverage our customer base to ensure into revenue and earnings: TalkTalk is at the heart of Britains full fibre future.
2. regulatory tailwinds, as Ofcoms WLA materially reduces the We are delighted to announce that Paul Reynolds has been appointed amount we pay BT Openreach for wholesale FTTC services: and to Chair the new company Infraco.
Paul brings extensive experience of 3. cost reduction in Opex and Capex as we continue to simplify leading major telecoms and infrastructure businesses.
As CEO of thebusiness and focus on fewer priorities.
This includes rolling Telecom New Zealand, he oversaw the worlds first structural separation out new digital tools for customers to self-serve, which delivers of retail and network companies and led the roll-out of full fibre services.
improved customer satisfaction and significant cost savings for Prior to that he held senior roles at BT, including serving on the Board the business.
At a Statutory level we will be reducing our non-Headline items in 2019 with the bulk of our transformational costs having now been incurred.
As such P&L non-Headline items are expected to reduce materially.
Whilst cash non-Headline items are expected to reduce, they will be higher than the P&L expense due to the phasing of payments.
In summary, a year into the reset, we have made good progress.
We enter 2019 with strong Wehave returned the base to growth, laid the foundations to continue growth momentum.
We will to simplify our operations and strengthened the business.
We will now see the benefit of that as we move into 2019.
There is a lot more maintain our focus on growing to do, but we have strong growth momentum and a clear opportunity to fulfil our potential as Britains value provider of simple, affordable, the base, and forecast net reliable and fair connectivity.
adds of more than 150k, in line with our previous guidance.
Tristia Harrison Chief Executive Officer 24 May 2018 06 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018
