Chief Executives Review Accelerating business performance I am delighted and honoured to be appointed as Tate & Lyles Chief Executive.
Tate & Lyle has both a proud and long heritage, and an exciting future.
As global demand for healthier, tastier food with a better nutritional balance continues to grow, we have the potential and opportunity to deliver benefits not only for our shareholders but also for society at large, including our customers, consumers, the communities in which we operate, and our employees.
I look forward to working with Gerry, the Board, the management team, and all our employees to drive Tate & Lyles business forward in the years ahead.
Overview of Group performance Tate & Lyle delivered a year of strong profit and cash performance.
At the same time, we made good progress strengthening the commercial business, improving operational disciplines, and investing for future growth.
Adjusted profit before tax increased by 11% 13% in constant currency to 301 million with adjusted operating profit growth in all businesses.
We have decided to rename our business divisions and change how we report.
The Group will continue to operate in two divisions, Food & Beverage Solutions which includes Sucralose and was previously named Speciality Food Ingredients and Primary Products previously named Bulk Ingredients.
The Food & Beverage Solutions division will be reported across two reportable segments Food & Beverage Solutions and Sucralose reflecting their different economic characteristics and how we manage them.
Key highlights Group delivers strong financial results Food & Beverage Solutions performs well with good volume momentum.
Sucralose also performed well Another year of excellent performance in Primary Products Strong balance sheet with cash generation supporting progressive dividend Programmes underway to sharpen customer focus, accelerate portfolio development and simplify and driveproductivity New leadership team in place.
12 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Our business Primary Products delivered particularly good results.
Adjusted operating profit increased by 28% 30% in constant currency to Our two divisions have been renamed 166 million.
The performance in the core business was driven by and reporting amended.
a combination of strong commercial and operational execution, Two business divisions and firm margins.
Profits from Commodities increased by 24 million to 32 million mainly reflecting market opportunities across co-products and gains from corn sourcing.
Profits from our joint venture businesses were 14% lower at Food & Beverage Solutions including Sucralose 28 million.
previously Speciality Food Ingredients Adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations increased by 6% 7% in constant currency to 50.1p.
Cash generation continued to be excellent.
Adjusted free cash flow increased by 22 million to 196 million reflecting stronger Primary Products operating results and lower capital expenditure.
Net debt at previously Bulk Ingredients 392 million, was 60 million lower.
Return on capital employed increased by 190 bps to 16.2%.
Our balance sheet remains robust and the Group is well Three reportable segments positioned for the future.
Food & Beverage Solutions Progress in the year During the year, we continued to invest to underpin future growth Sucralose in Food & Beverage Solutions and to support cash delivery from Primary Products.
Primary Products Our business and presence in the emerging markets continues to grow.
The challenges of both overand under-nutrition in these The Food & Beverage Solutions segment had an encouraging regions means that our customers are increasingly seeking year, with volume 3% higher.
It was especially pleasing to see a solutions which reduce sugar, calories and fat, and enrich return to volume growth in the important North American products with fibre.
While demand for more natural and healthier market, where we saw success from our focus on higher growth food is increasing, consumers will not compromise on taste.
In the other regions of the Making healthy food tastier, and tasty food healthier in categories world, volume growth continued to be good.
Adjusted operating like dairy and beverages is a challenge that our food scientists profit increased by 5% 8% in constant currency to 137 million are especially well equipped to meet.
During the year we reflecting both higher volume and the recovery of our stabiliser expanded our food application laboratories in Shanghai, business previously named Food Systems.
Investments in the Singapore and Mexico City.
At each site, we added new customerlonger-term development of the business in the first half facing facilities as well as pilot scale equipment to enable moderated profit growth.
customers to work with us to design, trial and benchmark different recipe formulations.
These new laboratories are already Sales of New Products, which represent products in the first making a material difference to the way we serve our customers seven years after launch, grew by 15% to US$121 million.
Our innovation capability is well established with each of our sweeteners, texturants and health and wellness platforms We continue to bring new products to market both through our contributing to growth.
in-house innovation capabilities and by establishing strategic partnerships.
For example, in April 2017, we entered into an Sucralose adjusted operating profit increased by 6% 5% in exclusive partnership with Sweet Green Fields, one of the largest constant currency to 55 million, with lower operating costs fully integrated global stevia players, to bring their leading driving higher margins.
stevia-based sweetening solutions to our customers worldwide.
Our purpose I passionately believe in our purpose of improving lives for generations: that we can successfully grow our business and make a positive impact on society.
Part of my role as Chief Executive is to make sure our purpose is central to everything we do, and to give our people the support and opportunity they need to live it.
As I travel around the Group, I am deeply aware of the passion and pride our people have to make a difference to the world we live in, both today and for the future to improve lives for generations.
com 13 Chief Executives Review continued Strategy Reflecting the encouraging progress demonstrated over the first year of this partnership, in May 2018, we extended our Our strategy is to grow our business by: relationship by acquiring a 15% shareholding in Sweet Green Fields.
Growing Food & Beverage Solutions by building leading positions in three categories globally beverages, dairy, We are also working in partnership with Codexis, a leading and soups, sauces and dressings and in two or three protein engineering company and expert in enzymes, to create additional categories in each region where we have local novel enzymatic routes to new product development from starch expertise.
Managing Sucralose to generate cash and other source materials.
Driving value from Primary Products by optimising its We continued to invest in our manufacturing footprint to drive portfolio to deliver steady earnings and generate cash.
In October, we announced our intention to more than double capacity of maltodextrin at our facility in Boleraz, Slovakia.
This expansion is expected to be completed in Primary Products is predominantly anchored in the more stable 2019, and will enable us to meet growing customer demand for North American market, with strong market positions in maltodextrins, particularly in the infant food sector in Europe, high-volume sweeteners and industrial starches, and supported Middle East and Africa, and Asia Pacific.
Then, in December, by scale, cost competitive assets.
we completed the expansion of our polydextrose fibre plant in Nantong, China.
This expansion, which increases capacity by Underpinning our business is a reputation built over many years more than three times from when the facility was acquired by as a trusted supplier, with highly skilled people motivated by a Tate & Lyle in 2014, will help support local and global demand for strong sense of purpose to improve peoples lives by enabling our fibres.
Finally, in March, our joint venture DuPont Tate & Lyle healthier food choices.
Bio Products announced an expansion to its manufacturing facility in Loudon, Tennessee, to increase annual production of its Actions to accelerate business performance bio-based 1,3-propanediol by 35 million pounds.
This expansion, Leveraging these strengths and our strong balance sheet, we are which is expected to be completed in 2019, will help meet implementing three programmes to accelerate business growing customer demand for higher-performing ingredients performance: from a petroleum-free, more sustainable and renewable source.
Sharpen focus on customers and key categories Executive management team Focus our growth strategy on three categories globally During the year, we further strengthened the executive beverages, dairy, and soups, sauces and dressings and two management team with the appointment in September of Andrew or three additional categories in each region where we have Taylor as President, Innovation and Commercial Development local expertise and Melissa Law as President, Global Operations.
Andrew Reorganise our commercial teams to reflect how our previously worked at The Boston Consulting Group, where he was customers are organised in these categories a Senior Partner and Managing Director, leading the global Integrated Food Systems into Food & Beverage Solutions to Innovation Practice.
Before joining Tate & Lyle, Melissa worked at provide one approach for customers.
Baker Hughes, where she led the Global Specialties Chemicals 2.
Accelerate portfolio development Division, a major part of its Oilfield Service portfolio.
Together - with Imran Nawaz, formerly of Mondelez International, who will Accelerate development and commercialisation of new products join us as Chief Financial Officer in August 2018, the executive team has a good blend of company experience, industry Develop more external partnerships and alliances to knowledge, and a fresh perspective, and is well set to lead the catalyse innovation business into the next phase of its development.
Increase emphasis on acquisitions and joint ventures.
Simplify and drive productivity An integrated business with a strong value Target US$100 million of productivity savings over the next proposition four years Tate & Lyle operates as one integrated business going to market Simplify the business, reduce costs, and increase efficiencies as two trading divisions.
Food & Beverage Solutions and Primary across the supply chain Products each has a distinct role to play, and both are important to Productivity benefits expected to be paced evenly across the the Groups future.
They share common assets and we manage four years, and will be invested to grow the business, improve them together to optimise overall returns for shareholders.
customer service, and support margin progression.
Food & Beverage Solutions, which operates in the large and growing global food ingredients market, combines a deep understanding of sweetness, texture and fibre enrichment with expertise in key categories of beverages, dairy, and soups, sauces, and dressings, to tailor solutions for our customers.
These solutions help meet growing global consumer demand for food and drink with less sugar, calories and fat and more fibre.
While food is global, taste is local, so our customers also value our ability to deliver solutions in their local markets.
14 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Investment case Our businesses have a clear focus... Primary Food & Beverage Products Solutions Sucralose Manage for stable earnings: Growth driver: Manage for cash: cash generation top and bottom line growth high return on assets to deliver returns... 1 Earnings per share accelerate growth 2 Organic return on capital employed improve returns Dividend maintain progressive dividend policy Investment case People In Food & Beverage Solutions, we expect to accelerate revenue Our employees across Tate & Lyle bring a huge amount of energy growth and deliver margin accretion, while managing Sucralose and passion to work every day, and I would like to thank them for for cash: and in Primary Products optimise product mix to their hard work and dedication.
Our strong performance this year underpin stable earnings and cash flow delivery.
As the three is a testament to their talent and commitment and, in my first programmes we are implementing gather momentum, we expect year as Chief Executive, I look forward to working with them.
growth in earnings per share in constant currency to accelerate, Outlook organic return on capital employed in constant currency to improve, and strong cash generation to support our progressive For the year ending 31 March 2019, we expect growth in earnings 1 dividend policy.
per share in constant currency to be in a mid-single digit range, albeit towards the lower end due to energy and transport cost Tate & Lyle is in a strong financial position.
We generate a good inflation in North America and a strong year of Commodities return on our assets and have a strong balance sheet with performance in fiscal 2018. modest leverage.
We believe the appropriate leverage over the longer term for our business lies in the range of 1x to 2x net Summary debt:EBITDA, giving us flexibility to invest and grow the business.
Tate & Lyle enters the 2019 financial year in a good position.
To maintain our financial position and investment grade credit We have a strong value proposition aligned to growing global rating, we will apply clear capital allocation priorities: trends of sugar, calorie and fat reduction, fibre enrichment and Invest in sustainable organic growth demand for cleaner labels.
We have set out three clear priorities Fund acquisitions, partnerships or joint ventures to accelerate for the business to sharpen our focus on our customers, growth accelerate portfolio development, and simplify the business and Maintain our progressive dividend policy drive productivity and actions to deliver these priorities are already underway.
Return surplus capital to shareholders.
With our clear strategy, talented people, and strong sense of Overall, we are in a strong financial position with clear priorities purpose, I am confident we have a strong business capable of to accelerate growth.
Environment, health and safety Following a Group-wide safety review completed during the year, we concluded that our safety and environmental performance are Nick Hampton closely linked and should be co-ordinated and managed holistically.
Chief Executive As a result of this, during the year a new environmental, health and safety EHS strategy was developed to deliver and sustain 23 May 2018 EHS excellence across all our locations for all our employees and contractors.
More information about this programme can be found on pages 46 and 47.
1 Adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations in constant currency.
