4 Chief Executives letter Total dividend paid in 2018 499.5m 2017: 450.5m Group operating profit margin in 2018 21.6% 2017: 21.3% Return on net operating assets in 2018 33.4% 2017: 32.5% Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 5 A new strategic direction focused on customers.
Pete Redfern Chief Executive In 2018, we announced a new strategy at our Capital Markets Day in because they thought it couldnt be done.
Im pleased to say that May, the first major change to our direction since 2011.
We are proud across the business the opposite is true today as we have seen the of what we achieved during this time and by every measure the old investments we have made and the effort the teams have put in really strategy has been very successful: delivering over 90,000 new homes start to pay off.
in the UK and creating 7 billion of shareholder value.
But, inevitably the environment in which we operate has continued to change and Our customers tell us that the improvements we have already made to our customer service approach are working.
We have made a develop over that period.
Having taken the old strategy as far as we could, we need to seek to protect that value we have built up and significant step change in our business over the last four years.
Whilst we have made great progress and over 90% of customers would ensure the business is ready and able to take advantage of opportunities, and we cant do that by standing still.
recommend Taylor Wimpey to a friend 2017: 89%, this performance often drops over time, a common trend across the industry.
There are of course a number of contributing factors, and not all within our Why now?
control, but we start from the point that to be genuinely customerWe operate in an industry which is underpinned by a fundamental centric, we have to understand the causes and look for solutions.
long term demand and supply imbalance.
As one of the UKs largest We have therefore introduced the National House-Building Council homebuilders, we believe that we have a shared responsibility to NHBC 9-month would you recommend score, as an additional Key create more choices for those wanting to access housing, and to Performance Indicator, which captures the feedback from customers deliver this housing with high quality and excellent service.
living in their homes for nine months.
Traditionally housebuilders are land led.
Over the last seven years, the Through the year I, and other members of the Group Management Team, land and planning environment has undergone a structural change, with have run a number of presentations, meetings and focus groups with more good-quality land available through the planning system and an employees across the country, in addition to an all staff survey and increase in opportunities, including a reduced level of competition, in providing additional feedback opportunities.
What has come across certain parts of the market, such as large scale sites.
While land remains loud and clear is a passion and pride in working for Taylor Wimpey a key value driver, the easing of the land constraint through this cycle and a genuine desire to do more for our customers.
It is true that means that other elements of the business model have become better run businesses tend to do the right thing more often than not, increasingly important to future success.
This includes operational but we think that is the wrong philosophy: we start from doing the ability, delivery capability and approach to customers, particularly in the right thing and because of that we are a better and stronger business.
context of significantly changed customer expectations.
Setting out our strategy These changes present an opportunity in an industry which has historically been very reactive to genuinely shift our focus to our This new strategy, which we announced to investors and analysts at customers needs and their aspirations for their homes and our Capital Markets Day in May, maps out our priorities and principles communities.
Over the coming years, by enhancing every step of our for at least the next ten years, and sets out some of the key numerical customers buying and after service experience, building homes which goals for the next five years which you can see on page 26. are right first time and right for our customers income and lifestyle, we can create real additional value for customers, and the rest of our We have tried to do something different in our Annual Report this year, at a time when it is more important than ever for shareholders, and stakeholders.
In this way we can grow our business, providing more homes to more people, whilst continuing to manage the cycle other stakeholders, to understand and trust the business that they are investing in, partnering with and working for.
As well as setting out the cautiously and without compromising on quality.
key components of the strategy in detail pages 12 to 23, we have also revisited the underlying investment proposition for Taylor Wimpey What does customer-centric actually mean to us?
page 27 and reordered the years operating review by stakeholder We thought long and hard about the wording because it is a phrase pages 30 to 41.
Our hope is that this will enable all our stakeholders which can suffer from overuse and is used flippantly by some.
to understand how becoming a genuinely customer-centric However, we believe it is appropriate to use because it signifies that homebuilder will add value to them specifically, and to the all our decisions and actions are driven by a desire to understand wider business.
what our customers need today and in the future and a commitment to earn their trust by delivering on our promises time and time again.
It is ambitious and we are not there yet.
When we first started our customer journey, over four years ago, there was some scepticism both inside and outside the business not because Pete Redfern Chief Executive people didnt want to do it, or thought that it wasnt important, but
