CEO LETTER FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Our underlying consolidated net profit reached GEL 454.9 million, up by 23.2% compared to 2017 our consolidated reported net profit reached GEL 437.4 million, up by 21.5% compared to 2017.
Our underlying return on equity was 22.8%, while the underlying return on assets stood at 3.3% the reported return on equity stood at 22.0%, while reported return on assets was 3.2%.
Our robust profitability was driven by strong income generation, improved cost efficiency and prudent risk management.
We also maintained a solid net interest margin, at 6.9%, up by 0.4 pp year-on-year and managed to achieve a strong increase in net fee and commission income, up by 25.1% year-on-year.
Over the same period, our cost to income ratio decreased by 3.9 pp and stood at 37.8%, while cost of risk stood at 1.6% or 1.5% without currency effect.
In terms of balance sheet growth, our loan book expanded by 21.3% year-on-year, supported by increase across all business segments which resulted in a market share 1 of 38.8%, up by 0.6 pp year-on-year.
Our asset quality remained sound with non-performing ratio standing low at 3.1%.
Over the same period, deposits increased by 19.6%, 1 thus bringing our deposit market share to 41.2%, up by 1.4 pp year-on-year.
Our capital and liquidity ratios continued to remain solid.
As of 31 December 2018, our tier 1 and total capital adequacy ratios CAR per Basel III guidelines were 12.8% and 17.9% respectively, compared to the corresponding minimum regulatory requirements of 11.8% and 16.7%.
At the same time, our net loans to deposits IFI funding ratio stood at 89.9% and the net stable funding ratio NSFR was 130.2%.
STRATEGIC PROGRESS AND NEW PRIORITIES We continue to make strong progress in delivering on our digital transformation.
In the fourth quarter, our offloading Dear shareholders, ratio reached 90.6%, up by 2.3 pp year-on-year, mainly driven 2018 was a remarkable year, by the increased number of transactions in mobile banking.
Over the same period, our mobile banking penetration grew marked by a strong operating by 5.6 pp and amounted to 37.0%.
Sales conducted through digital channels also demonstrated a strong growth, and and financial performance.
We 2 amounted to 45.3% of total sales in December 2018.
I am also extremely proud of Georgias first fully-digital bank, have exceeded our medium-term Space, which we launched in May 2018.
Space is a cuttingedge mobile application for managing daily finances offering growth and profitability targets a unique customer experience through simple procedures and have significantly improved and products and an intuitive design.
Space is becoming increasingly popular and is helping us to attract new our efficiency levels.
We have customers as well as re-activate the existing ones.
also made significant progress in In order to further deepen the relationship with our customers and expand our value proposition, we are our digitalization strategy and developing customer focused ecosystems, which are closely linked with our core financial products and services.
In 2018 identified new growth and we started to: development opportunities.
develop an e-commerce market place and build an innovative digital trading platform, Vendoo, through the acquisition of Swoop, a well-known online discount and sales company in Georgia: 1 Based on data published by National Bank of Georgia as of 31 December 2018 2 For selected products being offered through remote channels:preapproved loans, credit cards, limit increase and opening of accounts 8 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 develop a digital ecosystem for real estate in Georgia The current account CA balance continues to improve.
through the acquisition of a 90% stake in a real estate Over the last four quarters ending 3Q 2018 the CA deficit platform, Allproperty.
The ecosystem will offer our to GDP ratio stood at 8.3% compared to the 8.8% in 2017. customers a wide range of products and services they The improvement resulted from several factors, including typically require when purchasing and moving into a new the continued positive trend in external inflows, the home.
normalisation of FDI-related imports as well as low fiscal spending.
As a result of the improving trend and the strong We plan to add more ecosystems in 2019. seasonal effect, in 3Q 2018 the CA even reached a surplus of 0.3% of GDP.
As we establish ourselves as digital innovators, we need to react quickly to a fast-changing market environment and Foreign Direct Investment FDI inflows declined by 34.9% maintain best-in-class operating cost levels.
Therefore, in YoY in 2018 mostly driven by finalization of BPs South 2018 we launched a company-wide agile transformation 4 Caucasus Pipeline Extension project, as well as by one-offs project which aims to create a more flexible and effective related to the change of ownership of some companies from organisational structure.
We plan to roll it out across the non-residents to residents and paying down FDI related entire bank over the course of 2019.
FDI inflows to GDP ratio stood at 7.9% - a normalized improve our front and back office processes though branch level following the above trend inflows over 20142017. optimisation and automatisation.
Foreign direct investments at this level continue to be the major source of financing of the CA deficit.
In 2018, we also embarked on new challenge - to expand our operations in Azerbaijan and Uzbekistan.
This will The banking sector loan growth continued to be solid with provide access to a potential customer base of 40 million the bank loan portfolio expanding by 17.2% in 2018 yearpeople, significantly greater than the 3.7 million population on-year at a constant exchange rate.
Lending was strong of Georgia.
Our strategy is to penetrate the retail and MSME across the business as well as retail segments.
At the same segments by offering innovative products mainly through time, a sharp slowdown in non-mortgage retail lending was digital channels, including Space.
In order to mitigate notable following the introduction of a new regulation on the risks inherent to these ventures, we intend to adopt a retail lending in May 2018. phased approach to investment, which will be determined by the success of our predefined strategic targets.
Overall, Georgias economy is growing at a strong rate and demonstrating high resilience towards shocks.
This is Azerbaijan: In January 2019, we signed a shareholder underpinned by the following factors: the diversified sources agreement with Nikoil Bank for a merger with our of inflows, low inflation, prudent fiscal stance, below Azerbaijan subsidiary, TBC Kredit.
This entitles us to trend and improving CA deficit and still solid FDI inflows, 8.34% of the merged entity and a call option to increase reasonably balanced exposure to oil prices, exchange rate our shareholding to 50% 1 shares within four years, based on a fixed price formula.
The transaction is subject being likely undervalued, NBG building up its international to regulatory approval.
We have already strengthened reserves and no signs of bubble in housing market.
Overal, Nikoil Banks management team with new members and solid macro fundamentals provide an attractive environment we are actively developing our strategy on the ground.
parallel, we are working on improving governance and risk management systems: OUTLOOK Uzbekistan: We aspire to build a next generation, green field bank in partnership with international financial I am confident that our long-term strategy will generate high institutions and a local partner.
We have already applied returns and provide sustainable value for our shareholders.
for a banking license and expect to obtain it by the end Thus, I would like to reiterate our mid-term financial targets: of 2019.
In the meantime, we have launched preparatory ROE of above 20%, cost to income ratio below 35%, dividend work and are actively deploying the core banking system pay-out ratio of 25-35% and loan book growth at around 10- and renovating our pilot branch, which is scheduled to 15%.
I would like to congratulate the whole TBC team for our MACROECONOMIC OVERVIEW outstanding results and express my deep gratitude and appreciation for their hard work.
The economy continued to perform strongly in 2018, following the sharp recovery of 2017.
GDP growth stood at The Strategic Report as detailed on pages 2 to 106 was 3 4.8% at year-end and was broad-based across most sectors, approved by the Board, and signed on behalf of the Board by: placing Georgia among the fastest-growing economies in the region.
The core strengths of the country: continuing reforms, diversified trade and investment inflows, as well as a prudent macroeconomic stance continued to pay off.
Despite a number of unfavorable regional events and the considerably tighter fiscal policy domestically, the economy remains on a path of sustainable development, also Vakhtang Butskhrikidze reflected in improved credit rating by Fitch Ratings in early CEO 2019.
2 April 2019 The increase in inflows of exports, tourism and remittances remained strong in 1H 2018 26.4% YoY in US$ terms.
Following the economic difficulties in Turkey, sanctions on 3 Based on initial estimates by Geostat Iran, and weakness of the Russsian ruble, the growth of 4 Additional details about the South Caucasus pipeline project can be inflows slowed in the second half of the year 14.1% YoY, found on www.
com en ge bp-georgia about-bp bp-in-georgia but it still remained solid.
As for the full year 2018, total --scp-.
html inflows were 19.4% higher year-on-year.
TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 9 #WRITEINGEORGIAN # TBC Bank, has teamed up with Microsoft as part of a project which aims to integrate the Georgian language and alphabet into computer systems and technology products.
Everyone can contribute to the process by translating sentences online.
