CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW MARKETS We supply a wide range of essential services under the Utility Warehouse brand gas, electricity, landline, broadband, mobile and home insurance to both domestic and small business Members throughout the UK: these are all substantial markets and represent a significant opportunity for further organic growth.
The markets we operate in are generally dominated by a relatively small number of former monopoly suppliers and other owners of infrastructure assets, although in each there are also a number of independent suppliers carving out their own niches, generally based on offering highly competitive introductory deals promoted through price comparison sites, national advertising, and direct marketing campaigns.
BUSINESS MODEL We have a fundamentally different business model to any other utility provider in the UK in three key respects: we operate our business as a Discount Club: each of our customers becomes a Member, receiving a level of service commensurate with that status: we are the only fully integrated provider of both energy and communications services in the country.
This enables us to enjoy significant operating efficiencies by spreading a single set of overheads across the multiple revenue streams we receive from our Members: and we have a unique route to market, with approaching 40,000 part-time self-employed Partners: rather than seeking to attract new Members through expensive advertising or price comparison sites, we instead benefit from personal recommendations by both our Partners and our existing Members.
Partners can earn a small percentage of the monthly revenues generated by any Members gathered, either personally, or by someone in their team.
Applying a similar principle, we reward our existing Members with shopping vouchers when they introduce a new Member to the Club.
We continue to follow a different strategy to that of our competitors in both the energy and communications markets, focussing on delivering an integrated multi-utility proposition that includes three key benefits: Savings compared with the prices they were previously paying, Simplicity just one convenient monthly bill making it easier to manage a significant part of their monthly household budget, and Service delivered by our award-winning UK-based support teams.
These benefits are supported by our commitment to treating our Members fairly, avoiding the typical marketing strategy adopted by our competitors of combining cheap introductory deals for new customers with much higher tariffs charged to their legacy customer bases.
We believe their approach is not only fundamentally unfair on loyal customers, but less likely to create a sustainable long term business, as customers who have chosen to switch once based solely on the headline price on a comparison site will have a higher propensity to do so again when their introductory deal expires: these dynamics are supported by recent switching data within the electricity market for domestic customers, where reported churn amongst small and medium suppliers excluding ourselves is running at an annualised rate of approaching 30%.
12 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Our alternative approach is to focus on treating all our Members in a fair manner, and to give everyone consistently good value on all their services, rewarding loyalty and commitment with additional discounts and benefits available to our most valuable and long-standing Members.
The delivery of these core values is critical to our route to market, giving our Partners the confidence to promote our services to their friends and family as well as generating recommendations from existing Members who in many cases also become advocates for our brand.
The Net Promoter Scores NPS of around 50 that we consistently achieve reflect our relentless focus on this goal, and are in stark contrast to the negative NPS scores prevalent within the utility and telecoms markets.
Against a backdrop where most of our competitors seem focussed almost solely on price, we believe that genuinely earning the Trust of our Members is the key point of differentiation that will enable us to achieve our medium-term growth objectives and help us maximise long term shareholder value.
By treating our Members fairly, as we would like to be treated ourselves, we aim to earn both their loyalty which delivers long term, sustainable revenues and their enthusiasm for our business model which creates growth through referrals.
Examples of this approach include not offering short-term discounts to new Members as an inducement to switch, always allowing existing loyal Members to benefit from any new tariffs we introduce, reserving our best benefits and lowest prices for those who have switched the most services to us.
Combined with the wider range of benefits and consistently good value we offer, this is expected to create significantly greater shareholder value over the medium term through lower churn and longer average customer lifetimes.
We continue to invest in our IT systems, which enable us to integrate all the services we supply into a single monthly bill, supported by just one set of central overheads including all administrative and membership support functions.
This highly efficient cost base is a key factor in enabling us to offer attractive pricing and a wide range of valuable benefits to our Members, a secure and growing residual income to our Partners, and a healthy dividend stream to shareholders.
We are now around two years into our medium term programme to enhance and update these systems: progress is encouraging, and we look forward to the greater business efficiency and flexibility this will deliver in due course.
We have strong commercial relationships with all our key suppliers, who recognise the value of our unique route to market and the importance of maintaining our competitive market position.
To this end, we have regular and ongoing discussions with each of them about how the market dynamics for each of our services are changing, and the best way to ensure these are appropriately reflected in our wholesale pricing structure.
These strong relationships are illustrated by the recent improvements to our wholesale mobile rates which enabled us to significantly improve UK inclusive data allowances and worldwide roaming charges, as well as the better broadband commercials we negotiated with TalkTalk last year.
We are extremely pleased with the further progress we have made this year in taking advantage of our multiple key points of differentiation, and towards securing our position as the Nations most trusted utility provider.
Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2015 13
