Group Chief Executives statement Delivering on our commitments.
This has been another significant year for However, the journey we are on to simplify and our business.
grow our business puts us in a strong position to deal with these challenges.
By keeping our After three years of turnaround, the results focus, we are creating value for our customers, weve shared for this year show that we are firmly colleagues, suppliers and shareholders.
on track, and delivering on our commitments.
I am pleased with the progress we have made, Customers and excited by the opportunities ahead.
We are helping customers in the areas that matter most to them, and bringing them more We have seen nine consecutive quarters of sales sustainable, affordable, healthy food.
growth in our core UK business, with Group sales up 2.3% for the year.
Group operating profit As a result, our net promoter score has increased before exceptional items is up 28.4% to 1,644m by 5 points as more customers recommend Tesco Im pleased with the progress 2016 17: 1,280m, and we are generating more as a place to shop: loyalty is growing, and in the UK cash with Retail operating cash flow up 21.7% 260,000 more shoppers are shopping at Tesco.
we have made, and excited to 2.8bn 2016 17: 2.3bn.
In the first half of the year, we took a strategic We are also making good progress towards the decision to protect our customers and hold back Dave Lewis margin ambition we set out in October 2016, with the inflationary pressure we were seeing in the Group Chief Executive Group operating margin reaching 3.0% in the rest of the UK market.
At the same time, we have strengthened our balance sheet, with Net debt Weve also looked at other ways to add value down 29.6% to 2.6bn 2016 17: 3.7bn.
for our customers, with a series of little helps through the year, including: Watch our videos.
The external environment remains challenging: Visit www.
com ar2018 consumers are feeling the impact of economic covering the cost of the tampon tax on to hear more from Dave Lewis.
uncertainty, and the pressures I described in last womens sanitary products in the UK: years Annual Report, such as business rates in removing barriers to eating healthily with our the UK and competitive market conditions in little helps to healthier living campaign in the Central Europe, have not eased.
UK, and taking 4,100 tonnes of sugar out of our Own Brand soft drinks in Central Europe: launching our Clubcard app in Thailand, making it easier for customers to manage their points: passing on an interest rate increase to savers at Tesco Bank, following the Bank of Englands base rate rise in November: and running regular Weekly Little Helps in the UK, helping customers save money on everything from fresh food to fuel.
As a business with food at our heart, improving our Own Brand food ranges is a particularly important part of our plans.
This year we have relaunched many of these ranges bringing our customers the best quality products at the very best prices.
We have looked at each of the three tiers of our Own Brand offer good, better and best and are strengthening some brands, like our Tesco core range, and redesigning others, like Tesco finest.
Where our customers want the best value, without any compromise on quality, we are adding to our range of entry-level brands that are exclusively available at Tesco.
New brands we have launched for Tesco customers include prepared meals, pasta and sauces from the Hearty Food Co. and bakery products from H. W. Nevills.
As part of this work, we have already relaunched 1,300 products in the year, with thousands more to follow and our brand perception measures of quality and value have both increased.
Colleagues The improvements we are making to our business are driven by our colleagues, as they serve our shoppers a little better every day.
This year, we announced a 10.5% increase in hourly pay for our UK store colleagues over the next two years, and our Colleague Bonus Plan continues to reward colleagues in the UK for their contribution to our turnaround.
4 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 73538 Tesco AR18 Text pages Bk 180420 HR.
indb 4 20 04 2018 15:42 Strategic report Some of the changes we have made to simplify our business have had a significant impact on colleagues, including the closure of our Customer Engagement Centre in Cardiff, and changes to our operational structures in stores, and I am grateful for the professionalism and integrity of our colleagues at these difficult times.
Over the summer, we also began to move to a new service model in our offices in the UK, followed by similar changes in Central Europe, in order to simplify the way we organise ourselves, reduce duplication and cost, and invest in serving shoppers better.
In a simpler business, its particularly important that we still do everything we can to help colleagues develop their careers as they wish, and this year we have continued our apprenticeship programme in the UK, as well as running a Career Academy in our Thai business, for around 150 students.
Were also committed to building a team which is diverse, and reflects the communities we serve.
We continue to develop an inclusive culture at every level of our organisation, helping our colleagues with the flexibility, skills and reward they need to get on.
Suppliers With our suppliers, we are building even closer partnerships, working together to deliver great quality products for our customers and grow our mutual businesses.
5 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 73538 Tesco AR18 Text pages Bk 180420 HR.
