Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW PETER FANKHAUSER It is important that we continue to execute our strategy where it matters close to the customer in all of our markets to transform our business with consistency, pace and flexibility, enabling us toaddress changing customer expectations and demands.
12 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 2018 was a disappointing year for If they dont reach the standards we require, CUSTOMER AT OUR Thomas Cook, despite achieving some we support them to make improvements.
important milestones in our strategy HEART IS DELIVERING But if we decide customers are at risk, fortransforming the business.
Three years after introducing our Customer After a good first six months of the year, In the last year, we have stopped selling 55of at our Heart strategy, we now have tangible we went into the summer with a positive our 3,150 core portfolio properties for health evidence that it is delivering.
Customers are position, confident of filling all our committed and safety reasons.
We also fide-flagged more loyal to Thomas Cook with a higher hotel accommodation and flight capacity at 21hotels from our own-brand portfolio for rebooking rate in 2018 than the previous good returns.
However, with the start of the failing to meet our quality standards.
yearand we attracted three per cent more heatwave in May, that demand tailed off in new customers than in 2017.
We are proud to give our continued the fourth quarter, with customers across support tothe Safer Tourism Foundation.
More than that, we see a direct correlation our European source markets delaying Launched in2017, the Foundation brings between Net Promoter Score NPS, our decisions about their summer holidays as together key players from across the UK key measure of customer satisfaction, and they enjoyed record temperatures at home.
holiday industry to share information and the financial returns we can generate as a This delay in bookings resulted in oversupply resources with the aim of improving health business.
Where a hotel meets our threshold across the market and an even more and safety standards for our customers measurement on NPS, we earn an additional competitive pricing environment than usual, and raising awareness of the risks they two percentage points more in margin the restricting our ability to achieve the planned may face on holiday.
The first campaign on following year, showing that customers are margins in the lates booking period.
pool safety launched this summer reached willing to paymore for better quality.
While all our source markets were impacted, almost3.5 million holidaymakers.
NPS across our hotel portfolio increased we saw a particular hit to our UK business Even with all our checks and balances, there 2points in the past 12 months, demonstrating where the slowdown in bookings came on is a risk that things can go wrong on holiday.
that the work weve done to improve quality top of an already competitive market for Our job then is to step in quickly to do all that in destination and our stringent approach to Spanish holidays.
We have a specific plan to we can to take care of the customers and the hotels we include in our portfolio is paying address the performance in our UK business, to take the learnings to improve our quality off.
Following a summer of airline disruption, which I address later in this statement.
management checks even further and make as we integrated new aircraft and managed A  decline in gross sure that the situation does not repeat itself.
the impact of industry-wide air traffic control margin in the fourth quarter resulted in issues, Group Airline NPS was down 3 points.
This summer was one such moment with the underlying operating profit in our Tour As a result, after two years of consecutive tragic and sudden deaths of John and Susan Operator business overall being 88 million growth, group NPS fell back 0.8 points in 2018. Cooper in August at the Steigenberger Aqua down at the full year.
We immediately sent Notwithstanding the impact of the hot CUSTOMER CARE our Head of Welfare into the resort to take summer, our Northern European tour care of the family, along with our Head of BUILDING TRUST operating businesses achieveda near record Health and Safety to investigate what went level of performance, albeit lower than that INOUR BRAND wrong.
When it became apparent that there expected at the endofthe first half.
had been increased levels of sickness at the Our focus on the customer drives the big hotel, we moved all our customers out.
The weakness in our Tour Operator was decisions that we take as a business.
At an partially offset by a good performance in our The circumstances of the Coopers death operational level, that means gathering all the Group Airline.
This looked set for an excellent remain unclear.
But the findings of our own information that we can about our customers year until air traffic control strikes and audit have made us reappraise our processes experience and constantly monitoring it to operational challenges following the failure of and our approach to hotel hygiene.
As a shape the decisions about the hotels we sell.
Air Berlin led to industry-wide disruption and result, from next season we are introducing We track the performance of every one of the delays.
Nevertheless, our Group Airline delivered an extra level of assurance that the highest 3,150 hotels that we sell in our core sun & beach a 35-million improvement in underlying standards are maintained at all times in all portfolio to ensure it meets our standards.
Despite this positive ofour core properties.
result, our overall Group underlying operating The introduction of a new customer feedback profit was58 million lower than the prior year.
management tool, InMoment, at the start of CUSTOMER 2018 took us a big step forward by providing Unfortunately, the Group financial result FEEDBACKDRIVING our hotel quality managers with detailed, masked the good progress that we made on  BOLD DECISIONS strategy in the year.
Weve taken important of all elements of a hotel and its service.
steps to grow our own-brand hotels business, Putting our customers at the heart of our This enables them immediately to identify establishing our hotel investment fund and business or Wearing our customers issues and intervene with improvement plans.
opening 11 new hotels, including an innovative flipflops, as encapsulated in our employee new concept in Cooks Club.
Meanwhile, the In parallel with our quality management values doesnt simply shape the decisions launch of our alliance with Expedia in five process, we have a rigorous process for Health that we take at an operational level day markets is giving customers greater choice, and Safety.
Our independent Health and Safety today.
It also means asking our customers atlower cost to the business.
These represent auditors visit every one of our core properties views about theissues that they care significant steps forward in our strategy on an annual basis, checking everything from about and what theyexpect from their which is transforming our opportunity for the building, food, pool and security with a holiday company.
sustainable growth in the years ahead.
benchmark that every property must achieve.
13 Strategic report Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED This process has shaped two big and bold Added to that, three in ten customers now HOLIDAYS moves from Thomas Cook in the past six say that the hotel is more important even months: our decision to stop selling all animal IMPROVING CHOICE thanthe destination.
attractions that keep orcas in captivity and AND FLEXIBILITY The NPS in our own-brand hotels in 2018 our new pledge on plastics.
was two percentage points higher than our Of course, where our customers opinion We took our decision on captive orcas differentiated portfolio as a whole.
And our matters most is in the holidays that we sell.
18 months after we first announced an new concepts like Casa Cook achieve some Our holidays are the primary focus of all that industry-leading Animal Welfare Policy based of the highest scores for NPS overall.
At the heart of that on overwhelming changes in customer This plays into the financial returns we make strategy sits a streamlined portfolio of 3,150 sentiment on the issue.
More than 90 per cent from these hotels.
We earn a significantly quality hotels where we can have a greater of customers from our key source markets higher margin from our own-brand hotels influence over our customers experience told us it was important that their holiday versus those from our selected partner generating higher margins and returns for company took animal welfare seriously.
In part, these higher returns come our business.
from customers willingness to pay more Similarly, our #noplaceforplastic campaign, for higher quality.
However, it also reflects In an increasingly competitive market, which will see us remove 70 million singlethe greater share of profit that we earn where customers have more choice than use plastics from our supply chain in the next from our own-brand hotels: from a franchise ever before, we know that the successful 12 months, was based on extensive customer fee, to a management fee, through to a businesses will be those that genuinely feedback.
More than 90 per cent of customers share of profits from our fund-owned and differentiate their offer and provide real questioned told us that this was an issue managed hotels.
they cared about: almost as many told us this was an issue they expected us to address: I feel very optimistic about our prospects.
The good news is that this is a growing and more than two thirds said they would In Summer 2018, we opened 11 new ownmarket.
One in five of our customers go on be more likely to use a travel company which brand hotels including a new concept in more package holidays than three years took the issue of plastics seriously.
This builds on the success of ago.
The difference is that they dont want Casa Cook, extending the same design-led to be treated as mass: more than two in approach to bigger properties at a more CUSTOMER CONTACT three want the opportunity to personalise accessible price that we can roll out at scale.
Thats why we FORGING CLOSER have launched innovative new services like With nine out of ten customers saying that RELATIONSHIPS ChooseYour Favourite Sunbed and Choose the dcor influences the hotel that they Your Room this summer.
choose, and almost half telling us that the We know that the success of our customerdcor matters more than it did five years ago, They may sound gimmicky but were making led strategy rests on strengthening our we know that we are meeting a change in a serious point and one that our customers direct relationships and ensuring that we are customer needs.
Alongside our 24-Hour available where, when and how our customers Hotel Satisfaction Promise which is now The first hotel under the Cooks Club brand need us.
Our objective is to increase the in place across all of our core hotels, we opened in June in Crete, and transformed a number of customers who book directly with are distinguishing our holidays from other traditional beachside holiday resort hotel into Thomas Cook, with a focus on digital channels package holiday providers, giving customers a stripped-back, design-led hotel to appeal where our cost of sale is lower.
At the same more reasons to book with Thomas Cook.
to a new generation of travellers.
In its first time, we want to make it easier for our summer, the hotel delivered occupancy levels customers to book all of the services and HOTELS OUR OWNof more than 93 per cent and increased its holiday extras which help to give customers average daily room rate byalmost 50 per cent apersonalised holiday experience.
BRAND STRATEGY versus the previous year.
As importantly, it Online sales increased in all segments this IS WINNING WITH showed how we can use our new concepts year with particularly strong growth in the UK, to attract a new customer to Thomas Cook: CUSTOMERS up almost 30 per cent year on year.
Germany 75 per cent of customers in its first summer increased by almost 25 per cent andour Airline were new to Thomas Cook.
When we set out our strategy for profitable by 17 per cent.
This contributed to a 12 per growth, we said that our own-brand hotels In 2019, we plan to open at least 20 owncent increase in web sales overall.
Online were the cornerstone of that strategy, brand hotels.
This includes up to 10 new now accounts for 48 per cent of bookings, presenting the greatest opportunity for Cooks Club hotels: the Companys first Casa versus 22 per cent in retail and 30 per cent differentiation and, from that, higher returns.
Cook in its biggest market, Spain: and the through third parties.
first family Casa Cook, in Greece.
In total, All our customer research supports that We also increased the proportion of bookings the new properties will take the Companys decision.
Across our three biggest markets, we took via our own distribution channels own-brand hotel portfolio to 200 with around our customers experience in their hotel up one percentage points to 70per cent this 40,000 rooms, putting us among the top five isthe most important factor in their year.
We made good progress in Germany in largest sun and beach hotel groups in Europe.
particular, where we have increased the number franchise agreements with agency partners.
14 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 This expansion is boosted by the launch of Across Thomas Cook, we operate in PARTNERSHIPS our new hotel fund during 2018, Thomas Cook markets that are sensitive to a range of Hotel Investments, in partnership with hotel uncertainties, including poor weather and Ultimately, we know that the success of our developer LMEY.
Casa Cook Ibiza will open third-party incidents.
That means we have to strategy will be determined by our ability to next summer as the first new project for the manage risk in our financial and commercial focus on delivering higher returns from our fund.
Managed by Thomas Cook, we expect commitments.
As a result, we are making core sun & beach holidays while at the same the 189-room hotel to continue the success changes to our management of risk internally, time partnering with the best in the industry of the first two openings for the Casa Cook the way we set targets for management to offer customers even greater choice.
brand where more than 75 per cent of guests andhow we communicate these externally.
In this respect, the launch of our Expedia have been new to the Company.
We are To provide greater consistency in our core alliance in our first five markets of the UK, targeting a further five new projects for the financials, we are reducing our committed Nordics and Belgium in 2018 was a milestone fund for 2019, focusing on our key brands airline capacity for 2019 and increasing the development.
Plugging in Expedias marketofCasa Cook, Cooks Club, and Sunwing.
focus on higher quality, higher-margin hotels leading capabilities and extensive catalogue and destinations, with clearer processes and of city and domestic hotels should transform AIRLINE GOOD incentives to ensure these are prioritised the way we offer a choice of holidays to our through our retail and online sales network.
PERFORMANCE IN A customers: more than 150,000 hotels that meet our health and safety standards, with As a result, looking to 2019, we expect to CHALLENGING YEAR animproved booking journey, at reduced cost deliver progress on underlying EBIT and FOR OPERATIONS and complexity to our business.
lower separately disclosed items, leading to substantial progress on reported operating Combined with our hotel sourcing partnership The success of our holiday offer is supported profit.
Reported operating profit will be with Webjet to increase our offering in sun by a well-managed airline which leverages a primary focus going forward, together and beach, we have delivered a 58 per cent its relationship with our holiday business with free cash generation.
To reinforce growth in overall bed bank bookings for the while actively developing its own distribution the importance of free cash generation, year.
I feel optimistic about the prospects for channels to compete wing-to-wing with we have changed our incentive scheme this part of the business as we continue the otherEuropean leisure carriers.
for management to focus on delivering roll out across markets and begin to take operating profit improvements, which include 2018 was a strong year of growth for our advantage of Expedias distribution channels the impact of separately disclosed items.
airline against a backdrop of widespread to sell our own-brand hotels where we have This willensure we dont take our eye off disruption following the collapse of Monarch excess capacity.
delivering our goal to generate cash to and Air Berlin in 2017 and strike action investin our strategy and repay debt.
across European Air Traffic Control.
We took OUR PRIORITIES advantage of the upheaval in the market to FOR2019 expand capacity by 10 per cent this summer, CONCLUSION increasing our market share at a number Despite the overall result, we have made of our key airports in Germany in particular.
Time and again, we see that where we goodstrategic progress through the year.
We also strengthened our operational setup listento our customers, we take the right We have delivered many innovative and to support that growth with the addition of decisions for the business.
For that, I would exciting initiatives that I believe will transform two new Air Operating Certificates AOCs, like to thank my 21,000 colleagues.
Their hard the prospects for our business in the future.
including a new operation in one of our work and commitment is what makes our biggestdestinations, the Balearics.
business different and will be critical to our It is important that we continue to execute success in the future.
Despite the challenges our strategy where it matters close to the We made good progress with our efficiency of this summer, I feel confident in the plans customer in all of our markets to transform programme, removing a further 31 million that we have to build a better business, our business with consistency, pace and in cost through synergies achieved as we forthe benefit of our customers, ourpeople flexibility, enabling us to address changing bring our national airlines closer together andall of our stakeholders.
tooperate as one European airline.
At the same time we must take the lessons PETER FANKHAUSER Despite some operational challenges, from 2018.
We are putting particular focus CEO wedelivered good growth in customers and on addressing the performance in our UK profit, which increased by 35 million yearTour Operator where the challenges of on-year on an underlying basis.
Our focus transformation remain significant, operating 28 November 2018 for 2019 is to consolidate the growth we in a competitive environment with still too achieved in 2018, strengthen our customer many legacy systems and processes.
We now offer and further extend our reach.
have a clear plan of action centred on driving awareness and take-up of our own-brands: increasing operational flexibility: optimising returns from our high street assets: and targeting a best-in-class cost base.
