Chief Executive Officers statement Our business model is well positioned to deliver leading financial metrics and solid returns.
Bill Kozyra Chief Executive Officer and President 2018 Performance 2018 was another year of strong organic growth for the Group.
Although global light vehicle production volume slightly declined by 1.1%, compared to the prior year, we delivered a solid financial performance in 2018 with revenue of 3,473 million 2.0% at constant currency or 3.1% above global light vehicle production growth.
If we include the impact of currency translation, revenue slightly declined by 0.5%.
We also continued to generate strong Adjusted EBITDA of 484 million 13.9% margin and Adjusted EBIT of 374 million 10.8% margin.
Profit for the year was 140 million 2017: 115 million.
Adjusted Free Cash Flow amounted to 146 million 2017: 119m.
This high level of cash generation supports our strong organic business growth opportunities, deleveraging and return of capital to shareholders through our dividend policy.
For more information about our business model please go to page 16 TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 10 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategy update We are the #3 supplier of plastic fuel Through our experience and history, we Organic growth opportunities in EVs and tanks globally with 15% market share.
The have familiarity with each of our OEM HEVs has been a key focus for the Group.
Group has been able to capitalise on its customers unique engineering, design We are extremely proud of the significant strong fuel tank and technology leadership and development processes.
We have progress on this strategy in 2018. positions to progress its strategy for long-standing relationships with OEMs plug-in hybrid electric vehicles PHEV.
and a reputation for developing leading technology and high quality products.
Utilise the Groups market position strengths in our key product areas In 2018, the Group launched its PHEV We are the #1 supplier of brake and fuel pressurised plastic fuel tank for a leading Our geographical diversity combined with lines globally with approximately 34% European OEM in China.
The plastic fuel our customer diversity and innovative market share.
In 2018, the Group was able tank utilises our proprietary technology technologies continues to position us to to leverage its technology, customer to meet the new increased fuel vapour be awarded new and replacement relationships and global footprint in brake pressure requirements of HEVs.
It also business at higher content levels.
and fuel lines to be awarded significant minimises permeation by insertion of orders for the design, engineering and special components into the tank during Continue enhancing the Groups supply of thermal management products the manufacturing process.
The total position as an advanced technology with two leading high volume OEMs for lifetime units of this fuel tank is estimated leader in fluid systems to meet global EV platforms.
at 950,000 units based on customer industry megatrend changes planning volumes.
The Group has specialised in fluid Combining these awards with expected systems for almost a century and we orders for thermal products on these We are pleased that with our recent wins have advanced technology development OEM platforms, we anticipate that TI Fluid in pressurised fuel tanks, our PHEV tank centres and regional application Systems will have approximately 50% share is trending to greater than 20%, engineering centres to focus our research, share of these combined EV platforms.
which is higher than our existing fuel tank development and application engineering.
We believe this represents a total lifetime market share.
revenue opportunity of approximately As the requirements of OEMs have 700 million based on customer planning We are leveraging our fluid system continued to advance, the Group has volumes.
It is worth noting that these competencies to adapt our products and capitalised on its deep knowledge of fluid thermal awards are expected to last for support electrification trends, which components, lighter weight material and the eight to ten year life of the vehicles.
A continue to be great growth opportunities systems architecture to provide our OEM few of these EV platforms are expected to for us.
customers with more advanced designs begin production in 2019 and 2020. and products to facilitate meeting Beyond these important awards, we have consumer expectations and local Maintain balanced customer, platform, received other EV thermal product awards regulatory requirements for reduced regional and product diversification with Korean and Chinese OEMs.
emissions and improved fuel economy.
The Group has a diversified base of vehicle platforms and nameplates to We continue to advance our thermal which we supply our products.
The The Group has introduced a number of system development discussions with Groups products are found in most of the first-to-market technologies and received key EV OEMs.
For example, we recently highest volume vehicle nameplates across various customer and industry awards.
completed a thermal system design North America, Europe and China.
project focused on light weight nylon We are also pleased to announce that the components and optimised fluid In 2018, we generated approximately Group has been nominated for a 2019 management for a large European OEM.
40% of our revenue in Europe, 30% in Automotive News Premier Automotive North America and 30% in Asia Pacific Suppliers Contribution in Excellence These thermal awards demonstrate the and Latin America.
PACE Innovation Award for our Groups competencies as a leading fluid pressurised fuel tank addressing the handling supplier and experienced partner to PHEV market.
We believe that the Groups reputation the global OEMs.
This strong award level for engineering and manufacturing high further demonstrates that as the EV market quality, reliable, performance-critical Continued focus on automotive develops, our business strengths should products for top global OEMs has also megatrends ultimately position us to have similar share generated strong local relationships.
The The growing HEVs and EVs market trends in thermal products with the share position Group has a highly diversified customer provides significant content expansion in our brake and fuel line business today.
base of global and local OEMs with no opportunities aligned with the Groups single customer representing more than strength in fluid systems.
I am very pleased with the progress our 12% of revenue in 2018. company and employees have made in 2018 to demonstrate that we will be a leading supplier of fluid products for HEVs and EVs today and in the future.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 11 Chief Executive Officers statement continued In particular, HEVs typically contain all the In 2018, 19% of our revenue was standard brake and fuel line components generated from China where we have found on a traditional ICE vehicle and also wholly-owned operations in 16 locations require more advanced low emission and a #1 market position in brake and fuel pressurised fuel tanks together with lines.
We continue to use this strong additional thermal management systems.
position to generate growth opportunities for our plastic fuel tank and thermal management products.
In addition, both HEVs and EVs also require these higher content thermal fluid systems to heat and cool the battery, Deliver strong growth, profitability chassis and electronic components.
The and cash flow generation Group has developed products to address The Group has consistently demonstrated these new requirements e. g. thermal leading financial metrics and performance heating and cooling tubes, loops and with strong revenue growth, profitability lightweight nylon materials.
Our experienced management team has a track record of managing volume We believe that these advanced fluctuations e. g. the impact of the new components and systems have the emissions testing in Europe and lower potential to significantly increase the production in China that the market fluid handling content in HEVs and EVs experienced in the second half of 2018. compared to the content for a more By successfully adjusting costs in line traditional ICE vehicle.
Additional thermal with our customers production management products are also expected schedules, we were able to deliver and required for autonomous vehicles.
consistent margins and strong cash flow generation for our stakeholders.
We expect further progress in meeting our HEV and EV goals in 2019.
Looking ahead The excellent progress delivered in Capitalise on the Groups strong executing our HEV and EV strategy in customer relationships, global 2018, as well as our approach of footprint and excellent position continued and disciplined organic growth in China has positioned the Group well for 2019 The Group has established trusted and beyond.
relationships over many decades with major OEMs by leveraging its strong We continue to work on new design and technical capabilities, global engineering for thermal management manufacturing footprint, local products and pressurised tank management teams and long history as opportunities with our customers as the a leading provider of automotive fluid electrification market continues to systems.
We are confident that our globally as the Groups OEM customers business model will continue to deliver have expanded into emerging markets.
consistent, leading financial performance along with attractive returns.
In addition, our extensive low-cost global footprint provides a competitive Our people advantage in winning replacement and The Groups strong performance is new business with a competitive attributed to the dedication of our 28,700 manufacturing model.
We have employees across the globe.
I would like manufacturing facilities near OEM to thank them for their commitment and assembly plants in 114 locations For more contribution throughout the year.
information This manufacturing footprint is a distinct on our strategic objectives advantage for the Group and its We look forward to reporting our progress go to page 18 customers.
For more Bill Kozyra information about Chief Executive Officer and President our 2018 financial performance go to page 26 TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 12 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Picture caption T Re ax st t ta o g tt, G o o evre m r any m Pru olt du ip cle t t lest ines in h g a eu re dit TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 13
