8 Strategic report Chief Executive Officers review Nicolas Breteau The Group delivered a Chief Executive Officer resilient performance in 2018.
Despite the challenges we faced, my belief in TP ICAPs potential has never wavered.
Dear shareholder, I have worked in the Group since 2015, most recently as Head of the Global Broking division, and before that, in a number of organisations that are clients of the Group.
As I have got to know the organisation better, I have seen energy and commitment from our global workforce, which will help us achieve our strategic goals.
Despite the challenges we have faced, my belief in TP ICAPs potential has never wavered.
Financial performance The Group delivered a resilient performance in 2018.
This is borne out in the results, which show growth in revenues at constant exchange rates, underlying operating profit and underlying operating profit margin.
Revenues grew by 3% on a constant exchange rate basis to 1,763m and were in line on a statutory basis.
We achieved an underlying operating profit of 276m, an increase of 5% over 263m in 2017.
Our underlying operating profit margin of 15.7% was 0.7 percentage points higher than in 2017.
Statutory profit after tax of 23m is lower than the 75m reported in 2017.
Statutory profit after tax in 2018 includes a 65m impairment of goodwill.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 9 Regional performance We continue to invest in hybrid technology The energy and commodities broking Performance across our regions was mixed across both brands and increase the amount industry is fragmented with many small with the Americas and EMEA seeing revenue of revenues that are significantly dependent firms, especially in the US.
The US build out growth on a constant exchange rate basis on this technology.
We have seen growth is part of our global diversification strategy as they benefited from an improvement in in a number of products that now use and we believe we can continue this trend market conditions.
Asia Pacific saw revenues technologies that improve the efficiency of doing bolt-on acquisitions and become decline due to challenging market conditions of execution for our customers and provide the acquirer of choice.
We now have a core in the Energy & Commodities business as well better pricing.
This doesnt necessarily mean competency of adding acquisitions and as a reduction in broker headcount.
the reduction in the role of the broker but a their incremental revenues to our existing change in the way that they operate.
Our business divisions Global Broking There has been a renewed emphasis on We also diversified our service organically, Global Broking is our largest division, with introducing pure electronic solutions, with adding weather derivative broking and revenues of 1,278m in 2018 2017: 1,244m new volume matching products delivered extending the activities of PVM from oil at constant exchange rates.
One of the both in the US and UK.
As I will reference into gas and power in the US.
divisions fundamental strengths is its later, the aggregation of liquidity is key to The diversity of products in the sector long-established relationships with enhancing the competitive position of our provides us with the potential to continue investment banks.
Although many of the broking business and we have made progress to expand our offering and revenue sources.
divisions business sub-segments are mature, across a number of product classes including the pace of change in client behaviour and FX, Rates and Credit.
This has enabled the We have prioritised investment in an preferences has never been greater.
Groups multiple business brands to deliver artificial intelligence application that will This gives us the opportunity to evolve our their liquidity to customers via a combined equip our brokers with client-specific tailored services in line with client needs, adding portal that provides single sign-on and analysis, with personalised feeds of news, new revenue streams and increasing connectivity, enabling customers to benefit pricing, historical patterns of activity and customer loyalty.
from the liquidity provided by those brands.
The broker then has more colour and insight to inform dialogue with Markets have been mixed with certain Energy & Commodities customers.
The prototype has been released products Rates and Equities benefiting In Energy & Commodities, our second largest for testing to a small number of users, with from favourable conditions, while others, division, revenues were 331m in the year ongoing releases during this year and next.
such as Credit and FX & Money Markets, down 1% on a constant exchange rate basis We aim to roll out a production version to have faced more challenging conditions.
a larger population in the second half of During 2018 we have invested in both our During 2018 we added two bolt-on this year.
people and technology to provide a acquisitions to this division.
In January we platform for growth.
In particular we have Institutional Services acquired SCS Commodities, a broker based diversified our services, filling in gaps in our In our Institutional Services division we in New Jersey in the US.
It deals with crude coverage in equity derivatives, delta one and achieved revenues of 37m in the year, an oil futures, soft commodities, petroleum and high yield bonds.
The growth in Equities increase of 16% over 2017 on a constant refined products, natural gas options and during the year up 18%, particularly in the exchange rate basis.
In November we acquired US, also highlights the benefits of hiring the Axiom, which specialises in crude oil, refined best people, and the impact that can have The underlying business now has good oil products, ethanol and physical grains.
top-line momentum as well as healthy Axiom reinforces our presence in Houston margins.
We have refocused to concentrate where it is headquartered.
This is the primary initially on products where we can capture oil hub in the western hemisphere and the immediate business with buyside clients addition of the Axiom team almost doubles such as listed derivatives, foreign exchange, our footprint there.
foreign exchange options, credit and debt solutions.
We have put in place an active multi-product sales team to market and sell our service offering across the range of products and execution protocols.
com 10 Strategic report Chief Executive Officers review continued There are a large number of potential clients Data & Analytics continues to exhibit a I have seen energy we target including the large hedge funds.
strong organic growth trajectory coupled with attractive margins and recurring and commitment We are now also actively targeting asset revenues underpinned by customer loyalty.
To accelerate this, we from our global are progressing with the order management The integration workforce, which will system connectivity that will allow these During 2018 we carried out a review of the clients to connect to us directly without a big integration programme of our predecessor help us achieve our technological effort at their end.
We believe businesses, Tullett Prebon and ICAP Global strategic goals.
that when this goes live our ability to Broking, and we announced a revised transact for those clients will open up a synergy target of 75m in the summer.
We achieved run rate savings of 71m in 2018 and expect to deliver the remaining Data & Analytics 4m in 2019.
By the end of 2018 we had In our Data & Analytics division we grew spent 130m on the integration process and revenues by 8% in the year to 117m on a we anticipate a total cost of integration of constant exchange rate basis, reflecting 160m.
This is a significant amount of money accelerated revenue growth in the second and not all of it has been spent as effectively half of the year.
However, it is necessary to spend to complete the We made some significant changes to our integration so that we have a scalable Data & Analytics business during 2018 which platform from which to grow the business.
have resulted in an increased contribution while preserving a static cost base in the Completing the integration this year is one underlying business.
of our key priorities and the process is now run by our new Group Chief Operating These changes include unifying two Officer, Martin Ryan who joined TP ICAP salesforces that can now market a broader in December 2018 and comes with over 20 suite of products to each client, and creating years of experience of running operations a channel management function to optimise and technology in both market infrastructure our relationship with our current distribution environments and investment banking.
partners as well as target new ones.
This gives us better control over the commercial We have made real progress on the terms on which our content is sold.
We also integration but we have a lot more work accelerated our client audit programme to to do this year.
Most of this relates to the ensure we are fully remunerated for the consolidation of IT networks, applications and usage of our data.
data centres that we use to run the business.
This will give us an infrastructure that is We set up a product management team scalable, allows for future innovation, and who are developing a pipeline of new that enables us to streamline our post-trade products from data sets gathered as a result processing to increase efficiency and reduce of closer collaboration with Global Broking.
We now have a go-to-market product implementation process and have increased This programme of work entails the launch rate of new products.
In the decommissioning core IT applications.
second half of 2018, we launched four new We started off with 78, of which 32 will be Data & Analytics products and to date in decommissioned.
As part of the integration 2019, we have introduced a further seven programme we will also be reducing the new products to our clients.
number of data centres we support.
At the date of acquisition, we had 15 data centres and so far we have closed four.
We plan to reduce this to six, keeping two in each region.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 11 As we do this, we are moving more workload As a result, in 2018 we spent 1m on our risk We have created a multilateral trading to cloud based infrastructure.
framework project and that spending will facility MTF and two organised trading increase significantly to 5m in 2019.
In 2018 facilities OTF in the EU so that our EU On real estate, we have now co-located all we also invested in our in-house internal activity can be conducted on MiFID II venues our brokers in New York and Singapore, as audit function, which will continue in the after 29 March 2019, once authorisation of well as our energy brokers in London.
We are current year, further evolving our third line our French subsidiary has been obtained.
planning to move all our Global Broking and of defence.
Data & Analytics staff in London to new We are relocating iSwap, our electronic rates headquarters at 135 Bishopsgate during A robust risk framework will enable us to MTF, to the Netherlands.
We continue to move certain activities play our role in maintaining the integrity The second stream of activity is the business within our corporate functions to our centre and professionalism of the markets where we we do for EU based clients through our in Belfast.
We had 130 people in Belfast at operate.
It is also a competitive differentiator, broking desks in the UK.
In a no deal Brexit the end of 2018 and we expect to have particularly as we go out to win new clients scenario, we may not be able to conduct this about 300 people by the end of the year who in their selection of service providers activity after 29 March 2019 in the way we with the capacity to add a further 100 look beyond liquidity and pricing.
We have therefore made in 2020.
Brexit plans to adjust our business model so that we While there is still work to be done, we will For some months we have been preparing can continue to service EU clients from the complete the integration programme by the for all Brexit eventualities, including the UK UK.
This involves putting extra broking staff end of this year although activities to deliver leaving the EU without a deal.
In that into our EU offices to interact with EU-based further benefits from the ICAP acquisition circumstance, our UK entities would lose their customers and changing our workflows.
will continue into 2020. ability to provide services in the EU27 zone The ultimate distribution of our staff using passports, either through branches or New risk framework between the UK and EU will depend on our on a cross-border services basis and our We are undertaking a complete review clients requirements and locations but, for ability to continue as we have become and enhancement of our global risk the foreseeable future, we expect the UK to accustomed would be restricted.
Overall, management framework to take into remain a major centre for financial, energy around 90% of our broking revenues are account the scale and diversity of the and commodities markets.
largely unaffected by Brexit, but it still business that we now do and to respond remains a significant regulatory and We have put in place contingency plans for to regulatory expectations.
This involves operational challenge for the Group.
a no deal Brexit and we are working hard developing our risk based management to minimise the impact but it is difficult to information and reporting processes to There are two main activity streams to gauge the scale of any impact at this stage.
provide better linkage between the consider depending on the particular day-to-day management of risks in the location of a client and the specific asset class.
business and the Groups risk appetite, The first stream of activity is that which governance and oversight.
we carry out in the EU for clients in the EU.
As part of the integration programme we To enable EU to EU business we need to are simplifying our corporate structure and operate via both a legal entity and a venue reducing the number of legal entities within in the EU.
We have set up a new subsidiary in the Group.
This will enable us to reduce the France, TP ICAP Europe SA, to consolidate number of regulated entities and venues our branches in France, Spain and Germany, that we run which, in turn, improves risk and to open a branch in the Netherlands.
This will simplify matters for The Group is seeking authorisation from the ourselves, our employees and our clients and French prudential regulator for a subsidiary make it clearer which counterparties and based in France, with branch offices in other venues they are interacting with.
It will also EU sites, to provide services in the EU.
The align our risk governance with the regulators Group is advised that notice of authorisation view of our business.
is expected prior to the withdrawal of the UK from the EU.
com 12 Strategic report Chief Executive Officers review continued Nicolas Breteau Robin Stewart The senior management team Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer I am privileged to work alongside Robin Stewart, our Chief Financial Officer, who was appointed to the Board with me in July 2018, and Philip Price, our Group General Counsel and Head of Compliance, who was appointed in September 2018.
Since taking on the role as Chief Executive Officer last John Abularrage Barry Dennahy year, my immediate priority was to establish CEO, Global Broking CEO, Asia Pacific and CEO, Americas a strong management team that could drive our business forward.
We needed a leader of the Global Broking business which I had previously run and in October I appointed John Abularrage to David Goodchild Mihiri Jayaweera the role.
John has a strong track record of Chief Risk Officer Group Head of Strategy leading a very successful operation for TP ICAP in the Americas having joined Tullett Prebon in 2011 from Collins Stewart.
I have also made a change in the leadership of Institutional Services, our agency broking business focused on the buyside and our Sarah Lewis Andrew Polydor newest division.
This division had made Group Head of CEO, Energy & Human Resources Commodities a very good acquisition, COEX Partners Limited, which is the fastest growing part of the TP ICAP business.
John Ruskin, who founded COEX, is now running the whole division.
He has more than 25 years of experience in the broking industry and Philip Price John Ruskin before starting COEX was global head Group General Counsel and CEO, Institutional Services of listed products at Newedge.
Head of Compliance Andrew Polydor comes with a strong track record and continues to lead the Energy & Commodities division and has successfully completed a number of acquisitions including Martin Ryan Rebecca Shelley PVM, SCS Commodities and Axiom.
Eric Group Chief Operating Group Corporate Sinclair heads the Data & Analytics division Officer Affairs Director after joining us from the Toronto Stock Exchange in 2017.
As mentioned above, Martin Ryan has been appointed to the role of Group Chief Operating Officer.
I have also appointed Eric Sinclair Frits Vogels Sarah Lewis as our new Group Head of HR.
CEO, Data & Analytics CEO, EMEA Sarah joined in 2015 as Group Head of Reward and has delivered on a wide range of initiatives, including leading the HR integration activity.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 13 We now have a clear management structure NDF FX business.
ICAP has the deepest TP ICAP is a PEOPLE business and our for the Group with four global business pools of liquidity and is the number one employees are a key asset.
We want a divisions operating alongside Corporate brand in this product, while Tullett Prebon dynamic culture with a strong emphasis Services across three regions, which means has a lower market position.
In 2018 we on conduct, integrity and risk they are more closely aligned with our clients started to provide our clients with a management.
We are committed to and their needs.
combined portal that provides single sign-on recruiting, retaining and developing and connectivity, enabling the customer to the very best talent in the industry.
Enhancing our competitive position access not only ICAPs liquidity but also DIVERSIFY our client base and range Since joining the Group in 2015, I have Tullett Prebons liquidity across brands.
of services reflecting the shifts that are always been an advocate of the tremendous The aim of this is to provide access to Tullett taking place in our industry and opportunities afforded to us from the Prebon liquidity that customers would not customers evolving preferences.
The initial phase of the otherwise have accessed regularly.
As a are becoming more varied and clients are integration was focused on cost cutting.
We result, we expect to see improvement in looking for new ways to access our have made progress on this but at the same the revenues of the Tullett Prebon brand, products and services.
time we have seen an increase in the costs and its overall competitive position, without of running a broking business.
These costs Near term outlook cannibalisation of the leading ICAP brand.
reflect the increasing burden of operating Some of our segments are showing positive With Tullett Prebon now having a better in a highly regulated industry and are not trends, but there is significant variance ability to access clients electronically, within our control.
The benefits of being across products and regions.
The political TP ICAP is able to increase its overall the market leading interdealer broker, with and economic environment within which market share.
significant scale and the ability to meet the we operate continues to present us with challenges of increased regulatory scrutiny, Only by completing the integration and both opportunities and challenges.
While are more apparent than ever.
But for me the having a common infrastructure can we roll the Group is positive with regard to factors key rationale for the acquisition of ICAP was this out across every brand and region where within its control and the proactive changes to combine the deepest pools of liquidity in it is feasible.
This is the real prize for TP ICAP we are pushing through, there remain many OTC markets.
That is the key resource of our and this is why a great deal of my focus in uncertainties.
However, I am confident that business and an enormous source of value.
the last six months has been on enhancing with a renewed strategy, founded on our I do not believe that we have fully realised our competitive position and delivering strategic pillars, and renewed sense of this value as yet and my mission is to ensure the integration.
purpose, we are in a good position to that we do.
navigate these successfully and make the The aggregation of liquidity is one of my most of the many opportunities we have When we acquired ICAP, we significantly key objectives alongside the completion of to grow.
increased the depth and breadth of our the integration.
At the same time, we are broking franchise.
Within the combined starting to lay the foundations for the next Concluding comments Group either Tullett Prebon or ICAP is the phase of the Groups development, which We enter 2019 with a lot of work to do number one or two interdealer broker in will be underpinned by four key pillars: to transform the Group.
Our employees almost every product we trade.
The key to make TP ICAP what it is, and during some Sustain and enhance our TECHNOLOGY realising the value of our broking businesses particularly difficult times in 2018, they offering so that we can aggregate is by using any one brands leadership worked extremely hard and remained liquidity and improve functionality and position in a product to improve the overall committed to serving our customers.
I would analytical tools for clients.
We spend competitive position of the other competing like to thank every one of them for their around 130m a year on technology brand.
This can be done by aggregating enormous contribution.
With the capabilities on an ongoing basis.
access to liquidity across brands and regions of our skilled and dedicated employees, and We want to be known for our so that a customer can choose either brand supportive clients, I am confident that we OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE an or see a combined view of the liquidity will succeed.
organisation with the capabilities, TP ICAP provides access to.
systems and processes to offer outstanding We have already started to implement this service to our clients at every point in their Nicolas Breteau concept within the Global Broking business.
interaction with us, while operating Chief Executive Officer A practical example would be within our US efficiently and responsibly.
19 March 2019 Latin American Non-Deliverable Forward www.
