Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Chief Executives statement Whilst 2018 has been a challenging year for the Group, with continued market uncertainty and a challenging macroeconomic backdrop, we have worked extremely hard to take appropriate actions across all of our businesses to deliver a good performance.
John Carter Chief Executive 25 February 2019 In December we set out the Groups plan for the coming years years of experience, and traditionally trade markets have been with two main pillars: focusing on delivering best-in-classproven to be more resilient, and generate higher margins and service to trade customers, and simplifying the Group to reduce returns.
Our trade businesses hold strong positions in attractive complexity, speed up decision making and reduce costs.
These markets, and we therefore plan to focus management time and self-help initiatives will enable us to underpin performance prioritise capital investment in the highest returning businesses.
in the short-term, and position the Group strongly to achieve The success of the transformation programme in the Plumbing sustainable, profitable growth in the future.
& Heating division has provided the opportunity for the Group to At Travis Perkins we always put the customer at the heart of explore the disposal of the business during the course of 2019. our business, and whilst there are always improvements to be made, I am extremely proud of the feedback we receive from our customers.
This has always been, and will always be, an industry built upon strong relationships, and it is key to our ongoing Our businesses in 2018 success that we retain our focus on delivering excellent service for customers, whether through traditional branch channels or General Merchanting through our growing digital platforms.
Our philosophy is very much that its our people who make our I am very pleased with how Travis Perkins performed through business great, and I, and my fellow leaders across the business, the year, and is extremely well positioned heading into 2019. are inspired on a daily basis by their commitment and dedication I would categorise 2018 as a tale of two halves: with the first to delivering a fantastic service to customers.
We continue being impacted by both a sustained period of poor weather to develop a pipeline of future talent, with our apprenticeship with the Beast from the East, and a higher cost base driven scheme giving generally younger people opportunities at every by inflationary pressures and investments we have made, level of the business.
particularly the additional cost to offer the Heavyside Range Centre proposition to customers across all branches in England Developing this pipeline is vital to the ongoing success of Travis and Wales.
In the second half the benefits of some of the Perkins, and I am delighted with the progress we continue to self-help initiatives began to come through, with savings made make.
We are also making progress in improving the diversity through greater efficiency in the distribution network and the of our team, with our Workforce with a Difference programme streamlining of some central functions.
This focus on managing making positive changes within the Group.
costs ensured that Travis Perkins showed positive profit growth Keeping people safe is a cornerstone of our Group, and we period on period in the second half of 2018. continue to make our sites safer for all of our stakeholders.
It is through the dedicated and rigorous efforts of our business As we look into 2019 I am confident that we can build on the leaders, line managers, our colleagues and the Stay Safe function, investments we have made to improve the business in recent that we are able to report a modest reduction in the number and years, with the aim of growing sales ahead of the market.
We frequency of lost time accidents in 2018.
Nevertheless we remain will achieve this by increasing local empowerment of the branch totally committed to seeing further and continued improvement manager and sales teams, enabling faster decision making closer in this area.
to the local customer base what we call winning the best builders in town.
A key focus of 2018 was to set out a refreshed Group strategy for the years ahead.
At a capital markets event in December 2018 we Our kitchen distribution business, Benchmarx, had a challenging set out a clear plan with two main pillars: to focus on delivering first half of the year, mainly due to competitive pricing pressure, best-in-class service to our trade customers, and to simplify the but performance improved in the second half of the year, with our Group.
Serving the trade is the Groups heritage, with over 200 strongest ever promotional campaign in October.
16 Strategic report Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Plumbing & Heating Consumer Wickes had a challenging year, as a result of uncertainty in the wider The transformation programme has excelled in 2018 with macro environment, declining consumer confidence and intense growth across all three main channels: the branch network, the competitive pricing pressure.
The management team did an excellent wholesale business and the specialist online businesses.
Strong job of managing the cost base, and the turnaround in performance in the sales growth, with significant market share gains, combined with second half of the year was extremely pleasing.
The recovery in trading tight control of costs has resulted in excellent profit growth year in the second half of the year, particularly in Kitchen & Bathrooms, on year.
Building on the network restructuring work completed drove profit growth year on year in the second half of the year, and I am in 2015, the transformation team have made significant confident that we can continue to improve the performance of Wickes to improvements to the customer proposition, with broader branch create options to maximise value over the medium-term.
stock range, improved product availability and the modernisation of ranges in the Bathroom Showroom network.
Toolstation UK has had another extremely successful year with double digit revenue and like-for-like sales growth.
We opened our 335th We announced in December 2018 that we believe it is the right store, a third distribution centre to give capacity for 500 stores, and time to explore the divestment of the P&H division during the we plan to open up to 60 further stores in 2019.
We are also working course of 2019.
Significant work has already been completed to hard to improve the proposition, increase the extended range available separate the business from the Group, and this work should be online and the number of trade brands stocked in store.
We launched completed in the first half of 2019. a trade credit card to extend credit to smaller trade customers and launched a new website in December 2018.
Contracts The years ahead Our Contracts division delivered another year of excellent trading performance, with all three businesses, Keyline, BSS and CCF, taking I feel truly blessed to be in my 41st year working with this amazing market share and improving profits.
Following a challenging start company and having such fantastic people around me, be it at the to the year, with significant uncertainty caused by the collapse of branches, head offices, distribution centres or anywhere else in the Carillion, the division rebounded well despite the market uncertainty.
I have seen significant change in the Group during my time, but one thing has always remained: our unending commitment to The success of the Contracts division is built on the foundations understand and serve our customers in the best way possible.
I of the understanding of customer requirements, and the laseragain thank all our colleagues for their hard work and contributions like focus on delivering a market leading service.
There is a towards the Groups performance.
philosophy of continuous improvement, with trials of new and innovative ways of supporting and working with our customers, The current market uncertainty is likely to continue and it is and a constant drive to improve efficiency.
therefore vital that the Group concentrates on self-help to underpin performance in the near-term, and to build a strong foundation for The commercial construction market has a later cycle than some when market conditions improve.
The fundamental drivers of the of our markets, but the order book for 2019 remains robust.
The Groups end markets remain robust, and our strategic plan to focus Contracts businesses have done a great job in diversifying their on the trade and to simplify the Group will help us to generate the end markets in recent years, growing revenues in infrastructure, greatest value for our shareholders over the long-term.
residential house building and industrial projects, and I am certain that our Contracts businesses will continue to significantly outperform the market and produce profitable growth in 2019.
John Carter Chief Executive 25 February 2019 Main image: Alan Copperwheat Travis Perkins, Tool Hire 17
