STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS STATEMENT 2018 HIGHLIGHTS A NEW CHAPTER IN - Strong revenues of $1.9 billion and free cash flow of $411 million from a solid production base of 90,000 boepd.
TULLOWS HISTORY - Good progress in East Africa withFinal Investment Decisions on our Kenya and Uganda projects targeted in 2019.
- New exploration licences in CtedIvoire and the Comoros: an exciting exploration programme in Guyana to be drilled mid-2019.
- Balance sheet transformed, with net debt reduced to $3.1 billion and 1.9x gearing, providing the financial strength and stability tobalance further investment inour assets.
- Final 2018 dividend of $67 million: sustainable dividend policy announced to pay no less than $100 million per annum from 2019.
- New Vision focusing our business onthe keypillars of Africa, Oil, Sustainable and Progressive marks us out as a distinctive E&P business and one that can and will deliver value to our host countries, our staff and our investors over the years to come.
The substantial efforts we have made to reset the Company, not just in 2018 but over the last three years, have now firmly established Tullow as a balanced, self-funding exploration, development and production company.
Paul McDade, Chief Executive Officer 10 Tullow Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Accounts In 2018 we continued to build on the progress we made in 2017, further strengthening our balance IAN SPRINGETT sheet, maintaining cost and capital discipline, Ian, former CFO and Board Director delivering our operational targets and continuing atTullow, passed away in January 2019. to build an exciting exploration portfolio.
The Ianjoined us in 2009 from BP, where substantial efforts we have made to reset the hehad worked for 23 years, and gave Company, not just in 2018 but over the last three Tullow eight years of much valued years, has now firmly established Tullow as a service.
Ian was a great friend and self-funding oil company, balanced across colleague to many at Tullow and he exploration, development and production.
2018 was also a year where we defined our vision for the Company into the next decade, to deliver our ambitions for growth.
For Tullow to be successful avoided a costly multi-year shut-down at the field we must balance the broader interests of our Our business model 14 and the wider implications that this would have threestakeholder groups: our investors, our host had on Ghana and the Jubilee Partners.
Thehighly Our strategy 18 countries and their communities, and our people.
technically complex work that these teams have While the market in the majority of 2018 saw a achieved has been outstanding and is an industry stronger oil price, the year closed with a weakening first.
Elsewhere in West Africa we are returning oil price and greater volatility.
This uncertainty ournon-operated production assets to growth, highlights the critical need for our Company to demonstrated by the 160per cent 2P reserves remain focused on cost and capital discipline.
Thiswill allow us toremain competitive and to Our projects in East Africa, which will form a new continue tothrive despite continued volatility.
production hub of 50,000 bopd, continue to progress After last years changes in executive leadership, towards Final Investment Decision FID.
In Kenya in2018 we have seen changes at Board level with the Early Oil Pilot Scheme is trucking oil to Aidans retirement and the arrival of Dorothy Mombasa and this pilot is providing invaluable Thompson as our new Chair.
More importantly, the scheme is wealth of experience and expertise to Tullow and helping all stakeholders better understand the she is already making a real impact both at the journey to FID and what it will take to become a Board and across the Company.
I am greatly major oil exporter in 2022.
In Uganda, disappointingly, enjoying working with Dorothy as we build on Aidans despite the Joint Venture Partners best efforts, legacy and lead Tullow to even greater success.
wedid not complete our farm-down of our equity by the end of 2018: however, we continue to work A year of delivery towards this goal in the first half of 2019, and are The full-year results show continued strong free also targeting FIDaround the middle of the year.
cash flow of $411 million, demonstrating our The focus of our exploration activity in recent years efficient and effective operational delivery, and has been to high-grade our exploration portfolio, costdiscipline, principles which are now firmly entering countries and licences where we see embedded and generating a strong financial potential in the geology and exiting countries that performance.
We have met the expectations that are not aligned to our strategy.
These efforts have we set, and I hope that meeting expectations will resulted in an exciting portfolio of exploration assets be a defining characteristic of my tenure as CEO.
which have the potential to deliver material growth In Ghana, following the resolution of the border to the Company.
We expect to drill an average of dispute in late 2017, Tullow lost a case in mid-2018 three to five frontier wells in the coming years against Seadrill, where the High Court disagreed whilst remaining within a budget of $150 million.
with our claim of force majeure on a rig contract, My focus since becoming CEO has been to lay solid following the drilling restrictions related to the foundations for a successful future.
We have met border dispute.
We paid Seadrill over $208 million production targets: we have significantly reduced in costs and damages which materially affected our our debt: and we have delivered operationally, with cash flow.
drilling in Ghana, completion of the Turret project, We made significant operational progress with our progressing our East African projects towards FIDs assets in Ghana in 2018, with the completion of the and resetting our exploration portfolio.
Jubilee turret repairs and our return to drilling onboth Jubilee and TEN, and exited the year at With the balance sheet strengthened and with approximately 145,000 bopd gross, not including financial discipline embedded in the business,  insurance payments.
itisnow time for ustofocus on growth.
TheJubilee Turret Remediation Project TRP concluded with the rotation of the FPSO to its permanent position inDecember 2018.
com 11 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS STATEMENT CONTINUED 2030 Vision and equality.
Some important examples of how we 2018 has been a time to reflect and refresh our will do this are by publishing Production Sharing priorities and vision for the Company to ensure Agreements where governments allow us to do weprosper in a world where priorities are evolving, so:by promoting equality of opportunity for all and a major energy transition is under way.
Oil ourcolleagues: and by ensuring that the rights andgas businesses today are under ever growing ofcommunities where we operate, particularly scrutiny, with expectations now that a companys marginalised communities, are protected.
purpose must be much greater than just delivering The Progressive pillar of our 2030 Vision reflects economic returns for its shareholders.
We need to our recognition that, in a more challenging external show howwe can deliver sustainable value to our environment, we need to create value by doing host countries and communities and meet the things differently.
One way in which we are doing growing expectations of our people relating to this is to make sure our organisation is agile, Tullowsbroader social purpose.
We have developed allowing diverse groups of people to work together our 2030 Vision, with its four pillars of Oil, Africa, dynamically to solve challenges and create new Sustainable and Progressive, to help ensure that opportunities.
We will embrace new and appropriate we successfully meet these challenges, whilst technology to improve our delivery in areas ranging positively delivering and balancing the expectations from administrative tasks, to the management of of our investors, host countries andcolleagues.
There is a clear need for global action to reduce The success of our vision will depend on the greenhouse gas emissions but there will continue commitment of our colleagues and we are working to be strong demand for low-cost oil as we progress hard to make sure we use the skills, experience and to lower carbon energy supplies.
I believe oil will energy of all our people effectively and offer them remain a core component of global energy needs the opportunities they need to develop their careers.
to 2030 and beyond, and we have the experience and core skills to meet that need.
Our focus will Our growth agenda beon finding, selectively developing, producing While we can look back on a successful 2018, andselling oil, and commercialising this resource Ifirmly feel that we have now set a good course for efficiently to maximise benefits for our host countries.
future years with a firm focus on growth.
Over the next five years, our priority will be to maximise Much of that work will be in Africa, which remains production and profitability in Ghana and build at the heart of our business.
We have 30 years upon our broader West African producing portfolio.
ofexperience and knowledge of working in Africa, We will grow our production profile by delivering have opened three new basins, have deep geological 50,000 bopd net production from our Uganda and and geographical insights and technical and Kenya assets.
In addition, we will replace and operational expertise, and have long-standing increase resources in our portfolio for future relationships with governments and communities production or monetisation by drilling three to five across Africa and our vision is to build on these frontier wells in Africa and South America through significant foundations.
a disciplined and carefully screened exploration Although Africa is our focus, South America is programme.
We will also add reserves and clearly a very important part of Tullows portfolio.
resources in our West and East African business We have spent years building up acreage positions through near-field and infrastructure-led drilling.
in countries which are now industry hotspots.
The All the elements of this strategy will be focused on current focus on Guyana provides Tullow with some delivering sustainable value to those most closely of the most exciting exploration high-value prospects interested in our Company: our shareholders, our in our portfolio.
South America provides an important host countries and our people.
hedge to Africa, providing portfolio diversity and balance to our African exploration portfolio.
Sustainability will be a guiding principle in everything we do.
Our shared prosperity agenda will continue to support education and skills development in ourhost countries.
We have continued to work Paul McDade toincrease local business participation in the Chief Executive Officer supply chain and find ways to use our existing 12 February 2019 infrastructure plans and projects to benefit the communities where we operate, ensuring we truly share prosperity.
Our work on environmental stewardship will seek to reduce, mitigate and offset our environmental impact, especially the carbon emissions generated by ouroperations.
Inaddition, we will continue to uphold transparency 12 Tullow Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Accounts The Turret Project team has been outstanding, they are pioneers within our industry and we are incredibly proud of their achievement.
Kweku Awotwi, Managing Director, Tullow Ghana
