CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW Widespread economic and geopolitical uncertainty meant that the new and faster-growing channels.
Our e-commerce sales were up global business environment remained challenging in 2018.
Currency by 47%, ahead of global e-commerce market growth and putting depreciation in a number of key markets fuelled inflationary pressures us well on the road to building a scale e-commerce business.
We and dampened consumer demand, while input costs rose steadily on also accelerated the growth of our business with Discounters, in the the back of escalating commodity prices.
Health and Beauty channel and in the out-of-home eating market.
The digital transformation of the company also continues apace.
We A SOLID PERFORMANCE are working successfully with leading global technology companies Against this backdrop, Unilever delivered a solid performance.
to build world-class technology and data analytics infrastructure.
Underlying sales grew by 3.1%, excluding the recently-divested Through the sophisticated and responsible leveraging of our data spreads business 2.9% including spreads.
Growth was profitable, insights, we are close to reaching our goal of being able to connect bringing our underlying operating margin to 18.4%, up 90 basis points, directly with a billion of our consumers.
In our operations, we have which also drove a healthy free cash flow of 5 billion for the year.
already automated over 700 processes saving time and reducing Importantly, the overall shape and quality of the performance was cost and our in-house training programmes are increasingly encouraging.
We achieved a good balance of price and volume growth.
focussed on the digital up-skilling of our own people.
Growth was broad-based, across each of our three global Divisions Our attractiveness as an employer of choice grew still further in Beauty & Personal Care, Home Care and Foods & Refreshment.
Unilever is now the number one FMCG graduate employer of continuing margin progression was underpinned by well-embedded choice in almost 50 countries.
That is a remarkable achievement, savings and efficiency programmes, and an improving mix from and testament to Unilevers values and commitment to be a force for underlying sales growth in Beauty & Personal Care.
Inspired by the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan, we also saw Strengthened by these measures, we are good in shape for the future.
our brands with the most distinct and well-articulated social and environmental purpose grow significantly faster than our other brands.
We ended 2018 with 58% of our turnover in the emerging markets and enjoying number 1 or 2 positions in 85% of the key markets and The performance last year demonstrates I believe that our strategy is categories in which we compete.
Our Beauty & Personal Care working.
By empowering our three global Divisions, we are allowing business where some of the biggest growth opportunities exist for more strategic allocation of resource and for greater differentiation now represents 40% of our turnover.
All of this makes us well placed in meeting changing consumer needs.
Beauty & Personal Care, for to capture the many opportunities that exist across our markets.
example, made good progress in moving to more premium positions and expanding in the high growth segments.
Home Care built on its LOOKING AHEAD already strong emerging market footprint with a strategy of market Building on these strong foundations, I have already made clear that development and benefit-led innovation for emerging needs.
Whilst my first priority as CEO will be to accelerate quality growth.
For us, Foods & Refreshment was combined into a single division bringing that means an investment-led approach based on delivering our 4G more scale and focus to allow faster transformation of our portfolio.
growth model consistent growth, competitive growth, profitable The results in 2018 re-affirm the enduring strength of Unilevers growth and responsible growth, with an equal focus on each.
brands and the growing resilience of our organisational model, as well In particular, I want to leave no doubt that I intend to build further as underlining Unilevers ability to deliver consistent top and bottom on Unilevers century-old commitment to responsible business.
line performance even in very challenging conditions.
Nevertheless, 'Making Sustainable Living Commonplace' will remain our purpose we are determined to step up the proportion of our business that as a company and we will use this to keep Unilever at the forefront of is winning market share as part of moving our sales growth more ensuring business is a force for good.
More and more of our brands consistently into the middle of our multi-year 3-5% targeted range.
will become explicit about the positive social and environmental impact they have.
This is entirely aligned to the instincts of our people A YEAR OF PROGRESS and to the expectations of our consumers.
It is not about putting As well as delivering a solid set of results, we also made good purpose ahead of profits, it is purpose that drives profits.
progress in 2018 in strengthening the overall business to be ready for future opportunities: Despite the progress we have made in recent years, I am also clear that in a world where the speed of change is relentless we need to By empowering those closest to the marketplace, and by linking quicken the pace of everything we do still further.
I want to make speed our global brand teams across the world, our Connected for Growth and skills for a digital age a hallmark of Unilever under my leadership.
C4G organisational model is helping to increase speed and agility, If we can do all this then I am confident we can achieve our strategic as well as giving rise to a greater entrepreneurial spirit inside aims and deliver many years of solid cash flow, further underlying the company.
As an illustration of this, time to market with new operating margin improvement and good quality growth.
innovations to meet local trends is now 40%-50% faster compared to 2016.
We also launched 19 new brands, including Love Home AND FINALLY and Planet, a range of plant-based, home-cleaning products and I want to thank my colleagues throughout the whole company for a follow-up to our successful launch of the natural and sustainable their hard work in delivering these results.
Unilever is fortunate to hair and skincare product range, Love Beauty and Planet.
have such talented and dedicated people and I am deeply aware of In line with our strategy, we continued to move the portfolio in the my responsibilities to them and to our many other stakeholders direction of the faster-growing segments of the market, especially in being asked to lead this wonderful company.
those that speak to consumers growing desire for more natural I especially want to thank my predecessor, Paul Polman.
Unilever has products and purpose-driven brands.
The vast majority of been transformed under his inspiring leadership.
He has worked tirelessly businesses we have acquired over recent years are now growing by to make the company stronger and the world a better place.
It has been double digits on a yearly basis and we were delighted at the end of a privilege to serve with him and an honour now to succeed him.
last year to announce the acquisition of GlaxoSmithKline's Health Food Drinks portfolio, including its iconic Horlicks brand in India I also want to thank the Unilever Board of Directors for their and the rest of Asia, further increasing our presence in the highly confidence and invaluable guidance as I take on the role.
And, finally, attractive health-food category.
We also completed successfully the to our shareholders, thank you for your ongoing support and belief in the company, which we will always work hard to retain.
complex disposal of the spreads business, returning the after-tax proceeds to shareholders.
The way people shop and access brands is changing rapidly and we ALAN JOPE made good progress in 2018 in positioning ourselves effectively in CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 4 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018
