Ultra Electronics Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report 06 Financial statements Chief Executive Officers Review FOCUS, FIX, GROW Since I joined the Group in June 2018, I have Our goal is to deliver long-term, sustainable spent most of my time familiarising myself withthe Ultra businesses.
My initial impressions value creation for all our stakeholders.
very much support the due diligence I did before joining, and I have been impressed by the quality SIMON PRYCE of technology and the capabilities across Chief Executive Officer theGroup.
2018 Highlights Ultra achieved some notable successes in 2018 on new and existing programmes including multiple contracts on the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter programme, further awards from the USArmy for data links and tactical radios and a range of large orders in the underwater warfare I was appointed Chief Executive segment from the UK MoD, Royal Canadian Navy and the US Navy.
Only the firm element of Officer on 18 June 2018.
I am these wins is reflected in our order book which pleased that I am able to report grew strongly and at the end of 2018 was that I have very much enjoyed almost 10% higher than in 2017 at 983.9m 2017: 897.4m.
myfirst few months at the Company and am excited by Revenues of 766.7m 2017:775.4m theopportunity I see at Ultra represented a welcome return to organic growth for the first time since 2011 with organic sales forperformance improvement, up 2.2% compared to a 3.3% decline in 2017. growth and value creation over This growth reflected better conditions in the medium to long term.
defence markets, especially in theUS, increases in our US and international sonobuoy revenues 2018 was a year of significant change at Ultra: and demand for our radioand Air Defense but before commenting on our satisfactory Systems Integrator ADSI products by the US 2018performance, my findings and our future military.
Underlying operating profit declined direction, I would like to add to the comments 6.2% to 112.7m 2017: 120.1m, largely made by the Chair and express my personal reflecting the 6.3m impact of previously thanks to Douglas for his extraordinary disclosed development contract cost overruns commitment to Ultra over the last 31 years, atour Herley business, which led to a decline insometimes difficult circumstances.
Cash generated has helped to create a Group with great by operations was 102.4m 2017: 97.4m, potential and whilst I only worked with him which represented an underlying operating cash for a short time, I have valued his insight and conversion of 79% 2017: 97%, a better than continuing support and I wish him the very expected performance.
I am delighted that Tony has joined the Group and look forward to The positive performance in 2018 could not have working with him.
He is an extremely capable been achieved without the exceptional efforts of businessman with successful executive careers Ultras 4,100 employees who have worked hard in the international engineering, aerospace and effectively in delivering the 2018 outturn.
and technology businesses, a strong track We are privileged to have a capable, often record and extensive Non-Executive and long-serving and highly committed workforce, Chair experience which will be of enormous who have performed diligently despite benefit to me and Ultra going forward.
challenging internal and external market conditions over the last few years and I thank Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 07 them for their continuing efforts.
I am confident that, with the right direction, investment and support, we have the team to deliver positive and collaborative change and realise Ultras exciting future.
Business overview Ultra is a specialist international electrical andelectronics engineering company.
The Group operatesmainly, but not solely, in defence and other highly regulated markets with particular expertise in the maritime, and C3 command, communication, and control including cyber domains.
Ultra is a Tier 3 A strong reputation with customers for In recent years, against a back-drop of equipment sub-system and occasionally a solving challenging and complex customer challenging core markets and some poorly Tier 2 systems provider, focused on providing problems and needs: and performing businesses, a number of which were mission specific, bespokesolutions.
Talented and committed people, who acquired, the Group has also tended to behave haveaclose technical engagement with tactically rather than strategically.
Whilst this has Ultras strengths include: theircustomers.
not impacted core technology strengths, which continued to benefit from customer-funded Good technology with pockets of excellence However, Ultra today is an aggregation of development, it has led to a need to invest, in areas such as sensors and transducers, different and independent companies and particularly in Ultras own R&D, processes, signal transmission, processing and business models which is reflected in the systems, IT infrastructure and most notably its interpretation, specialist encryption and Group operating model and its management highly capable and committed people.
A lack of common A wide range of physical capabilities: process, systems and infrastructure makes Limited product, platform or customer collaboration and the sharing of knowledge dependency with generally, although not and best practice challenging.
It also means always, relatively small shipset values: that some of the Groups commercial Experience in designing products for processes and practices are sub-optimal.
operation in extreme environments where Most importantly, it also prevents Ultra low size weight and or power are important: leveraging the Groups combined strengths.
GROUP ORDER BOOK DIVIDEND PER SHARE 983.9m 51.6p 9.6% 4.0% 2018 983.9 2018 51.6 2017 897.4 2017 49.6 2016 799.3 2016 47.8 2015 753.8 2015 46.1 2014 787.3 2014 44.3 Ultra Electronics Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report 08 Financial statements Chief Executive Officer's Review continued FOCUS, FIX, GROW Ultra is fundamentally a good business but one that is not yet optimised.
2019marks the start ofour evolutionary journey to realise improvement opportunities at Ultra through Focus, Fix, Grow.
Focus Key process and practice: Grow Over time, we intend to migrate Ultra from Programme management: Ultra is well positioned in key technology anaggregation of small, independent, Commercial: improve delivery on time, with its major markets projected to deliver looselyassociated companies to a collaborative to cost and at a price that reflects the good growth.
Evolving defence delivery federation of connected businesses through: value of our products and services to practices as well as the need to support our customers: and our growth potential means we also Focusing on the things we are good at: Technology: better assess and price need to increase investment in our own Collaborating better, particularly in contract and engineering risk.
This is in part to meet the needs of technologies, capabilities, strategic Operating model, structure and footprint existing customers, and in part to ensure positioning: and where there is significant opportunity for we continue to maintain technology and Better leveraging Group-wide capability.
Ultra to: capability leadership to win key positions Pool resources and realise synergies on future platforms and programmes.
Fix across businesses: and To fully realise Ultras exciting potential, we Increase the non-value-added process This requires a targeted, disciplined and need to fix and strengthen our core processes standardisation and centralisation.
This Group-wide approach to innovation and and better share best practice.
We also need to was originally envisaged as part of the investment.
There may well be opportunities in support our people to evolve our culture to Standardisation and Shared Services the future to acquire technologies and better support the next phase of our S3 programme.
However, the cost capabilities to support more rapid execution of development.
We have the opportunity to savings delivered were achieved our strategy, but we will only consider these leverage the combined strengths of Ultra.
principally through restructuring, once we have the right capabilities in place and Areas of particular focus will be: onerous lease provisions and indirect then only where it makes clear strategic, procurement in the UK.
Cultural evolution and investment in talent to: Connectivity and IT infrastructure enabling: Recognise, support and reward the Better collaboration and information behaviours needed to drive greater sharing across businesses and functions: coordination and collaboration: and and Enhance, develop and empower the The standardisation of selected tools considerable talent already in the and processes across the Group.
Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 09 We intend to migrate Ultra from an aggregation of small, independent, loosely associated companies to a collaborative federation of connected businesses.
Summary Immediate priorities Fix We have already made progress with a After a good second half and having addressed Focus The team has already completed the number of the areas we need to fix, including: a number of legacy issues, we delivered an process of mapping and analysing our key encouraging set of results in 2018.
While technologies, capabilities and identifying our Two new senior leadership roles have been there is much work to be done in the next core competencies.
We are well advanced in: created including a Commercial & Corporate phase of Ultras development, we now have Affairs Executive Vice President, to lead the a solid platform from which to grow and Developing a revised corporate strategy, review and enhancement of our programme deliver against our goal of creating long-term, reviewing our operating model and structure, management and commercial processes: sustainable value for all our stakeholders.
including footprint and capability: and Appointment of significant new external hires Identifying and scaling the unrealised at a senior level including Chair, CEO, General Ultra enters the current year well-positioned in parenting opportunities within Ultra from Counsel and Company Secretary and Chief strong markets with significant exposure to US greater collaboration, cooperation and focus.
Work is underway to upgrade the defence spending.
We have won good positions performance management practices, systems on a number of major new programmes, our During 2019, we will be finalising the corporate and other people processes and rewards order book is strong, improvement actions have strategy, developing long-term corporate goals, structures to support, develop, retain and commenced and we are focused on delivery.
developing detailed and value creative strategic focus our talent: plans to support delivery of those objectives and Increasing investment in 2019 and beyond in Significant additional potential exists in Ultra ensuring the Group operating model is fit for IT infrastructure and our own R&D: and through focusing the Group on where we add purpose.
We will also cease some unsatisfactory Ceasing inefficient working capital value, improving core processes and better working capital management practices that management practices and optimising leveraging the Groups combined strengths and were driven by focusing cash at period ends.
working capital throughout the year to capabilities.
We anticipate that 2019 will be a improve business practices and culture.
year of good underlying progress and we look forward to an exciting future with confidence.
We will keep you regularly informed and updated as our Focus, Fix, Grow journey SIMON PRYCE develops and we plan to provide additional KPIs Chief Executive Officer to measure our progress and success later this 6 March 2019 year.
However, we are confident that over time and with effective execution of our strategic and operational improvement plans, Ultra has the potential to achieve strong long-term, sustainable, value creation from organic growth in excess of its major defence markets, with at least mid-teens operating margins, 8085% cash conversion, a progressive dividend policy and within a prudent capital structure.
