Strategic report I am pleased to report another strong set of results for CHIEF EXECUTIVES the year ended 31 December 2018.
We have maintained STATEMENT our focus on delivering sustainable growth in recurring profits and cash flows over the long-term, and on delivering a Home for Success for all the students who live with us.
We will continue to focus on growing earnings, We do this by providing valued services and Financial highlights both in absolute terms and as a proportion of total operating high-quality buildings, designed returns.
This is supported by our operational focus EPRA earnings specifically for students.
Our investment and the delivery of our secured pipeline.
More discipline ensures we maintain a robust capital specifically, the high degree of income visibility structure and deliver sustainable earnings.
88.4m driven by nominations, re-bookers, international 2017: 70.5m and postgraduate students and more effective Performance in 2018 resulted in another year of utilisation of assets underpin our ability to maintain growth in EPRA earnings, like-for-like rents and full occupancy and grow income on an annual development profits.
EPRA earnings increased EPRA EPS basis.
With increasing scale and a consistent focus by 25% to 88.4 million and now represent over on cost efficiencies, we have continued to invest one-third of total accounting returns.
The 34.1p a proportion of savings back into our service offer security, quality and visibility of our earnings 2017: 30.3p and also deliver further margin improvements.
We provides the confidence to maintain our see further opportunities to sustain improvements dividend payout of 85% of EPRA EPS.
in both service and margins.
The progress that we Profit before tax have made developing our University partnerships, Financial highlights alongside more traditional development activity, 2018 2017 245.8m will drive further growth over the next few years EPRA earnings 88.4m 70.5m and we continue to see an attractive pipeline of 2017: 229.4m EPRA EPS 34.1p 30.3p opportunities in both of these areas.
Profit before tax 245.8m 229.4m Basic EPS 90.8p 95.3p Basic EPS Our PRISM operating platform, coupled with Dividend per share 29.0p 22.7p our experienced management and leadership Total accounting return 13% 14% 90.8p teams, give us a unique capability to drive value EBIT margin 71% 68% from our portfolio through further scale efficiencies, 2017: 95.3p EPRA NAV per share 790p 720p revenue management and utilisation, supporting Loan to value LTV 29% 31% our ongoing income focus.
These capabilities give Dividend per share us confidence in sustaining rental growth.
29.0p 2017: 22.7p Total accounting return 13% 2017: 14% EPRA NAV per share 790p 2017: 720p Loan-to-value 29% 2017: 31% 14 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Strategic report p0151 Corporate governance p5299 Financial statements p100155 Other information p156160 We have actively prioritised improving the quality Our properties are located where students Customer service satisfaction levels, a key of our portfolio by using our customer insight and want to live, close to their University, and are performance indicator for us, remain at extensive local knowledge to align with the top well maintained and regularly refurbished.
consistently high levels and place us on a par performing Universities and ensure that we are in We provide a range of room types at different with some of the best service companies across the best locations within our markets.
This focus on price points with 92% configured in clusters with Europe.
94% of our customers are satisfied with the best Universities in the UK means that we are ensuite bedrooms and shared living spaces, their accommodation and, across the whole well positioned to maintain full occupancy and which is how our research consistently tells us PBSA market, 76% of students are happy with rental growth over time.
most students want to live.
We offer different their accommodation Knight Frank UCAS : tenancy lengths to cater to a diverse spectrum demonstrating the continuing appeal of our of students, totalling 1.5 million students in need product and service and also more broadly Delivering for students of accommodation.
Amongst other things, our across the sector.
A University education can transform lives.
We rents include all utilities, service charges, full recognise, however, that it requires a significant contents insurance, rapid maintenance and We are proud to continue our support for the Unite financial commitment and understand that high-speed Wi-Fi.
In addition, our teams are on Foundation.
The Foundation provides financial young people are increasingly focussed on hand to support students when they need us: and pastoral support to over 200 students every getting value for their investment.
Students either physically or digitally.
We make sure our year in partnership with 27 Universities.
understand that accommodation is a key dealings with students are straightforward and ingredient in this and are demanding increased fair.
Our service is based on providing the things levels of service.
We are therefore committed to Partner of choice for Universities that students value most: a safe and secure delivering a living environment that provides Our reputation with partner Universities is environment, support getting settled in quickly students with what matters most to them and another of our key performance metrics.
The and help thereafter when they need it.
supports their academic, social and personal results of our latest Higher Education trust survey development.
We believe that the value of a show that our reputation with Universities across This commitment to providing value for students University education goes beyond future earnings the UK is at record levels.
This reflects years of is reflected in average occupancy of 98% and potential and recognise the importance of this to sustained investment in key relationships and rental growth of 3.5% p. a. over the last five years.
Our students earn represents a key strategic advantage for Unite, Growing numbers of second, third year and on average 33% more than national median resulting in a growing number of discussions postgraduate students are choosing to return to earnings five years post-graduation, reflecting about new opportunities.
us and now account for two-thirds of our direct-let the value of their time at University.
These students traditionally have lived In a highly-competitive environment, Universities in the private-rented sector, a sector that was We seek to provide a valued service through the are increasingly recognising the importance of recently highlighted in the NUSs Homes Fit for consistent delivery of Home for Success, our high-quality accommodation in their ability to Study 2019 report for many of its poor practises, insight-based student proposition that brings attract and retain students and ensure their including housing quality, maintenance issues together great properties with the services students satisfaction, a key performance metric under the and deposit-related issues.
The report also want, provided by people who understand governments Teaching Excellence Framework.
highlighted a rental level that is comparable students and, importantly, who care.
In recent Like the students who live with us, Universities are to PBSA.
These factors help to explain why years, a significant investment in technology and increasingly recognising the value of our student more returning students are choosing PBSA our digital capability has helped us increase the proposition, Home for Success.
With over 800,000 differentiation of our offer, improve our students students still living in private-rented housing, we experience and drive operating efficiencies.
continue to see further opportunity in this area.
Driving Unites earnings growth Operational Portfolio University excellence strategy partnerships Future growth opportunities New openings Sustainable Future rental growth earnings Less nominations disposals efficiency Current utilisation earnings THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 15 Strategic report CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT CONTINUED Because of this, almost two-thirds of our estate During 2018, we opened 3,074 new beds, added The anticipated yield on cost of our secured is now let under nomination agreements with 331 beds to our portfolio through acquisition development pipeline is 7.6% and prospective more than 45 of the UKs best institutions.
Taking into account these returns on new schemes remain attractive at our city-based managers and our Higher activities, together with valuation movements, around 7.0% in London and 8.0% in the regions.
Education Engagement team work closely the value of our investment portfolio including We have lower hurdle rates for developments with these Universities to help them meet their our share of USAF and LSAV is 2.7 billion as at that are supported by Universities or where short-, mediumand long-term accommodation 31 December 2018 2017: 2.4 billion.
another developer is undertaking the higher-risk needs, as well as their targets for student activities of planning and construction.
satisfaction, experience, welfare and retention.
The purpose-built student accommodation With an average remaining life of six years, these sector continues to attract a significant level We continue to see attractive development agreements provide income and rental growth of global institutional capital.
Over 3 billion and partnership opportunities both in London certainty on 60% of our student income.
of assets were traded in the year, driving yield and in other strong University markets.
We plan compression across the sector, most notably for to continue investing selectively in markets to The availability of high-quality accommodation the highest-quality assets.
The valuation of our enhance portfolio quality whilst maintaining represents a significant constraint for many portfolio increased as a result of an inward yield discipline around target returns, and pushing Universities, who are increasingly approaching movement of 15 basis points on a like-for-like for greater optionality given the uncertainty Unite not as a traditional supplier but as a strategic basis and the portfolio is valued at an average created by Brexit.
We expect to maintain our partner in their long-term accommodation portfolio yield of 5.0% 2017: 5.2%.
run rate of 1,500-2,500 new beds over the strategy.
During the year, we secured two further coming few years.
University partnerships and have continued to Development and partnerships pipeline make progress with our pipeline.
We are in active We also made excellent progress with our Disposals dialogue with 10 Universities over potential development pipeline during the year.
We Disposals remain an important part of our partnerships.
The growing appetite for innovative, delivered seven new buildings over the summer strategy and we will continue to recycle assets long-term University partnership deals is helping and secured two additional development out of our portfolio to ensure that we increase us grow our portfolio of partnerships and drive schemes, taking our secured development our exposure to the UKs best Universities, whilst long-term income security.
Additionally, we pipeline for delivery over the next four years generating capital to invest in further development have negotiated new agreements with three to 6,579 beds.
The construction of all our 2019 activity and other investment opportunities.
top 25-ranked Universities and also increased the openings is progressing in line with plans and we During 2018, we sold 14 properties for 180 proportion of nominations agreements benefitting expect that around 70% of these beds will be million, of which Unites share is 85 million.
from contractual rental uplifts from 71% to 76%.
Planning Following the disposal, we no longer have a consents and build contracts are in place for all presence in Plymouth or Huddersfield and have of our 2020 deliveries and we are finalising our further improved our alignment to our target Operating quality buildings plans for schemes delivering in 2021 and 2022.
Universities, supporting our longer-term rental The quality, location and scale of our portfolio growth aspirations.
is a key component of our business model and Since the year end, we have secured an option long-term strategy.
We aim to operate buildings to acquire a new site in Bristol, on a subject-toOur secured development pipeline requires a in and around high-quality Universities where panning basis, that is expected to deliver 650 further 486 million of capital expenditure, and student demand is highest.
We believe that our beds in 2022 and to be delivered as a University we intend to sell a further 100-150 million Unite focus on these institutions is the best strategy partnership scheme.
share of assets during 2019 to take advantage of for driving continued high levels of occupancy the ongoing strength in the investment market and rental growth.
We are therefore focussing The secured development and partnerships and to ensure that we maintain a strong and our portfolio activity on further improving pipeline is highly accretive and remains a flexible balance sheet as we progress our alignment to the strongest ranking Universities significant component of our future earnings development pipeline.
This disciplined approach and being in the best locations.
90% of our growth and, taken together with rental growth to portfolio optimisation underpins our ability to income is generated by students attending such and disposals, could contribute 13-17 pence per sustain rental growth over a longer-time horizon.
Universities and we will ensure that our portfolio share to EPRA earnings once built out.
remains aligned to the best Universities in the UK.
16 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Strategic report p0151 Corporate governance p5299 Financial statements p100155 Other information p156160 DELIVERING IN PARTNERSHIP WITH UNIVERSITIES We are developing Parade Green, an 887-bed property in Oxford, after working closely with the University of Oxford Brookes, agreeing a 25-year nominations agreement.
The strength of our partnership with Oxford Brookes was instrumental in the council granting planning consent for development.
This acquisition adds to our current 480 beds, all under nominations agreements with Oxford Brookes.
We are focused on improving sustainable earnings growth by identifying opportunities for deeper partnerships based on Universities commitments to long-term nominations agreements.
Parade Green will be delivered for the 2019 20 academic year with total development costs expected to be c. 73 million.
1,350 887-bed building opening in 2019: fully nominated to Oxford Brookes University OBU on a 25-year deal: extends partnership with OBU to 1,350 beds.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 17 Strategic report CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT CONTINUED The Group also made its debut in the listed, Going forward, the gap between the number High-quality earnings and unsecured bonds market, raising 275 million of of applicants and University places could be a strong capital structure 10-year bonds and has retained its investmentimpacted by some external factors, including We have achieved 98% occupancy across grade credit rating from Standard and Poors the impact of the UK leaving the EU and the our portfolio and rental growth of 3.2% for and Moodys.
The new funding provides demographic trend that has seen a 60,000 the 2018 19 academic year.
With 60% of additional financing headroom, greater reduction in the number of 18-year-olds over beds underpinned by University nomination flexibility and a reduced cost of funding.
Whilst the impact on student agreements, we have a high level of visibility numbers of the UK leaving the EU is difficult to in the ongoing occupancy and rental growth predict, EU students only make up around 2,500 Market and strategy outlook of the portfolio.
The investments that of our direct-let customers and EU student The outlook for the student accommodation we have made in our PRISM operating platform numbers have continued to grow over the last sector remains positive, with structural factors differentiate us from our competition and two years.
We are nevertheless forecasting a continuing to drive a demand-supply imbalance provide capacity for us to continue growing 20-25% decline in EU undergraduates by 2023, in the cities where we operate.
The UK Higher the portfolio and delivering efficiencies in the equating to a fall of around 1% of total students.
Education sector is recognised globally for the future.
This focus on efficiency has resulted in strength of its Universities and the contribution it us delivering our NOI margin target of 75% and However, participation rates continue to grow makes to research, innovation, talent development our overhead efficiency target of 30 basis points.
as more young people are choosing University and the UK economy more broadly.
The UK is the As outlined at our Capital Markets Day, going over other alternatives and this, together with second most popular destination for international forward we will combine these two measures the reversal of the demographic decline, students and has 11 out of the worlds top 100 and target an EBIT margin NOI less overheads means that the outlook for UK student numbers Universities and 58 of Europes top 200 Universities.
and fees as a percentage of sales.
This measure looks increasingly positive.
With demand from shows the overall efficiency of the business international students also growing, up 9% this Total student numbers again reached and significantly aids comparability across the year, a more positive visa environment and record levels at over 1.8 million.
In 2018, we achieved a sector leading a relatively small impact from Brexit, we feel of applicants and the number of students EBIT margin of 71%, up from 68% in 2017, and equally positive about international demand.
accepted into courses in 2018 was at 696,000 are targeting an EBIT margin of 74% by the end and 533,000 respectively 2017: 700,000 and of 2021.
This will be delivered by maintaining The Governments review into post-18 education 534,000.
Despite a fall in applications of less discipline on back-office efficiency and through the Augar Review is expected to report than 1%, Universities were able to recruit from ensuring that services delivered to students are in the next few weeks.
The review is expected to the excess of applications, resulting in intake meaningful, relevant and delivered efficiently.
propose a number of changes to the way Higher remaining in line with the previous year and Education is funded.
Whilst the outcomes remain applicants still outstripping acceptances by Unites share of net debt grew by 53 million to unclear, we expect to see the review recommend 163,000.
The small reduction in applications 856 million in 2018.
The majority of our property some reduction in the fees that students pay and was driven principally by the demographic and development expenditure Unite share potentially create some restrictions for Universities decline in the UK, with international students 273 million was funded by our share placing or courses that are assessed to offer lower-quality once again growing.
and disposal programme which, together outcomes.
We continue to focus on higherwith asset value appreciation, resulted in the quality Universities determined by a variety of The initial applications data for the 2019 20 reduction of LTV to 29% 2017: 31%.
This LTV measures such as TEF rankings, league tables, academic year is encouraging, with overall is at the lower end of our target range and student outcomes, entry criteria and financial applications up by 0.5% with growing we expect it to increase back to around the strength.
This is demonstrated as less than 4% of participation rates and increased numbers mid-30% level as we build out the development our income is generated from lower financialof international students more than offsetting pipeline.
We also monitor our interest cover ratio strength Universities and only 3% of our students the impact of the demographic decline which currently stands at 3.4 and net debt to are at Universities with entry requirements lower that continues until 2021.
EBITDA ratio which is at 6.1 2017: 2.6 and 6.5, than three Ds at A level.
This strategy of focussing both of which are in line with our target levels.
on higher-quality Universities positions us well to withstand any impact of these changes.
Any changes could also put pressure on University finances and we will continue with our dialogues with Universities as to how we can best support them through our partnership activity.
18 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Strategic report p0151 Corporate governance p5299 Financial statements p100155 Other information p156160 Outlook The outlook for the business remains positive.
We have achieved 98% occupancy Building on our consistent performance record 1.8m and the market fundamentals, the Group across our portfolio and rental Total student numbers again remains well placed to deliver sustainable growth of 3.2% for the 2018 19 reached record levels.
earnings growth in the years ahead.
Whilst the Augar Review could present some new academic year.
challenges for the sector, UK Universities continue to demonstrate their ability to adapt and respond to a changing landscape and 0.5% retain their globally recognised status.
Growing participation rates highlight the very significant The initial applications data value that young adults place on a University for the 2019 20 academic The student accommodation sector has education and the opportunities that it creates.
year is encouraging, with attracted significant levels of capital investment This trend continues to drive the demand for overall applications over the last four years with over 16 billion of high-quality Higher Education amongst both up by 0.5%.
This increased investment UK and international students as seen by the activity has seen the new supply of accommodation latest applications data.
Our alignment to and increase and the total number of purpose-built relationships with the best Universities in the UK beds including University-owned beds grow means that the impact of any changes on our to over 600,000, representing around one-third business will be manageable.
16bn of the UKs student population.
At this level, there still remains a shortage of purpose-built The student accommodation Our development pipeline, University partnerships accommodation compared to the numbers sector has attracted and operational expertise provides good visibility of first year and international students, before significant levels of capital of future rental growth and increasing recurring taking account of the increasing numbers investment over the last four earnings.
With the increased level of macro risks, of second and third-year students who are years with over 16 billion of we are maintaining discipline around the choosing this type of accommodation.
allocation of capital into new opportunities but outlook suggests that the rate of new supply still expect to invest into new, value-enhancing will continue at a similar rate of around 20,000- activities.
We are confident that our strategy of 25,000 beds in 2019, before starting to reduce.
aligning our operations with the best performing Supply in 2020 and beyond is currently limited Universities in the UK, combined with our highlyto a further 20,000 beds.
A large proportion scalable operating platform, strong brand and of the new supply is focussed in markets where reputation, makes us well positioned to extend we do not have a presence and on the premium our market-leading position.
end of the market where we believe the competitive threat that it poses to our more Richard Smith mainstream proposition is limited.
Chief Executive Officer 27 February 2019 Our exposure to changes in student numbers and increases in supply is mitigated by our alignment and relationship with high-quality Universities where student demand remains strongest, underpinned by nominations agreements.
We remain confident that well-located, mid-range, direct-let student accommodation will continue to support high levels of occupancy and rental growth.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 19
