Strategic Report 14 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 Chief Executives strategic review Customer eXperience eXcellence Building a digital CXX and Digital Vodafone Our efforts to deliver an outstanding customer leader in data experience, capitalising on our leading network quality, contributed to further gains in NPS communications across most of our markets during the year.
In 17 out of 20 markets we now have a leading or co-leading consumer NPS score.
Even more importantly, the NPS gap between ourselves and the third placed competitor typically the value-players is now 16 points.
During the year we decided to initiate a new strategic programme, Digital Vodafone, which will leverage on our earlier work with We expect to deepen our 4.5G coverage Review of the year the CXX programme.
We aim to transform and then launch 5G services in 2020, This has been a year of robust commercial our business model by delivering the most once handsets are widely available, as momentum and significant strategic engaging digital experience for our customers: this will become the lowest cost option to progress, with a strong financial performance using advanced data analytics to improve add incremental capacity.
We expect 5G that exceeded our initial expectations all commercial and technology investment investments to be funded from within our for profitability and cash generation.
decisions: and automating key aspects of our existing levels of capital expenditure.
Our customers enjoyed our best ever mobile operations.
Our ambition is to generate network performance, and together with incremental revenues and to further reduce Acquiring Liberty Globals improvements in customer service and net operating costs on an organic basis.
cable assets in Germany, in the stability of our modernised IT and The programme is already being implemented billing platforms, particularly in the UK, this Central and EasternEurope across our largest operating businesses, where contributed to our highest ever net promoter In May 2018, we announced our intention we are merging commercial and technology scores NPS at year-end.
to acquire Unitymedia in Germany, as well teams to achieve better and more efficient as the UPC cable assets in Central and As I describe in more detail overleaf, our three product and service development, at a lower Eastern Europe CEE, from Liberty Global growth engines performed well.
Mobile data cost than in the traditional siloed functional for a total enterprise value of 18.4 billion.
growth remains strong, up 63% year on year, model.
We are also insourcing critical digital This transaction transforms Vodafone into and our more-for-more propositions helped skills, in order to reduce reliance on external Europes leading next generation infrastructure to offset regulatory headwinds.
We remained developers and adopt more agile working owner with 54 million on-net homes, Europes fastest growing and leading processes, and we have strengthened our out of a total NGN footprint of 114 million.
challenger in broadband, adding 1.1 million internal digital marketing platforms and In Germany we will become a converged households during the year, and also added units, to achieve a better return on our national challenger, and in our predominately 0.8 million converged customers, typically media investments.
mobile-only markets in CEE we will increasing ARPU and reducing churn.
significantly accelerate our convergence This transformational programme will be the Meanwhile, our Enterprise business continued strategy.
In total we will acquire gigabit capable most important source of differentiation to outperform our peers thanks to the success networks passing 17.4 million marketable and efficiency gains for Vodafone in the of our world-leading IoT division, despite homes, including 11.0 million in Germany, with coming years.
an overall declining market environment.
an attractive organic growth outlook given We achieved all of this while lowering our a speed advantage versus local incumbents net operating costs on an organic basis for Chief Executive succession and relatively low broadband penetration.
the second year in a row, thanks to our Fit for It has been a privilege to spend 20 years In-market consolidation across the four Growth initiatives.
of my life working at Vodafone, the last ten countries is expected to create synergies of which as Group CEO.
The company has with an NPV of over 7.5 billion, with run-rate Network leadership: preparing evolved from a collection of assets mostly cost and capex savings of 535 million by the consumer mobile and minorities, to a strong for 5G fifth year post completion before integration mobile and fixed infrastructure owner, with The substantial investments we made during costs.
The transaction is subject to regulatory co-controlled JVs and a strong Enterprise Project Spring, supported by sustained approvals and is expected to close around the business.
I am highly confident that Nick ongoing capital expenditure, have allowed middle of calendar 2019.
Read and Margherita Della Valle, whom us to maintain our network leadership and I have worked with extensively throughout co-leadership positions in mobile.
In several Creating a new market leader this time, are the right choices to lead the markets notably in Germany and Italy inIndia company through this exciting next phase the gap in performance between ourselves of convergence and digital transformation.
I am pleased with the progress we are making and the value players continued to widen, in securing regulatory approvals for the supporting a premium price differential.
merger of Vodafone India with Idea Cellular, We are optimistic about the long-term which is expected to close by the end of June, potential of 4.5G and 5G services, and we and we recently announced the appointment intend to invest in the upcoming 5G spectrum of a combined management team.
Separately, Vittorio Colao auctions over the next two years in order to in April 2018 we also announced the merger Chief Executive maintain and optimise our spectrum position of Indus Towers with Bharti Infratel, creating across all technologies.
Indias leading listed tower company in which we will own a significant liquid stake.
