STRATEGIC REPORT Just a year ago, we were a privately owned As well as delivering the IPO, weve finalised business.
Today, following our IPO in May 2018, the transaction to acquire key parts of the we are a publicly listed company accountable Engen business.
This deal, which completed to many shareholders, with strong governance on 1 March 2019, extends our footprint into processes in place.
I would like to pay tribute eight new countries, increasing our presence tomy team right at the start of this statement to 23 African markets, further diversifying Our vision is to become their commitment, skills and sheer hard ourbusiness and opening up new opportunities work made the IPO not only possible but to accelerate growth across Africa.
And as if the most respected energy hugely successful.
And I also want to thank that wasnt enough behind-the-scenes activity company in Africa.
Vitoland Helios, our founding owners, for their for one year, we also prepared the ground for strong backing for the IPO.
Most importantly, future efficiencies by implementing the first theIPOdid not distract from our business and stages in a new Enterprise Resource Planning we have delivered good results for 2018.
ERP system that will transform our analytical capabilities and efficiency.
ACCELERATING GROWTH CHIEF EXECUTIVE This has been a remarkable year for Vivo Energy one where weve OFFICERS STATEMENT not only again achieved continued, year-on-year growth, but done so CHRISTIAN CHAMMAS while successfully carrying out important changes to our company.
VOLUME million litres 9,351 2018 4% 2017 9,026 2016 8,389 2015 7,990 ADJUSTED EBITDA US$000 400,208 2018 6% 2017 376,128 2016 302,191 2015 240,348 08 VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 15% 0.192 13% NON-FUEL RETAIL GROSS CASH PROFIT UP STRONG HSSE PERFORMANCE DURING NET INCOME INCREASED 15% YEAR-ON-YEAR THEYEARWITH TOTAL RECORDABLE 13% YEAR-ON-YEAR CASE FREQUENCY OF 0.192 INCIDENTS PER MILLION EXPOSURE HOURS PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS Much of the focus this year has been on teams provideby communities for the way our Moroccan Retail segment as a result we work hard to be good and supportive We grow by developing our business of the fuel sector being caught up in wider neighboursand of course by shareholders bothorganically and inorganically consumer activism in the country in the forour highstandards of integrity, transparency across a continent thats surging forward.
During 2018, we continued and governance, andourtrack record of Throughout Africa, the demographic and to operate efficiently and have invested to delivering growth.
economic trends are almost universally grow our network and our product offerings positive and supportive of our business model.
in the country, albeit at lower margins in LOOKING AHEAD More people are becoming more affluent the second half of the year.
We continue and, with higher purchasing power, are driving The coming year will be exciting as the Engen to engage with the relevant government demand for our business not just for fuels transaction will enable us to take our tried stakeholders, primarily through the industry and lubricants but also for fast food, retail and and tested way of working into new markets.
As a result of the Moroccan market the many other products and services we offer We will continue to expand our retail network, conditions and the growth of Vivo Energy on our retail service stations.
As consumer our Non-fuel retail offerings and will drive ACCELERATING GROWTH in our other markets and segments, the spending power increases, so too does activity premium fuel penetration in our markets.
EBITDA contribution of the Moroccan retail in the Commercial sector.
This in turn means segment in2018 was 18%, compared to 29% Whilst we dont know what macroeconomic increased fuel and lubricant demand from in 2017 and 14% in the second half of 2018. factors outside our control might occur and companies involved inconstruction, mining, We expect this 18%contribution to fall further impact the African economy, our business aviation, transport andmany other sectors.
in 2019, primarily as a result of the contribution model is proven, our financial model is resilient Were enormously proud to have delivered ofthenew Engen markets in 2019. and our entrepreneurial teams are energised growth, in every single year since our and empowered.
Safety no room for compromise or complacency 2019 outlook It was important to start our life as a public company by delivering against our guidance We continued to have a very strong In 2019, we expect to build further on the and I am delighted to say that we have done Health, Safety, Security and Environment HSSE goodmomentum from 2018, delivering low so, in spite of several external headwinds, as record which shows us exceeding ourtargets tomid double-digit percentage volume growth our diversified business model proved resilient.
and remaining ahead of our peers on from a combination of organic growth across Our volumes grew by 4% year-on-year, to safety performance.
our existing markets and the integration of 9,351 million litres, and we delivered a gross thenewly acquired Engen operations.
However, it saddens me greatly to report that cash unit margin of $73 per thousand litres.
in October we lost a colleague in a Liquefied Based on current market conditions in Volume growth was driven by a strong Petroleum Gas LPG fire at a customers Morocco andamore conservative outlook in performance in our Commercial business.
Although the investigation the Commercial segment we expect to achieve Our Retail business grew by 3% in the into the incident is ongoing, the learnings have a US dollar grosscash unit margin in the high year, despite the impact of industry supply been shared widely and acted on, to ensure sixties perthousand litres for the year.
This is shortagesin the third quarter.
On the such a tragedy can never happen again.
on the assumption that there are no further gross cash unit margin side, we saw strong material changes to the operating environment We understand that maintaining our strong performance in the Commercial business in Morocco during the year.
track record as we grow will become ever whichpartially offset pressure on our more challenging, and our promise to our Overall the prospects for the Group remain Retailsegment through the second half teams remains the same well give them great positive, we are excited by the opportunities oftheyear.
This was primarily as a result careers, well empower them to make decisions that our expanded portfolio will bring, and ofmarket conditions in Morocco, which and well do everything we can to make sure expect to continue to build our retail footprint weexpect will continue into 2019. that they always go home safely atthe end across our markets by opening between The strong operational performance is oftheir working day.
80and 100 new retail service stations across reflected in our financial performance where the 23 high growth countries in which we we delivered continued year-on-year adjusted Becoming the most respected energy now operate.
Group adjusted EBITDA of company in Africa Its been a privilege to work alongside my $400 million was 6% higher than 2017 EBIT The way we treat our teams is at the heart colleagues over this last year and I would of $276 million, 14% higher than 2017, with ofour vision: to become the most respected liketo thank every single one of them for adjusted net income of $178 million being energy company in Africa.
We could have aimed theoutstanding contributions thatthey 4% higher than the previous year.
We also to be the fastest growing, the biggest or the haveeach made in 2018. generated strong adjusted free cash flow most profitable but to us, respect is the mark of$149 million and continued to deliver our I look forward to sharing more successes of abusiness that truly understands its potential business, with a leverage ratio now standing inthemonths ahead.
tobe a long-term positive force in the world.
This has meant that the Board recommends a final dividend of 1.3 dollar cents We want to be respected by all our CHRISTIAN CHAMMAS per share, bringing the full year dividend to stakeholders by employees for our CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 1.9 dollar cents per share, representing 30% uncompromising focus on HSSE and the of attributable net income, pro-rated for the way they are recognised and rewarded period since IPO and in line with our dividend bycustomers for the unbeatable quality of policy.
If approved at our Annual General ourproducts and the excellent service our Meeting, the final dividend will be paid to shareholders on 10 June 2019.
VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 09
