The Weir Group PLC 20 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Chief Executive Officers review A simpler, stronger business built for the long-term.
ESCO a natural partner The acquisition of ESCO for an enterprise value of $1.3bn increases the Groups exposure to attractive  mining markets.
It fits our business model perfectly.
Its highly engineered equipment is deployed in high abrasive applications such as hard rock extraction with 95% of revenues generated from ongoing consumables.
It also meets our strict financial criteria with the acquisition expected to be earnings accretive in the first full year and cost synergies contributing to medium term EBITA margin improvement from around 13% in 2018 towards 17%.
You can read more on pages 24-27.
The acquisition creates a unique provider of premium mining solutions from extraction to concentration, providing a great platform for future growth.
It also means mining equipment and aftermarket solutions represent around 55% of Group revenues on a pro forma basis.
Our increased focus on mining reflects our view Jon Stanton of the markets prospects for long-term growth.
Chief Executive Officer Demand for copper for instance, where the Group The title of this Annual Report, An ever long economic cycles with demand supported is a leading provider ofprocessing equipment, is stronger Weir, reflects the culture of our by some of the biggest structural changes in the traditionally sustained by global economic growth organisation.
Weir is a business that has world from urbanisation to the electrification of and urbanisation, but is being further supported great pride in its past, but an even greater transport and power infrastructure.
Shale oil and by the electrification trends outlined earlier.
As a result, 2018 saw gas has also become an increasingly important These trends have also seen demand for the the Group undertake some of the biggest source of global energy supply and its dynamism Groups equipment increase among lithium miners.
has helped the United States to become the As technology leaders we are well placed to help worlds biggest oil producer.
our customers meet future demand with solutions We reshaped the portfolio, focusing on our core that increase efficiency and sustainability.
strengths in upstream mining and oil and gas.
Our strong leadership positions in providing Strong execution across the business In July 2018, we completed the acquisition of mission-critical solutions to these markets are Minerals orders grew 14% with aftermarket ESCO, the global leader in ground engaging tools supported by a business model that enables orders exceeding 1bn for the first time.
In February 2019, we the Group to fully capture opportunities when Original equipment order growth accelerated also announced we had agreed to sell the Flow markets are favourable and offers real resilience in as the year progressed with 30% growth in Control division for an enterprise value of 275m.
The result is a Group the fourth quarter.
Operating margins at 17.7%, This transformation was achieved at the same that is capable of consistently outperforming were in line with expectations at this growth time as delivering 22% growth in continuing our markets and delivering sustainable stage in the mining cycle as we extended our operations profit before tax before exceptional profitable growth.
items and intangibles amortisation to 310m.
However, the review also concluded that while I would like to thank our employees for their this assessment applied to many parts of the Having completed the ESCO acquisition in July hard work and commitment over the year and Group, it did not apply to them all.
To build an we moved quickly to realise the initial benefits of particularly for their efforts to improve safety ever stronger Weir we needed to focus on what the integration.
We delivered a 170bps operating across the Group.
Our ambition is for Weir to we do best: providing premium mission-critical margin improvement to 13% for the division be a zero-harm workplace and 2018 saw a 47% solutions used in high abrasion aftermarketpost acquisition.
We are ahead of schedule in reduction in the severity of incidents across our intensive applications.
That meant looking for delivering the $30m of planned cost synergies operations and a 15% decrease in our main safety a new home for the Flow Control division.
and expect to deliver revenue synergies of at least measure, Total Incident Rate.
While the division has a number of strong $50m over the next five years.
positions in niche markets, it doesnt have the Why change?
Oil & Gas took full advantage of strong demand same global scale and aftermarket opportunity When I was first appointed as CEO we in the first half of the year, contributing toa 17% as its sister divisions and therefore we decided it conducted a comprehensive review of the increase in orders for the year.
However, second would be better positioned to attract capital with Groups strategy.
It concluded we were a strong half profitability was impacted by the capacity a new owner.
business with leading brands in attractive constraints in the Permian basin.
This caused a markets that have good long-term growth slowdown in demand in North America due to prospects.
Mining, for example, tends towards the early exhaustion of budgets and softening oil prices.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 21 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Chief Executive Officers Q&A Youve described 2018 as a transformative year Oil and gas markets had a mixed year, how did How is the Group impacted by trade tariffs is the change now over?
Weir react to the volatility?
Change is a constant for Weir but I think weve taken We had a strong first half to the year in North America As a manufacturer that transforms raw materials such some important steps in 2018 to position ourselves as frack fleets were refurbished in anticipation of as steel into finished products we have been impacted for the years ahead.
The increased focus on our core strong completions activity in shale basins.
Then, in the by the trade tariffs, both between the US and China markets reflects where we can make the biggest second half, the market changed pretty swiftly with and the US and Canada.
We estimate the net impact difference and is supported by what looks like a multiovercapacity in the frack fleet reducing demand for of these in 2018 was about 5m.
As aGroup we prefer year upturn in that market.
While mining company original equipment.
The main causes of the downturn to have as few barriers to trade aspossible but at the boards are still relatively cautious about committing were the lack of additional pipeline capacity in the end of the day these are decisions that are rightly to big new projects they are focused on producing Permian basin and oil companies exhausting their 2018 for politicians to make.
In terms of Brexit, we dont more from their current assets something we budgets ahead of schedule, exacerbated by a reduction anticipate any material impact on the Group.
We have are ideally placed to help them deliver.
In addition, in the global oil price in the fourth quarter of the year.
a regional operating model with manufacturing sites industry expectations are for increased demand for These clearly had an impact on our business which was near customer activity and as a Group that is focused commodities such as copper, our biggest exposure, further compounded by a legacy product performance on mining and upstream oil and gas, thevast majority tohelp build the new generation of electric vehicles and issue which led to 24m in exceptional costs.
This was ofour revenues are generated outsidethe UK and EU.
We have positioned the business fully addressed swiftly but it was clearly disappointing.
What do you see as the Groups main to take full advantage of these positive fundamentals If you strip away the short-term issues however, shale opportunities and challenges in 2019?
and with ESCO, we now have a unique offering from has been one of the most disruptive technologies of the We expect another year of growth for the business extraction to concentration, making us even more last ten years.
Like all new industries there are growing assuming market conditions remain favourable.
pains but fundamentally it is an important source continue to embed ESCO into the Group and seek ofglobal energy supply and Weir has a great position How is the ESCO integration progressing?
opportunities to use our increased scale to better inthis industry.
It is making really good progress.
Before we agreed serve our customers.
Visibility of oil and gas markets to buy the business we spent a lot of time with its is always more difficult, but our customers tell us management team and were struck by how closely they expect activity in North America to progressively aligned our business models were and the cultural improve throughout 2019.
Our job is to optimise similarities between both companies.
Both had performance whatever the market conditions we face market-leading brands that were known for their and with the We are Weir strategy we have a clear Weve taken some quality and innovation, and both were passionate framework in which to do that.
I am always excited about the importance of staying close to customers about the potential of our people and technology and important steps in and solving their challenges.
Since the acquisition I look forward to seeing what progress we make in those positive first impressions have been reaffirmed.
Ultimately, I want our people to be safer and 2018 to position The compatibility between both businesses has been a more engaged, our customers to be more satisfied, our real highlight of the year and gives me great confidence technology to be more innovative and our operational ourselves for the in the future success of the combination.
performance to be consistently excellent.
Opening capacity upgrade to foundry in Santiago, Chile.
Learning about our technology capability during a factory tour in Santiago, Chile.
A CEO Town Hall meeting in Sydney, Australia.
The Weir Group PLC 22 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Chief Executive Officers review continued We are Weir be making all employees shareholders in the Our strong leadership 2018 was also a year of good progress in business, ensuring alignment throughout the delivering our We are Weir strategic framework business.
Having established baseline measures positions in providing with its focus on People, Customers, Technology of organisational effectiveness well work to build and Performance.
This time last year I discussed a higher-performing global team.
To ensure we mission-critical the four medium term key performance indicators have the optimum blend of skills and experience solutions to our KPIs for the business aligned to these themes: for the future well conduct a thorough workforce planning exercise to identify any capability gaps Improved employee engagement and markets are supported that we need to address.
organisational effectiveness Increased market share Customers by a business model Improved percentage of revenues from As we look to increase market share well build new products on our unrivalled global service network to get that enables us to Sustainably higher margins through the cycle even closer to more customers around the world capture opportunities and help solve some of their toughest operational You can read more about progress in 2018 against challenges.
Our ability to be where our customers these KPIs on page 28.
In 2019, well continue to when markets are need us when they need us is a real differentiator.
focus on what makes us distinctive: By having more engineers on the ground we are favourable and offers People able to more effectively leverage the expertise In 2019 well make further progress towards of our people and the breadth of our portfolio of real resilience in more becoming a zero-harm workplace including rolling premium products.
In both mining and upstream out the Weir behavioural safety programme oil and gas we operate in need-it-now industries challenging conditions.
I am delighted that we will and it is important we continue to be a trusted Weir investment case 1 2 3 Closely aligned Focused Strong tolong-term on attractive global structural trends markets positions Global economic and Hard rock mining with copper as our Unique provider of premium mining population growth biggest commodity exposure solutions from extraction to concentration Urbanisation and electrification of Infrastructure, including construction, #1 in minerals processing and ground transport and power infrastructure sand and aggregates, and dredging engaging tools for surface mining Resource depletion requiring sustained North American shale and Middle East #1 in pressure pumping for shale oil capital and maintenance investment oil and gas and gas Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 23 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Want to know more about our Board?
weir investors partner who can be relied on to support the established team to apply the technology to our current levels.
Overall, assuming market and ongoing success of our customers operations.
macro-economic conditions remain supportive, That customer intimacy is crucial in informing our we anticipate the Group will deliver another year Performance technology programme with product roadmaps of good constant currency revenue and profit Finally, our operational performance is an developed with Voice of the Customer input.
growth, supported by strong execution of our area where we can do more.
2018 saw some Weare Weir strategy.
Technology good progress in reducing working capital as a Those priorities will guide where we invest percentage of sales but we have opportunities our growing research and development R&D to improve further.
This includes continuing budget, which increased to 42m in 2018. to increase customer satisfaction, inventory In both mining and upstream oil and gas our turns and manufacturing efficiency.
In 2019 Jon Stanton customers are looking towards both the Mine well focus on improving excellence across Chief Executive Officer of the Future and the Frack site of the Future.
the value chain in every business, delivering 27 February 2019 Both will require innovative engineering that the cost synergy opportunities of the ESCO increase efficiency, utilise smarter technology acquisition and reducing the costs and impact and make their operations more sustainable.
of our environmental footprint through our In 2019 well continue to innovate across our sustainability strategy.
core products and develop solutions that meet Group Outlook those needs.
This will include expanding the Looking to the full year, we currently expect our deployment of our Synertrex IoT solution to more mining and infrastructure markets to continue to of our installed base.
We are also developing benefit from positive industry fundamentals with in-house additive manufacturing expertise with an oil and gas activity to improve modestly from Weir investment case 4 5 6 Optimum Financial A platform business strength for future model and discipline growth Highly engineered missionConsistent growth ahead of Incremental and disruptive technology critical equipment end markets programmes driven by Voice of Customer Unrivalled global service network Strong balance sheet and serving need-it-now industries cash generation Extensive direct sales channels enabling rapid globalisation of , providing 36 years of stable or growing dividends new products revenue resilience through the cycle Opportunities to continue to consolidate in attractive markets
