Strategic report Strategic report Chief Executives review This year we have accelerated momentum in the delivery of our strategic priorities, both in the UK and internationally.
This progress will leave both businesses well-placed to deliver long-term sustainable growth.
Alison Brittain Chief Executive 5,720 Premier Inn rooms by 2021.
In China, we completed the buy-out of one Good progress on of our two joint venture partners.
This acquisition provides Costa with full our strategic objectives control of stores outside Beijing and allows us to increase our ambition to target 1,200 stores by 2022.
These Whitbread has produced another strong acquisitions provide solid foundations financial performance this year, with from which both businesses can grow revenue growth of 6.1% to 3,295 million.
6.1% international operations of increasing Disciplined cost management has increase in revenue to significance in the years ahead.
enabled us to grow underlying profit 3,295 million before tax by 4.5% to 591 million, with Efficiency statutory profit before tax up 6.4% to In addition to growing our business at 548 million.
We have accelerated a good return on capital, we have also delivery momentum in all three of our worked hard to generate meaningful strategic priorities during the year.
savings from our efficiency programme, 4.5% which have offset the material structural UK growth growth in our underlying inflation that is impacting the hospitality In the UK, we have increased revenues, sector.
Our strong execution to date operating profit before tax profits, cash flow, dividends and return has delivered savings of 105 million, to 591 million on capital, notwithstanding challenging which gives us confidence that we can market conditions.
This growth has been increase our target from 150 million underpinned by disciplined investment to 250 million, with 100 million to in new capacity for both Premier Inn and be delivered over the next two years.
Costa and a relentless focus on improving 15.4% These additional efficiencies will help the overall experience for our millions to offset a substantial proportion of of customers.
With ongoing growth in return on capital, anticipated inflationary pressures coffee consumption and our increasing up 20 bps in the next few years.
ability to win market share from the independent hotel sector, we are We are committed to the attractive confident of further growth at a good longer-term structural opportunities for return on capital in the years ahead.
growth in the hotel and coffee markets, 585m both in the UK and internationally.
International progress We are therefore continuing to invest discretionary free cash flow, Internationally, we announced two throughout our businesses to ensure strategically significant transactions for up from 532 million we retain brand leadership in the UK, Premier Inn in Germany and Costa in build the foundations for long-term China.
In our first acquisition in Germany, international growth and deliver the we have agreed to acquire 19 hotels, modern and efficient processes and comprising 3,100 rooms.
In addition to D efinitions of all APMs are included in the technology which the businesses need glossary on page167.
our organic pipeline, this will ensure we to thrive in the future.
have at least 31 hotels, comprising Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 06 Strategic report Outlook are now possible following the on the programme has been integrated Given recent economic and industry improvements in the team over the past throughout the strategic report and data, we do remain cautious on the two years.
The property strategy has is introduced in more detail by consumer environment, especially on been refined, with an increase in sale Chris Vaughan on pages 14 to 15. the high street, which we expect to and leaseback transactions, whilst I am always very proud of, and humbled remain challenging in the near term.
The remaining majority freehold in the by, the amazing efforts of our teams to combination of our commitment to the Premier Inn estate.
These improvements raise money for Whitbreads chosen investment programme and the current enable the two businesses to deliver charities of Great Ormond Street Hospital UK consumer environment naturally long term, sustainable growth in Charity and the Costa Foundation, and means our near-term profit growth may earnings, combined with strong return this past year has been particularly special be lower than in previous years.
During the year I had the I am confident that this strategy will Group structure pleasure of seeing first hand the impacts deliver long-term sustainable growth in Given the progress Whitbread is making, that the Costa Foundation is having in earnings and dividends, combined with we are confident that both Premier Inn several coffee-growing communities.
The good return on capital for years to come.
and Costa will soon be businesses of Foundation is now helping to educate Increased dividend sufficient strength, scale and capability more than 30,000 children in ten countries In addition to delivering our ambitious to enable them to thrive as independent and the teams on the ground are doing longer-term growth plan, we remain companies.
The Board, therefore, truly inspirational work to improve the committed to disciplined allocation of believes that it is in the best long-term lives of children and their families.
capital, maintaining a strong balance interests of Whitbreads many Following the successful opening of the sheet and generating excellent cash stakeholders to separate Premier Inn Premier Inn Clinical Building, we have flow.
As a result, the Board is increasing and Costa, via a demerger of Costa.
committed to continue to partner with the full-year dividend in line with earnings We have carefully considered the the charity and have set a goal of raising growth to 101.15 pence per share.
optimal timing and concluded that a further 10 million over the next few it will be pursued as fast as practical years, to support the development of Long-term ambition and appropriate to optimise value a sight and sound hospital at Great Whitbread has achieved a significant for Whitbreads shareholders and Ormond Street.
amount in the past two years to improve is expected to be completed within capabilities and ensure a strong platform Our Winning Teams 24 months.
This will allow both is in place to deliver sustainable growth I reported last year a number of Premier Inn and Costa to maintain over the medium term in the UK and important changes to my executive momentum, complete critical and internationally.
Progress has been made team and I was pleased this year to complex transformation and whilst maintaining a strong balance complete the team with the appointment infrastructure objectives, and drive sheet, growing revenue and earnings of Nigel Jones in the role of Group international expansion.
and maintaining a strong return Transformation Director.
This is a critical on capital.
The management team and I are role for Whitbread as we continue to In the UK, Premier Inn has a secure excited that the strategy we are transform our operations and create a pipeline to 85,000 rooms and a clear executing will give us the opportunity more efficient and productive business opportunity to grow beyond 100,000 to create two high-quality independent to support our future growth.
Despite significant capacity businesses that will create long-term This has been a year of significant growth, Premier Inn remains the hotel value for our stakeholders.
structural change and much progress has group with the highest value for money been made as we deliver on our strategy At the point of separation, both scores.
Costa has made good progress to grow and innovate in our core UK businesses will be able to take advantage in building a pipeline of innovation businesses, focus on our strengths to of the structural growth opportunities for new drinks, new food ranges, grow internationally and build the available to them in the UK and improvements in digital technology and infrastructure and capability tosupport internationally.
Costa will become a listed investment in store standards.
Our continuing entity in its own right and the clear improvements enable Costa to continue success is a result of, and a tribute to, market leader in the out-of-home coffee to be the UKs favourite coffee shop the passion and commitment of our market in the UK.
Costa will also be well and grow to 3,000 UK stores over the winning teams.
We have over 50,000 positioned to build further on its strong longer term.
team members giving outstanding international foundations with growth service to some 29 million customers a Internationally, Premier Inns expansion expected in China and Costa Express.
month across 2,500 sites around the UK into Germany has accelerated and a Whitbread will remain the owner and and hundreds more worldwide.
I would strong foundation has been established operator of the UKs most successful like to take this opportunity to personally to enable longer-term growth and hotel business.
A key priority will be thank them for the tremendous work that replicate the success of Premier Inn continuing the development of Premier they do every day and their invaluable in the UK.
Costa in China is now in a Inn by creating a business of scale in contribution to our business.
stronger position to deliver its plans Germany to replicate the success we following the buyout of its joint venture have in the UK.
in South China, combined with its existing successful partnership with A Force for Good BHG in North China.
Our Force for Good programme was Alison Brittain launched in July 2017 and builds on our Investing in Whitbreads capabilities Chief Executive success to date.
It is a forward-looking to achieve these ambitious plans has 24 April 2018 sustainability programme with an continued, but more remains to be done.
ambitious vision to enable everyone to Supply chain development, procurement live and work well.
Further information efficiency and technology advancements Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 07
