Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 18 Chief Executives statement BROADER, STRONGER, MORE COMPETITIVE 2017 18 was a year of continued progress and strong performance.
A broader, stronger Morrisons is emerging David Potts, Chief Executive 6 Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Investor information 2017 18 quarterly Group LFL sales exc.
fuel 2017 18 LFL quarterly number of transactions 3.4% 4.6% 4.6% 2.9% 2.8% 2.6% 2.5% 3.2% 2.1% 2.0% Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Definition Definition See the Glossary on page 127 for a definition.
LFL number of transactions, year-on-year change.
2016 17 2016 17 2017 18 was a year of continued progress and strong performance.
This, and other ongoing work focusing on our brand at our prices, A broader, stronger Morrisons is emerging.
Capability is improving, the means we are making good progress towards our own Morrisons price offer is more consistent and more competitive, and we are becoming list.
I was especially pleased last year that, despite input cost pressure more differentiated for all stakeholders.
All three phases of our on many commodities, our good work meant the price of a basket turnaround Fix, Rebuild and Grow are running concurrently of key 2017 Christmas items was the same as in 2016. and providing meaningful and sustainable growth opportunities.
We made further progress in the year with our plans for a broader, The year was not without its challenges, most notably the inflationary stronger Morrisons.
pressures on imported food prices caused by weak sterling.
However, In wholesale supply, we are open for business.
We signed a major new the team responded well, creating self-help opportunities from these agreement with McColls, and have started a rolling programme to supply challenges, and further improving Morrisons offer for customers.
all McColls stores nationwide with both Safeway products and national We continued to listen and learn from customers and colleagues.
In addition, we recently announced we will be supplying around We again improved all aspects of the shopping trip, served customers 40 Sandpiper stores in the Channel Islands, many of which will convert better, and became more competitive.
We are on track for our target of 700m of annualised wholesale supply sales by the end of 2018.
Our core supermarkets are showing strong annual growth on growth as we enter a fourth year of turnaround.
Two year like-for-like LFL For online, we are adding extra capacity to Morrisons.
com through new was in the 4%-5% range for most of the year, and accelerated to above store-pick capability in areas outside of those covered by the Dordon 6% during the important Christmas and New Year period.
customer fulfilment centre CFC, for example in North East England.
Growth was driven by more customers and more volume.
Put simply, We are also growing as Amazon grows its food offer, and are now more and more customers found more things they wanted to buy at supplying 40 Rontec-owned Morrisons Daily stores on its forecourts.
New and improved ranges in areas such as Home & Leisure Despite this strong progress, our approach remains restless and relentless.
and Eat Smart, and more innovation meaning multi-year growth in Our colleagues have many ideas of how we can keep improving for years Best, Free From and Nutmeg.
For example, in its second Christmas, to come.
For example, capability in technology and data is improving, but our premium Best range grew sales by 25%.
we still have substantial opportunities in automated ordering, in-store Our Fresh Look refit programme extended to another 80 stores during administration, distribution, and procurement of goods not for resale to the year, and we have now completed around half of our stores.
save on cost and recycle the savings back into improving the offer further.
In addition, many of the Fresh Look learnings are being applied across the I am pleased we made further good progress with our plan for whole estate as we go.
For example, the majority of our cafs, Fruit & Veg, 75m-125m of incremental profit from wholesale, services, interest and Florist departments were updated with a new look and feel during and online, and that debt has fallen to less than 1bn as we guided.
We are very pleased with the Fresh Look results.
A modernised We are striving to keep growing sales, profit and ROCE, and generate Morrisons is emerging, with its roots firmly in fresh food and Market significant levels of free cash flow, which we expect to be capital light, Street, for which we are rightly renowned.
The recent announcement proposing a The growth on growth is not just in sales.
Our turnaround is colleague-led, special dividend reflects our good progress so far and our expectations and customers are again telling us that our service is improving and our for continued growth.
Our customer satisfaction scores improved again, All of the progress in morale, customer transactions, customer and have now been growing for three years.
This was helped by our new satisfaction, sales, profits, ROCE, and cash flow are interlinked.
automated ordering system which was fully operational by the end of They are as a result of Morrisons colleagues listening to customers and the year, improving availability, reducing cost and freeing up time for our responding to improve the shopping trip.
Our people really are the key.
colleagues to serve customers better.
I would like to thank every colleague for helping make 2017 18 a success, One of the biggest opportunities created by the inflationary pressures and know they will make every effort to keep up the pace of progress was to improve our price position further and become more competitive into 2018 19 and beyond.
As a uniquely vertically integrated British food maker and shopkeeper, we are ideally placed to do this, and we are working David Potts hard to save customers every penny we can.
For example, we recently Chief Executive bought a potato processing plant in Scotland, which is enabling us to have closer relationships with local farmers.
We have also invested in industry leading robotics and innovation which is improving product quality and consistency, and is providing lower prices for customers.
We are just starting a similar project in our newly acquired egg packing business in Yorkshire.
7 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 18 To be more competitive The progress we have made on To serve customers OUR SIX better PRIORITIES Find local We continued to listen and learn from solutions customers and colleagues.
We again improved all aspects of the shopping trip, served customers better, and becamemore competitive David Potts, Chief Executive Develop popular and useful services Simplify and speed up Make core supermarkets strong again 8 Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Investor information We are listening and responding As a British business with a largely British supply Price Crunch, Way Down and Morrisons Makes chain, the impact of weaker sterling on imported It are building a great value Morrisons price list food inflation is an opportunity to help save We are making good progress on improving the customers every penny we can quality and packaging of our own label range We work hard with growers, farmers and while keeping prices low suppliers to focus on being more competitive Our premium own label range, Best on the products which matter the most continues to grow, with a broader range to our customers and twice as many products as last year Our unique manufacturing skills help us to drive We introduced improved ranges in Home & prices lower, particularly on fresh food Leisure, Eat Smart, Free From and Food to Go We are listening and responding The shopping trip across the store is becoming More customers are able to shop with us online, more consistent and customer satisfaction via a new store-pick delivery service hasimproved A new Flowerworld website has been launched, A new automated ordering system is improving offering fresh bouquets with free next day availability, reducing stock levels and helping delivery to lower costs Food to Order is available all year round, in-store Investment in new and improved checkouts gives and online including a large selection of Free customers more choice and shorter queues From products Colleagues in-store are more visible, showcasing their craft skills, particularly on Market Street We are listening and responding Local solutions enable us to tailor our offer We are identifying and sourcing more products to each stores catchment from the nations best local growers, farmers, fishermen and other food makers We continue to improve our offer during key events and tailor ranges around different Through the Fresh Look programme, we continue demographics and seasons to incorporate local solutions based onlistening to how we can improve the store We have hosted hundreds of local suppliers at 16 different regional food maker events Data from our More Card helps us understand across Britain how we can improve the shopping trip store-by-store Parcel pick up services continue to be popular.
We are listening and responding We have Amazon lockers in over 400 stores, and Existing services are increasingly popular and Doddle is now in over 160 stores continue to perform well Timpson continues to grow and is now in around We have modernised almost all of our cafs, and 180 stores introduced over 50 new standalone barista bars We are utilising our car parks better through In addition to our plans with Rontec partnerships with car wash and tyre change for Morrisons Daily, we are developing concessions more convenience opportunities on our own forecourts We are listening and responding We are simplifying and speeding up the organisation end-to-end, focusing on providing colleagues with simpler and more efficient ways of working We continue to work with suppliers to build strong, long-term and mutually beneficial relationships We have started to introduce more automation in our warehouse management systems, which will improve forecasting and demand planning There remain opportunities to simplify procurement processes for goods not for resale and we have developed partnership programmes with suppliers in many keyareas We are listening and responding Fresh Look extended to another 80 stores during We continue to make improvements across the year and have now completed around half Market Street, particularly in Fruit & Veg and of our stores Florist departments Many local Fresh Look learnings have been applied Nutmeg womenswear has been further across the whole estate expanded and is now in almost 100 stores, with plans for more next year 9
