Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Maximising our advantage Chief Executives strategic review What We are makes us income different?
focused: Adjusted trading profit after interest 60.7m 20% Like-for-like rental growth 8.6% This year has seen, if possible, Demand for our space, driven refurbish and redevelop them an even greater spotlight on our by our in-house marketing over time in order to meet part of the real estate market.
changing customer requirements We have seen a number of new That strength of demand and and deliver income growth.
entrants and a never-ending activity, with an average of 1,016 stream of media interest in the enquiries and 93 lettings per Total rent roll was up 26.1% growth of co-working.
However, month, has delivered excellent in the year to 112.9m, and I despite the inevitable confusion income growth, and that is what am particularly pleased that we around the different flexible Workspace is really all about delivered rental growth at our office space products on offer, relentlessly driving income like-for-like properties of 8.6%.
I am delighted that Workspace growth across our portfolio The rental income growth has continues to cut through over the long term.
continued to translate into a the noise.
very positive trading profit As a property company, performance, which increased Workspace values ownership by 20% to 60.7m in the year.
We nurture our properties, seeking and capturing opportunities to reposition, 28Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 29Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Chief Executives strategic review continued We are We are customer future focused: focused: 140,000 Customer enquiries per month in 2017 18 Project pipeline 20182021 Projects to be completed 120,000 sq.
Marshgate Projects with planning Completed projects Projects underway Projects with planning Pipeline Design 2.
Rainbow Industrial Estate Pipeline design Cocoa Studios 3.
Mare Street Studios Shaftesbury Parma House 4.
The Light Box Our industry, rightly so, has This year, for example, we made Whether debating the latest I am delighted that we have properties come with longerbecome increasingly focused on a commitment to roll out technology innovations, looking delivered such a strong term leases in place but providing a service to customers WiredScore certifications across at potential property acquisitions performance over the last five provide attractive repositioning beyond their four walls.
Our achievement or reviewing our portfolio for years, and believe we have the opportunities in the future foundation, Workspace has of 15 Wired Certified Gold or the next refurbishment or right strategy in place to continue alongside our existing project marketed directly to customers, Platinum ratings so far redevelopment opportunity, to grow the business and deliver pipeline.
building strong relationships and, demonstrates the significant Workspace is always focused further value for shareholders.
as a result, developing a unique work we are undertaking to on the future.
With that in mind, With continued strong demand understanding of their needs.
ensure our customers have we regularly consider the depth We have an extensive pipeline for our product, a growing This focus on the customer, access to the best, most secure and experience of the Executive of refurbishment and potential customer base and a coupled with ownership of our and reliable technology Committee and, as a result, in redevelopment projects, and robust balance sheet, Workspace real estate, allows us to adapt infrastructure in their space.
October 2017, John Robson was during the coming year we will is well positioned for the future.
our buildings and continually promoted to the role of Asset complete nine projects, bringing evolve our offer.
ft. of new and upgraded space to the market.
In the last year, we have also acquired three large properties, adding significant rental income Jamie Hopkins to our portfolio.
Some of these Chief Executive Officer 30Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 31Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Chief Executives strategic review continued Each year, the Board reviews Strategic priorities that the strategy to ensure it remains drive Platform value relevant for our business and Right customers our market, while continuing Our properties are open to all to deliver the best returns and our customer base is made for shareholders.
up of some of Londons fastest growing and established The right We believe that by placing The businesses from a broad mix Right Workspace Advantage at the market of sectors.
Our customers range heart of the strategy, the whole London is from freelancers, consultants business has a central focus to growing and and early-stage businesses right changing work towards.
up to well-known brands and established companies.
We continue to have five Right Right strategic pillars that drive value brand properties Right people for the business.
strategy Increasing Creating Employing the right people recognition modern growth continues to be critical for and reputation environments The the success of the business.
Strategic priorities that Workspace Workspaces people display drive Portfolio value Advantage deep knowledge of their Right market subjects, have an inquisitive With its position as a global hub nature and a thirst for innovation, for business and culture, London and show genuine care for our remains the right market for our drives future customers, our communities business.
The opportunity in Right and each other.
Right London is extremely attractive, people customers Driving with strong demand from all Open to all performance Right brand types of businesses for our Workspace has a strong brand, offer.
We continue to see and we work hard to ensure opportunities to acquire new that our offer is highly visible assets that meet customer to prospective customers as demand for our space and they embark on their search for will deliver attractive returns performance.
Digital marketing, to shareholders, and our deep a strong social media presence market insight ensures we are and employees who live our able to move quickly when these values are all key to attracting opportunities arise.
and retaining customers and ensuring high levels of customer Right properties satisfaction.
We have a high-quality portfolio of properties in dynamic London talking to centre managers and locations and we are constantly Super connected: meeting customers, as well as upgrading our assets.
We are Delivering The analysing the competition.
delivering capital and income Workspace Advantage growth by letting up the new requires all parts of All of this informs our and upgraded space delivered understanding of the market, by our extensive refurbishment our business to work determines how we create and redevelopment pipeline.
value through our business We remain focused on creating model and feeds into our and, opportunistically, acquiring Our five strategic priorities risk assessments.
the right properties that will frame and help direct the attract our customers.
implementation of The Workspace Advantage.
Understanding and responding to market trends To help with the assessment page 8 and successful delivery of our A business model designed strategy, the Board regularly to create long-term value invites external advisers, as well page 16 as internal Workspace teams, A focus on Doing the Right into the Boardroom to share Thing helps us to manage insights and knowledge.
our resources and relationships page 22 Our Executive Directors and Using risk to help make the senior management team right strategic decisions spend a significant amount page 46 of time out and about in the Business review page 62 business, visiting centres, Our governance page 72 Fuel Tank, Deptford opening Summer 2018.
32Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 33Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Chief Executives strategic review continued Strategic priorities that drive Portfolio value S St tr ra at te eg gi ic p c pr ri io or ri it ti ie es t s th ha at d t dr ri iv five P e Pl la at tf fo or rm va m val lu ue e Financial KPIs Measuring strategic Strategic priority: Strategic priority: Strategic priority: Strategic priority: Strategic priority: 1.
2. success Right market Right properties Right customers Right people Right brand Net rental Adjusted trading income m profit after interest m Description Description Description Description Description 2018 95.6 2018 60.7 Our portfolio is exclusively Creating the right environments A key part of The Workspace Having the right skills and In a competitive marketplace, based in London, where we for our customers is critical and Advantage is the communities of experience within Workspace our brand is increasingly 2017 79.2 2017 50.7 see continued strong customer our rolling programme of asset businesses that we create within is critical, but as important is important.
Supported by demand and opportunities to management, refurbishment and our centres, with regular insight maintaining the right culture to The Workspace Advantage 2016 74.1 2016 43.9 acquire attractive real estate.
redevelopment projects ensures and networking events to drive behaviours and therefore positioning, it has never our properties remain at the encourage further collaboration.
21% 20% What we said we would What we said we would What we said we would What we said we would What we said we would do in 2017 18 do in 2017 18 do in 2017 18 do in 2017 18 do in 2017 18 Definition Definition Seek opportunities to grow Continue to deliver on our Open our offer to all businesses, Ensure understanding of Roll out our brand campaign Net rental income is the rental Adjusted trading profit after our footprint in London and strong project pipeline to no matter their sector or size.
and engagement with The to ensure The Workspace income receivable after payment interest is net rental income, add value by acquiring new improve the estate and further Roll out the brand campaign Workspace Advantage across Advantage is well recognised of direct property expenses, joint venture trading income freehold properties.
to raise our profile among different departments and teams.
and understood by customers such as service charge costs, and finance income less prospects.
Put in place and other direct unrecoverable administrative expenses a brand tracker survey to property expenses.
The market trends that The market trends that The market trends that The market trends that The market trends that Further details in note 8 to the financial statements.
influenced our progress influenced our progress influenced our progress influenced our progress influenced our progress Relevant London trends Relevant London trends Relevant London trends Relevant customer trends Relevant London trends London is still seen as The spotlight on flexible Small businesses are driving Employers are increasingly The spotlight on flexible a global hub for business.
space continues to grow, the economy.
focused on providing space continues to grow, Why this is important Why this is important London continues along with demand from The spotlight on flexible healthy workplaces.
along with demand from to Workspace to Workspace to attract significant across the business spectrum.
space continues to grow, There is a drive for across the business spectrum.
This is one of the most Adjusted trading profit after investment capital.
along with demand from companies to articulate important metrics for interest is a key measure for across the business spectrum.
a wider purpose beyond Workspace as it drives our Workspace and determines making a profit.
Relevant customer trends Relevant customer trends Relevant customer trends Relevant customer trends trading profit, which in turn dividend growth.
We report and Businesses want built-in Businesses want built-in Businesses want built-in Businesses want built-in determines dividend growth.
review this figure at Board level flexibility and a well-designed flexibility and a well-designed flexibility and a well-designed flexibility and a well-designed on a monthly basis compared work environment that work environment that work environment that work environment that to previous years and to budget.
Employers are increasingly Technology is all-important, Adjusted trading profit after focused on providing both in the provision of interest demonstrates the healthy workplaces.
solutions for customers and underlying performance of the in creating a more engaging trading business and strength customer experience.
Both the CEO and CFO are incentivised on adjusted trading profit What we achieved in 2017 18 What we achieved in 2017 18 What we achieved in 2017 18 What we achieved in 2017 18 What we achieved in 2017 18 after interest.
Three major acquisitions in Recently launched properties 131 customer events held Worked with people across 1.1m website hits during exciting locations, adding are letting up well, e. g. The during the year.
the business to articulate the year.
Record Hall reached 78.9% 351 customers expanded our company values, which 38% increase in first-time The increase in the year was Adjusted trading profit after Customer enquiries remained occupancy in 10 months.
within Workspace during will help us to deliver The visits year-on-year thanks to driven by significant growth in interest for the year was 60.7m, strong at an average 1,016 Continued work on project the year.
The Workspace Advantage rental income at our like-for-like up 20% on the previous year.
pipeline, with nine completing, brand campaign.
properties and an increase in Net rental income is the key in 2018 19. rental income from completed driver of trading profit thanks projects thanks to the letting to our relatively fixed cost base.
What we aim to do in 2018 19 What we aim to do in 2018 19 What we aim to do in 2018 19 What we aim to do in 2018 19 What we aim to do in 2018 19 up of new and upgraded space.
Continue to pursue acquisitions Progress our extensive project Bring upgraded space to the Launch the new Workspace Continue brand tracker survey This year, acquisitions were also in London where we see pipeline to drive income and market for our customers and values, ensure engagement and drive further engagement a key driver of net rental income, opportunities to create value.
with all employees and reward with the brand through social as we acquired three properties successes.
with existing income in place.
Link to relevant principal risks Link to relevant principal risks Link to relevant principal risks Link to relevant principal risks Link to relevant principal risks 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 10 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 10 3, 4, 5, 6, 9, 10, 11 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11 Time period measured Time period measured Link to relevant KPIs Link to relevant KPIs Link to relevant KPIs Link to relevant KPIs Link to relevant KPIs Monthly Monthly Financial: 3, 5, 6, 7, 8 Financial: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 Financial: 1, 5, 6 Financial: 1, 2, 5, 6 Financial: 1, 2, 5, 6, 9 Non-financial: 2, 5 Non-financial: 2, 4, 5, 6 Non-financial: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8 Non-financial: 1, 5, 6, 7, 8 Non-financial: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8 34Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 35Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Chief Executives strategic review continued F Fi in nan anc ci ia al l K KP PIs Is co cont ntiin nu ue ed d 3.
EPRA NAV Dividend per Like-for-like rent Like-for-like rent Property per share share pence roll growth % per sq.
ft. is the The independent valuation of definition of net asset value as set in issue.
those with stabilised occupancy, like-for-like rent roll divided by our property portfolio, currently out by the European Public Real excluding recent acquisitions the occupied area generating valued by CBRE Limited.
It represents and buildings impacted by that rent roll.
net assets after excluding significant refurbishment or See note 10 for reconciliation financial derivatives and deferred redevelopment activity.
to IFRS carrying value of taxation relating to valuation investment property.
Rent roll is the current annualised net rents receivable for occupied Further details in note 9 to the units at the date of reporting.
Why this is important Why this is important Why this is important Why this is important Why this is important to Workspace to Workspace to Workspace to Workspace to Workspace EPRA NAV is a key external We aim to provide good Like-for-like rent roll growth Like-for-like occupancy, pricing Our properties are critical to measure for property companies returns for our shareholders, is an important measure for and rent roll give us vital our business and the valuation and is used to benchmark and also work within our REIT our business and shows the information on the performance demonstrates the value we are against share price.
It is a useful requirements for income performance of our core of our core properties, and early delivering to our shareholders measure for Workspace as it distribution.
Dividend per share portfolio of properties.
We indicators of any decline in these and a measure of how well we excludes any exceptional items is a key measure of the returns monitor the like-for-like rent KPIs mean we can be timely in are managing our buildings and and movements on financial we are providing to our investors.
roll on a weekly basis in weekly investigating and reacting to driving rental income.
management meetings and also these changes.
cannot control yield movements, as a key performance indicator we can enhance the value of in our monthly Board meetings.
our properties through active asset management, including refurbishment and redevelopment activity.
Movement in 2017 18 Movement in 2017 18 Movement in 2017 18 Movement in 2017 18 Movement in 2017 18 Our EPRA NAV at 31 March 2018 A positive trading profit Like-for-like rent roll has Like-for-like rent per sq.
ft. We have achieved an underlying gain for the year of 5%.
The uplift was 10.37, up 8.8% from the performance and confidence in continued to grow, increasing has increased by 7.6% in the in valuation of our like-for-like prior year.
our outlook, as well as adhering by 8.6% year-on-year.
This year, with average rent up portfolio was driven largely by to distribution requirements as demonstrates the strong from 33.00 per sq.
ft. pricing growth, with equivalent a REIT, have driven the Board to performance of our core assets to 35.50 per sq.
The recommend a 30% increase to and the continued strong increase in valuation was also the total dividend for 2017 18. demand for our product.
driven by our acquisition of three major properties in the year, offset by disposals.
See Property Valuation section of the Business Review on page 67 for more detail.
The Record Hall has seen a Time period measured Time period measured Time period measured Time period measured Time period measured significant uplift in valuation Six monthly Six monthly Weekly Weekly Six monthly in the year.
36Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 37Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Chief Executives strategic review continued Financial KPIs Non-financial KPIs continued Workspace customer, 8.
MyDrives office at Total Property Total Shareholder Customer Customer Website visits Offer letters The Leather Market.
Return % Return % advocacy % enquiries million per year monthly average monthly average 2018 11.3 2018 29.4 2018 90 2018 1,016 2018 1.14 2018 317 2017 8.2 2017 0.8 2017 88 2017 1,060 2017 0.85 2017 323 2016 26.3 2016 7 11.3% 29.4% 90% 1,016 1.14m 317 Definition Definition Definition Definition Definition Definition Total Property Return is the Total Shareholder Return is the Our customer advocacy score is Customer enquiries represent Website visits measure the Offer letters are sent to return for the year combining return obtained by a shareholder, based on responses to customer the number of enquiries we number of times individuals visit prospects once they have the valuation movement on calculated by combining both surveys, which are conducted receive for our space.
viewed one or multiple our portfolio and the income share price movements and twice per year by an independent come through our website, via Workspace units and requested achieved in the year.
phone, from walk-ins or existing an offer containing pricing customers looking to expand, information and lease terms.
See Glossary of Terms See Glossary of Terms contract or move locations.
Why this is important Why this is important Why this is important Why this is important Why this is important Why this is important to Workspace to Workspace to Workspace to Workspace to Workspace to Workspace This measure shows how our This measure is important to Our customers are at the heart Measuring enquiries helps us to Our website is our most Measuring the number of offer property portfolio has performed Workspace as it shows the value of our business and we regularly assess the strength of demand important marketing tool, with letters we send out allows us in terms of both valuation that our shareholders receive seek to obtain feedback to for our product.
Our internal the majority of enquiries coming to assess the success of our change and income generated.
from investing in Workspace understand their overall marketing platform generates via the site.
We are constantly customer viewings and demand This figure is produced by MSCI, shares.
This measure forms satisfaction with our offering.
We enquiries both on and offline and upgrading our site to ensure all for our space.
an independent Investment part of the performance criteria use the findings from the survey we can dial up digital marketing the information our customers Property Databank IPD, and is within our LTIP scheme for the to prompt changes to what we spend to target enquiries as might require is visible and easy compared to a benchmark group senior management team.
offer our customers and to train required, for example around to access.
so that we can see how we are our staff.
The customer the launch of a new building.
performing relative to similar advocacy score also forms part companies.
Total Property of the bonus objectives for Return, and performance against senior management.
the benchmark, forms part of the senior management teams bonus objectives.
Movement in 2017 18 Movement in 2017 18 Movement in 2017 18 Movement in 2017 18 Movement in 2017 18 Movement in 2017 18 Capital and income returns have The strong return is due to We had a fantastic response Customer enquiries remained Website visits increased during The average number of offer led us to outperform compared the progressive dividend policy rate to our customer survey this steady year-on-year thanks the year, thanks to The letters per month remained to the IFD benchmark.
combined with positive growth year and the overall customer to continued demand for Workspace Advantage broadly flat during the year in share price over the year.
advocacy score increased in our space.
campaign driving traffic to reflecting the continued the year from 88% to 90%.
the site from digital advertising demand for our space following and social media activity.
Of particular note, first-time visits to the site increased by 38% year-on-year.
Time period measured Time period measured Time period measured Time period measured Time period measured Time period measured Six monthly Annually Six monthly Daily Daily Daily 38Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 39Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Chief Executives strategic review continued N Non on- -f fi in na anc nci ia al l K KP PI Is s co cont ntiin nu ue ed d Workspace Business Insight dinner 5.
8. held at The Leather Market on the New lettings Renewals Employee Customer events subject of The rise of the bots.
monthly average monthly average volunteering days 2018 93 2018 43 2018 121 2018 131 2017 99 2017 53 2017 79 2017 180 93 43 121 131 Definition Definition Definition Definition This measures the number of This measures the number of The number of days spent The number of events held lettings that Workspace signs lease renewals that we sign with by employees volunteering at our centres for customers.
or fundraising for our These include informal selected charities.
networking events, as well as business insight events and consultations on topics, such as alternative finance.
Why this is important Why this is important Why this is important Why this is important to Workspace to Workspace to Workspace to Workspace This is a key measure for the Renewals are important as Giving back to our communities Holding events to encourage business as lettings drive our they demonstrate how sticky is important to Workspace, and collaboration amongst net rental income and, as a our customers are and help we have a number of chosen customers and to create result, trading profit.
us to capture reversion on charities that we support as part communities in our centres is a our portfolio.
of our Doing the Right Thing key element of The Workspace strategy.
In particular, we believe Advantage.
The insights and we are well positioned to provide networking opportunities these educational and careers support events provide help customers to disadvantaged young people to grow their businesses and, as part of our InspiresMe in turn, aids customer retention.
programme, and many of our employees have got behind this work.
Movement in 2017 18 Movement in 2017 18 Movement in 2017 18 Movement in 2017 18 Good levels of lettings have Despite being slightly down The significant increase in the This number will move around continued throughout 2017 18 year-on-year, we continued year is largely because we added year to year as we do not have thanks to strong demand for to deliver good levels of lease personal days donated by a specific target.
It is important our space.
employees to volunteering that we continue to run a activities.
This figure includes 61 significant number of events working days and 60 personal across our centres during days.
Going forward, we will the year.
include both personal and working days.
Time period measured Time period measured Time period measured Time period measured Weekly Weekly Annually Monthly 40Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 41Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 4 4 T THIN HINK KIN ING G LI LIK KE E A A C CU US ST TO OM ME ER R 42Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 43Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 43 43 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information H Ho ow B w Br ry yo on ny y, D fide ev velo elop pm me en nt t E Ex xec ecu ut ti iv five e, h he el lp ps u s us d s fide el li iv five er T r Th he e W Wo or rk ks sp pa ac ce Ad e Adv va an nt ta ag ge e E Eac ach r h re ef fu ur rb biis sh hm me en nt o t or r r re ede dev vel elo op pm me en nt p t pr ro ojje ec ct i t is a b s a blla an nk k c ca an nv va as a s an nd s d st ta ar rt ts w s wiit th a d h a diis sc cu us ss siio on n a ab bou out t t th he l e la at te es st c t cu us st to om me er t r tr re en nd ds s.. W We h e ha av five t e to t o th hiin nk o k of e f ev five er ry yt th hiin ng g b be ef fo or re w e we s e st ta ar rt t, f, fr ro om w m wh he er re t e to p o pu ut t t th he c e co om mm ms r s ro oo om t m to ho o how m w mu uc ch h b br re ea ak kou out s t sp pac ace t e to c o cr re ea at te a e an nd t d th he e n nu um mb be er o r of b f biic cy yc clle r e rac ack ks t s to i o in ns st ta allll.. W We w e wo or rk c k cllo os sel ely w y wiit th ou h our a r ar rc ch hiit te ec ct ts s t to fi o fi n nd t d th he r e riig gh ht s t so ollu ut tiio on ns a s an nd d c cr re ea at te t e th he b e be es st e t en nv viir ro on nm me en nt ts s f fo or ou r our c r cu us st to om me er rs s.. B Br ry yo on ny G y Ge er re eg ga a fide Dev five ello opme pmen nt t E Ex xe ec cu ut tiiv five e a at W t Wo or rk ks sp pa ac ce e, p, piic ct tu ur re ed d w wiit th a h ar rc ch hiit te ec ct ts f s fr ro om m S Sq qu uiir re & P e & Pa ar rt tn ne er rs a s at t T Th he F e Fr ra am me es s, S, Sh ho or re ed diit tc ch h.. S Se ee h e ho ow o w our t ur te ea am ms h s he ellp p mi mit tiig ga at te e C Cus ust to om me er r a an nd D d fide ev five elo lop pm me en nt r t riis sk ks s g go t o to p o pa ag ge es 5 s 51 a 1 an nd 5 d 52 2.. 42Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 44 44 45Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018
