STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT THE WORK WE DO FORCLIENTS HELPS THEM TO GROW THEIR BUSINESSES, BUILD RELATIONSHIPS WITH THEIR CUSTOMERS AND READY THEMSELVES FOR FUTURE SUCCESS.
Mark Read Chief Executive Officer As technology reshapes our industry, WPPis undergoing its own transformation.
Ifeel very proud to have been given the opportunity to lead the Company at this important moment in itsdevelopment.
WPP is a great business with many The amazing work produced by our people, thousandsof talented people and agencies and teams is recognised around the outstanding agencybrands.
world for its creativity and effectiveness forging bonds with consumers and delivering We count most of the worlds biggest tangible business results for our clients.
companies as our clients and we are the largest partner to many of the worlds We have a deep understanding of leading media and technology companies.
consumersand Chief Marketing Officers The work we do for clients helps them to seeus asessential partners in helping to grow their businesses, build relationships reachthem.
with their customers and ready themselves for future success.
We also have strong and growing relationships with Chief Information We have real scale, with strong global Officersand Chief Technology Officers, creative networks and the number one which is vital as data and technology both media-buying operation worldwide through disrupt and create new opportunities for GroupM.
We are leaders in major markets like ourclientsbusinesses.
China, India and Brazil, which are important See our strengths, page 39 to our clients futuregrowth.
2 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT STRUCTURAL CHANGE, inconsumer behaviour.
Consultants are RADICAL EVOLUTION: NOTSTRUCTURAL DECLINE becoming more significant competitors.
A THREE-YEAR STRATEGY So I am an optimist about the future of WPP.
Technology companies are vying with us To restore WPP to sustainable, profitable Ibelieve our industry is facing a period of fortalent and attention.
And amidst growth, we have begun a three-year plan structural change, not structural decline.
concerns about transparency, privacy, ofradical evolution designed to improve Clients are not cutting spend: marketing fakenews and data security, theindustry performance across the business.
expense as a share of companies revenue needs to restore trust among the public, has stayed relatively constant over the last policymakers and clients.
We use the term radical because of the five years.
scale of changes we are making and the See our market, page 36 tough choices we have to take, and But spend is shifting and clients are seeking WPP has substantial assets to help us evolution because we need to take our broader partnerships, well beyond our tacklethese challenges.
It is an incredible people and clients with us on the journey.
traditional strengths in commercial creativity.
companythat has built up a position as They want much greater insight into media aleader in our market.
But that market The first element of the plan is clarifying channels and performance, and expertise in haschanged, meaning we have to change ourvision and offer.
They want us to connect all of our aswell to continue to deliver results for present ourselves to clients and other capabilities together, and put technology ourclients.
audiences has to reflect the nature and atthe centre of what we do.
quality of the work we do and the creativity Over the years the Company became too of the people inside WPP.
See our strategy, from page 42 complicated, and under-invested in keyareas We are well placed to provide everything such as talent, creativity and technology.
This is something we spent a lot of time on clients need, and in a growing number Consequently, WPP has under-performed during the second half on 2018 and we were ofcases we already do that.
However, itspeers since the first quarter of 2017, pleased by how well the results were weneed to adapt more quickly to the andtop-line growth has been hard to find.
received at our investor day in December.
changing world around us if we are to 1 continue to besuccessful.
In 2018, organic growth was -0.4%, albeit at Our vision for the new WPP is to be a creative the upper end of the guidance we provided transformation company.
Each of those three Every industry is being disrupted by inOctober.
words is important and carefully chosen.
technology, and ours is no exception.
Newmedia channels have proliferated The Company performed strongly in Our clients want our creativity, which is what astraditional outlets have declined.
Western Continental Europe, Asia Pacific, makes us special and differentiates us from Companieslike Google, Facebook, Alibaba Latin America, Africa & the Middle East other professional services firms.
They want and Tencent have redefined the landscape.
andCentral & Eastern Europe, with the us to help them transform their business United States more challenging inaworld fundamentally changed by There has been an explosion in content to somethingwe have begun to address technology.
And they want us to be a true populate the new channels content that through our new strategy.
company, to work as one on their behalf.
needs to be produced far more costGone are the days when we could operate as effectively than ever before.
Reported profit before tax was down a loose federation of independent agencies, 30.6%, reflecting the impact of overseen by a financial holding group.
Ecommerce is frequently driving 100% of restructuringand transformation costs thegrowth for retailers, and our clients are andgoodwill impairment.
As well as this new vision we articulated a looking for us tobe in that space offering new, more motivating purpose for WPP: everything from consultancy to the building Dividends per share were 60.0p, flatwith tobuild better futures for our people and of , and strategies theprior year, and our year-end net debt clients.
We find this resonates with people for working with Amazon.
positionimproved by 466 million both inside and outside the Company, who comparedto the same date in 2017 are pleased to hear WPP express such a Clients expect us to be fluent in the animprovement of 605 million at 2018 positive and confident reason for being.
In this new environment, the role of See our financial review, from page 54 traditional agencies is being challenged.
Clients are under pressure due to changes 1 Organic growth defined as like-for-like revenueless pass-through costs growth.
3 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT WE REMAIN PASSIONATE That purpose of building better futures Third, we are creating a simpler structure for applies to our wider communities too, and WPP, to make it more straightforward for ADVOCATES OF inour sustainability review we talk about the clients to access our skills and resources, BRAND-BUILDING, many ways in which we use the power of our andmore straightforward to run.
ITS INCALCULABLE creativity to bring about change.
LONG-TERM VALUE, Three principles sit behind the new See sustainability, from page 60 organisation: we will be absolutely focused AND OUR CREATIVE Our new competitive positioning was on the needs of our clients in everything we AGENCIES ABILITY developed in consultation with our people do: we will have fewer, stronger companies, TO MAKE EMOTIONAL and clients, and is supported by a refreshed each positioned to grow: and we will have CONNECTIONS brand identity developed by two WPP more closely integrated operations at the companies, Superunion and Landor that country level to make best use of our BETWEEN PEOPLE you will see reflected in the pages of this collective strengths.
We are very proud of it, the feedback LAST FOR A LIFETIME.
has been overwhelmingly positive, and I We have already made good progress in hope you feel the same way.
simplifying WPP through, for example, the creation of the integrated networks VMLY&R We are also going to market with an and Wunderman Thompson: the formation improved, simpler offer that reflects our ofBCW through the merger of Bursonclients needs and allows us to expand in Marsteller and Cohn & Wolfe: the alignment high-growth sectors.
Thenew offer of our US healthcare agencies with encompasses communications, experience, integrated agency partners: and the commerce and technology each of which elimination of the sub-holding company isnecessary for success formodern clients.
See our offer, from page 7 We have also disposed of 30 non-core The second pillar of the strategy is a investments and associates, raising renewed commitment to creativity putting 849million to reduce our debt, and our most important competitive advantage accelerated our programme of co-locating back at the heart of the business.
We are our agencies in state-of-the-art new investing an additional 15 million a year for Campusbuildings around the world.
the next three years in creative leadership talent, focused on the United States, which is Fourth, we are making technology and our largest market and where the investment datathe engine of our business.
acommon strategy for the whole of WPP, wewill leverage our unique technology We remain passionate advocates of partnerships and make our capabilities in brand-building, its incalculable long-term marketing and advertising technology value, and our creative agencies ability to available to all WPP companies for the make emotional connections between benefit of our clients.
people and brands that last for a lifetime.
Tomisquote David Ogilvy, every piece of In my first months as CEO, I have spent a communication from the apparently lotof time listening to people across the fleeting tactical promotion to the classic business and one of the things I heard loud bigidea should be approached as an and clear was a desire for WPP to make a investment in the future of a brand.
Strong statement about its values and the kind of brands, especially in a market disrupted by culture we want to have in our Company.
technology, are the best protection againstcompetitors, the best foundation forpremium pricing, and the best guarantee of lasting appeal.
4 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT WE ARE MAKING Our people and clients rightly expect Together we are building a new WPP that workplaces that are inclusive, respectful, will deliver for our people, clients and TECHNOLOGY AND collaborative and diverse in every sense.
shareholders for many years to come.
DATA THE ENGINE Ifwe want to continue to attract the OFOUR BUSINESS.
bestand brightest, we have to live up Our priority in 2019 is implementing the tothoseexpectations.
strategy continuing to stabilise and rejuvenate the business.
Although we face So the final part of our plan is to build headwinds from account losses in 2018, we andchampion that new culture one have begun the year with confidence after characterised by our new values of significant new business wins and the openness, optimism and a commitment positive reaction to our three-year plan.
People in our business rarely have the luxury More broadly, we are placing a greater of looking backwards, and everyone at WPP emphasis on developing talent across WPP, has their eyes firmly fixed on the future.
and ensuring we have the right incentive Wehave every reason to look ahead with structures for our leaders.
Our new Executive optimism about what that future will bring.
Committee, drawn from agency leadership as well as from WPP central functions, will promote a new spirit of collective purpose and collaboration throughout the Company.
Further details of the strategy, including the costs and associated financial benefits of Mark Read ourturnaround plan, our approach to Chief Executive Officer capitalallocation and our new medium-term 10 April 2019 financial targets, can be found from page 42 and in our investor day presentation on wpp.
RENEWAL AND CHANGE 2018 was in many ways a turbulent and difficult year for WPP, for well-documented reasons.
But it was also a year of renewal andmuch-needed change.
WPP is fortunate to have a strong central team that is absolutely committed to the success of the business.
We are more fortunate still to have over 130,000 brilliant colleagues in our companies around the world, each of them dedicated to professional excellence in their own discipline.
