Independent Auditors Report to the Shareholders of Meggitt PLC We have audited the group financial statements of Meggitt PLC for the Basis of audit opinion year ended 31 December 2005 which comprise the Consolidated Income We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards Statement, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to Expenditure and the related notes.
These group financial statements the amounts and disclosures in the group financial statements.
have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the group of Meggitt PLC for the year ended 31 December 2005 and on the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and having been audited.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the group The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether the group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors in the group financial statements.
Our responsibility is to audit the group financial statements in Opinion accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, In our opinion: including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2005 and of its accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other profit and cash flows for the year then ended: and person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the We report to you our opinion as to whether the group financial IAS Regulation.
statements give a true and fair view and whether the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the group financial statements, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects Reading the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC 6 March 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited group financial statements.
The other information comprises only financial highlights, chairmans statement, chief executives operating review, financial review, board of directors, report of the directors, directors statement on corporate governance, the unaudited part of the remuneration report, the five-year record and the other items listed in the contents on page 1.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
42 Meggitt PLC report and accounts 2005
