Independent Auditors Report to the Shareholders of Meggitt PLC We have audited the parent company financial statements of Meggitt Basis of audit opinion PLC for the year ended 31 December 2005 which comprise the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards Balance Sheet and the related notes.
These parent company financial on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be We have reported separately on the group financial statements of audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates Meggitt PLC for the year ended 31 December 2005. and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the parent company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances, consistently applied Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors and adequately disclosed.
The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information Directors Remuneration Report and the parent company financial and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and information in the parent company financial statements and the part International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Opinion Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other In our opinion: person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial Practice, of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 December statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent company 2005: and financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration the parent company financial statements and the part of the Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Directors Report is not consistent with the parent company financial statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent Company financial  LLP statements.
The other information comprises only the financial Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors highlights, chairmans statement, chief executives operating review, Reading financial review, board of directors, report of the directors, directors 6 March 2006 statement on corporate governance, the unaudited part of the remuneration report, the five-year record and the other items listed in the contents on page 1.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent Company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Meggitt PLC report and accounts 2005 83
