MILLENNIUM & COPTHORNE HOTELS plc REPORT OF THE AUDITORS We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE statements give a true and fair view and whether the MEMBERS OF MILLENNIUM & COPTHORNE financial statements and the part of the Directors HOTELS PLC Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly We have audited the consolidated and parent company prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and financial statements the financial statements of whether, in addition the consolidated financial statements Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc for the year ended have been properly prepared in accordance with Article 31 December 2005 which comprise the consolidated 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you if, in our income statement, the consolidated and parent company opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with balance sheets, the consolidated cash ow statement, the financial statements, if the company has not kept the consolidated statement of recognised income and proper accounting records, if we have not received all the expense and the related notes.
These financial statements information and explanations we require for our audit, have been prepared under the accounting policies set or if information speci ed by law regarding directors out therein.
We have also audited the information in remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement re ects the companys compliance with the nine provisions This report is made solely to the companys members, as of the 2003 FRC Combined Code speci ed for our review a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that and we report if it does not.
We are not required to we might state to the Companys members those matters consider whether the Boards statements on internal we are required to state to them in an auditors report and control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone procedures or its risk and control procedures.
other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the We read other information contained in the Annual opinions we have formed.
Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF for our report if we become aware of any apparent DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS misstatements or material inconsistencies with the The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to Report and the consolidated financial statements in any other information.
accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION the EU and for preparing the parent company financial We conducted our audit in accordance with International statements and the Directors Remuneration Report in Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the accordance with applicable law and UK Accounting Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the on pages 18 and 19.
Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the signi cant estimates and Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be the financial statements, and of whether the accounting audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys requirements and International Standards on Auditing circumstances, consistently applied and adequately UK and Ireland.
30 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: the parent the information and explanations which we considered company financial statements give a true and fair view, necessary in order to provide us with suf cient evidence in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements Practice, of the state of the parent companys affairs as and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to at 31 December 2005: the parent company financial be audited are free from material misstatement, whether statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming Report to be audited have been properly prepared in our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the accordance with the Companies Act 1985. presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
OPINION In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2005 and of its pro t for the year then KPMG Audit Plc ended: the consolidated financial statements have been Chartered Accountants properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Registered Auditor 20 February 2006 31
