888 Holdings Public Limited Company Annual Report & Accounts 2005 37 Independent Auditors Report To The Shareholders of 888 Holdings Public Limited Company We have audited the Group and the Company financial or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
statements the financial statements of 888 Holdings Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Public Limited Company for the year ended 31 December Our report has been prepared pursuant to the terms of our 2005 which comprise the Group Income Statement, the engagement letter and for no other purpose.
No person is Group and Company Balance Sheets, the Group and entitled to rely on this report unless such a person is a Company Cash Flow Statements, the Group and Company person entitled to rely upon this report by virtue of the terms Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to of our engagement letter or has been expressly authorised 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and notes 1 to do so by our prior written consent.
Save as above, we do to 8 to the Company Financial Statements.
These financial not accept responsibility for this report to any other person statements have been prepared under the accounting or for any other purpose and we hereby expressly disclaim policies set out therein.
any and all such liability.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors Basis of Audit Opinion The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report We conducted our audit in accordance with International and the financial statements in accordance with applicable Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, as adopted by the European Union are set out in the on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
888 Holdings Public disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Limited Company has complied with the requirements of Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an rules 9.8.
8 of the Listing Rules in preparing its assessment of the significant estimates and judgements Annual Report as if it was incorporated in the UK.
made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial the information and explanations which we considered statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to statements have been properly prepared in accordance give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are with the Gibraltar Companies Accounts Ordinance 1999, free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud Gibraltar Companies Consolidated Accounts Ordinance or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also 1999 and the Gibraltar Companies Ordinance 1930, as evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of amended and the part of the Remuneration Report to be information in the financial statements and the part of the audited has been properly prepared in accordance with Remuneration Report to be audited.
Schedule 7A of the UK Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not Opinion consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has In our opinion: not kept proper accounting records, or if we have not received the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in all the information and explanations we require for our audit accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, or if information specified by the Listing Rules and Gibraltar of the state of the Groups and the Companys affairs as legislation is not disclosed.
at 31 December 2005 and of the Groups Profit for the year then ended: We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement the financial statements have been properly prepared in reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions accordance with the Gibraltar Companies Accounts of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review Ordinance 1999, Gibraltar Companies Consolidated by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and Accounts Ordinance 1999 and the Gibraltar Companies we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider Ordinance 1930, as amended: and whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited has risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness been properly prepared in accordance with Schedule 7A of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk of the UK Companies Act 1985. and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
The other information comprises BDO Stoy Hayward LLP BDO Fidecs Chartered only the Directors Report, Chairmans Statement, Chief Chartered Accountants Accountants Limited Executives Review, Financial Review, Regulatory and 8 Baker Street, Montagu Pavilion, Compliance Review, Corporate Governance Statement and London W1U 3LL 810 Queensway, Remuneration Report.
We consider the implications for our UK Gibraltar report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements Date: 16 March 2006
