Misys plc Independent auditors report to the members of Misys plc We have audited the financial statements which comprise the BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION profit and loss account, the statement of cash flows, the We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards statement of total recognised gains and losses, the reconciliation issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes of movements in equity shareholders deficit funds, the balance examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the sheets, the accounting policies and the related notes.
We have amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to auditable part of the Remuneration report for Directors.
the Companies Act 1985 contained in the Remuneration report It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and for Directors the auditable part.
judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report applied and adequately disclosed.
and the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the the statement of Directors responsibilities.
The Directors are also information and explanations which we considered necessary responsible for preparing the Remuneration report for Directors.
in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable part of the Remuneration report for Directors are auditable part of the Remuneration report for Directors in free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been information in the financial statements.
prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and OPINION for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept In our opinion: or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it the financial statements give a true and fair view of the may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent state of affairs of the Company and the Group at 31 May in writing.
2005 and of the loss and cash flows of the Group for the year then ended: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial 76 statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial the financial statements have been properly prepared statements and the auditable part of the Remuneration report in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and for Directors have been properly prepared in accordance with those parts of the Remuneration report for Directors the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with the financial 1985 have been properly prepared in accordance with statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting the Companies Act 1985. records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and transactions is  LLP not disclosed.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors We read the other information contained in the Annual Report London and consider the implications for our report if we become aware 29 July 2005 of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors report, the unaudited part of the Remuneration report for Directors, the Chairmans statement, the Operating and Financial reviews, the Corporate responsibility statement and the Corporate governance report.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
