Report of the auditors Independent auditors report to the members of O2 plc Basis of audit opinion We have audited the financial statements which comprise the profit and loss account, the balance sheet, We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
the cash ow statement, the statement of total recognised gains and losses and the related notes which An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in have been prepared under the historical cost convention and the accounting policies set out in the the financial statements and the auditable part of the report on directors remuneration.
It also includes statement of accounting policies.
We have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the report on directors remuneration the auditable part.
of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in accordance We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the statement of directors considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the responsibilities.
The Directors are also responsible for preparing the report on directors remuneration.
financial statements and the auditable part of the report on directors remuneration are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable part of the report on directors evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
remuneration in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for Opinion and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 In our opinion: and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where at 31 March 2005 and of the profit and cash ows of the Group for the year then ended: expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and those parts of the report on directors remuneration required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether Companies Act 1985 have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. the financial statements and the auditable part of the report on directors remuneration have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit,  LLP or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London We read the other information contained in the annual report and consider the implications for our 17 May 2005 report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises only the directors report, the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report, the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executive Ofcers review, the operating and financial review and prospects, and the corporate governance statement.
The maintenance and integrity of the O2 plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no We review whether the corporate governance statement reects the Companys compliance with the nine responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial presented on the website.
Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Legislation in the United Kindom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
