Independent Auditors Report to the Shareholders of National Express Group PLC We have audited the group financial statements of National Express We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider Group PLC for the year ended 31 December 2005 which comprise the whether it is consistent with the audited group financial statements.
The Group Income Statement, the Group Balance Sheet, the Group Cash Flow other information comprises only the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Statement, the Group Statement of Recognised Income and Expense and Executives Statement, the Financial Review, the Corporate Governance the related notes 1 to 40.
These group financial statements have been Statement, the Statement of Directors Responsibilities, the unaudited part prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
of the Report on Directors Remuneration and the Directors Report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the group financial of National Express Group PLC for the year ended 31 December 2005 statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members and disclosures in the group financial statements.
It also includes an those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not directors in the preparation of the group financial statements, and of accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the group group financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also the European Union as set out in the Statement of Directors evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the group financial statements in accordance OPINION with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International In our opinion the group financial statements: Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the We report to you our opinion as to whether the group financial European Union, of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 December statements give a true and fair view and whether the group financial 2005 and of its profit for the year then ended: and statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
group financial statements, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law Ernst & Young LLP regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
Registered auditor London We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the 9 March 2006 companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
