Independent auditors report To the members of Northern Foods plc We read the Report of the directors and the other information contained We have audited the accounts of Northern Foods plc for the 52 weeks in the Annual report for the above year as described in the contents ended 2 April 2005 which comprise the Consolidated profit and loss section, including the unaudited part of the Directors remuneration report, account, the balance sheets, the Consolidated cash flow statement, and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any the Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses and the apparent mis-statements or material inconsistencies with the accounts.
related notes 1 to 30, together with the Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt, the Reconciliation of movements in equity Basis of audit opinion shareholders funds and Accounting policies.
These accounts have been We conducted our audit in accordance with UK auditing standards prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, audited the information in the part of the Directors remuneration report on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in that is described as having been audited.
the accounts and the part of the Directors remuneration report described as having been audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit the accounts and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys the circumstances of the company and the group, consistently applied members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors and adequately disclosed.
report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the accounts and the part of the Directors remuneration report described as having Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors been audited are free from material mis-statement, whether caused As described in the statement of directors responsibilities, the companys by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also directors are responsible for the preparation of the Annual report and evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the accounts in accordance with applicable UK law and accounting the accounts and the part of the Directors remuneration report described standards.
They are also responsible for the preparation of the other as having been audited.
information contained in the Annual report including the Directors remuneration report.
Our responsibility is to audit the accounts and Opinion the part of the Directors remuneration report described as having In our opinion: been audited in accordance with relevant UK legal and regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the group as at 2 April 2005 and of the profit We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a true of the group for the 52 weeks then ended: and and fair view and whether the accounts and the part of the Directors the accounts and the part of the Directors remuneration report remuneration report described as having been audited have been described as having been audited have been properly prepared properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Report of the directors is not consistent with the accounts, if the company has not kept proper Deloitte & Touche LLP accounting records, if we have not received all the information and Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law Leeds regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the company and other members of the group is not disclosed.
1 June 2005 We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the July 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Northern Foods plc Independent auditors report 41
