INDEPENDENT AUDITORSREPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF PEARSON PLC We have audited the Group and Company Financial We report to you our opinion as to whether the Statements together the Financial Statements of Financial Statements give a true and fair view and Pearson plc for the year ended 31 December 2005. whether the Financial Statements and the part of the The Group Financial Statements comprise the Report on Directors Remuneration to be audited Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated have been properly prepared in accordance with Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Recognised Income and Expense, the Consolidated Regulation.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, Cash Flow Statement and the related Notes to the the Directors Report is not consistent with the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Company Financial Statements, if the Company has not kept Financial Statements comprise the Company Balance proper accounting records, if we have not received all Sheet, the Company Statement of Recognised Income the information and explanations we require for our and Expense, the Company Cash Flow Statement audit, or if information specified by law regarding and the related Notes to the Company Financial directors remuneration and other transactions is Statements.
The Financial Statements have been not disclosed.
prepared under the accounting policies set out in We review whether the Corporate Governance the respective Notes to the Financial Statements.
statement reects the Companys compliance with We have also audited the information in the Report the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code on Directors Remuneration that is described as specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the having been audited.
Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Boards statements on internal control cover all risks The directors responsibilities for preparing the and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness Annual Review, Governance and Financial Statements of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its in accordance with applicable law and International risk and control procedures.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of We read other information contained in the Annual Directors Responsibilities.
Review, Governance and Financial Statements and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Our responsibility is to audit the Financial Statements Financial Statements.
The other information comprises and the part of the Report on Directors Remuneration the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and Review, the Financial and Operating Highlights, the regulatory requirements and International Standards Operating Company reviews, the Operating and on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including Financial Review, the Financial Review, the Directors the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Report, the unaudited part of the Report on Directors Companys members as a body in accordance with Remuneration, and all other information referred to section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no on the contents page.
We consider the implications for other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, our report if we become aware of any apparent accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose misstatements or material inconsistencies with the or to any other person to whom this report is shown Financial Statements.
Our responsibilities or into whose hands it may come save where expressly do not extend to any other information.
agreed by our prior consent in writing.
PEARSON GOVERNANCE AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2005
