INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 MEMBERS OF PENNON GROUP PLC Financial Reporting Council FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority We have audited the financial statements which comprise the and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider Group profit and loss account, the Group balance sheet, the whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks Company balance sheet, the Group cash flow statement, the and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the accounting policies and the related notes.
We have also audited Companys or Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the and control procedures.
Companies Act 1985 contained in the Directors remuneration report the auditable part.
BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and disclosures in the financial statements and the auditable part and the financial statements in accordance with applicable of the Directors remuneration report.
It also includes an United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by Directors responsibilities statement.
The Directors are also the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements and of responsible for preparing the Directors remuneration report.
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable part of the Directors remuneration report in We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and information and explanations which we considered necessary in United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been assurance that the financial statements and the auditable part of prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in the Directors remuneration report are free from material accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or error.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may statements.
come, save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
OPINION We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial In our opinion, the financial statements give a true and fair view statements and the auditable part of the Directors remuneration of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group at 31 March report have been properly prepared in accordance with the 2005 and of the profit and cash flows of the Group for the year Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the then ended, have been properly prepared in accordance with the Directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, Companies Act 1985 and those parts of the Directors if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have remuneration report required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the not received all the information and explanations we require for Companies Act 1985 have been properly prepared in accordance our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors with the Companies Act 1985. remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report  LLP and consider the implications for our report if we become aware Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with 23 June 2005 the financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans statement, the Business review, the Operating and Financial Review, the unaudited part of the Directors remuneration report, the statements of compliance on corporate governance and internal control and the Report of the Directors.
