Independent auditors report to the shareholders of Petrofac Limited We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial We read other information contained in the Annual Report and statements of Petrofac Limited the Company and its subsidiaries consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial together the group for the year ended 31 December 2005 which statements.
This other information comprises the Directors comprise consolidated income statement, consolidated balance remuneration report, Chairmans statement, Operating and Financial sheet, consolidated cash flow statement, consolidated statement of review and Corporate governance statement.
We consider the change in equity and the related notes 1 to 31.
These financial implications for our report if we become aware of statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the therein.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Article 110 of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
Basis of audit opinion Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards Companys members those matters we are required to state to them on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
It also anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, formed.
and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the statements in accordance with applicable Jersey law as set out in the information and explanations which we considered necessary in Statement of directors responsibilities.
order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland and the Listing Rules of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
Opinion We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements In our opinion the consolidated financial statements give a true give a true and fair view and have been properly prepared in and fair view, in accordance with International Financial Reporting accordance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
We also report Standards, of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 December 2005 to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting and of its profit for the year then ended and have been properly records or if we have not received all the information and explanations prepared in accordance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991. we require for our audit.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Ernst & Young LLP Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the London Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not 15 March 2006 required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Annual report and accounts 2005 Petrofac 43
