Arla Foods UK plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Independent auditors report to the members of Arla Foods UK plc We have audited the groups financial statements for the year ended Basis of audit opinion 30 September 2005 which comprise the group profit and loss We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom Auditing account, group statement of total recognised gains and losses, group Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes balance sheet, company balance sheet, group cash flow statement, examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and reconciliation of group net cash flow to movement in group net debt, disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the directors reconciliation of movements in group equity shareholders funds and remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the related notes 1 to 28.
These financial statements have been the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the prepared on the basis of the accounting policies set out therein.
We preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting have also audited the information in the remuneration report that is policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances, consistently described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit information and explanations which we considered necessary in order work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance members those matters we are required to state to them in an that the financial statements and the part of the remuneration report auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also anyone other than the company and the companys members evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions the financial statements and the part of the remuneration report to we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Opinion The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view including the financial statements which are required to be prepared of the state of affairs of the company and of the group as at in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting 30 September 2005 and of the profit of the group for the year then standards as set out in the statement of directors responsibilities in ended: and the financial statements and the part of the remuneration relation to the financial statements.
The directors are also responsible report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with for preparing the remuneration report.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of Ernst & Young LLP the remuneration report to be audited in accordance with relevant Registered Auditor legal and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards Leeds and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
30 November 2005 We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the annual report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
This other information comprises the chairmans statement, the operating and financial review, the corporate governance statement, the unaudited part of the remuneration report and the directors report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
