INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF PILKINGTON plc We have audited the financial statements which comprise the of the Audit Committee and the corporate governance statement.
Group profit and loss account, the balance sheets, the Group cash We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the flow statement, the statement of total recognised gains and losses, companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC the accounting policies and the related notes.
We have also audited Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not Act 1985 contained in the report on directors remuneration the required to consider whether the boards statements on internal audited information.
control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the companys or Groups corporate governance RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES procedures or its risk and control procedures.
18 OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards issued law and accounting standards are set out in the statement of by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on directors responsibilities.
The directors are also responsible for a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in preparing the directors remuneration report.
the financial statements and the auditable part of the report on directors remuneration.
It also includes an assessment of the Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the auditable part of the report on directors remuneration in accordance preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances, Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving information and explanations which we considered necessary in this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose assurance that the financial statements and the auditable part of the hands it may come, save where expressly agreed by our prior report on directors remuneration are free from material consent in writing.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements presentation of information in the financial statements.
give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the auditable part of the report on directors remuneration have been OPINION properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not In our opinion: consistent with the financial statements, if the company has not kept the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of proper accounting records, if we have not received all the affairs of the company and the Group at 31st March 2005 and of information and explanations we require for our audit, or if the profit and cash flows of the Group for the year then ended: information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and the financial statements have been properly prepared in transactions is not disclosed.
accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and We read the other information contained in the Directors Report those parts of the report on directors remuneration required by and Accounts and the Operating and Financial Review and consider Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises the directors report, the unaudited part of the report on directors remuneration, the  LLP chairmans statement, the chief executives review, the review of Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors operations, the corporate social responsibility report, the finance London directors review, the report of the Nomination Committee, the report 26th May 2005 PILKINGTON plc DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005
