Auditors Report Independent Auditors report to the members of We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Premier Farnell plc Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC We have audited the financial statements which comprise the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the consolidated profit and loss account, the statement of total recognised Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not gains and losses, the balance sheets, the consolidated statement of cash required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control flows, related notes and the accounting policies set out in the statement cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of of accounting policies.
We have also audited the disclosures required by the Companys or Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the and control procedures.
Remuneration Report the auditable part.
Basis of audit opinion Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards issued The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial and accounting standards are set out in the statement of Directors statements and the auditable part of the Remuneration Report.
It also Responsibilities on page 34.
The Directors are also responsible for includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements preparing the Remuneration Report.
made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
part of the Remuneration Report in accordance with the relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no statements and the auditable part of the Remuneration Report are free other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume from material mis-statement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly the presentation of information in the financial statements.
agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Opinion We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a In our opinion: true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the auditable part of the Remuneration Report have been properly prepared in the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of accordance with the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985.
We also the Company and the Group at 30th January 2005 and of the profit and report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with cash flows of the Group for the year then ended the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors with the Companies Act 1985 remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
those parts of the Remuneration Report required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly prepared in We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and accordance with the Companies Act 1985. consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent mis-statements or material inconsistencies with the financial  LLP statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Statement, the Chief Executives Review, the Operating Review, the Leeds Finance Directors Report, the Directors Report, the unaudited part of the 17th March 2005 Remuneration Report, the Corporate Governance Statement and the Social Responsibility Report.
Pr Premier Far emier Farnell plc nell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 67 67
