Independent auditors report to the members of Premier Foods plc The Group We have audited the group financial statements of Premier Foods plc Basis of audit opinion for the year ended 31 December 2005 which comprise the Consolidated We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Income Statement, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and Expense and the related notes on pages 46 to 83.
These group and disclosures in the group financial statements.
It also includes an financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the set out therein.
directors in the preparation of the group financial statements, and of We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups of Premier Foods plc for the year ended 31 December 2005 and on the circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and having been audited.
explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the group financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the group or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the group financial Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union statements.
are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Opinion Our responsibility is to audit the group financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards In our opinion: on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the groups with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
affairs as at 31 December 2005 and of its profit and cash ows for the We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any year then ended: and other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior the group financial statements have been properly prepared in consent in writing.
accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the group financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the group financial statements, if we  LLP have not received all the information and explanations we require for our Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration London and other transactions is not disclosed.
7 March 2006 We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reects the Notes: companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined a The maintenance and integrity of the Premier Foods plc website is the responsibility of the Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited group financial statements.
The other information comprises the Directors Report, the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Summary, the Business Review, the Financial Review and the Corporate Governance Statement.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
