Independent auditors report to the members of Premier Oil plc We have audited the group financial statements of Premier Oil plc We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects for the year ended 31 December 2005 which comprise the the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC consolidated income statement, the consolidated balance sheet, Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the the statement of total recognised income and expenses, statement Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not of changes in equity, the consolidated cash flow statement, required to consider whether the Boards statement on internal the related notes 1 to 25 and the IFRS transition reconciliations.
control covers all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the These group financial statements have been prepared under effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the or its risk and control procedures.
information in the directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
We read the directors report and the other information contained in the annual report for the above year as described in the contents We have reported separately on the individual company financial section, including the unaudited part of the directors remuneration statements of Premier Oil plc for the year ended 31 December 2005. report and we consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, with the group financial statements.
in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Basis of audit opinion companys members those matters we are required to state to them We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant anyone other than the company and the companys members as to the amounts and disclosures in the group financial statements a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we and the part of the directors remuneration report described as have formed.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors in the preparation of the group financial statements, and of whether The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys directors remuneration report and the group financial statements circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted for use in the European We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Union are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Our responsibility is to audit the group financial statements and assurance that the group financial statements and the part of the the part of the directors remuneration report described as having directors remuneration report described as having been audited been audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or and regulatory requirements and International Standards on other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated Auditing UK and Ireland.
the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the group financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration We report to you our opinion as to whether the group financial report described as having been audited.
statements give a true and fair view in accordance with the relevant financial reporting framework and whether the group financial Opinion statements and the part of the directors remuneration report In our opinion: described as having been audited have been properly prepared the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS accordance with IFRSs as adopted for use in the European Union, Regulation.
We report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 December 2005 and is not consistent with the group financial statements.
We also report of its profit for the year then ended: and to you if we have not received all the information and explanations the group financial statements and the part of the directors we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding remuneration report described as having been audited have been directors transactions with the company and other members of the properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 group is not disclosed.
and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not Deloitte & Touche LLP complied with any of the four directors remuneration disclosure Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors requirements specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the London Financial Services Authority.
These comprise the amount of each 22 March 2006 element in the remuneration package and information on share options, details of long-term incentive schemes, and money purchase and defined benefit schemes.
We give a statement, to the extent possible, of details of any non-compliance.
32 Premier Oil Annual Report and Accounts 2005
