40 ANNUAL REPORT 2005 ACCOUNTS ACCOUNTS ANNUAL REPORT 2005 41 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF PZ CUSSONS PLC PZ Cussons UK Limited is accredited with the Investor In People Award, recognising our commitment in developing our people in line with We have audited the financial statements of PZ Cussons Plc for the year ended 31st May 2005 which comprise the consolidated pro t business needs.
Our appraisal-based progression systems ensure that individual needs are continually assessed.
and loss account, the balance sheets, the consolidated cash ow statement, the statement of total recognised gains and losses, the note of historical cost pro ts and losses, the reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds, the statement of accounting policies and the Community and charity related notes 1 to 31.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the We support a range of charitable causes, both in the UK and overseas, mainly through a UK based shareholding trust and additional information in the part of the directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
contributions are made through staff time and gifts in kind.
In response to the Tsunami Appeal, we sponsored several polyclinics in Indonesia and an orphanage in Thailand.
We also made a donation to an orphanage in Malaysia and contributed monies through the Disasters This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work Emergency Committee in the UK.
has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company PZ Cussons recognises its responsibility to the communities in which it operates and is committed to establishing and maintaining strong and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
relationships with community groups, particularly in developing markets.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Product safety As described in the statement of directors responsibilities, the companys directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial PZ Cussons is committed to understanding issues involving safety associated with our products and supplying safe products to consumers.
statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
They are also responsible for the preparation of As part of this commitment, the company has been involved in product related health education programmes, particularly in developing the other information contained in the annual report including the directors remuneration report.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial countries.
statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
Animal testing None of our products are tested on animals.
We support the development and acceptance of alternative methods that reduce or replace the We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part use of animals in product safety evaluation.
We continue to in uence our suppliers to operate to similar high standards as ourselves.
of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the company has not kept Development of CSR reporting proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information speci ed Corporate social responsibility is acknowledged at the highest level at PZ Cussons and the board has reviewed and fully endorsed the CSR by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
It is our intention that in the coming years we will continue to focus on establishing practices that will allow us to manage and We also report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not complied with any of the requirements set out in the Financial Services Authoritys monitor our social and environmental impacts in greater detail to enable us to further develop our corporate social responsibility reporting.
8R 2 with regards to the amount of each element in the remuneration package and information on share options, 9.8.
8R 3, 4 and 5 with regards to details of long term incentive schemes for directors, 9.8.
8R 11 with regards to money purchase schemes, 9.8.
8R 12 with regards to fide ned bene t schemes, and we give a statement, to the extent possible, of details of any non-compliance.
We review whether the corporate governance statement re ects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the July 2003 FRC Combined Code speci ed for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the directors report and the other information contained in the annual report for the above year as described in the contents section including the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited.
It also includes an assessment of the signi cant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the company and the Group, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with suf cient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the Group as at 31st May 2005 and of the pro t of the Group for the year then ended: and the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Manchester 2nd August 2005
