Independent report of the auditors to the members of The Rank Group Plc We have audited the Group and Company financial statements includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements the financial statements of The Rank Group Plc for the year ended made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, 31 December 2005 which comprise the Group Income Statement, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the the Group and Company Balance Sheets, the Group and Company Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and Cash Flow Statements, the Group Statement of Recognised Income adequately disclosed.
and Expense and the related notes.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information have also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us Report that is described as having been audited.
with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to Standards IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union are set be audited.
out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Opinion Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part In our opinion: of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the accordance with IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union, opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2005 and of as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 its loss and cash ows for the year then ended: and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person the Company financial statements give a true and fair view, to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save in accordance with IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2005 We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements and cash ows for the year then ended: and give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
the Directors Report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reects  LLP the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the London Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal 15 March 2006 control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors Report, the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, the Chairmans Statement, the operating and financial review and the Corporate Governance Statement.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also The Rank Group Plc 42 Annual Report & Accounts 2005
