INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF RECKITT BENCKISER plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Reckitt Benckiser plc Basis of audit opinion for the year ended 31 December 2005 which comprise the Group We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards income statement, the Group statement of total recognised income on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
and expense, the Group balance sheet, the Group cash flow An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant statement, and the related notes.
These Group financial statements to the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements.
have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the Group We have reported separately on the parent company financial financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are statements of Reckitt Benckiser plc for the year end 31 December appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied 2005 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report and adequately disclosed.
that is described as being audited.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors information and explanations which we considered necessary The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable assurance that the Group financial statements are free from material law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or adopted by the European Union EU are set out in the Statement error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of Directors responsibilities.
of the presentation of information in the Group financial statements.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in Opinion accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and In our opinion: International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, of the state of affairs of the Group as at 31 December 2005 in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other and of the profit and cash flows of the Group for the year purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown then ended: and or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed the Group financial statements have been properly prepared by our prior consent in writing.
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial of the IAS Regulation.
statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Report of the Directors is not consistent with the Group financial statements, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding the Directors  LLP Remuneration Report and transactions is not disclosed.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects London the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 20 March 2006 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules Notes of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
The maintenance and integrity of the Reckitt Benckiser website We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes procedures or its risk and control procedures.
that may have occurred to the financial statements since they We read the other information contained in the Annual Report were initially presented on the website.
and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and statements.
The other information comprises only the Report of the dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation Directors including the statements on corporate governance, the in other jurisdictions.
Financial Review 2005 and the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
16 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005
