INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPOR T We review whether the Corporate Governance statement reflects the Independent Auditors report to the members of Redrow plc Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined We have audited the financial statements which comprise the consolidated Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services profit and loss account, the Group and Company balance sheets, the Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider consolidated cash flow statement and the related notes which have been whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and prepared under the accounting policies set out in the statement of controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys or accounting policies.
We have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 Groups Corporate Governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the Remuneration report the auditable part.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards issued by the Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and the auditable part of the Remuneration report.
It also includes an and accounting standards are set out in the Statement of Directors assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Responsibilities.
The Directors are also responsible for preparing the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the Remuneration report.
accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable part consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed of the Remuneration report in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the auditable part of prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance the Remuneration report are free from material misstatement, whether with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the other purpose or to any other person other than the Company to whom this financial statements.
report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly Opinion agreed by our prior consent in writing.
In our opinion: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the auditable of the Company and the Group at 30 June 2005 and of the profit and part of the Remuneration report have been properly prepared in accordance cash flows of the Group for the year then ended: with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance Directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the with the Companies Act 1985: and Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received those parts of the Remuneration report required by Part 3 of Schedule all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly prepared in information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and accordance with the Companies Act 1985. transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the annual report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises the Directors report, the unaudited part of  LLP the Remuneration report, the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Operational review, the Finance Directors Financial review, the Corporate Manchester Social Responsibility review and the Corporate Governance statement.
