36 Independent auditors statement Independent auditors statement to the members of Reed Elsevier PLC and shareholders of Reed Elsevier NV We have examined the summary financial statements Basis of opinion of the Reed Elsevier combined businesses, and of Reed We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV which comprise the 1999 6 The auditors statement on the summary financial summary income statements, summary statements of statement issued by the United Kingdom Auditing recognised income and expense, summary cash flow Practices Board.
statements, summary balance sheets and, additionally, in respect of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV, the Opinion dividend note and summary directors remuneration report In our opinion, the summary financial statements are and, in respect of the Reed Elsevier combined businesses, consistent with the full financial statements of the Reed a reconciliation of reported to adjusted figures.
Elsevier combined businesses and with the full financial statements, directors reports and summary directors Our work has been undertaken so that we might state to remuneration report of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed the members of Reed Elsevier PLC and shareholders of Elsevier NV for the year ended 31 December 2005 and, Reed Elsevier NV those matters we are required to state in respect of Reed Elsevier PLC, comply with the relevant to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985, To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, we do and the regulations made thereunder.
not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV and the members Deloitte & Touche LLP Deloitte Accountants B. V. of Reed Elsevier PLC as a body and shareholders of Reed Chartered Accountants and J P M Hopmans Elsevier NV as a body, for our audit work, for this report, Registered Auditors Amsterdam for our audit report, or for the opinions we have formed.
London The Netherlands United Kingdom 15 February 2006 Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors 15 February 2006 The directors of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV are responsible for preparing the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom and Netherlands law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the summary financial statements within the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements with the full annual financial statements, directors reports and directors remuneration report, and in respect of Reed Elsevier PLC, its compliance with the relevant requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 The auditors reports on the annual accounts of and regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV for the years information contained in the Annual Review and Summary ended 31 December 2005 and 2004 were unqualified.
The Financial Statements and consider the implications for our auditors report on the annual accounts of Reed Elsevier PLC report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements did not contain any statement under S237 2 or S237 3 of or material inconsistencies with the summary financial the UK Companies Act regarding inadequate accounting statements.
records or returns, accounts not agreeing with records and returns, and failure to obtain necessary information and explanations.
