159711 Reed Report 103-142 7 3 06 12:05 Page 118 118 Reed Elsevier PLC Independent auditors report on the consolidated financial statements to the members of Reed Elsevier PLC We have audited the consolidated financial statements of We review whether the corporate governance statement Reed Elsevier PLC for the year ended 31 December 2005 reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions the consolidated financial statements, which comprise of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the group accounting policies, the consolidated income the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we statement, the consolidated cash flow statement, the report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated statement the boards statement on internal control covers all risks of recognised income and expense, the reconciliation of and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the shareholders equity and the related notes 1 to 22.
These groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and consolidated financial statements have been prepared under control procedures.
the accounting policies set out therein.
We read the directors report and the other information We have reported separately on the individual parent company contained in the Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial financial statements of Reed Elsevier PLC for the year ended Statements 2005 for the above year as described in the 31 December 2005 and on the information in the parts of the contents section and we consider the implications for our Directors Remuneration Report presented in the Annual report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements Reports and Financial Statements 2005 the Remuneration or material inconsistencies with the consolidated financial Report included in the individual parent company annual statements.
report that are described as having been audited.
Basis of audit opinion This report is made solely to the companys members, as a We conducted our audit in accordance with International body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test state to the companys members those matters we are basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures required to state to them in an auditors report and for no in the financial statements.
It also includes an assessment other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do of the significant estimates and judgements made by the not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the directors in the preparation of the consolidated financial company and the companys members as a body, for our audit statements, and of whether the accounting policies are work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
appropriate to the companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As described in the statement of directors responsibilities, We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the the companys directors are responsible for preparing the information and explanations which we considered necessary consolidated financial statements in accordance with in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give applicable United Kingdom law and International Financial reasonable assurance that the consolidated financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted for use in the statements are free from material misstatement, whether European Union.
caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the Our responsibility is to audit the consolidated financial presentation of information in the consolidated financial statements in accordance with relevant United Kingdom statements.
legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Opinion In our opinion: We report to you our opinion as to whether the consolidated the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair financial statements give a true and fair view in accordance view in accordance with IFRS, as adopted for use in the with the relevant framework and whether the consolidated European Union, of the state of the groups affairs as financial statements have been properly prepared in at 31 December 2005 and of its profit for the year then accordance with the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985 ended: and and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation of European Union law.
We report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is the consolidated financial statements have been properly not consistent with the consolidated financial statements.
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and We also report to you if the company has not kept proper Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, Deloitte & Touche LLP or if information specified by law regarding directors Chartered Accountants and remuneration and transactions with the company and Registered Auditors other members of the group is not disclosed.
