159711 Reed Report 103-142 7 3 06 12:05 Page 138 138 Reed Elsevier NV Independent auditors report on the consolidated financial statements to the shareholders of Reed Elsevier NV Introduction We have audited the consolidated financial statements, which are part of the financial statements of Reed Elsevier NV, Amsterdam, for the year ended 31 December 2005 the consolidated financial statements as set out on pages 126 to 137.
These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the companys management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audit.
We have reported separately on the individual parent company financial statements of Reed Elsevier NV for the year ended 31 December 2005.
Scope We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the Netherlands.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement.
An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements.
An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements.
We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Opinion In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the company as at 31 December 2005 and of the result and the cashflows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union and also comply with the financial reporting requirements included in Book 2 Title 9 of the Netherlands Civil Code as far as applicable.
Furthermore we have established to the extent possible that the other information contained in the Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2005 is consistent with the consolidated financial statements.
Deloitte Accountants B. V. J P M Hopmans Amsterdam The Netherlands 15 February 2006 Additional information As set out in the notes to the consolidated and parent company financial statements, on 14 February 2006 Reed Elsevier Group plc declared a dividend payable to Reed Elsevier NV of a218m.
