58 59 Regus Report & Accounts 2005 Regus Report & Accounts 2005 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 29 RESTATEMENT OF FINANCIAL INFORMATION FOR 2004 UNDER IFRS CONTINUED 29 RESTATEMENT OF FINANCIAL INFORMATION FOR 2004 UNDER IFRS CONTINUED b Equity 2.4 UK associate The Group will continue to apply the equity method of accounting for its UK associate.
31 Dec 2004 1 Jan 2004 notes m m Equity reported under UK GAAP 109.0 1.9 Changes to Group accounting policies, in particular lease accounting, when applied to the UK associate have the effect of increasing the reported Lease accounting 2.1 5.9 8.7 loss of the UK associate and reducing net assets.
The impact on the Group is to increase the share of the net loss in 2004 by 0.8 million and to Goodwill and intangible assets 2.3 1.7 reduce the carrying value of the UK associate in the transition balance sheet by 9.4 million.
Share of net liabilities of UK associate 2.4 10.2 9.4 Deferred revenue franchise fees 2.6 0.8 0.8 2.5 Tax Holiday pay 2.7 0.1 0.1 Tax on an IFRS basis is restated to exclude tax attributable to the UK associate.
The respective tax is now included within Share of result of associate.
On an IFRS basis the tax credit for the year ended 31 December 2004 was 2.6 million compared with 2.9 million on a UK GAAP basis.
Net assets liabilities on an IFRS basis 93.7 17.1 Due to the uncertainty of recovering tax losses the Group has not recognised the related deferred tax assets on either a UK GAAP or IFRS basis.
c Cash ow None of the IFRS conversion adjustments result in a change in the position with regard to the recoverability of these losses and consequently there is no adjustment to the tax credit for the year.
Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2004 1 Jan 2004 IFRS UK GAAP 2.6 Deferred revenue franchise fees notes m m Under UK GAAP, franchise fees are recognised as income in the period received.
IFRS requires franchise fees charged for the use of continuing Net cash out ows from operating activities 2.8 11.7 6.8 rights granted by the agreement, or for other services provided during the period of the agreement to be recognised as revenue as the services are Tax and returns on investment and nancing activity 2.9 3.2 provided or the rights used.
The income recognised prior to 1 January 2004, which under IFRS is spread over the period of the franchise contract, Cash out ows from investing activities 3.0 165.9 167.6 amounted to 0.8 million and is unchanged at 31 December 2004.
Cash in ows from nancing activities 3.1 171.4 165.0 Decrease in cash and cash equivalents 3.2 6.2 12.6 2.7 Holiday pay UK GAAP does not require the recognition of a holiday accrual for unpaid holiday carried over a period end.
An accrual is only recognised where a 2 Notes on restatement liability to pay employees for holiday earned exists at the balance sheet date.
2.1 Lease accounting Under IFRS, full provision is made for paid leave accrued by employees and therefore an accrual of 0.1 million has been established in the opening The following differences were identi ed between UK GAAP and IFRS: balance sheet.
There has been no movement in this accrual subsequent to the transition balance sheet.
a During the Groups Chapter 11 process a number of lease contracts were renegotiated to a more favourable cost.
Under UK GAAP, rent accruals 2.8 Net cash out ows from operating activities were released to the pro t and loss account when negotiations were completed.
In contrast, IFRS requires rent accruals to be spread over the Under IFRS net cash ows from operating activities include interest paid on finance leases of 0.5 million, interest paid on credit facilities of 2.8 remaining lease term and consequently an adjustment has been made to reinstate these accruals in the transition balance sheet and recognise million and tax paid of 1.6 million.
them over the lease term with a favourable impact to centre pro tability.
2.9 Tax and returns on investment and nancing activity b Under UK GAAP, minimum lease payments net of lease incentives are spread on a straight line basis over the shorter of the period to the first Under UK GAAP tax and returns on investments and nancing activity are separately disclosed in the cash ow statement.
Under IFRS tax paid, contractual break point or the first market rent review date.
IFRS requires that, minimum lease payments be assessed over the period to the first interest paid on finance leases and interest paid on credit facilities is included in net cash ows from operating activities.
Interest received is contractual break point only.
As a result of this change, certain operating lease incentives are spread over a longer period and additional rental included in cash out ows from investing activities.
periods are brought into the assessment of minimum lease payments.
Consequently an adjustment has been made to increase the rent accrual in the transition balance sheet.
3.0 Cash out ows from investing activities Under UK GAAP interest received of 1.7 million is classi ed separately under nancing activities.
Under IFRS interest received is included in cash c Under UK GAAP the Group made an accrual for rental costs which are dependent on centre performance e. g. turnover or pro tability based on out ows from investing activities.
the best estimate of the future liability by spreading the expected cost over the lease term.
Under IFRS accruals are only made for contingent rents in the period in which they arise.
Consequently, an adjustment has been made to release accruals in the transition balance sheet relating to 3.1 Cash in ows from nancing activities rentals that were anticipated but were not contractually due at that date.
Under UK GAAP liquid resources of 6.4 million are included within cash in ows from nancing activities.
Under IFRS liquid resources are not included in this category.
The total impact of the adjustments described above is to instate an accrual of 8.7 million in the transition balance sheet and to reduce the charge for rent costs in 2004 by 2.8 million.
3.2 Movement in cash and cash equivalents Under UK GAAP liquid resources of 6.4 million were shown separately as a movement in the cash ow statement.
Under IFRS this balance is in- 2.2 Share options cluded within the fide nition of cash and cash equivalents.
In accordance with IFRS 2 and the transitional exemption permitted by IFRS 1, the Group has recognised a charge of 0.2 million re ecting the fair value of outstanding share options granted to employees since 7 November 2002.
The fair value has been calculated using a Black Scholes valuation model and is charged to income statement over the vesting period of the options.
2.3 Goodwill and intangible assets There are two adjustments arising in relation to the acquisition of HQ, which effect the carrying value and amortisation of goodwill and intangible assets.
a IFRS 3 prohibits the amortisation of goodwill but requires an impairment test to be carried out on an annual basis.
Consequently the UK GAAP amortisation charge of 2.0 million has been reversed.
b IFRS requires certain intangible assets to be recognised separately when it is capable of being separated from the business or arises from contractual or other legal rights.
Accordingly, an intangible asset of 2.0 million representing the value of the customer list acquired with HQ has been separately recognised.
This is being amortised over a period of two years resulting in a 2004 charge of 0.3 million.
