AR 2005. qxd 2 8 05 11:53 am Page 19 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES Company law requires the directors to prepare financial explained in the financial statements: statements for each financial year which give a true and fair prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis view of the state of affairs of the company and the group and unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group will of the profit or loss for that period.
In preparing those financial continue in business.
statements, the directors are required to:- The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting select suitable accounting policies and then apply records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the them consistently: financial position of the company and to enable them to ensure make judgements and estimates that are reasonable that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act and prudent: 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the state whether applicable accounting standards have been group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS TO THE MEMBERS OF RENISHAW PLC We have audited the financial statements on pages 20 to 35. including the corporate governance statement and the unaudited We have also audited the information in the Directors part of the Directors remuneration report and consider whether it remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any This report is made solely to the Companys members, as apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act financial statements.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required Basis of audit opinion to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Directors remuneration report.
As described above, this circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
includes responsibility for preparing the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the standards.
Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, are information and explanations which we considered necessary in established in the United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Authority and by our professions ethical guidance.
Directors remuneration report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration to be audited are properly prepared in accordance with the report to be audited.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if Opinion the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have In our opinion: not received all the information and explanations we require for the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors affairs of the Company and the Group as at 30th June 2005 remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended: and We review whether the corporate governance statement on page 17 the financial statements and the part of the Directors reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the remuneration report to be audited have been properly 2003 FRC Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules and we prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or KPMG Audit Plc Marlborough House form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate Chartered Accountants Fitzalan Court governance procedures, or its risk and control procedures.
Registered Auditor Cardiff We read the other information contained in the Annual report, 28th July 2005 CF24 0TE 19
