32 Report of the independent auditors Report to the shareholders of The Restaurant Group plc We have audited the Group and parent company financial statements the financial statements of The Restaurant Group plc for the year ended 1 January 2006 which comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated and parent company balance sheets, the consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated statement of changes in shareholders equity and the related notes.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and for preparing the parent company financial statements and the Directors remuneration report in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and whether, in addition, the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Report of the Directors is not consistent with the financial statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Report of the Directors including the corporate governance statement, the unaudited part of the Directors remuneration report, the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executive Officers review of operations, the Group Finance Directors review, the financial highlights and the Group financial record.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Our report has been prepared pursuant to the requirements of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
No person is entitled to rely on this report unless such a person is a person entitled to rely upon this report by virtue of and for the purpose of the Companies Act 1985 or has been expressly authorised to do so by our prior written consent.
Save as above, we do not accept responsibility for this report to any other person or for any other purpose and we hereby expressly disclaim any and all such liability.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2005 33 Opinion In our opinion: the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the groups affairs as at 1 January 2006 and of its profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the parent companys affairs as at 1 January 2006: and the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
BDO Stoy Hayward LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London 11 April 2006 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2005
