qxd 15 3 06 07:58 Page 108 108 Statement of  In respect of the Annual report and the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report and the Group and for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK parent company financial statements, in accordance with applicable law and Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material regulations.
departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and parent company statements: and financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors are prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will adopted by the EU and have elected to prepare the parent company financial continue in business.
statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRSs as adopted by with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent the EU to present fairly the financial position and performance of the Group: the company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements that the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The parent company financial statements are required by law to give a true Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent company.
preparing a directorsreport,  report and corporate In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements, governance statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
the directors are required to: The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: Independent auditorsreport To the members of Rolls-Royce Group plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Rolls-Royce Group plc for the report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards year ended December 31, 2005 which comprise the Group consolidated income statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on statement, the Group consolidated balance sheet, the Group consolidated cash the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and ow statement, the Group consolidated statement of recognised income and control procedures.
expense and the related notes.
These Group financial statements have been We read other information contained in the Annual report and consider prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
We consider We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent Rolls-Royce Group plc for the year ended December 31, 2005 and on the misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
information in the  report that is described as having been Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in Basis of audit opinion accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume in the Group financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the Group as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and The  for preparing the Annual report and the Group explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU are set out in the statement of statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other  on this page.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance of the presentation of information in the Group financial statements.
with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Opinion We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements In our opinion: give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial statements have been the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of the Groups affairs as at the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directorsreport is December 31, 2005 and of its profit for the year then ended: and not consistent with the Group financial statements, if we have not received all the the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
by law regarding  and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reects the Companys KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants, Registered Auditor compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified London for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we February 8, 2006 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2005
