qxd 15 3 06 07:59 Page 113 113 Independent auditorsreport To the members of Rolls-Royce Group plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of Rolls-Royce Basis of audit opinion Group plc for the year ended December 31, 2005 which comprise the balance We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing sheet and the related notes.
These parent company financial statements have UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures audited the information in the  report that is described as in the parent company financial statements and the part of the directors having been audited.
remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of Rolls-Royce Group plc for the year ended December 31, 2005. the parent company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has adequately disclosed.
been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent company responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members financial statements and the part of the  report to be as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors of the presentation of information in the parent company financial statements The  for preparing the Annual report, the directors and the part of the  report to be audited.
remuneration report and the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted Opinion Accounting Practice are set out in the statement of  on In our opinion: page 108. the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements and accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the part of the  report to be audited in accordance with the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2005: and relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on the parent company financial statements and the part of the directors Auditing UK and Ireland.
remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial accordance with the Companies Act 1985. statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent company financial statements and the part of the  report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directorsreport is not consistent with the KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants, Registered Auditor parent company financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper London accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations February 8, 2006 we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2005
