Independent Auditors Report Rotork 33 to the Members of Rotork p. l. c. Annual Report 2005 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ROTORK p. l. c. We have audited the Group and parent We report to you our opinion as to whether the significant estimates and judgments made company financial statements the financial the financial statements give a true and fair by the directors in the preparation of the statements of Rotork p. l. c. for the year view and whether the financial statements financial statements, and of whether the ended 31 December 2005 which comprise and the part of the Directors Remuneration accounting policies are appropriate to the the Consolidated Income Statement, the Report to be audited have been properly groups and companys circumstances, Consolidated and Parent Company Balance prepared in accordance with the Companies consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Sheets, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Act 1985 and whether, in addition, the group Flows, the Consolidated Statement of financial statements have been properly We planned and performed our audit so as Recognised Income and Expense and the prepared in accordance with Article 4 of the to obtain all the information and explanations related notes.
These financial statements IAS Regulation.
We also report to you if, in which we considered necessary in order to have been prepared under the accounting our opinion, the Directors Report is not provide us with sufficient evidence to give policies set out therein.
We have also audited consistent with the financial statements, if reasonable assurance that the financial the information in the Directors the company has not kept proper accounting statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as records, if we have not received all the Remuneration Report to be audited are free having been audited.
information and explanations we require for from material misstatement, whether caused our audit, or if information specified by law by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In This report is made solely to the companys regarding directors remuneration and other forming our opinion we also evaluated the members, as a body, in accordance with transactions is not disclosed.
overall adequacy of the presentation of section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our information in the financial statements and audit work has been undertaken so that we We review whether the Corporate the part of the Directors Remuneration might state to the companys members those Governance Statement reflects the companys Report to be audited.
matters we are required to state to them in an compliance with the nine provisions of the auditors report and for no other purpose.
To 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our Opinion the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not review by the Listing Rules of the Financial In our opinion: accept or assume responsibility to anyone other Services Authority, and we report if it does than the company and the companys members not.
We are not required to consider whether the group financial statements give a true as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or the Boards statements on internal control and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as for the opinions we have formed.
cover all risks and controls, or form an adopted by the EU, of the state of the opinion on the effectiveness of the groups groups affairs as at 31 December 2005 Respective responsibilities of corporate governance procedures or its risk and of its profit for the year then ended: directors and auditors and control procedures.
the group financial statements have been The directors responsibilities for preparing properly prepared in accordance with the the Annual Report and Accounts and the We read other information contained in the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the group financial statements in accordance Annual Report and Accounts and consider IAS Regulation: with applicable law and International whether it is consistent with the audited the parent company financial statements Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as financial statements.
We consider the give a true and fair view, in accordance adopted by the EU, and for preparing the implications for our report if we become with UK Generally Accepted Accounting parent company financial statements and the aware of any apparent misstatements or Practice, of the state of the parent Directors Remuneration Report in accordance material inconsistencies with the financial companys affairs as at 31 December with applicable law and UK Accounting statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend 2005: and Standards UK Generally Accepted to any other information.
the parent company financial statements Accounting Practice are set out in the and the part of the Directors Statement of Directors Responsibilities on Basis of audit opinion Remuneration Report to be audited have pages 19 and 20.
We conducted our audit in accordance with been properly prepared in accordance International Standards on Auditing UK and with the Companies Act 1985.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
statements and the part of the Directors An audit includes examination, on a test basis, KPMG Audit Plc Remuneration Report to be audited in of evidence relevant to the amounts and Chartered Accountants accordance with relevant legal and regulatory disclosures in the financial statements and the Registered Auditor requirements and International Standards on part of the Directors Remuneration Report to Bristol Auditing UK and Ireland.
It also includes an assessment of 27 February 2006
