Independent auditors report to the members of SABMiller plc We have audited the financial statements information and explanations we require for Opinion which comprise the profit and loss account, our audit, or if information specified by law In our opinion the financial statements give a the balance sheet, the cash ow statement, regarding directors remuneration and true and fair view of the state of affairs of the the statement of total recognised gains and transactions is not disclosed.
company and the group at 31 March 2005 losses, the reconciliation of movements in We read the other information contained and the profit and cash ows of the group for shareholders funds and the related notes in the annual report as described in the the year then ended: the financial statements which have been prepared under the contents, including the unaudited part of have been properly prepared in accordance historical cost convention and the accounting the remuneration report, and consider the with the Companies Act, 1985: and those policies set out in the statement of implications for our report if we become parts of the directors remuneration report accounting policies.
We have also audited aware of any apparent misstatements required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the the disclosures required by Part 3 of or material inconsistencies with the Companies Act, 1985 have been properly Schedule 7A to the Companies Act, 1985 financial statements.
prepared in accordance with the Companies contained in the directors remuneration We review whether the corporate Act, 1985. report the auditable part.
governance statement reects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Respective responsibilities of directors 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our and auditors review by the Listing Rules of the Financial The directors responsibilities for preparing Services Authority, and we report if it does Chartered accountants and the annual report and the financial statements not.
We are not required to consider whether registered auditors in accordance with applicable United Kingdom the boards statements on internal control London law and accounting standards are set out in cover all risks and controls, or to form an 6 June 2005 the statement of directors responsibilities.
opinion on the effectiveness of the companys The directors are also responsible for or groups corporate governance procedures preparing the directors remuneration report.
or its risk and control procedures.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable part of the Basis of audit opinion directors remuneration report in accordance We conducted our audit in accordance with with relevant legal and regulatory auditing standards issued by the Auditing requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes Standards issued by the Auditing Practices examination, on a test basis, of evidence Board.
This report, including the opinion, relevant to the amounts and disclosures in has been prepared for and only for the the financial statements and the auditable companys members as a body in part of the directors remuneration report.
accordance with Section 235 of the It also includes an assessment of the Companies Act, 1985 and for no other significant estimates and judgements made purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, by the directors in the preparation of the accept or assume responsibility for any other financial statements, and of whether the purpose or to any other person to whom this accounting policies are appropriate to the report is shown or into whose hands it may companys circumstances, consistently come, save where expressly agreed by our applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit We report to you our opinion as to so as to obtain all the information and whether the financial statements give a true explanations which we considered necessary and fair view and whether the financial in order to provide us with sufficient evidence statements and the auditable part of the to give reasonable assurance that the directors remuneration report have been financial statements and the auditable part properly prepared in accordance with the of the directors remuneration report are Companies Act, 1985.
We also report to you free from material misstatement, whether if, in our opinion, the directors report is not caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
consistent with the financial statements, if the In forming our opinion we also evaluated the company has not kept proper accounting overall adequacy of the presentation of records, if we have not received all the information in the financial statements.
