Independent auditors report Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test Independent auditors report to the members of The Sage basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial Group plc statements and the auditable part of the Remuneration Report.
It also We have audited the financial statements which comprise the Consolidated includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made Profit and Loss Account, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Company by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Company's Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses, the Reconciliation of circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Movements in Equity Shareholders Funds and the related notes which have We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information been prepared under the historical cost convention and the accounting and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us policies set out in the statement of accounting policies.
We have also audited with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act statements and the auditable part of the Remuneration Report are free from 1985 contained in the Remuneration Report the auditable part.
material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors presentation of information in the financial statements and the auditable part The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the of the Remuneration Report.
financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the statement of directors Opinion responsibilities.
The directors are also responsible for preparing the In our opinion: Remuneration Report.
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable part the Company and the Group at 30 September 2005 and of the profit and of the Remuneration Report in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory cash flows of the Group for the year then ended: requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance the Companies Act 1985: and with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
those parts of the Remuneration Report required by Part 3 of Schedule We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly prepared in other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into accordance with the Companies Act 1985. whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Note: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a a The maintenance and integrity of the The Sage Group plc corporate website is the true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the auditable responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve part of the Remuneration Report have been properly prepared in consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements opinion, the Directors' Report is not consistent with the financial statements, since they were initially presented on the website.
if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of information specified by law regarding directors' remuneration and financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
We read the other information contained in the annual report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
 LLP The other information comprises only the Chairmans Statement, Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors the Chief Executives Review, the Corporate Social Responsibility Newcastle upon Tyne Statement, the Financial Review, the Directors Report, the Corporate 11 January 2006 Governance Statement and the unaudited part of the Remuneration Report.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys or Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
