Financial Review net assets of 16 million is reflected in a reduction in retained Off Balance Sheet earnings under IFRS of 17 million and an increased hedge 15 Arrangements reserve of 33 million.
Based on the groups treasury derivatives portfolio at 1 April The group has not entered into any transactions or 2005 and designated hedge accounting relationships, a 100 basis arrangements which have given rise to off balance sheet point movement in interest rate forward price curves would obligations other than in respect of the following: result in a pre-tax fair value movement of 22 million, of which 4 million would be reported through the income statement.
A Operating Leases 10% movement in foreign exchange forward price curves would The group has entered into various operating leases.
In result in a pre-tax fair value movement of 117 million, of which accordance with UK GAAP, future payments under these 27 million would be reported through the income statement.
leases, amounting to 140.7 million at 31 March 2005 March 2004: 69.9 million, are not recognised as liabilities in the Available-for-sale Investments groups balance sheet.
In addition to financial instruments the group has various investments which were previously recorded at cost in the UK Derivative Contracts GAAP financial statements.
Where these interests in other The group has entered into various energy-related and treasury investments meet the definition of available-for-sale assets, IAS 39 derivative contracts, primarily for hedging purposes.
In requires that these be carried at fair value on the balance sheet, accordance with UK GAAP, the value of derivatives held for with any change in value being taken through equity.
This is hedging purposes are only recognised when the hedged item is consistent with the US GAAP treatment of these investments.
This contrasts with US GAAP, which requires that at 1 April 2005, this would have reduced net assets by 2 million.
derivatives, as defined in the relevant US accounting standards, are reflected as assets or liabilities at their fair values at the Summary of IAS 32 Impact balance sheet date.
An analysis of the groups derivatives, as defined under US GAAP, is set out in the Fair Value of Minority Interests Derivative Contracts section on page 57.
Minority interests previously classified under UK GAAP as nonequity have been reclassified as liabilities under IAS 32.
As at 1 Guarantees April 2005, this would have reduced net assets by 53 million, In the course of its ordinary business, the group has provided and increased net debt by the same amount.
certain guarantees of its own performance.
These guarantees are not expected to have a material impact on the groups financial Summary of Combined IAS 32 and IAS 39 Impact position.
In addition, in accordance with common practice, the group has provided guarantees of the performance of certain The combined incremental effect of the implementation of IAS businesses and assets, which have been disposed of.
The 32 and IAS 39 on the groups balance sheet at 1 April 2005, amounts guaranteed under these arrangements are significant in based on the portfolio of contracts in place at this date, was an absolute value but the probability of these guarantees increase in net assets of 213 million, net of deferred tax of 91 crystallising and resulting in a material change in the groups million, and an increase to net debt of 53 million.
The group has also entered into other arrangements in the normal course of business, which Impact on Effective Tax Rate may crystallise as a result of events other than the groups nonperformance of its contractual obligations.
The probability of The application of IAS 39 and the differing tax rates between the these guarantees giving rise to a material change in the groups UK and the US, means that the effective tax rate, and resultant financial position is remote.
Further details of these guarantees current deferred tax split, will be impacted by the relative fair are provided in Note 34 to the Group Accounts.
value movements arising across the groups UK and US operations and any current or deferred tax on fair value movements deferred in the hedge reserve.
70 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 UK GAAP to US GAAP 16 Reconciliation 17 Summary The groups Accounts are prepared in accordance with UK In the year, investment, business performance and our hedging GAAP, which differs in significant respects from US GAAP.
strategy all contributed to delivering pre-tax profit, excluding Reconciliations of profit and equity shareholders funds between goodwill amortisation and the exceptional item, of over 1 UK GAAP and US GAAP are set out in Note 34 to the Group billion for the first time.
This performance has been reflected Accounts.
Under US GAAP, the loss for the year ended 31 in the dividends for the full year, which have increased by 10% March 2005 was 495 million, compared to a profit of 742 to 22.50 pence.
Further to a strategic review of PacifiCorp, the million in the previous year, before charging a cumulative Board concluded that shareholders interests were best served adjustment for the effect of adopting FAS 143, net of tax, of 0.6 by a sale of PacifiCorp and the return of capital to million.
The loss per share under US GAAP was 27.02 pence shareholders.
An exceptional goodwill impairment charge of per share compared to earnings per share, before the 927 million was made to reduce the book value of PacifiCorp cumulative adjustment for FAS 143, of 40.57 pence per share in down to its expected net realisable value.
The loss per share under US GAAP was 27.02 pence Reporting under IFRS has been successfully implemented per share compared to earnings per share in 2003 04 of 40.54 at 1 April 2005 and we will report our first set of results on this pence.
Equity shareholders funds under US GAAP amounted basis in August 2005. to 4,794 million at 31 March 2005 compared to 5,730 million As we move forward our focus is on the continuing growth at 31 March 2004. and development of the Infrastructure Division, UK Division In addition to the review of the goodwill allocated to the and PPM Energy.
PacifiCorp reporting segment under UK GAAP, the group performed a similar review under US GAAP and, as a result, a goodwill impairment charge of 1,381 million has been recorded in the PacifiCorp segment under US GAAP.
The higher charge is principally due to the higher carrying value of the net assets of PacifiCorp under US GAAP compared to UK David Nish Finance Director GAAP.
This difference is primarily attributable to the 24 May 2005 recognition of regulatory assets, FAS 133 and lower cumulative amortisation of goodwill under US GAAP.
Non-GAAP performance measure see Cautionary Statement Regarding Non-GAAP Financial Information on page 72 71 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 Financial Review comparisons between the financial results of our business and Cautionary Statement other companies.
Nonetheless, ScottishPower recognises that Regarding Non-GAAP presenting performance measures which exclude goodwill 18 Financial Information amortisation and the exceptional item is additional disclosure ScottishPower management believes that the non-GAAP to that required under UK GAAP.
Furthermore, ScottishPower measures used by ScottishPower in the periods presented, recognises that such non-GAAP performance measures should when used in conjunction with other measures that are not be viewed as replacements for, or alternatives to, computed in accordance with UK GAAP, provide useful comparable GAAP measures, rather they should be considered information to both management and investors and enhance as supplementary measures of ScottishPowers operating an understanding of ScottishPowers reported results.
In addition, the non-GAAP measures used by prominence is given to performance measures including and ScottishPower may differ from, and not be comparable to, excluding goodwill amortisation and the exceptional item similarly-titled measures used by other companies.
within the discussion included in this Annual Report & As ScottishPower management considers goodwill Accounts, ScottishPower management does not consider the amortisation to be material and non-operational in nature and inclusion of non-GAAP measures specifically relating to the the exceptional item to be material and non-recurring in exclusion of goodwill and the exceptional item or the presentation nature, it excludes these items from the primary financial of EBITDA, disadvantages or materially constrains a readers indicators it uses for internal management reporting, ability to assess ScottishPowers performance or liquidity.
forecasting, budgeting and planning purposes.
In addition, the non-GAAP performance measures included herein are Exclusion of Goodwill Amortisation and the Exceptional Item consistent with measures used to determine group dividend ScottishPower management assesses the underlying policy and to reward and incentivise senior management.
performance of its businesses by adjusting UK GAAP statutory ScottishPower has historically reported these non-GAAP results to exclude items it considers to be non-operational or performance measures to the investment community and non-recurring in nature.
In the periods presented, goodwill believes that their inclusion provides consistency in its amortisation has been excluded because it is a recurring, nonfinancial reporting.
Looking forward, implementation of IFRS operational item and the exceptional goodwill impairment 3, discussed in Section 14, will prohibit the amortisation of charge has been excluded because it is a non-recurring item.
goodwill and instead will require an impairment test to be ScottishPower management assesses the performance of its performed on at least an annual basis.
This will remove the business excluding these items, enabling management to focus goodwill amortisation charge currently reported as part of the on the operational performance of the business.
Therefore, to groups Profit and Loss Account.
provide more meaningful information, ScottishPower has focused its discussion of business performance on the results Presentation of EBITDA and EBITDA excluding the Exceptional Item excluding goodwill amortisation and the exceptional item.
In the Management and external credit rating agencies also utilise a particular circumstances of the current financial year and the number of financial ratios when assessing the performance of previous two financial years, the charge recognised for ScottishPower and the groups financing arrangements are also goodwill amortisation has remained broadly similar and, subject to a number of ratio-based covenants contained within therefore, would not have significantly impacted year-on-year its principal credit agreements, one of which is EBITDA, comparison of financial performance.
The exceptional goodwill excluding the exceptional item.
EBITDA and EBITDA, impairment charge is a prominent non-recurring item and, excluding the exceptional item, are non-GAAP liquidity given its materiality, has been separately disclosed within the measures, and, as such, should not be viewed as replacements groups Profit and Loss Account, under UK GAAP.
for, or alternatives to, comparable GAAP measures: rather they Goodwill amortisation is a financially material item within should be considered as supplementary measures of ScottishPowers Accounts and is not common to all UK ScottishPowers liquidity position and may not be comparable registered companies.
The exceptional item is material and to similarly-titled measures used by other companies.
non-recurring as no impairment of goodwill has occurred in the last two years and there is no expectation of a further exceptional impairment charge for goodwill in the next two years.
UK analysts and the business community in general regularly exclude goodwill amortisation and exceptional items when assessing and forecasting the results of UK companies.
Presenting ScottishPowers results both including and excluding these non-operational and non-recurring items, ensures investors are in a position to make fair and equitable 72 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05
