Independent auditors report Independent Auditors Report to the framework and whether the Group financial Members of Serco Group plc statements and the part of the directors We have audited the Group financial statements of remuneration report described as having been Serco Group plc for the year ended 31 December audited have been properly prepared in 2005 which comprise the consolidated income accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and statement, consolidated statement of recognised Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We report to you if, income and expense, consolidated balance sheet, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent consolidated cash flow statement and the related with the Group financial statements.
We also report notes on pages 71 to 125. to you if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if These Group financial statements have been information specified by law regarding directors prepared under the accounting policies set out transactions with the Company and other members therein.
We have also audited the information in the of the Group is not disclosed.
directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not complied with any of the four We have reported separately on the individual directors remuneration disclosure requirements Company financial statements of Serco Group plc specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the for the year ended 31 December 2005.
These comprise the amount of each element in the remuneration This report is made solely to the Companys package and information on share options, details members, as a body, in accordance with section of long term incentive schemes, and money 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work purchase and defined benefit schemes.
We give a has been undertaken so that we might state to the statement, to the extent possible, of details of any Companys members those matters we are non-compliance.
required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted We review whether the corporate governance by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility statement reflects the Companys compliance with to anyone other than the Company and the the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Companys members as a body, for our audit work, Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether Respective responsibilities of directors and the boards statement on internal control covers all auditors risks and controls, or form an opinion on the The directors responsibilities for preparing the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance annual report, the directors remuneration report procedures or its risk and control procedures.
and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial We read the directors report and the other Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use in information contained in the annual report for the the European Union are set out in the statement of above year as described in the contents section directors responsibilities.
including the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report and we consider the Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial implications for our report if we become aware of statements and the part of the directors any apparent misstatements or material remuneration report described as having been inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and International Basis of audit opinion Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and We report to you our opinion as to whether the Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Group financial statements give a true and fair view An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of in accordance with the relevant financial reporting evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures www.
com 69 Independent auditors report in the Group financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2005 and of its profit for the year then ended: and the Group financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London 1 March 2006 70 Annual review and accounts 2005
