6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 46 Independent auditors report to the members of Shire plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Shire plc for the year We read the Directors Report and the other information contained ended December 31, 2005 which comprise the consolidated income in the annual report for the above year as described in the contents statement, the consolidated statement of recognised income and section including the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration expense, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated cash Report and we consider the implications for our report if we become flow statement, and the related Notes 1 to 40.
These Group financial aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set the Group financial statements.
We have also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards We have reported separately on the individual company financial on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
statements of Shire plc for the year ended December 31, 2005.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit having been audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors the Group financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the adequately disclosed.
Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report Directors Remuneration Report and the Group financial statements described as having been audited are free from material misstatement, in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and International whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted for use in the European opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation Union, are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
of information in the Group financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having Opinion been audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and In our opinion: regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union, We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial of the state of the Groups affairs as at December 31, 2005 and statements give a true and fair view in accordance with the relevant of its loss for the year then ended: and financial reporting framework and whether the Group financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report the Group financial statements and the part of the Directors described as having been audited have been properly prepared in Remuneration Report described as having been audited have accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Regulation.
We report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
not consistent with the Group financial statements.
We also report to you if we have not received all the information and explanations we Deloitte & Touche LLP require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Directors remuneration and transactions with the Company and Reading, UK other members of the Group is not disclosed.
March 22, 2006 We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not complied with any of the four directors remuneration disclosure requirements specified by our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
These comprise the amount of each element in the remuneration package and information on share options, details of long term incentive schemes and money purchase and defined benefit schemes.
We give a statement, to the extent possible, of details of any non-compliance.
Notes: An audit does not provide assurance on the maintenance and integrity We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects of the website, including controls used to achieve this, and in particular the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC on whether any changes may have occurred to the financial statements Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the since first published.
These matters are the responsibility of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not Directors but no control procedures can provide absolute assurance in required to consider whether the Boards statement on internal control this area.
covers all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and procedures.
dissemination of financial statements differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
46 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc
