Independent Annual Report and Accounts 2005 auditors report Independent auditors report to the members of Associated British Foods plc We have audited the financial statements We review whether the corporate governance of information in the financial statements and on pages 48 to 78.
We have also audited the statement on pages 34 to 39 reflects the part of the directors remuneration report information in the directors remuneration the companys compliance with the nine to be audited.
report that is described as having been audited.
provisions of the 2003 FRC Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we Opinion This report is made solely to the companys report if it does not.
We are not required to In our opinion: members, as a body, in accordance with consider whether the boards statements on Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. internal control cover all risks and controls, the financial statements give a true Our audit work has been undertaken so or form an opinion on the effectiveness of and fair view of the state of affairs that we might state to the companys the groups corporate governance procedures of the company and the group as at members those matters we are required or its risk and control procedures.
17 September 2005 and of the profit to state to them in an auditors report and of the group for the year then ended: and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent We read the other information contained permitted by law, we do not accept or in the annual report, including the corporate the financial statements and the part of assume responsibility to anyone other governance statement and the unaudited part the directors remuneration report to be than the company and the companys of the directors remuneration report, and audited have been properly prepared in members as a body, for our audit work, consider whether it is consistent with the accordance with the Companies Act 1985. for this report, or for the opinions we audited financial statements.
the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent mis-statements Respective responsibilities of directors or material inconsistencies within the KPMG Audit Plc 47 and auditors financial statements.
Chartered Accountants The directors are responsible for preparing Registered Auditor the annual report and the directors Basis of audit opinion 8 Salisbury Square remuneration report.
As described on page 46, We conducted our audit in accordance with London this includes responsibility for preparing the Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing EC4Y 8BB financial statements in accordance with Practices Board.
An audit includes applicable UK law and accounting standards.
examination, on a test basis, of evidence 8 November 2005 Our responsibilities, as independent auditor, relevant to the amounts and disclosures in are established in the UK by statute, the the financial statements and the part of the Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules directors remuneration report to be audited.
of the Financial Services Authority, and It also includes an assessment of the by our professions ethical guidance.
significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the We report to you our opinion as to financial statements, and of whether the whether the financial statements give a accounting policies are appropriate to the true and fair view and whether the financial groups circumstances, consistently applied statements and the part of the directors and adequately disclosed.
remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with We planned and performed our audit the Companies Act 1985.
We also report so as to obtain all the information and to you if, in our opinion, the directors explanations which we considered necessary report is not consistent with the financial in order to provide us with sufficient evidence statements, if the company has not kept to give reasonable assurance that the proper accounting records, if we have not financial statements and the part of the received all the information and explanations directors remuneration report to be audited we require for our audit, or if information are free from material mis-statement, whether specified by law regarding directors caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
remuneration and transactions with the In forming our opinion we also evaluated group is not disclosed.
the overall adequacy of the presentation
