qxd 30 03 2006 11:59 Page 107 Independent Auditors Report to the members of SIG plc We have audited the individual Company financial statements of SIG plc for the year ended 31 December 2005 which comprise the balance sheet, the Statement of Significant Accounting Policies and the related Notes 1 to 10.
These individual Company financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
The Corporate Governance Statement and the Directors Remuneration Report are included in the Group annual report of SIG plc for the year ended 31 December 2005.
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of SIG plc for the year ended 31 December 2005 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the individual Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the individual Company financial statements in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the individual Company financial statements give a true and fair view in accordance with the relevant financial reporting framework and whether the individual Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the individual Company financial statements.
We also report to you if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read the Directors Report and the other information contained in the Annual Report for the above year as described in the contents section and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the individual Company financial statements.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the individual Company financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the individual Company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the individual Company financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the individual Company financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion: the individual Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2005: and the individual Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Leeds 8 March 2006 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 107 02 0SIG 2005ARB.
qxd 30 03 2006 11:59 Page 108 Principal Addresses Head Office SIG plc Hillsborough Works, Langsett Road, Sheffield S6 2LW United Kingdom SIG Trading Limited, trading as: Komfort Workspace Orion Trent Sheffield Insulations Whittle Way, Crawley, 4 Atlas Way, Atlas North, Carlisle Street East, CPD Distribution West Sussex RH10 2RW Sheffield S4 7QQ Hillsborough Works, Langsett Road, Sheffield S6 2LW Safety Distribution Unit 1, Britannia Park, Trident Drive, SIG Roofing Supplies Wednesbury, Specialist Construction Products West Midlands WS10 7XB Harding Way, St. Ives, Cambridge PE7 4YJ Miller Pattison Limited Leaderflush Shapland Limited Unit 3 Park Square, Thorncliffe Park, Milnay Road, Langley Mill, Chapeltown, Sheffield S35 2PH Nottingham NG16 4AZ Ireland SIG Building Products Limited Insulation Distributors Limited Mount Tallant Ave, Terenure, Dublin 6W, Unit 15, Parkwest Industrial Estate, Ireland Nangor Road, Dublin 12, Ireland Mainland Europe WeGo Systembaustoffe GmbH & Co. oHG SIG Nederland B. V. Maybachstrasse 14, D63456 Hanau-Steinheim, Bedrijfsweg 15, 5061 JX Oisterwijk, Germany The Netherlands Socit fide lOuest des Produits Isolants SA WKT Polska Sp.
Zone Industrielle B. P. 15, 27460 Alizay, ul.
Wadowicka 8W 14, 30415 Krakow, France Poland USA BWI Group, Inc. SIG-Southwest Inc. 10942 Beaver Dam Road, Hunt Valley, M02130, PO Box 23847, Houston, TX 77 28 3847, USA USA 108 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
