8155 LR Front 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:48 Page 53 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of SkyePharma PLC We have audited the Group and Parent Company financial statements, if the company has not kept financial statements the financial statements proper accounting records, if we have not received all of SkyePharma PLC for the year ended 31 December the information and explanations we require for our 2005 which comprise the Group Income Statement, audit, or if information specified by law regarding the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the directors remuneration and other transactions is Group and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements, not disclosed.
the Group and Parent Company Statement of Recognised Income and Expense and the related We review whether the Corporate Governance notes.
These financial statements have been Statement reflects the companys compliance with prepared under the accounting policies set out the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code therein.
We have also audited the information in specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the the Directors Remuneration Report that is described Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does as having been audited.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual of the groups corporate governance procedures or Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the its risk and control procedures.
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards We read other information contained in the Annual IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out Report and consider whether it is consistent with the in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
The other information comprises only the Corporate and Financial Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements Highlights, the Chairmans Statement, the Review and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report of Operations, the Financial Review, the Directors to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and Report, the Corporate Governance Statement and regulatory requirements and International Standards the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We consider the implications for our report if the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the we become aware of any apparent misstatements or companys members as a body in accordance with material inconsistencies with the financial Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, any other information.
accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown Basis of audit opinion or into whose hands it may come save where We conducted our audit in accordance with expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit We report to you our opinion as to whether the includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence financial statements give a true and fair view and relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the whether the financial statements and the part of the financial statements and the part of the Directors Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes been properly prepared in accordance with the an assessment of the significant estimates and Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS judgments made by the directors in the preparation Regulation.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, of the financial statements, and of whether the the Directors Report is not consistent with the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups SkyePharma Annual Report 2005 53 8155 LR Front 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:48 Page 54 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of SkyePharma PLC continued and companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Going concern We draw your attention to Note 1 of the financial statements which indicates that there is uncertainty as to when certain strategic initiatives may be concluded and their effect on the Groups working capital requirements.
By their nature these matters are material and create uncertainty which may cast significant doubt over the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Our opinion is not qualified in this regard.
Opinion In our opinion: the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 December 2005 and of its loss and cash flows for the year then ended: the Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2005 and cash flows for the year then ended: and the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London 22 May 2006 54 SkyePharma Annual Report 2005
