Governance Associated British Ports Holdings PLC How we behave Independent auditors report to the shareholders of Associated British Ports Holdings PLC We have audited the group and parent We also report to you if, in our opinion, the the financial statements, and of whether company financial statements the directors report is not consistent with the the accounting policies are appropriate to financial statements of Associated financial statements, if the company has not the groups and companys circumstances, British Ports Holdings PLC for the year kept proper accounting records, if we have consistently applied and adequately ended 31 December 2005 which comprise not received all the information and disclosed.
the group income statement, the group explanations we require for our audit, or if and parent company balance sheets, information speci ed by law regarding We planned and performed our audit so as the group and parent company cash ow directors remuneration and other to obtain all the information and explanations statements, and the group and parent transactions is not disclosed.
which we considered necessary in order to company statement of recognised income provide us with suf cient evidence to give and expense and the related notes.
We review whether the corporate reasonable assurance that the financial These financial statements have been governance statement re ects the statements and the part of the directors prepared under the accounting policies companys compliance with the nine remuneration report to be audited are free set out therein.
We have also audited provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined from material misstatement, whether caused the information in the directors Code speci ed for our review by the Listing by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In remuneration report that is described Rules of the Financial Services Authority, forming our opinion we also evaluated the as having been audited.
and we report if it does not.
We are not overall adequacy of the presentation of required to consider whether the boards information in the financial statements and Respective responsibilities of directors statements on internal control cover all the part of the directors remuneration report and auditors risks and controls, or form an opinion on to be audited.
The directors responsibilities for preparing the effectiveness of the groups corporate the annual report, the directors governance procedures or its risk and Opinion remuneration report and the financial control procedures.
In our opinion: statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting We read other information contained in The group financial statements give a Standards IFRS as adopted by the the annual report and consider whether true and fair view, in accordance with European Union are set out in the it is consistent with the audited financial IFRS as adopted by the European Union, statement of directors responsibilities.
The other information of the state of the groups affairs as at comprises only the directors report, the 31 December 2005 and of its pro t and Our responsibility is to audit the financial unaudited part of the directors cash ows for the year then ended statements and the part of the directors remuneration report, the chairmans remuneration report to be audited in statement, the chief executives review The parent company financial statements accordance with relevant legal and of strategy, the operating and financial give a true and fair view, in accordance regulatory requirements and International review and the corporate governance with IFRS as adopted by the European Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We consider the implications Union as applied in accordance with the report, including the opinion, has been for our report if we become aware of any provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of prepared for and only for the companys apparent misstatements or material the state of the parent companys affairs members as a body in accordance with inconsistencies with the financial as at 31 December 2005 and cash ows Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and statements.
Our responsibilities do not for the year then ended for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving extend to any other information.
this opinion, accept or assume responsibility The financial statements and the part of for any other purpose or to any other person Basis of audit opinion the directors remuneration report to be to whom this report is shown or into whose We conducted our audit in accordance audited have been properly prepared in hands it may come save where expressly with International Standards on Auditing accordance with the Companies Act agreed by our prior consent in writing.
UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
An audit includes We report to you our opinion as to whether examination, on a test basis, of evidence the financial statements give a true and fair relevant to the amounts and disclosures in view and whether the financial statements the financial statements and the part of the  LLP and the part of the directors remuneration directors remuneration report to be Chartered Accountants and Registered report to be audited have been properly audited.
It also includes an assessment of Auditors prepared in accordance with the Companies the signi cant estimates and judgments London Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
made by the directors in the preparation of 22 February 2006 105 0 06-1014 ABP Accounts FINAL.
