INDEPENDENT AUDITORS US REPORT Report of Independent RegisteredPublic Accounting Firm to the Board of Directorsand Shareholdersof Smith & Nephewplc We have audited the accompanying Group balance sheets of Smith & Nephew plc as of 31 December 2005, 2004 and 2003 and the related Group income statements, Group statements of recognised income and expense and Group cash flow statements for each of the three years in the period ended 31 December 2005.
These accounts are the responsibility of the Companys management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these accountsbased onouraudits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.
We were not engaged to perform an audit of the Groups internal control over financial reporting.
Our audit included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups internal control over financial reporting.
Accordingly, we express no such opinion.
An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that ouraudits provide a reasonable basis for ouropinion.
In our opinion, the accounts referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Smith & Nephew plc at 31 December 2005, 2004 and 2003, and the consolidated results of its operations and its consolidated cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended 31 December 2005, in conformity with International Financial Reporting Standards adopted by the European Union which differ in certain respects from United States generally accepted accounting principles see Note 39 of the Notes to the Group Accounts.
As discussed in Note 51 of the Notes to the Group accounts, the Group changed its method of accounting for derivative financialinstruments in2005.
Ernst & Young LLP London, England 2 March2006 71
