INDEPENDENT AUDITORS UK REPORT Independent Auditors Report to the Shareholdersof Smith & Nephewplc We have audited the Group accounts of Smith & Nephew plc for the year ended 31 December 2005 which comprise the Group income statement, Group balance sheet, Group cash flow statement, Group statement of recognised income and expense, and the related Notes 1 to 39 and Note 51.
These Group accounts have been prepared underthe  out therein.
We have reported separately on the Parent company accounts of Smith & Nephew plc for the year ended 31 December 2005 and onthe informationinthe RemunerationReport that is described as havingbeen audited.
This report is made solely to the Groups members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Groups members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Group and the Groups members as a body, for ouraudit work, for this report orfor the opinionswe have formed.
 Directorsand Auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the Group accounts in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Unionas set out inthe Statement of .
Our responsibility is to audit the Group accounts in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and  onAuditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group accounts give a true and fair view and whether the Group accounts have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the Group accounts, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if the information specified by law regardingdirectors remunerationand transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to considerwhether the Boards statements oninternal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures orits riskand controlprocedures.
We read other information contained in the annual report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group accounts.
The other information comprises the Directors Responsibilities for the Accounts, the Financial Summary, the Description of the Group, the Operating and Financial Review, the Liquidity and Prospects, the Corporate Governance Statement and the unaudited part of the Remuneration Report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group accounts.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of Audit Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group accounts.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the Group accounts, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group accounts are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of informationinthe Group accounts.
Opinion In ouropinionthe Group accounts: give a true and fair view in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2005 and of the profit for the year then ended: and .
Ernst & Young LLP Registered Auditor London, England 2 March2006 70
