58 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Independent auditors report Independent auditors report to the members of Smiths Group plc We have audited the accounts which comprise the consolidated Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards issued profit and loss account, the balance sheet, the cash-flow statement, by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on the statement of total recognised gains and losses and the related a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in notes, which have been prepared under the historical cost convention the accounts and the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration and the accounting policies set out in the statement of accounting Report.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates policies.
We have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the Directors accounts, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to Remuneration Report the auditable part.
the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information Accounts 2005, in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide and accounting standards, are set out in the Statement of Directors us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Responsibilities.
The Directors are also responsible for preparing accounts and the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration the Directors Remuneration Report.
Report are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also Our responsibility is to audit the accounts and the auditable part of evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Directors Remuneration Report in accordance with relevant legal the accounts.
and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the Opinion opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members In our opinion: as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or the Company and the Group at 31 July 2005 and of the profit and assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person cash-flows of the Group for the year then ended: to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the accounts have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a true and fair view and whether the accounts and the auditable part of those parts of the Directors Remuneration Report required by Part 3 the Directors Remuneration Report have been properly prepared in of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the accounts,  LLP if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration London and transactions is not disclosed.
22 September 2005 We read the other information contained in the Annual Report Notes and Accounts 2005 and consider the implications for our report a The maintenance and integrity of the Smiths Group plc website is the responsibility of if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may inconsistencies with the accounts.
The other information comprises have occurred to the accounts since they were initially presented on the website.
only the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Statement, the b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of Summary Performance Statement, the Operating and Financial accounts may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Review, the Directors Report, the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, the Statement of Directors Responsibilities and the Five Year Review.
We review whether the Corporate Governance statement in the Directors Report reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys or Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
