R310 SOCO 36-43 3 22 06 7:31 PM Page 42 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT To the shareholders of SOCO International plc explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified We have audited the Group and individual Company financial by law regarding Directors remuneration and transactions with statements the financial statements of SOCO International plc the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
for the year ended 31 December 2005 which comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated and We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not individual Company balance sheets, the consolidated and complied with any of the four Directors remuneration disclosure individual Company cash flow statements, the consolidated requirements specified for our review by the Listing Rules of and individual Company statements of recognised income and the Financial Services Authority.
These comprise the amount expenses, the statement of accounting policies and the related of each element in the remuneration package and information notes 1 to 32.
These financial statements have been prepared on share options, details of long term incentive schemes, under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also and money purchase and defined benefit schemes.
We give a audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report statement, to the extent possible, of details of any non-compliance.
that is described as having been audited.
We review whether the corporate governance statement This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we state to the Companys members those matters we are report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other the boards statements on internal control cover all risks purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and Company and the Companys members as a body, for our control procedures.
audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We read the Directors Report and the other information Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors contained in the annual report including the unaudited part of the The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, Directors Remuneration Report and we consider the implications the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted for use in the European Union are set out in the Basis of audit opinion statement of directors responsibilities.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in having been audited in accordance with relevant United the financial statements and the part of the Directors Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and International Remuneration Report described as having been audited.
It also Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies statements give a true and fair view in accordance with the are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently relevant framework and whether the financial statements and applied and adequately disclosed.
the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the information and explanations which we considered necessary IAS Regulation.
We report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give Report is not consistent with the financial statements.
We also reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the report to you if the Company has not kept proper accounting part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as records, if we have not received all the information and having been audited are free from material misstatement, SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 42 R310 SOCO 36-43 3 22 06 7:31 PM Page 43 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted for use in the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2005 and of its profit for the year then ended: and the individual Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted for use in the European Union as applied in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985, of the individual Companys affairs as at 31 December 2005: the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRS As explained in Note 2, the Group in addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply with IFRSs as adopted for use in the European Union, has also complied with the IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Accordingly, in our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2005 and of its profit for the year then ended.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London United Kingdom 8 March 2006 SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 43 43
