Company Information 139 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ASTRAZENECA PLC We have audited the Company Financial We report to you our opinion as to whether the We planned and performed our audit so as Statements of AstraZeneca PLC for the year Company Financial Statements give a true and to obtain all the information and explanations ended 31 December 2005 which comprise fair view and whether the Company Financial which we considered necessary in order to the Balance Sheet and the related notes on Statements and the part of the Directors provide us with sufficient evidence to give pages 140 to 144.
These Company Financial Remuneration Report to be audited have been reasonable assurance that the Company Statements have been prepared under the properly prepared in accordance with the Financial Statements and the part of the accounting policies set out therein.
We also report to you Directors Remuneration Report to be audited also audited the information in the Directors if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not are free from material misstatement, whether Remuneration Report that is described as consistent with the Company Financial caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
Statements, if the Company has not kept proper In forming our opinion we also evaluated the accounting records, if we have not received all overall adequacy of the presentation of We have reported separately on the Group the information and explanations we require information in the Company Financial Financial Statements of AstraZeneca PLC for our audit, or if information specified by law Statements and the part of the Directors for the year ended 31 December 2005. regarding Directors remuneration and other Remuneration Report to be audited.
This report is made solely to the Companys OPINION members, as a body, in accordance with We read other information contained in the In our opinion: section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Annual Report and consider whether it is Our audit work has been undertaken so that consistent with the audited Company Financial The Company Financial Statements give we might state to the Companys members Statements.
We consider the implications for a true and fair view, in accordance with UK those matters we are required to state to them our report if we become aware of any apparent Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
misstatements or material inconsistencies of the state of the Companys affairs as at To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do with the Company Financial Statements.
31 December 2005. not accept or assume responsibility to anyone Our responsibilities do not extend to any other than the Company and the Companys other information.
The Company Financial Statements and members as a body, for our audit work, for this the part of the Directors Remuneration report, or for the opinions we have formed.
BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION Report to be audited have been properly We conducted our audit in accordance with prepared in accordance with the Companies RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES International Standards on Auditing UK and Act 1985.
OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
The Directors responsibilities for preparing the An audit includes examination, on a test basis, 2 February 2006 Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration of evidence relevant to the amounts and Report and the Company Financial disclosures in the Company Financial KPMG Audit Plc Statements in accordance with applicable law Statements and the part of the Directors Chartered Accountants and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also Registered Auditor Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in includes an assessment of the significant 8 Salisbury Square the Statement of Directors Responsibilities estimates and judgments made by the Directors London EC4Y 8BB on page 82. in the preparation of the Company Financial Statements, and of whether the accounting Our responsibility is to audit the Company policies are appropriate to the Companys Financial Statements and the part of the circumstances, consistently applied and Directors Remuneration Report to be audited adequately disclosed.
in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
