Financial Statements 83 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ASTRAZENECA PLC We have audited the Group Financial OPINION Statements, if we have not received all the Statements of AstraZeneca PLC for the year In our opinion information and explanations we require for ended 31 December 2005 which comprise our audit, or if information specified by law the Consolidated Income Statement, The Group Financial Statements give regarding Directors remuneration and other the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the a true and fair view, in accordance with transactions is not disclosed.
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of Consolidated Statement of Recognised the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2005 We review whether the Corporate Governance Income and Expense and the related notes and of its profit for the year then ended.
Statement reflects the Companys compliance on pages 84 to 138.
These Group Financial with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Statements have been prepared under the The Group Financial Statements have been Combined Code specified for our review accounting policies set out therein.
properly prepared in accordance with the by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are We have reported separately on the Company IAS Regulation.
not required to consider whether the Boards Financial Statements of AstraZeneca PLC for statements on internal control cover the year ended 31 December 2005 and on the 2 February 2006 all risks and controls, or form an opinion information in the Directors Remuneration on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate Report that is described as having been audited.
KPMG AUDIT PLC governance procedures or its risk and Chartered Accountants control procedures.
This report is made solely to the Companys Registered Auditor members, as a body, in accordance with We read other information contained in the 8 Salisbury Square section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Annual Report and Form 20-F Information London EC4Y 8BB Our audit work has been undertaken so that and consider whether it is consistent with we might state to the Companys members the audited Group Financial Statements.
We The above opinion is provided in compliance those matters we are required to state to them consider the implications for our report if we with IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
An opinion in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
become aware of any apparent misstatements in accordance with auditing standards of the To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do or material inconsistencies with the Group Public Company Accounting Oversight Board not accept or assume responsibility to anyone Financial Statements.
Our responsibilities in the US will be included in the Annual Report other than the Company and the Companys do not extend to any other information.
on Form 20-F filed with the US Securities and members as a body, for our audit work, for this Exchange Commission.
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION We conducted our audit in accordance with Accounting principles generally accepted RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES International Standards on Auditing UK and under IFRS as adopted by the EU vary in OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices certain significant respects from accounting The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Board.
An audit includes examination, on principles generally accepted in the US.
Annual Report and Form 20-F Information and a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts Information relating to the nature and effect the Group Financial Statements in accordance and disclosures in the Group Financial of such differences is presented on pages with applicable law and International Financial Statements.
It also includes an assessment 130 to 136.
Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted of the significant estimates and judgements by the EU are set out in the Statement of made by the Directors in the preparation of the Directors Responsibilities on page 82.
Group Financial Statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Our responsibility is to audit the Group Financial Groups circumstances, consistently applied Statements in accordance with relevant legal and adequately disclosed.
and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations We report to you our opinion as to whether which we considered necessary in order to the Group Financial Statements give a true provide us with sufficient evidence to give and fair view and whether the Group Financial reasonable assurance that the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in Statements are free from material misstatement, accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report the overall adequacy of the presentation of is not consistent with the Group Financial information in the Group Financial Statements.
