SPECTRIS 32-76 4 4 06 8:49 am Page 32 Independent auditors report to the members of Spectris plc We have audited the group and parent company financial statements We read other information contained in the Annual Report and the financial statements of Spectris plc for the year ended consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
31 December 2005 which comprise the Group Income Statement, We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Group Cash Flow apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial Statement, the Group Statement of Recognised Income and Expense statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited Basis of audit opinion the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards as having been audited.
on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and companys company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU, fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also and for preparing the parent company financial statements and the evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Directors Remuneration Report in accordance with applicable law and financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report UK Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice to be audited.
are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on pages 21 and 22.
Opinion Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of In our opinion: the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, of the state of the on Auditing UK and Ireland.
groups affairs as at 31 December 2005 and of its profit for the We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements year then ended: give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the the group financial statements have been properly prepared in part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and IAS Regulation: whether, in addition, the group financial statements have been properly the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in prepared in accordance with Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent state of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2005: and with the financial statements, if the company has not kept proper the parent company financial statements and the part of the accounting records, if we have not received all the information and Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects KPMG Audit Plc the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Chartered Accountants Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Registered Auditor Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not London required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal 7 March 2006 control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
32 Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2005
