Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 95 Independent auditors report to the shareholders of Spirent plc We have audited the parent Company financial statements of Spirent plc Basis of audit opinion for the year ended 31 December 2005 which comprise the Company We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on balance sheet and the related notes 1 to 23.
These parent Company financial Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors remuneration and disclosures in the parent Company financial statements and the part report that is described as having been audited.
of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Spirent directors in the preparation of the parent Company financial statements, plc for the year ended 31 December 2005. and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent Company for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the for the opinions we have formed.
overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors be audited.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors remuneration report and the parent Company financial statements in Opinion accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and Accounting Standards In our opinion: United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice as set out in the Statement of directors responsibilities.
the parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, Our responsibility is to audit the parent Company financial statements and of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2005: and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors on Auditing UK and Ireland.
remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent Company Ernst & Young LLP financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to Registered auditor be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies London Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with the parent Company financial statements, if the Company 23 February 2006 has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent Company financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors report, the unaudited part of the Directors remuneration report, the Chairmans statement, Chief Executives overview, the Operating review and Financial review.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent Company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
