Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 27 Independent auditors report to the members of Spirent plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Spirent plc for the year Basis of audit opinion ended 31 December 2005 which comprise the Consolidated income We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on statement, Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense, Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit Consolidated balance sheet, Consolidated cash flow statement and the includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts related notes 1 to 40.
These Group financial statements have been prepared and disclosures in the Group financial statements.
It also includes an under the accounting policies set out therein.
assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and of We have reported separately on the parent Company financial statements whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, of Spirent plc for the year ended 31 December 2005 and on the information consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
in the Directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group financial accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and statements.
the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Opinion In our opinion the Group financial statements: Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the 2005 and of its loss for the year then ended: and European Union as set out in the Statement of directors responsibilities.
have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered auditor We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements London give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and 23 February 2006 Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with the Group financial statements, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors report, the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives overview, the Operating review, the Financial review and the Corporate governance statement.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
