Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Abbot Group plc We have audited the Group and parent Company financial statements We read other information contained in the Annual Report and the financial statements of Abbot Group plc for the year ended consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
31 December 2005 which comprise the Group Income Statement, The other information comprises only the Directors Report, the the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Group and Parent unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, the Chairmans Company Cash Flow Statements, the Group and Parent Company Statement, the Operating and Financial Review and the Corporate Statement of Change in Shareholders Equity and the related notes.
We consider the implications for our report if we These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Basis of audit opinion The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors are also responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether Abbot Group plc website.
Uncertainty regarding legal requirements the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys is compounded as information published on the internet is accessible circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
in many countries with different legal requirements relating to the preparation and dissemination of financial statements.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other be audited.
purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior Opinion consent in writing.
In our opinion: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been Groups affairs as at 31 December 2005 and of its profit and cash properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and flows for the year then ended: Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and state of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2005 and other transactions is not disclosed.
cash flows for the year then ended: and We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control  LLP cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and Aberdeen control procedures.
17 March 2006 76 Annual Report and Accounts 2005
