Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2005 Independent Auditors Report 39 to the members of Scottish and Southern Energy plc We have audited the accounts on pages 40 We review whether the Corporate Opinion to 61.
We have also audited the information Governance statement on page 26 reflects In our opinion: in the directors Remuneration Report that the companys compliance with the nine is described as having been audited.
provisions of the 2003 FRC Code specified the accounts give a true and fair view of for our review by the Listing Rules, and we the state of affairs of the company and the This report is made solely to the companys report if it does not.
We are not required to Group as at 31 March 2005 and of the profit members, as a body, in accordance with consider whether the Boards statements of the Group for the year then ended: and section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. on internal control cover all risks and the accounts and the part of the Directors Our audit work has been undertaken so controls, or form an opinion on the Remuneration Report to be audited have that we might state to the companys effectiveness of the Groups corporate been properly prepared in accordance with members those matters we are required to governance procedures or its risk and the Companies Act 1985. state to them in an auditors report and for control procedures.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or We read the other information contained in KPMG Audit Plc assume responsibility to anyone other than the Annual Report, including the Corporate Chartered Accountants the company and the companys members Governance statement and the un-audited Registered Auditor as a body, for our audit work, for this part of the Directors Remuneration Report, Edinburgh report, or for the opinions we have formed.
and consider whether it is consistent with 17 May 2005 the audited accounts.
We consider the Respective Responsibilities of Directors and implications for our report if we become Auditors aware of any apparent misstatements or The Directors are responsible for material inconsistencies with the accounts.
preparing the Annual Report and the Directors Remuneration Report.
As Basis of Audit Opinion described on page 31, this includes We conducted our audit in accordance with responsibility for preparing the accounts in Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing accordance with applicable United Practices Board.
An audit includes Kingdom law and accounting standards.
examination, on a test basis, of evidence Our responsibilities, as independent relevant to the amounts and disclosures in auditors, are established in the United the accounts and the part of the Directors Kingdom by statute, the Auditing Practices Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial includes an assessment of the significant Services Authority, and by our professions estimates and judgements made by the ethical guidance.
Directors in the preparation of the accounts, and of whether the accounting We report to you our opinion as to whether policies are appropriate to the Groups the financial statements give a true and circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
fair view and whether the accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report We planned and performed our audit so to be audited have been properly prepared as to obtain all the information and in accordance with the Companies Act explanations which we considered 1985.
We also report to you if, in our necessary in order to provide us with opinion, the Directors Report is not sufficient evidence to give reasonable consistent with the accounts, if the assurance that the accounts and the part company has not kept proper accounting of the Directors Remuneration Report records, if we have not received all the to be audited are free from material information and explanations we require misstatement, whether caused by fraud for our audit, or if information specified by or other irregularity or error.
In forming law regarding Directors remuneration and our opinion we also evaluated the overall transactions with the Group is not adequacy of the presentation of disclosed.
information in the accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
