SSL International plc Annual Report 2005 37 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of SSL International plc Independent Auditors Report to the Members of SSL International plc We have audited the financial statements on We read the other information contained pages 38 to 68.
We have also audited the in the Annual Report, including the corporate information in the Directors Remuneration governance statement and the unaudited part Report that is described as having been audited.
of the Directors Remuneration Report, and consider whether it is consistent with the This report is made solely to the Companys audited financial statements.
We consider the members, as a body, in accordance with section implications for our report if we become aware 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work of any apparent misstatements or material has been undertaken so that we might state to inconsistencies with the financial statements.
the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report Basis of audit opinion and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent We conducted our audit in accordance with permitted by law, we do not accept or assume Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing responsibility to anyone other than the Company Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, and the Companys members as a body, for our on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the audit work, for this report, or for the opinions amounts and disclosures in the financial we have formed.
statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also Respective responsibilities of Directors includes an assessment of the significant and auditors estimates and judgements made by the Directors The Directors are responsible for preparing the in the preparation of the financial statements, Annual Report and the Directors Remuneration and of whether the accounting policies are Report.
As described on page 36, this includes appropriate to the Groups circumstances, responsibility for preparing the financial consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
Our We planned and performed our audit so as responsibilities, as independent auditors, are to obtain all the information and explanations established in the United Kingdom by statute, which we considered necessary in order to the Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules provide us with sufficient evidence to give of the Financial Services Authority, and by our reasonable assurance that the financial professions ethical guidance.
statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free We report to you our opinion as to whether from material misstatement, whether caused the financial statements give a true and fair view by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming and whether the financial statements and the our opinion we also evaluated the overall part of the Directors Remuneration Report adequacy of the presentation of information to be audited have been properly prepared in the financial statements and the part of the in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with the Opinion financial statements, if the Company has not In our opinion: kept proper accounting records, if we have not the financial statements give a true and fair received all the information and explanations we view of the state of affairs of the Company require for our audit, or if information specified and the Group as at 31 March 2005 and of by law regarding Directors remuneration and the profit of the Group for the year then transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
ended: and We review whether the Corporate Governance the financial statements and the part of the Statement on pages 25 to 27 reflects the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited Companys compliance with the nine provisions have been properly prepared in accordance of the 2003 FRC Code specified for our review by with the Companies Act 1985. the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and KPMG Audit Plc controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness Chartered Accountants of the Groups corporate governance procedures Registered Auditor or its risk and control procedures.
