Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Stanley Leisure plc We have audited the Financial Statements which comprise the control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the Consolidated profit and Loss Account, the Group and Company effectiveness of the Companys or Groups corporate governance Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses, the Reconciliation of Movements in Equity Shareholders Funds, the Historical Cost profits Basis of Audit Opinion and Losses Statement, the Accounting Policies and the related notes We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards issued to the Financial Statements.
We have also audited the disclosures by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the in the Remuneration Report the auditable part.
Financial Statements and the auditable part of the Remuneration Report.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the Financial The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the Statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate Financial Statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately law and accounting standards are set out in the statement of Directors disclosed.
The Directors are also responsible for preparing the Remuneration Report.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us Our responsibility is to audit the Financial Statements and the with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Financial auditable part of the Remuneration Report in accordance with Statements and the auditable part of the Remuneration Report are relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Financial members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Statements.
Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other Opinion person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come In our opinion: save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of We report to you our opinion as to whether the Financial Statements affairs of the Company and the Group at 1 May 2005 and of the give a true and fair view and whether the Financial Statements and profit and cash ows of the Group for the year then ended: the auditable part of the Remuneration Report have been properly the Financial Statements have been properly prepared in prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the Financial Statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting those parts of the Remuneration Report required by Part 3 of records, if we have not received all the information and explanations Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and  LLP consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Financial 101 Barbirolli Square Statements.
The other information comprises only the Financial Lower Mosley Street Highlights, the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Operating Manchester Review, the Financial Review, the unaudited part of the Remuneration M2 3PW Report, the Corporate Governance statement, the Directors Report, 18 July 2005 the statement of Directors Responsibilities and the Corporate Social Responsibility Review.
We review whether the Corporate Governance statement reects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal
