Independent Auditors Report to the members of Yule Catto & Co plc We have audited the group financial statements the financial statements of Yule Catto & Co plc for the year ended 31 December 2005 which comprise the income statement, the balance sheet, the cash flow statement, the statement of recognised income and expenses and the related notes 1 to 35.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
The corporate governance statement and the directors remuneration report are included in the individual company annual report of Yule Catto & Co plc for the year ended 31 December 2005.
We have reported separately on the individual company financial statements of Yule Catto & Co plc for the year ended 31 December 2005 and on the information in the directors remuneration report as detailed in the audit report for the individual company.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted for use in the European Union are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view in accordance with the relevant framework and whether the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements.
We also report to you if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the company and other members of the group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statement on internal control covers all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the directors report and the other information contained in the annual report for the above year as described in the contents section and we consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted for use in the European Union, of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 December 2005 and of its profit for the year then ended: and the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors St Albans, UK 16 March 2006 Yule Catto & Co plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Independent Auditors Report 32
