Auditors report Independent Auditors Report to the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Members of Tate & Lyle PLC Review, the Operating and Financial Review We have audited the financial statements and the Corporate Governance Statement.
which comprise the primary financial We review whether the Corporate statements such as the profit and loss Governance Statement reflects the Companys account, the balance sheet, the statement of compliance with the nine provisions of the cash flows, the statement of total recognised 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our gains and losses, segmental analyses and the review by the Listing Rules of the United related notes on pages 66 to 100 which have Kingdom Listing Authority, and we report if been prepared under the historical cost it does not.
We are not required to consider convention as modified by the revaluation whether the Boards statements on internal of certain fixed assets and the accounting control cover all risks and controls, or to form policies set out in the statement of accounting an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups policies.
We have also audited the disclosures corporate governance procedures or its risk required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the and control procedures.
Companies Act 1985 contained in the Directors Remuneration Report the Basis of Audit Opinion auditable part.
We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards issued by the Auditing Respective Responsibilities of Directors Practices Board.
An audit includes and Auditors examination, on a test basis, of evidence The directors responsibilities for preparing the relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration financial statements and the auditable part of Report and the financial statements in the Directors Remuneration Report.
It also accordance with applicable United Kingdom includes an assessment of the significant law and accounting standards are set out in estimates and judgements made by the the statement of directors responsibilities.
directors in the preparation of the financial Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements, and of whether the accounting statements and the auditable part of the policies are appropriate to the Companys Directors Remuneration Report in accordance circumstances, consistently applied and with relevant legal and regulatory requirements adequately disclosed.
We planned and and United Kingdom Auditing Standards performed our audit so as to obtain all the issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
information and explanations which we This report, including the opinion, has been considered necessary in order to provide us prepared for and only for the Companys with sufficient evidence to give reasonable members as a body in accordance with assurance that the financial statements and the Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and auditable part of the Directors Remuneration for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving Report are free from material misstatement, this opinion, accept or assume responsibility whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or for any other purpose or to any other person error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated to whom this report is shown or into whose the overall adequacy of the presentation of hands it may come save where expressly information in the financial statements.
agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether Opinion the financial statements give a true and fair In our opinion: view and whether the financial statements and the auditable part of the Directors the financial statements give a true and fair Remuneration Report have been properly view of the state of affairs of the Company prepared in accordance with the Companies and the Group at 31 March 2005 and of the Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our profit and cash flows of the Group for the opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent year then ended: with the financial statements, if the Company the financial statements have been properly has not kept proper accounting records, if prepared in accordance with the Companies we have not received all the information and Act 1985: and explanations we require for our audit, or those parts of the Directors Remuneration if information specified by law regarding Report required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A directors remuneration and transactions to the Companies Act 1985 have been is not disclosed.
properly prepared in accordance with the We read the other information contained Companies Act 1985. in the Annual Report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware  LLP of any apparent misstatements or material Chartered Accountants and inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Registered Auditors The other information comprises only: the 1 Embankment Place Directors Report, the unaudited part of London WC2N 6RH the Directors Remuneration Report, the 1 June 2005 58 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2005
