We read other information contained in the Annual Report Independent auditors report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited to the shareholders of Taylor Nelson Sofres plc financial statements.
The other information comprises only pages 1 to 49 and pages 95 to 96.
We consider the implications We have audited the group and parent company financial for our report if we become aware of any apparent statements the financial statements of Taylor Nelson Sofres misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial plc on pages 51 to 94 for the year ended 31 December 2005. statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other These financial statements have been prepared under the information.
accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the Basis of audit opinion information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is We conducted our audit in accordance with International described as having been audited.
Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial in the financial statements and the part of the Directors statements in accordance with applicable law and Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, of Directors Responsibilities.
and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and companys circumstances, consistently applied Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the and adequately disclosed.
part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
information and explanations which we considered necessary This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give only for the companys members as a body in accordance with reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial Opinion statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration In our opinion: Report to be audited have been properly prepared in the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, IAS Regulation.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 December 2005 Directors Report is not consistent with the financial and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting the parent company financial statements give a true and fair records, if we have not received all the information and view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European explanations we require for our audit, or if information Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other Companies Act 1985, of the state of the parent companys transactions is not disclosed.
affairs as at 31 December 2005 and cash flows for the year then ended: and We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement the financial statements and the part of the Directors reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and  LLP controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and London control procedures.
