Independent Auditors Report to the members of Taylor Woodrow plc We have audited the Group financial statements the financial We read the directors report and the other information statements of Taylor Woodrow plc for the year ended contained in the annual report for the above year as described in 31 December 2005 which comprise the income statement, the contents section and we consider the implications for our the statement of recognised income and expense, the balance report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or sheet, the cash ow statement, the statement of accounting material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
policies, the related notes 1 to 37 and the reconciliation of changes in shareholders' equity.
These financial statements Basis of audit opinion have been prepared under the accounting policies set out We conducted our audit in accordance with International therein.
Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, The directors' remuneration report is included in the individual of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the company annual report of Taylor Woodrow plc for the year financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the ended 31 December 2005.
We have reported separately on the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in individual company financial statements of Taylor Woodrow plc the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the for the year ended 31 December 2005 and on the information accounting policies are appropriate to the companys in the directors remuneration report included in the individual circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
company annual report that is described as having been audited.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary This report is made solely to the companys members, as a in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other state to the companys members those matters we are irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not financial statements.
accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit Opinion work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
In our opinion: Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors the financial statements give a true and fair view, in The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report accordance with IFRS as adopted for use in the European and the financial statements in accordance with applicable Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December United Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting 2005 and of its profit for the year then ended: Standards IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in of the IAS Regulation.
accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Separate opinion in relation to IFRS Ireland.
As explained in the statement of accounting policies note, the Group in addition to complying with its legal obligation to We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial comply with IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union, statements give a true and fair view in accordance with the has also complied with the IFRS as issued by the International relevant framework and whether the financial statements have Accounting Standards Board.
Accordingly, in our opinion the been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We report to you if, in with IFRS, of the state of the Group's affairs as at 31 December our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the 2005 and of its profit for the year then ended.
We also report to you if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement Deloitte & Touche LLP reects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if London it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards 27 February 2006 statement on internal control covers all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
48 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2005
