Independent Auditors Report to the members of Taylor Woodrow plc We have audited the individual company financial statements We read the directors report and the other information the financial statements of Taylor Woodrow plc for the year contained in the annual report for the above year as described in ended 31 December 2005 which comprise the balance sheet, the contents section including the unaudited part of the the statement of accounting policies and the related notes 1 directors remuneration report and consider the implications for to 19.
These financial statements have been prepared under the our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
information in the directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International We have reported separately on the Group financial statements Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing of Taylor Woodrow plc for the year ended 31 December 2005.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the This report is made solely to the companys members, as a financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act report described as having been audited.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might assessment of the significant estimates and judgements state to the companys members those matters we are made by the directors in the preparation of the financial required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other statements, and of whether the accounting policies are purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not appropriate to the companys circumstances, consistently accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the applied and adequately disclosed.
company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the the directors remuneration report and the individual company part of the directors remuneration report described as having financial statements in accordance with applicable United been audited are free from material misstatement, whether Kingdom law and United Kingdom Generally Accepted caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our Accounting Practice are set out in the statement of directors opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the responsibilities.
presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the as having been audited.
part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal Opinion and regulatory requirements and International Standards on In our opinion: Auditing UK and Ireland.
the financial statements give a true and fair view, in We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted statements give a true and fair view in accordance with the Accounting Practice, of the state of the company's affairs relevant framework and whether the financial statements and as at 31 December 2005: the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act the financial statements and the part of the directors 1985.
We report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is remuneration report described as having been audited have not consistent with the financial statements.
We also report to been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies you if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if Act 1985. we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the company is not disclosed.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not complied with any of the four directors remuneration disclosure requirements specified for our review by the Listing Deloitte & Touche LLP Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
These comprise the amount of each element in the remuneration package and Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors information on share options, details of long term incentive London schemes, and money purchase and dened benefit schemes.
27 February 2006 We give a statement, to the extent possible, of details of any non-compliance.
T Ta aylor ylor W Woodro oodrow R w Report and eport and A Accounts 20 ccounts 2005 05 83 83
