Independent auditors report to the members of Marconi Corporation plc We have audited the financial statements of Marconi Corporation plc We read the directors report and the other information contained in for the year ended 31 March 2005 which comprise the profit and loss the annual report for the above year as described in the contents account, the balance sheets, the cash flow statement, the statement section including the unaudited part of the directors remuneration of total recognised gains and losses, the reconciliation of movements report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware in shareholders interests, the statement of accounting policies, the of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the reconciliation of net cash flow movements in net monetary funds financial statements.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also Basis of audit opinion audited the information in the part of the directors remuneration report We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom auditing that is described as having been audited.
standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the directors accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit remuneration report described as having been audited.
It also includes work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors directors in the preparation of the financial statements and of whether report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, the accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Group, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial As described in the Statement of directors responsibilities, the statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described Companys directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial as having been audited are free from material misstatement, whether statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we accounting standards.
They are also responsible for the preparation also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information of the other information contained in the annual report including the in the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration directors remuneration report.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial report described as having been audited.
statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom Opinion legal and regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
In our opinion: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of of the Company and the Group as at 31 March 2005 and of the profit the directors remuneration report described as having been audited of the Group for the year then ended: and have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act the financial statements and part of the directors remuneration report 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not described as having been audited have been properly prepared in consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept accordance with the Companies Act 1985. proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the July 2003 FRC Deloitte & Touche LLP Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not Birmingham required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness 19 September 2005 of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We also review whether the Company has complied with the requirements set out in Listing Rules 9.8.
8R 2 with regards to the amount of each element in the remuneration package and information on share options, 9.8.
8R 3, 4 and 5 with regards to details of long-term incentive schemes for directors, 9.8.
8R 11 with regards to money purchase schemes, and 9.8.
8R 12 with regards to defined benefit schemes, and we give a statement, to the extent possible, of details of any non-compliance.
