Independent Auditors Report Independent auditors report to the members of Autonomy Corporation plc We have audited the group and individual company financial statements the financial statements of Autonomy Corporation plc for the year ended 31 December 2005 which comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated and individual company balance sheets, the consolidated and individual company cash flow statements, the consolidated and individual company statements of changes in equity and the related notes 1 to 26 to the consolidated financial statements and notes 1 to 9 of the individual company financial statements.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the directors remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view in accordance with the relevant financial reporting framework and whether the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements.
We also report to you if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the company and other members of the group is not disclosed.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not complied with any of the four directors remuneration disclosure requirements specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
These comprise the amount of each element in the remuneration package and information on share options, details of long-term incentive schemes, and money purchase and defined benefit schemes.
We give a statement, to the extent possible, of details of any non-compliance.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the July 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the directors report and the other information contained in the annual report as described in the contents section including the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited.
Autonomy Corporation plc 20 Independent Auditors Report Opinion In our opinion: the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union, of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 December 2005 and of its profit for the year then ended: the individual company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union as applied in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the individual companys affairs as at 31 December 2005: and the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRS As explained in Note 2, the group in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply those IFRS adopted for use in the European Union, has also complied with the IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Accordingly, in our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 December 2005 and of its profit for the year then ended.
Emphasis of matter Accounts receivable Without qualifying our opinions above, we draw attention to note 14 of the financial statements concerning the uncertainty over both the timing and quantum of amounts to be recovered from a Southern European government debtor which currently has an outstanding amount of $4.0 million significantly overdue.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Cambridge, England 13 April 2006 21 Autonomy Corporation plc
