59 Chairmans statement Chief Executives statement Business review Corporate responsibility Board of Directors and Executive Committee Corporate governance Remuneration report Directors report Group independent auditors report Accounts and notes Unaudited other information Holding company accounts and notes Investor Relations Independent auditors report to the members of Trinity Mirror plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Trinity Mirror plc of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
for the 52 weeks ended 1 January 2006 which comprise the We are not required to consider whether the boards statement consolidated income statement, the consolidated balance sheet, on internal control covers all risks and controls, or form an the consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated statement opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance of recognised income and expense and the related notes 1 to 38. procedures or its risk and control procedures.
These group financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the We read the directors report and the other information contained information in the directors remuneration report that is described in the annual report for the above year as described in the as having been audited.
contents section including the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report and we consider the implications for our We have reported separately on the individual company report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or financial statements of Trinity Mirror plc for the 52 weeks ended material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Basis of audit opinion This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence the Companys members those matters we are required to state relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the statements and the part of the directors remuneration report fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume described as having been audited.
It also includes an assessment responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and of report, or for the opinions we have formed.
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the directors remuneration report and the Group financial statements information and explanations which we considered necessary in accordance with applicable law and International Financial in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use in the European assurance that the Group financial statements and the part of the Union are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
directors remuneration report described as having been audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements and evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information the part of the directors remuneration report described as having in the Group financial statements and the part of the directors been audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal remuneration report described as having been audited.
and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Opinion In our opinion: We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in statements give a true and fair view in accordance with the accordance with IFRSs as adopted for use in the European relevant financial reporting framework and whether the Group Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 1 January 2006 financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration and of its profit for the 52 weeks then ended: and report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We report to you if, in our opinion, the Group financial statements and the part of the directors the directors report is not consistent with the Group financial remuneration report described as having been audited have statements.
We also report to you if we have not received all been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
information specified by law regarding directors transactions with the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRS As explained in Note 1 of the Group financial statements, the We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not Group, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply complied with any of the four directors remuneration disclosure with IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union, has also requirements specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the complied with the IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Financial Services Authority.
These comprise the amount of each Standards Board.
Accordingly, in our opinion the financial element in the remuneration package and information on share statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS, options, details of long-term incentive schemes, and money of the state of the Groups affairs as at 1 January 2006 and purchase and defined benefit schemes.
We give a statement, of its profit for the 52 weeks then ended.
to the extent possible, of details of any non-compliance.
Deloitte & Touche LLP We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 London FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules 2 March 2006
