Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Tullow Oil plc We have audited the individual Company financial We read the Directors Report and the other information statements of Tullow Oil plc for the year ended contained in the annual report for the above year as 31 December 2005, which comprise the Balance Sheet described in the contents section and consider the and the related notes 1 to 11.
These individual Company implications for our report if we become aware of any financial statements have been prepared under the apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies accounting policies set out therein.
with the individual Company financial statements.
The Corporate Governance Statement and the Directors Basis of Audit Opinion Remuneration Report are included in the Group Annual We conducted our audit in accordance with International Report of Tullow Oil plc for the year ended 31 December Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the 2005.
We have reported separately on the Group Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, financial statements of Tullow Oil plc for the year on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts ended 31 December 2005 and on the information in and disclosures in the individual Company financial the Directors Remuneration Report that is described statements.
It also includes an assessment of the as having been audited.
significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the individual Company This report is made solely to the Companys members, financial statements, and of whether the accounting as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the the information and explanations which we considered fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company to give reasonable assurance that the individual Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit financial statements are free from material misstatement, work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall Respective responsibilities of Directors adequacy of the presentation of information in the and Auditors individual Company financial statements.
The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the individual Company financial statements Opinion in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom In our opinion: Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally the individual Company financial statements give a Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom statement of Directors responsibilities.
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2005: and Our responsibility is to audit the individual Company financial statements in accordance with relevant United the individual Company financial statements have been Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and properly prepared in accordance with the Companies International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the individual Deloitte & Touche LLP Company financial statements give a true and fair view Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors in accordance with the relevant financial reporting London framework and whether the individual Company financial 28 March 2006 statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with the individual Company financial statements.
We also report to you if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 75
