Independent Auditors Report Independent auditors' report to the members of Business Post Group plc We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the We have audited the financial statements which comprise the Consolidated companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Profit and Loss Account, the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets, the Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related notes.
We have also Authority, and we report if it does not.
"We are not required to consider audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, Act 1985 contained in the Remuneration Report ""the auditable part""."
or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the Basis of audit opinion financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards issued by the accounting standards are set out in the statement of directors' Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of responsibilities.
The directors are also responsible for preparing the evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements Remuneration Report.
and the auditable part of the Remuneration Report.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable part of in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting the Remuneration Report in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory policies are appropriate to the company's circumstances, consistently applied requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing and adequately disclosed.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save and the auditable part of the Remuneration Report are free from material where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true information in the financial statements.
and fair view and whether the financial statements and the auditable part of the Remuneration Report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Opinion Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors' In our opinion: Report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the company has not the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and of the Company and the Group at 31 March 2005 and of the profit and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law cash flows of the Group for the year then ended: regarding directors' remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and We read the other information contained in the annual report and consider the those parts of the Remuneration Report required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly prepared in accordance or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other with the Companies Act 1985. information comprises only the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Review, the Financial Review, the Directors Report, the unaudited part of the  LLP Remuneration Report, the Corporate Social Responsibility statement and the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Corporate Governance statement.
Uxbridge 26 May 2005 39 Business Post Group plc
