Auditors report Netherlands Independent auditors report to the shareholders of Opinion Unilever N. V. on the consolidated accounts In our opinion, the consolidated accounts give a true and fair We have audited the consolidated accounts of the Unilever Group view of the financial position of the company as at 31 December for the year ended 31 December 2005 which comprise the 2005 and of the result and the cash ows for the year then consolidated income statement, consolidated balance sheet, ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting consolidated cash ow statement, consolidated statement of Standards as adopted by the EU and comply with the financial recognised income and expense and the related notes set out on reporting requirements included in Part 9 of Book 2 of the pages 78 to 151 and 157 to 168.
These consolidated accounts Netherlands Civil Code as far as applicable.
have been prepared under the accounting policies set out in note 1 on pages 82 to 85.
Furthermore, we have to the extent of our competence, established that the Report of the Directors is consistent with the We have reported separately on the parent company accounts of consolidated accounts.
Unilever N. V. for the year ended 31 December 2005.
28 February 2006 Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors The consolidated accounts are the responsibility of the companys  Accountants N. V. Directors.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these Rotterdam, The Netherlands consolidated accounts based on our audit.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards Prof Dr J A van Manen RA generally accepted in the Netherlands.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated accounts are free of material misstatement.
An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated accounts.
An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by the Directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated accounts.
We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Unilever Unilever Annual Report and Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Accounts 2005 75 75 Financial Statements Auditors report United Kingdom Independent auditors report to the shareholders of Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Unilever PLC on the consolidated accounts We have audited the consolidated accounts of the Unilever Group Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of for the year ended 31 December 2005 which comprise the consolidated income statement, consolidated balance sheet, evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated accounts.
It also includes an assessment of the consolidated cash ow statement, consolidated statement of recognised income and expense and the related notes set out on significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the consolidated accounts, and of whether the pages 78 to 151 and 157 to 168.
These consolidated accounts have been prepared under the accounting policies set out in accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the We have reported separately on the parent company accounts of Unilever PLC for the year ended 31 December 2005 and on the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable information that is described as having been audited in the Report of the Remuneration Committee.
assurance that the consolidated accounts are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors adequacy of the presentation of information in the consolidated As described on page 74, the Directors responsibilities for accounts.
preparing the consolidated accounts in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and International Financial Opinion Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Our In our opinion: responsibility is to audit the consolidated accounts in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International the consolidated accounts give a true and fair view, in Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of opinion, has been prepared for and only for the shareholders of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2005 and of Unilever PLC as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the its profit and cash ows for the year then ended: and Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other the consolidated accounts have been properly prepared in purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or accordance with the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985 and into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the consolidated accounts give a true and fair view and whether the consolidated accounts have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Report of the Directors is not 28 February 2006 consistent with the consolidated accounts, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if  LLP information specified by law regarding directors remuneration Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors and other transactions is not disclosed.
London, United Kingdom We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement on page 47 reects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Directors statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited consolidated accounts.
The other information comprises only the Report of the Directors and the Shareholder information.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the consolidated accounts.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
76 76 Unilever Unilever Annual Report and Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Accounts 2005 Auditors report United States Report of the independent registered public accounting of the Unilever Group as at 31 December 2005 and 2004, and rms to the shareholders of Unilever N. V. and Unilever PLC the results of its operations and its cash ows for each of the two We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets years in the period ended 31 December 2005, in conformity with of the Unilever Group as of 31 December 2005 and 2004, and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the related consolidated income statements, cash ow statements the European Union.
and statements of recognised income and expense for each of the two years in the period ended 31 December 2005 as set out As discussed in note 35 on page 145, the Unilever Group changed pages 78 to 151 and 157 to 168.
These financial statements are the manner in which it accounts for financial instruments upon the responsibility of the companies Directors.
Our responsibility is adoption of International Accounting Standards No.
32 Financial to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation, and No.
Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, on 1 January 2005.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the IFRSs as adopted by the European Union vary in certain significant Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
respects from accounting principles generally accepted in the Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to United States of America.
Information relating to the nature and obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial effect of such differences is presented on pages 157 to 161. statements are free of material misstatement.
An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and 28 February 2006 disclosures in the financial statements.
An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates  Accountants N. V. made by the Directors, as well as evaluating the overall financial Rotterdam, The Netherlands statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a As auditors of Unilever N. V. reasonable basis for our opinion.
 LLP In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to London, United Kingdom above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position As auditors of Unilever PLC Unilever Unilever Annual Report and Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Accounts 2005 77 77 Financial Statements
