Avis Europe plc 33 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Independent Auditors Report to the Shareholders of Avis Europe plc Introduction Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Review, the Financial We have audited the Consolidated Financial Statements of Avis Review, the Corporate and Social Responsibility Report, the Europe plc for the year ended 31 December 2005 which comprise Directors Listing, the Corporate Governance Statement, the the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement Statement of Directors Responsibilities, the unaudited part of the of Recognised Income and Expense, the Consolidated Balance Remuneration Report, and the Five Year Summary.
We consider Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the significant the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent Accounting Policies, and the related notes.
These Consolidated misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared under the accounting Financial Statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the Parent Company Financial Basis of audit opinion Statements of Avis Europe plc for the year ended 31 December We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards 2005 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
that is described as having been audited.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Consolidated Financial Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors Statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation and the Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with of the Consolidated Financial Statements, and of whether the applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, IFRSs as adopted for use in the European Union are set out in consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Our responsibility is to audit the Consolidated Financial Statements information and explanations which we considered necessary in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, assurance that the Consolidated Financial Statements are free from including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, adequacy of the presentation of information in the Consolidated in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other Financial Statements.
purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior Opinion consent in writing.
In our opinion: the Consolidated Financial Statements give a true and fair view, We report to you our opinion as to whether the Consolidated in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, Financial Statements give a true and fair view and whether the of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2005 and Consolidated Financial Statements have been properly prepared of its profit and cash ows for the year then ended: and in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the the Consolidated Financial Statements have been properly Directors Report is not consistent with the Consolidated Financial prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Statements, if we have not received all the information and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions  LLP is not disclosed.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reects 2 March 2006 the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules Notes of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
a The maintenance and integrity of the Avis Europe plc website We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the Auditors does not involve consideration of these matters the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures and, accordingly, the Auditors accept no responsibility for any or its risk and control procedures.
changes that may have occurred to the report since it was initially presented on the website.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Consolidated dissemination of financial information may differ from legislation Financial Statements.
The other information comprises only the in other jurisdictions.
