Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Cookson Group plc We have audited the Group and Company financial statements the Basis of audit opinion financial statements of Cookson Group plc for the year ended We conducted our audit in accordance with International 31 December 2005 which comprise the Group Income Statement, Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing the Group and Company Balance Sheets, the Group Cash Flow Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of Statement, the Group statement of recognised income and evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial expenses and the related notes.
These financial statements have statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
It also includes an assessment of the significant have also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation Report that is described as having been audited.
of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a are appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Companys members those matters we are required to state to information and explanations which we considered necessary in them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility assurance that the financial statements and the part of the to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other have formed.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and be audited.
the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as Opinion adopted by the EU, and for preparing the Company financial In our opinion: statements and the Directors Remuneration Report in accordance the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in with applicable law and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of the Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Directors Groups affairs as at 31 December 2005 and of its loss for the Responsibility Statement on page 46. year then ended: Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and IAS Regulation: International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2005: statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to and be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the the Company financial statements and the part of the Companies Act 1985 and whether, in addition, the Group financial Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been statements have been properly prepared in accordance with properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
KPMG Audit Plc We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement Chartered Accountants reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Registered Auditor 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing London Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does 14 March 2006 not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Cookson Group plc { 45 } Annual Report 2005
