INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF VIRIDIAN GROUP PLC We have audited the Group's financial statements for the year ended We read other information contained in the Annual Report and 31 March 2005 which comprise the Group Profit and Loss Account, consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial Group Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses, Group statements.
This other information comprises the Group Financial Balance Sheet, Company Balance Sheet, Group Cash Flow Highlights, Chairman's Statement, Group Chief Executives Review, Statement and the related notes 1 to 33.
These financial statements Board of Directors, Operating Review, Financial Review, Corporate have been prepared on the basis of the accounting policies set out Governance statement, Corporate Social Responsibility statement, therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report and the Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material This report is made solely to the Company's members, as a body, in inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do accordance with Article 243 of the Companies Northern Ireland not extend to any other information.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company's members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors' report and for no other purpose.
To the Basis of Audit Opinion fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company's Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to opinions we have formed.
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and Respective Responsibilities of judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the Directors and Auditors financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group's circumstances, consistently applied and The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, adequately disclosed.
including the financial statements which are required to be prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the standards as set out in the Statement of Directors' Responsibilities, information and explanations which we considered necessary in in relation to the financial statements.
The directors are also order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable responsible for preparing the Directors' Remuneration Report.
assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the with relevant legal and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom presentation of information in the financial statements and the part Auditing Standards and the Listing Rules of the Financial of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements Opinion give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited have In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view of been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group as at 31 March Northern Ireland Order 1986.
We also report to you if, in our 2005 and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended and the opinion, the Directors' Report is not consistent with the financial financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance if we have not received all the information and explanations we with the Companies Northern Ireland Order 1986. require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding directors' remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered Auditor We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Belfast Company's compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we 17 May 2005 report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Board's statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group's corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
