Statement of Directors responsibilities in relation to the Group financial statements of Wilson Bowden plc The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements.
The Directors are required to prepare financial statements for the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare such financial statements in accordance with IFRS, the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards.
Directors are also required to: Properly select and apply accounting policies: Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
Independent auditors report to the members of Wilson Bowden plc We have audited the Group financial statements the financial statements of Wilson Bowden plc for the year ended 31st December 2005 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Statement of Principal Accounting Policies and the related notes 1 to 27.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
The Corporate Governance Statement and the Directors Remuneration Report are included in the individual Company annual report of Wilson Bowden plc for the year ended 31st December 2005.
We have reported separately on the individual Company financial statements of Wilson Bowden plc for the year ended 31st December 2005 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report included in the individual Company annual report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted for use in the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view in accordance with the relevant framework and whether the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We report to you if in our opinion the Directors Report is not consistent with the financial statements.
We also report to you if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and transactions with the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statement on internal control covers all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the Directors Report and the other information contained in the annual report for the above year as described in the contents section and we consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
44 Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report 2005 Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted for use in the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31st December 2005 and of its profit for the year then ended: and the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRS As explained in the statement of accounting policies, the Group in addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply with IFRSs as adopted for use in the European Union, has also complied with the IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Accordingly, in our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31st December 2005 and of its profit for the year then ended.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Birmingham United Kingdom 1st March 2006 Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report 2005 45
