Statement of Directors responsibilities in relation to the financial statements of Wilson Bowden plc the Company The Directors are required by UK Company law to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company as at the end of the financial year.
The Directors consider that, in preparing the financial statements, the Company has used appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgments and estimates, and that all accounting standards which they consider to be applicable have been followed.
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company keeps proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and which enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with UK Company law.
The Directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Independent auditors report to the members of Wilson Bowden plc We have audited the individual Company financial statements the financial statements of Wilson Bowden plc for the year ended 31st December 2005 which comprise the Company Balance Sheet, the Statement of Principal Accounting Policies, the related notes C1 to C18 and note 19 of the Group financial statements.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Wilson Bowden plc for the year ended 31st December 2005.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the individual Company financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view in accordance with the relevant framework and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We report to you if in our opinion the Directors Report is not consistent with the financial statements.
We also report to you if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and transactions with the Company is not disclosed.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not complied with any of the four Directors remuneration disclosure requirements specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
These comprise the amount of each element in the remuneration package and information on share options, details of long term incentive schemes, and money purchase and defined benefit schemes.
We give a statement, to the extent possible, of details of any non-compliance.
We read the Directors Report and the other information contained in the annual report for the above year as described in the contents section and we consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report 2005 71 Independent auditors report to the members of Wilson Bowden plc continued Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31st December 2005: and the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Birmingham, United Kingdom 1st March 2006 72 Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report 2005
