qxd 6 10 05 11:35 pm Page 91 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Independent auditors report to the members of Wolseley plc 91 We have audited the financial statements which comprise the profit and Basis of audit opinion loss account, the balance sheet, the cash flow statement, the statement We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards issued of total recognised gains and losses and the related notes which have by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test been prepared under the historical cost convention and the accounting basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial policies set out in the statement of accounting policies.
We have also statements and the auditable part of the Directors remuneration report.
audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements Companies Act 1985 contained in the Directors remuneration report made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, the auditable part.
and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information Accounts and the financial statements in accordance with applicable and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statement of Directors responsibilities.
The Directors are also statements and the auditable part of the Directors remuneration report responsible for preparing the Directors remuneration report.
are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable part adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
of the Directors remuneration report in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued Opinion by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, has In our opinion: been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other of the Company and the Group at 31 July 2005 and of the profit and purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility cash flows of the Group for the year then ended: for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our with the Companies Act 1985: and prior consent in writing.
those parts of the Directors remuneration report required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly prepared We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the auditable part of the Directors remuneration report have been properly prepared  LLP in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors in our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with the financial Cornwall Court statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we 19 Cornwall Street have not received all the information and explanations we require for our Birmingham audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration B3 2DT and transactions is not disclosed.
26 September 2005 We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and Accounts and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors report, the unaudited part of the Directors remuneration report, the Chairmans statement, the Group Chief Executives review, the operating and financial review and the corporate governance statement.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
