Auditors report Independent auditors report to the members of WS Atkins plc Basis of audit opinion We have audited the financial statements which comprise the We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards issued consolidated profit and loss account, the consolidated balance sheet, by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a the consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated statement of test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the total recognised gains and losses, the reconciliation of movements in financial statements and the auditable part of the Remuneration report.
Group shareholders funds, the company balance sheet and the related It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments notes which have been prepared under the historic cost convention and made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, the accounting policies set out in the statement of accounting policies.
and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the We have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A Companys and the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the Remuneration report the adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial consolidated financial statements in accordance with applicable United statements and the auditable part of the Remuneration report are free Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the statement of from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other directors responsibilities.
The Directors are also responsible for preparing irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall the Remuneration report.
adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable Opinion part of the Remuneration report in accordance with relevant legal and In our opinion: regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, has of the Company and the Group at 31 March 2005 and of the profit been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in and cash flows of the Group for the year then ended: accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume with the Companies Act 1985: and responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this those parts of the Remuneration report required by Part 3 of Schedule report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly prepared in agreed by our prior consent in writing.
accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the  LLP auditable part of the Remuneration report have been properly prepared Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, London in our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with the financial 21 June 2005 statements, if the Company and the Group have not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the annual report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Financial summary, Business overview, Chairmans statement, Operating and financial review, Directors report, Corporate governance report, the unaudited part of the Remuneration report and the Summary corporate social responsibility report.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys and Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2005 46
