ANNUAL REPORT 2004 05 Net Pension Liability We currently operate a defined benefit pension scheme for our UK employees employed before 1 October 2001 that is accounted for on the basis of Statement of Standard Accounting Practice 24: Accounting for Pension Costs SSAP 24.
At the last valuation date, 5 April 2002, under SSAP 24 and on an ongoing basis, the assets of the scheme were sufficient to cover 102% of accrued benefits.
Although there has been no formal valuation since this time, it is likely that the funding position has worsened due to adverse changes in the capital markets and increased longevity.
We have also complied with the transitional disclosure requirements of UK Financial Reporting Standard 17: Retirement Benefits FRS 17.
Valuations of this scheme for the purposes of FRS 17 were carried out at 31 March 2004 and 31 March 2005 by a qualified independent actuary.
The liability, net of tax, measured in accordance with FRS 17 was 69.6 million at 31 March 2005 200446.5 million.
The deficit at 31 March 2004 arose primarily as a result of adverse conditions in the capital markets.
The increase in the deficit in the 2005 financial year primarily reflects the increase in the liabilities of the scheme as a result of changing our assumptions regarding how long scheme members will live after retirement.
Our employer pension contribution to the defined benefit pension scheme during the 2005 financial year was 16.2 million 20049.4 million, including an additional annual contribution of 8.2 million.
We expect to make an additional annual contribution of approximately 8.5 million in the next financial year.
These additional contributions are the first step in alleviating the 69.6 million net of tax pension deficit reported under FRS 17.
Full details of the SSAP 24 and FRS 17 disclosures are given in note 24 of the notes to the financial statements.
Treasury Policy Our treasury operations primary role is to manage liquidity, investment funding and our financial risk, including risk from volatility in currency and interest rates and counterparty credit risk.
The treasury operation is not a profit centre and its objective is to manage risk at optimum cost.
Our Board sets the treasury departments policy and its activities are subject to a set of controls commensurate with the magnitude of the investments and borrowings under its management.
Counterparty credit risk is closely monitored and managed within controls set by our Board.
It is likely that derivative financial instruments, including forward foreign exchange contracts, if entered into, will be used only for hedging purposes.
Market-Related Risks Interest is payable under our senior credit facilities at a variable rate.
We could, therefore, be adversely affected if interest rates were to rise significantly.
Under the senior credit facilities agreement dated 8 July 2003 we were required to have fixed or capped interest on at least 50% of net interest payments during the 21 months following each month end.
However, this requirement ceased once net debt fell below 3.5 times EBITDA.
Even so, we have fixed interest on 50% of the indebtedness under the senior credit facilities using interest rate swaps over the period to March 2007, with a review of this strategy on a quarterly basis.
When combined with the fixed rate senior notes, we have fixed our interest rates on approximately 65% of our total gross debt until March 2007, falling to approximately 32% thereafter.
At 31 March 2005, we had 2.9 million net unrecognised gains on these instruments that will be recognised when the interest is paid.
All of these instruments are entered into for hedging purposes and, under UK GAAP, gains and losses on these instruments are deferred and only recognised in income when the underlying transaction is recorded.
Such instruments have not been designated and do not qualify for hedge accounting under the Financial Accounting Standards Board FASB Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No 133: Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities for US GAAP purposes.
All significant cash inflows and outflows associated with our operations in the UK are denominated in pounds sterling, and all significant cash inflows and outflows associated with our operations in the US are denominated in US dollars.
However, our financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, and changes in the exchange rate between the US dollar and pounds sterling will affect the translation of the results of our operations into pounds sterling.
The composition of our debt partially hedges exchange rate fluctuations, because 41.9% of our debt and 35.7% of our net interest expense are denominated in US dollars, thereby reducing our US EBITDA exposure by approximately 18.5%.
We do not currently intend to use derivative instruments to hedge any foreign exchange translation rate risk relating to US dollar-denominated notes or other US financial liabilities, although we will continue to review this practice.
At 31 March 2005, we had 463.5 million of borrowings denominated in US dollars net of deferred financing fees, and 851.0 million of borrowings, also net of deferred financing fees, that accrue interest at variable rates, before taking into account hedging arrangements.
The following examples illustrate the effect certain changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates would have had in the 2005 financial year.
The following discussion of estimated amounts generated from the sensitivity analysis is forwardlooking and involves risks and uncertainties.
If the amount or mix of long-term borrowings is different, then the following examples may not be indicative of the effects of changing exchange rates and interest rates.
If the variable interest rates had been a full percentage point higher or lower with no change in foreign exchange rates, then the interest payable with respect to our variable-rate indebtedness in the 2005 financial year would have been 3.0 million higher or lower taking into account our hedging arrangements, or 8.5 million higher or lower without taking into account hedging arrangements.
