Independent auditors report to the members of BAE Systems plc We have audited the group and parent We report to you our opinion as to whether We planned and performed our audit company financial statements the the financial statements give a true and fair so as to obtain all the information and financial statements of BAE Systems plc view and whether the financial statements explanations which we considered for the year ended 31 December 2005 and the part of the Directors Remuneration necessary in order to provide us with which comprise the Consolidated Income Report to be audited have been properly sufficient evidence to give reasonable Statement, the Consolidated and Parent prepared in accordance with the Companies assurance that the financial statements Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Act 1985 and whether, in addition, the group and the part of the Directors Remuneration Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated financial statements have been properly Report to be audited are free from material Statement of Recognised Income and prepared in accordance with Article 4 of the misstatement, whether caused by fraud Expense and the related notes.
We also report to you if, in or other irregularity or error.
In forming financial statements have been prepared our opinion, the Directors Report is not our opinion we also evaluated the overall under the accounting policies set out consistent with the financial statements, if adequacy of the presentation of information therein.
We have also audited the information the company has not kept proper accounting in the financial statements and the part in the Directors Remuneration Report that records, if we have not received all the of the Directors Remuneration Report to is described as having been audited.
information and explanations we require for be audited.
our audit, or if information specified by law Opinion This report is made solely to the companys regarding directors remuneration and other members, as a body, in accordance with transactions is not disclosed.
In our opinion: section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. the group financial statements give a Our audit work has been undertaken so that We review whether the Corporate Governance true and fair view, in accordance with we might state to the companys members Statement reflects the companys IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state those matters we are required to state to compliance with the nine provisions of the of the groups affairs as at 31 December them in an auditors report and for no other 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our 2005 and of its profit for the year purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted review by the Listing Rules of the Financial then ended: by law, we do not accept or assume Services Authority, and we report if it does the group financial statements have been responsibility to anyone other than the not.
We are not required to consider whether properly prepared in accordance with the company and the companys members as the boards statements on internal control Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the a body, for our audit work, for this report, cover all risks and controls, or form an IAS Regulation: or for the opinions we have formed.
opinion on the effectiveness of the groups the parent company financial statements corporate governance procedures or its risk give a true and fair view, in accordance Respective responsibilities of directors and control procedures.
with UK Generally Accepted Accounting and auditors Practice, of the state of the parent The directors responsibilities for preparing We read other information contained in companys affairs as at 31 December the Annual Report and the group financial the Annual Report and consider whether 2005: and statements in accordance with applicable it is consistent with the audited financial the parent company financial statements law and International Financial Reporting statements.
We consider the implications and the part of the Directors Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU, for our report if we become aware of any Remuneration Report to be audited have and for preparing the parent company apparent misstatements or material been properly prepared in accordance financial statements and the Directors inconsistencies with the financial with the Companies Act 1985.
Remuneration Report in accordance with statements.
Our responsibilities do applicable law and UK Accounting Standards not extend to any other information.
KPMG Audit Plc UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice Chartered Accountants Basis of audit opinion are set out in the Statement of Directors Registered Auditor Responsibilities on page 54.
We conducted our audit in accordance with London International Standards on Auditing UK and Our responsibility is to audit the financial Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices 22 February 2006 statements and the part of the Directors Board.
An audit includes examination, on Remuneration Report to be audited in a test basis, of evidence relevant to the accordance with relevant legal and amounts and disclosures in the financial regulatory requirements and International statements and the part of the Directors Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
