Independent auditors report to the members of Balfour Beatty plc We have audited the Group and Company financial statements the financial Basis of audit opinion statements of Balfour Beatty plc for the year ended 31 December 2005 which We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing comprise the consolidated and Company income statements, the consolidated and UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes Company balance sheets, the consolidated and Company cash ow statements, the examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures consolidated statement of recognised income and expense and the related notes in the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report 1 to 37.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting described as having been audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility of the Directors remuneration report described as having been audited are free to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors Directors remuneration report described as having been audited.
The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the Directors remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable Opinion United Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs In our opinion: as adopted for use in the European Union are set out in the statement of the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as Directors responsibilities.
adopted for use in the European Union, of the state of the Groups and the Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2005 and of the Groups profit and the Directors remuneration report described as having been audited in accordance Companys profit for the year then ended: with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance true and fair view in accordance with the relevant framework and whether the with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Separate opinion in relation to IFRS Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We report to you if, in As explained in Note 1, the Group and the Company in addition to complying with our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with the financial statements.
their legal obligation to comply with IFRSs adopted for use in the European Union, We also report to you if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, have also complied with the IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our Standards Board and therefore have applied the full version of IAS 39 Financial audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
Accordingly, in our opinion the transactions with the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs, of the We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not complied with state of the Groups and the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2005 and the any of the four Directors remuneration disclosure requirements specified for our Groups profit and the Companys profit for the year then ended.
review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
These comprise the amount of each element in the remuneration package and information on share Deloitte & Touche LLP options, details of long-term incentive schemes, and money purchase and dened Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors benefit schemes.
We give a statement, to the extent possible, of details of any London non-compliance.
7 March 2006 We review whether the corporate governance statement reects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the Directors report and the other information contained in the annual report including the unaudited part of the Directors remuneration report and we consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2005 51
