57. controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups Independent auditors report to the members of BBA Group plc corporate governance procedures or its risk and control We have audited the consolidated financial statements the procedures.
financial statements of BBA Group plc for the year ended We read the directors report and the other information 31 December 2005 which comprise the income statement, the contained in the annual report for the above year as described balance sheet, the cash flow statement, the statement of in the contents section and we consider the implications for our recognised income and expenses, the statement of accounting report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or policies and the related notes 1 to 30.
These financial statements material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
The corporate governance statement and the directors Basis of audit opinion remuneration report are included in the individual company We conducted our audit in accordance with International annual report of BBA Group plc for the year ended 31 December Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing 2005.
We have reported separately on the individual company Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, financial statements of BBA Group plc for the year ended of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the 31 December 2005 and on the information in the directors financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the remuneration report included in the individual company annual significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in report that is described as having been audited.
the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the the Companys members those matters we are required to state information and explanations which we considered necessary in to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume assurance that the financial statements are free from material responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall report, or for the opinions we have formed.
adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report Opinion and the financial statements in accordance with applicable In our opinion: United Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting the financial statements give a true and fair view, in Standards IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union accordance with IFRSs as adopted for use in the European are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in 2005 and of its profit for the year then ended: and accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory the financial statements have been properly prepared in requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view in accordance with the Separate opinion in relation to IFRS relevant framework and whether the financial statements have As explained in the Basis of Accounting, the Group in addition been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act to complying with its legal obligation to comply with IFRSs as 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We report to you if, adopted for use in the European Union, has also complied with in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the the IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards financial statements.
We also report to you if the Company has Board.
Accordingly, in our opinion the financial statements give not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if Groups affairs as at 31 December 2005 and of its profit for the information specified by law regarding directors remuneration year then ended.
and transactions with the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of Deloitte & Touche LLP the July 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we London report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether 20 March 2006 the Boards statements on internal control covers all risks and Independent Auditors Report
