60 Grainger Trust plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Directors report continued Shares held in trust of which Robert Dickinson and Stephen Dickinson are both trustees, included in the above non-beneficial holdings: Ordinary shares of 5p each thousands Beneficial Non-beneficial 1 Oct 30 Sept 6 Dec 1 Oct 30 Sept 6 Dec 2004 2005 2005 2004 2005 2005 69 Details of directors share options are given on page 57.
Save as disclosed above, as at 6 December 2005, the Statement of directors responsibilities company is aware of the following interests amounting The directors are required by UK Company law to prepare to 3% or more in the companys shares: financial statements for each financial year that give a true and fair view of the affairs of the company and the group 5p shares as at the end of the financial year and of the profit and loss thousands Holding % of the group for that period.
Schroder Investment Management Limited 9,221 7.13 The directors confirm that suitable accounting policies have been used and applied consistently and that reasonable Taube Hodson and and prudent judgements and estimates have been made Stonex Partners Limited 7,787 6.02 in the preparation of the financial statements for the year Aberforth Partners 6,566 5.07 ended 30 September 2005.
The directors also confirm that F&C Asset Management Plc 5,316 4.11 applicable accounting standards have been followed and Morley Fund Management Limited 4,552 3.52 that the financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis.
Majedie Asset Management 4,203 3.25 The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting Shares held by funds managed or advised by the company indicated records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time and or its subsidiaries.
the financial position of the company and the group and to The company is not aware of any other substantial interests amounting enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply to 3% or more.
They are also responsible Retirement of directors for safeguarding the assets of the company and of the On 12 November 2004 Sean Slade resigned from the group, and hence for taking reasonable steps for the Board.
Robin Herbert and Nichola Pease resigned from prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Acquisitions Directors interests in significant contracts On 15 April 2005 the company acquired City North No directors were materially interested in any contract Group plc, an AIM listed company.
A group company also of significance.
acquired a 50% stake in Grainger Geninvest LLP in June 2005.
Full details of these and other minor acquisitions Insurance of directors are given in notes 11 and 26 to the accounts.
The group maintains insurance for Grainger Trust plcs directors in respect of their duties as director.
61 Creditor payment policy Employee involvement It is the groups policy to pay suppliers in accordance with The group places considerable value on the involvement their normal terms and conditions of trading.
Payment in of its employees and has continued its practice of keeping respect of the purchase of property is subject to and will them informed on matters affecting them as employees, comply with contractual terms.
Trade creditors existing at for example, eligibility to join company share schemes, 30 September 2005 relating to purchases of property stock and on the various factors affecting the performance generally complete 28 days after exchange of contracts.
Communication is made using the intranet, Trade creditor days relating to other trade creditors of The Source, and through regular meetings with, and the company and group were calculated as 30 days presentations by senior management.
Auditors Charitable donations  LLP have expressed their During the year the group made charitable donations willingness to continue in office as auditors to the amounting to 42,234 2004: 25,455. company and group.
A resolution to reappoint them as auditors to the company will be proposed at the Health and safety next Annual General Meeting.
The company seeks to achieve the highest standards in respect of health and safety of employees, and the safety Issue of shares of tenants.
Consultants are employed to ensure that the As disclosed in Note 20 to the financial statements, company complies with health and safety regulations and the company issued 5,319,374 ordinary shares during each year the gas supply and appliances within all of the the year based on 5p ordinary shares, for consideration groups relevant residential properties are independently of 20,456,391. inspected under the Gas Safety Installation and Use Amended Regulations 1996 and certificates of compliance By order of the Board issued.
This year the group has also created and filled a new permanent position of Health and Safety Manager.
Employment of disabled persons The company gives full and fair consideration to applications for employment made by disabled persons, having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
In the event of an employee becoming disabled every effort is made to ensure Marie Glanville that their employment within the company continues and Company Secretary that appropriate training is arranged where necessary.
20 December 2005 It is the policy of the company that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
