July 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Independent auditors report to the members of BBA Group plc Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if We have audited the individual Company financial statements it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards the financial statements of BBA Group plc for the year ended statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form 31 December 2005 which comprise the balance sheet, the an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys corporate statement of accounting policies and the related notes 1 to 12. governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
These financial statements have been prepared under the We read the directors report and the other information accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the contained in the annual report for the above year and described information in directors remuneration report that is described in the contents section including the unaudited part of the as having been audited.
directors remuneration report and consider the implications for We have reported separately on the Group financial our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements statements of BBA Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2005. or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Basis of audit opinion Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to We conducted our audit in accordance with International the Companys members those matters we are required to state Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report described as having been audited.
It also includes an report, or for the opinions we have formed.
assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, Companys circumstances, consistently applied and the directors remuneration report and the individual Company adequately disclosed.
financial statements in accordance with applicable United We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Kingdom law and United Kingdom Generally Accepted information and explanations which we considered necessary in Accounting Practice are set out in the statement of order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable directors responsibilities.
assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and directors remuneration report described as having been audited the part of the directors remuneration report described as are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud having been audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information on Auditing UK and Ireland.
in the financial statements and the part of the directors We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial remuneration report described as having been audited.
statements give a true and fair view in accordance with the relevant framework and whether the financial statements and the Opinion part of the directors remuneration report to be audited have been In our opinion: properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. the financial statements give a true and fair view, in We report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted consistent with the financial statements.
We also report to you if Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have affairs as at 31 December 2005: and not received all the information and explanations we require for the financial statements and the part of the directors our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration report described as having been audited remuneration and transactions with the company is not disclosed.
have been properly prepared in accordance with the We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not Companies Act 1985. complied with any of the four directors remuneration disclosure requirements specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
These comprise the amount of each element in the remuneration package and information on share options, details of long-term incentive schemes, and money Deloitte & Touche LLP purchase and defined benefit schemes.
We give a statement, Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors to the extent possible, of details of any non-compliance.
London We review whether the corporate governance statement 20 March 2006 reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Independent Auditors Report
