Independent auditors report to the shareholders of Mapeley Limited on the annual Group financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2005 Introduction We have audited the Group financial statements of Mapeley Limited for the year ended 31 December 2005 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 35.
These group financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
This Report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 64 of the Companies Guernsey Law 1994.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an Auditors Report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable Guernsey Law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the group financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Guernsey Law 1994.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, or if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors Report, the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Statement, the Operating and Financial Review, the statement concerning Corporate Governance and the Remuneration Report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2005 and of its loss for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Guernsey Law 1994.
Ernst & Young LLP London 10 March 2006 44 Mapeley Limited Annual report 2005
