47 Quintain Estates and Development PLC Annual Report 2005 Independent Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report We have audited the financial statements on pages 49 to 80.
Basis of audit opinion We have also audited the information in the directors We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act directors remuneration report to be audited.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by state to the Companys members those matters we are required the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the report, or for the opinions we have formed.
information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors assurance that the financial statements and the part of the The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report directors remuneration report to be audited are free from and the directors remuneration report.
As described on material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other page 34, this includes responsibility for preparing the financial irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the and accounting standards.
Our responsibilities, as independent financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration auditors, are established in the United Kingdom by statute, report to be audited.
the Auditing Practices board, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and by our professions ethical guidance.
Opinion In our opinion: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to of affairs of the Company and the Group as at 31 March 2005 be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended: and Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the the financial statements and the part of the directors directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
KPMG Audit Plc We review whether the statement on page 32 reflects Chartered Accountants the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Registered Auditor 2003 FRC Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider KPMG Audit Plc whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all 8 Salisbury Square risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of London EC4Y 8BB the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
7 June 2005 We read the other information contained in the Annual Report, including the corporate governance statement and the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
48 Quintain Estates and Development PLC Annual Report 2005 The accounts
