BELLWAY p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2005 45 Report of the Independent Auditors to the Members of Bellway p. l. c. We have audited the accounts on pages 46 to 69.
We have also audited the information in the Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Company's members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company's members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor's report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company's members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration.
As described on page 44, this includes responsibility for preparing the accounts in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, are established in the United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and by our profession's ethical guidance.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a true and fair view and whether the accounts and the part of the Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors' report is not consistent with the accounts, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors' remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 28 to 32 reflects the Company's compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 Financial Reporting Council Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the board's statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group's corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report, including the corporate governance statement and the unaudited part of the Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration and consider whether it is consistent with the audited accounts.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the accounts.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the accounts and the part of the Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the accounts, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group's circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the accounts and the part of the Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the accounts and the part of the Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration to be audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at 31 July 2005 and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended: and the accounts and the part of the Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor Newcastle upon Tyne 17 October 2005
