Report of the Auditors to the Members of Savills plc Independent Auditors Report to the Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement Members of Savills plc part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited in reflects the company's compliance with the nine provisions of We have audited the Group and parent company financial accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the statements the financial statements of Savills plc for the and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report year ended 31 December 2005 which comprise the This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated and only for the company's members as a body in accordance Board's statements on internal control cover all risks and Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and Company with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Statement of Cash Flows, the Consolidated and Company purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume Group's corporate governance procedures or its risk and control Statement of Recognised Income and Expense and the responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to procedures.
These financial statements have been prepared whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited that is described as having been audited.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial financial statements.
The other information comprises only statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial the Chairman's Statement, the Group Chief Executives Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report Review of Operations and Financial Review, the Directors The directors' responsibilities for preparing the Annual to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with Report, the Corporate Governance Report, and the unaudited Report, the Directors' Remuneration Report and the financial the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
part of the Directors Remuneration Report.
We consider the statements in accordance with applicable law and International We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors' Report implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the is not consistent with the financial statements, if the company misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors' has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other Responsibilities.
received all the information and explanations we require for information.
our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors' remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
58 Report of the Auditors to the Members of Savills plc continued Basis of audit opinion Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International In our opinion: Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European in the financial statements and the part of the Directors' Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an 31 December 2005 and of its profit and cash flows for assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made the year then ended: by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the the parent company financial statements give a true and Group's and company's circumstances, consistently applied fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the and adequately disclosed.
European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2005 and information and explanations which we considered necessary cash flows for the year then ended: and in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the the financial statements and the part of the Directors Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited are free from Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors 1 Embankment Place London WC2N 6RH 7 March 2006 59 Accounts 60 61
