82 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report to the members of Admiral Group plc We have audited the Parent Company financial We report to you our opinion as to whether statements of Admiral Group plc for the year the Parent Company financial statements give a ended 31 December 2005, which comprise the true and fair view and whether the Parent Balance Sheet and the related notes.
These Company financial statements and the part of Parent Company financial statements have the Directors remuneration report to be been prepared under the accounting policies audited have been properly prepared in set out therein.
We have also audited the accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We information in the Directors remuneration also report to you if, in our opinion, the report that is described as having been audited.
Directors report is not consistent with the Parent Company financial statements, if the We have reported separately on the Group Company has not kept proper accounting financial statements of Admiral Group plc for records, if we have not received all the the year ended 31 December 2005. information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law This report is made solely to the Companys regarding Directors remuneration and other members, as a body, in accordance with section transactions is not disclosed.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to We read other information contained in the the Companys members those matters we are Annual Report and consider whether it is required to state to them in an auditors report consistent with the audited Parent Company and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent financial statements.
We consider the permitted by law, we do not accept or assume implications for our report if we become aware responsibility to anyone other than the of any apparent misstatements or material Company and the Companys members as a inconsistencies with the Parent Company body, for our audit work, for this report, or for financial statements.
Our responsibilities do the opinions we have formed.
not extend to any other information.
Respective responsibilities of Basis of audit opinion Directors and auditors We conducted our audit in accordance with The Directors responsibilities for preparing the International Standards on Auditing UK and Annual Report, the Directors remuneration Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
report and the Parent Company financial An audit includes examination, on a test basis, statements in accordance with applicable law of evidence relevant to the amounts and and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally disclosures in the Parent Company financial Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the statements and the part of the Directors statement of Directors responsibilities above.
remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant Our responsibility is to audit the Parent estimates and judgments made by the Directors Company financial statements and the part of in the preparation of the Parent Company the Directors remuneration report to be financial statements, and of whether the audited in accordance with relevant legal and accounting policies are appropriate to the regulatory requirements and International Companys circumstances, consistently applied Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
ADMIRAL GROUP plc 83 We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2005: and the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor Cardiff 3 March 2006
