46 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report to the members of Admiral Group plc We have audited the Group financial We report to you our opinion as to whether statements of Admiral Group plc for the year the Group financial statements give a true and ended 31 December 2005, which comprise the fair view and whether the Group financial Group income statement, the Group balance statements have been properly prepared in sheet, the Group cash flow statement, the accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Group statement of recognised income and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report expense and the related notes.
These Group to you if, in our opinion, the Directors report is financial statements have been prepared under not consistent with the Group financial the accounting policies set out therein.
statements, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for We have reported separately on the Parent our audit, or if information specified by law Company financial statements of Admiral regarding Directors remuneration and other Group plc for the year ended 31 December transactions is not disclosed.
2005 and on the information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as having We review whether the corporate governance been audited.
statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC This report is made solely to the Companys Combined Code specified for our review by the members, as a body, in accordance with section Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work and we report if it does not.
We are not required has been undertaken so that we might state to to consider whether the Boards statements on the Companys members those matters we are internal control cover all risks and controls, or required to state to them in an auditors report form an opinion on the effectiveness of the and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent Groups corporate governance procedures or its permitted by law, we do not accept or assume risk and control procedures.
responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a We read other information contained in the body, for our audit work, for this report, or for Annual Report and consider whether it is the opinions we have formed.
consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
We consider the implications for Respective responsibilities of our report if we become aware of any Directors and auditors apparent misstatements or material The Directors responsibilities for preparing the inconsistencies with the Group financial Annual Report and the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend statements in accordance with applicable law to any other information.
and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU Basis of audit opinion are set out in the statement of Directors We conducted our audit in accordance with responsibilities above.
International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial An audit includes examination, on a test basis, statements in accordance with relevant legal of evidence relevant to the amounts and and regulatory requirements and International disclosures in the Group financial statements.
It Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
also includes an assessment of the significant ADMIRAL GROUP plc 47 estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion: the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2005 and of its profit for the year then ended: and the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor Cardiff 3 March 2006
