BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 Independent Auditors report to the shareholders of BG Group plc We have audited the Group and parent company Financial remuneration report.
We consider the implications for our report Statements the Financial Statements of BG Group plc for the if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material 62 62 year ended 31 December 2005 which comprise the consolidated inconsistencies with the Financial Statements.
Our responsibilities income statement, the balance sheets, the cash flow statements, do not extend to any other information.
the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense, and the related notes.
These Financial Statements have been BASISOFAUDITOPINION prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have We conducted our audit in accordance with International also audited the information in the remuneration report that is Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing described as having been audited.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Financial  Statements and the part of the remuneration report to be audited.
The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and the remuneration report and the Financial Statements in judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of the accordance with applicable law and International Financial Financial Statements, and of whether the accounting policies Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Our responsibility is to audit the Financial Statements and the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the part of the remuneration report to be audited in accordance with information and explanations which we considered necessary relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the assurance that the Financial Statements and the part of the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys remuneration report to be audited are free from material members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose Financial Statements and the part of the remuneration report hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior to be audited.
OPINION We report to you our opinion as to whether the Financial In our opinion: Statements give a true and fair view and whether the Financial Statements and the part of the remuneration report to be audited the Group Financial Statements give a true and fair view, in have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies accordance with IFRSsasadoptedby the European Union, of Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2005 and if, in our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with the of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: Financial Statements, if the Company has not kept proper the parent company Financial Statements give a true and fair accounting records, if we have not received all the information view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European and explanations we require for our audit, or if information Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other Companies Act 1985, of the state of the parent companys transactions is not disclosed.
affairs as at 31 December 2005 and cash flows for the year We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects then ended: and the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 the Financial Statements and the part of the remuneration FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on Regulation.
internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Financial Statements.
The other information comprises only the items listed  LLP in the contents section of the Annual Report, excluding the 2005 Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors audited Financial Statements and the auditable part of the 1Embankment Place London WC2N 6RH 8 March 2006
