Independent Auditors Report to the Members of BHP Billiton Plc We have audited the financial statements on pages 77 to 184.
Basis of audit opinion We have also audited the information in the Directors We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and the Companys members those matters we are required to state judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the financial statements, and of whether the accounting polices are fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the and adequately disclosed.
Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report assurance that the financial statements and the part of the and the Directors Remuneration Report.
As described on Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from page 74, this includes responsibility for preparing the financial material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated and accounting standards.
Our responsibilities, as independent the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the auditors, are established in the United Kingdom by statute, the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial Report to be audited.
Services Authority, and by our professions ethical guidance.
Opinion We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial In our opinion: statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with of affairs of the Company and the Group as at 30 June 2005 the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended: and the Directors Report is not consistent with the financial the financial statements and the part of the Directors statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly records, if we have not received all the information and prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the statement on page 43 reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC KPMG Audit Plc Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditor if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and London, 8 September 2005 controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report, including the Corporate Governance Statement and the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 75 76 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
