Independent Auditors report UK Audit Report of the Independent Auditors to the Members of Basis of Audit Opinion Barclays PLC We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards We have audited the Group and parent company financial statements on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
the financial statements of Barclays PLC for the year ended An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to 31st December 2005 which comprise the Income Statements, Balance the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the Sheets, Cash Flow Statements, Statements of Recognised Income and auditable part of the Barclays report on remuneration.
It also includes Expense and the related notes on pages 147 to 261.
These financial an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether on pages 134 to 145.
We have also audited the information in the the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys Barclays report on remuneration that is described as having been circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
audited the auditable part on pages 37 to 43.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors information and explanations which we considered necessary in order The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that Barclays report on remuneration and the financial statements in the financial statements and the auditable part of the Barclays report accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and International on remuneration are free from material misstatement, whether caused Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also Union are set out in the statement of Directors responsibilities on evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in page 45. the financial statements and the auditable part of the Barclays report on remuneration.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable part of the Barclays report on remuneration in accordance with Opinion relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards In our opinion: on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no Groups and the Parent Companys affairs as at 31st December other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume 2005 and of the Groups and Parent Companys profit and cash responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom flows for the year then ended: this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where the financial statements and the auditable part of the Barclays expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
report on remuneration have been properly prepared in accordance We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the auditable part of the Barclays report on remuneration have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you if, in our opinion,  LLP the Directors Report is not consistent with the financial statements, if Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors the Company or Group has not kept proper accounting records, if we London, United Kingdom have not received all the information and explanations we require for 9th March 2006 our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Report reflects the Companys and Groups compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys or Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans Statement, Group Chief Executives Review, Group Finance Directors Review, Directors Report, Corporate Governance Report, the unaudited part of the Barclays Report on Remuneration, Accountability and Audit, Presentation of Information, Risk Management, Financial Data, Business Description and Financial Review.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Barclays PLC 132 Annual Report 2005 Independent Registered Public Accounting Firms report Report of the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm to the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Barclays PLC and its subsidiary undertakings on pages 147 to 282 and Barclays Bank PLC and its subsidiary undertakings on pages 287 to 299 as of 31st December 2005 and 2004, which comprise the Consolidated Income Statements, the Consolidated Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statements, and the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense, for each of the two years in the period ended 31st December 2005.
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Companys management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.
An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Barclays PLC and its subsidiary undertakings and Barclays Bank PLC and its subsidiary undertakings at 31st December 2005 and 2004, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the two years in the period ended 31st December 2005 in conformity with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Accounting principles in conformity with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union vary in certain significant respects from accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
Information relating to the nature and effect of such differences is presented in Note 63 to the consolidated financial statements.
As discussed in the Significant Accounting Policies of the consolidated financial statements, the Group has applied International Financial Reporting Standards with effect from 1st January 2004, the date of transition in accordance with the transitional provisions set out in IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards.
Previously, the Group followed the generally accepted principles of the United Kingdom UK GAAP.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London, United Kingdom 3.4 9th March 2006 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2005 133
