36 BRADFORD & BINGLEY ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 WWW.
CO. UK INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BRADFORD & BINGLEY PLC We have audited the Group and parent Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Statements and the part of the Directors Company financial statements the Financial We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Remuneration Report to be audited are free Statements of Bradford & Bingley plc for the Directors Report is not consistent with the from material misstatement, whether caused by year ended 31 December 2005 which Financial Statements, if the Company has not fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming comprise the Group Income Statement, the kept proper accounting records, if we have our opinion, we also evaluated the overall Group and Company Balance Sheets, the not received all the information and adequacy of the presentation of information in Group and Company Cash Flow Statements, explanations we require for our audit, or if the Financial Statements and the part of the the Group and Company Statements of information specified by law regarding Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Recognised Income and Expense, the related Directors remuneration and other transactions notes and the Appendix except for the is not disclosed.
Opinion Proforma information described on pages 88, In our opinion: 91, 93, 95 and 98 as unaudited.
These Financial We review whether the Corporate Statements have been prepared under the Governance Statement reects the the Group Financial Statements give a true accounting policies set out therein.
We have Companys compliance with the nine and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as also audited the information in the Directors provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code adopted by the EU, of the state of the Remuneration Report on pages 32 to 34. specified for our review by the Listing Rules of Groups affairs as at 31 December 2005 and the Financial Services Authority, and we of its profit for the year then ended: This report is made solely to the Companys report if it does not.
We are not required to the Company Financial Statements give a true members, as a body, in accordance with consider whether the Boards statements on and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our internal control cover all risks and controls, or adopted by the EU as applied in accordance audit work has been undertaken so that we form an opinion on the effectiveness of the with the provisions of the Companies Act might state to the Companys members those Groups corporate governance procedures or 1985, of the state of the Companys affairs as matters we are required to state to them in an its risk and control procedures.
at 31 December 2005: and auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the Financial Statements and the part of the the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not We read other information contained in the Directors Remuneration Report to be accept or assume responsibility to anyone Annual Report & Accounts and consider audited have been properly prepared in other than the Company and the Companys whether it is consistent with the audited accordance with the Companies Act 1985 members as a body, for our audit work, for this Financial Statements.
We consider the and, as regards the Financial Statements, report, or for the opinions we have formed.
implications for our report if we become Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
aware of any apparent misstatements or Respective responsibilities of Directors material inconsistencies with the Financial KPMG Audit Plc CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS and auditors Statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend REGISTERED AUDITOR The Directors responsibilities for preparing to any other information.
LEEDS the Annual Report & Accounts, the Directors 15 February 2006 Remuneration Report and the Financial Basis of audit opinion Statements in accordance with applicable law We conducted our audit in accordance with and International Financial Reporting Standards International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
IFRS as adopted by the EU are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities An audit includes examination, on a test basis, on page 35. of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements and the Our responsibility is to audit the Financial part of the Directors Remuneration Report to Statements and the part of the Directors be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the Remuneration Report to be audited in significant estimates and judgements made by accordance with relevant legal and regulatory the Directors in the preparation of the Financial requirements and International Standards on Statements, and of whether the accounting Auditing UK and Ireland.
policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied We report to you our opinion as to whether and adequately disclosed.
the Financial Statements give a true and fair view and whether the Financial Statements We planned and performed our audit so as to and the part of the Directors Remuneration obtain all the information and explanations Report to be audited have been properly which we considered necessary in order to prepared in accordance with the Companies provide us with sufficient evidence to give Act 1985 and, as regards the Financial reasonable assurance that the Financial
