Report of the independent auditors United Kingdom Opinion We read the other information contained in the Annual Independent auditors report to the shareholders of Report and Form 20-F and consider the implications for our British Telecommunications plc report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements We have audited the financial statements which comprise or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
the group profit and loss account, group and company The other information comprises only the Business and balance sheets, group cash ow statement, group Financial reviews and the Report of the directors.
statement of total recognised gains and losses and the related notes which have been prepared under the Basis of audit opinion historical cost convention and the accounting policies set We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing out in the Accounting Policies.
standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual statements.
It also includes an assessment of the report and the financial statements in accordance with significant estimates and judgements made by the applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards directors in the preparation of the financial statements, are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements the companys circumstances, consistently applied and in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory adequately disclosed.
requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, all the information and explanations which we considered including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence the companys members as a body in accordance with to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other are free from material misstatement, whether caused by purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the other person to whom this report is shown or into whose presentation of information in the financial statements.
hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Opinion We report to you our opinion as to whether the In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and financial statements give a true and fair view and whether fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the the financial statements have been properly prepared in group at 31 March 2005 and of the profit and cash ows accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report of the group for the year then ended and the financial to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not statements have been properly prepared in accordance consistent with the financial statements, if the company with the Companies Act 1985. has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require  LLP for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
London 18 May 2005 United States Opinion misstatement.
An audit includes examining, on a test Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in Firm to the board of directors and shareholders of the financial statements, assessing the accounting British Telecommunications plc principles used and significant estimates made by In our opinion, the accompanying group profit and loss management, and evaluating the overall financial account, group balance sheet, group cash ow statement, statement presentation.
We believe that our audits group statement of total recognised gains and losses and provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
the related notes present fairly, in all material respects, Accounting principles generally accepted in the the financial position of British Telecommunications plc United Kingdom vary in certain important respects from and its subsidiaries at 31 March 2005 and 2004, and the accounting principles generally accepted in the United results of their operations and their cash ows for each of States of America.
Information relating to the nature and the three years in the period ended 31 March 2005, in effect of such differences is presented in the United States conformity with accounting principles generally accepted Generally Accepted Accounting Principles section.
These financial statements are As discussed in note 1 to the financial statements the the responsibility of the groups management: our company changed its method for accounting for the responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial employee benefit trust in 2005. statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with the standards of  LLP the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors States.
Those standards require that we plan and perform London the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether 18 May 2005 the financial statements are free of material 24 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2005
