Caledonia Investments plc 45 Annual report 2005 Independent auditors report to the members of Caledonia Investments plc We have audited the financial statements on pages 46 to 71.
We We read the other information contained in the annual report, have also audited the information in the directors remuneration including the corporate governance report and the unaudited report that is described as having been audited.
part of the directors remuneration report, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider This report is made solely to the companys members, as a the implications for our report if we become aware of any body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to financial statements.
the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the Basis of audit opinion fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards responsibility to anyone other than the company and the issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts report, or for the opinions we have formed.
and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and made by the directors in the preparation of the financial the directors remuneration report.
As described on page 44, this statements, and of whether the accounting policies are includes responsibility for preparing the financial statements in appropriate to the groups circumstances, consistently accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting applied and adequately disclosed.
Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, are established in the United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services information and explanations which we considered necessary Authority, and by our professions ethical guidance.
in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the parts of the We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial directors remuneration report to be audited are free from statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other statements and the parts of the directors remuneration report to irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the financial statements and the parts of the directors remuneration directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if report to be audited.
the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for Opinion our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors In our opinion: remuneration and transactions with the group is not disclosed.
The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state We review whether the corporate governance statement on of affairs of the company and the group as at 31 March 2005 pages 40 to 43 reects the companys compliance with the nine and of the profit of the group for the year then ended.
provisions of the 2003 FRC Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required The financial statements and the parts of the directors to consider whether the boards statements on internal control remuneration report to be audited have been properly cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor London 19 May 2005
