Report of the independent auditors unaudited part of the directors remuneration report, the Chairmans To the members of Candover Investments plc statement, the operational review, the valuation policy, the review of We have audited the Group and Parent Company financial statements the 15 largest investments, the corporate governance statement and the financial statements of Candover Investments plc for the year other information listed in the contents.
We consider the implications ended 31 December, 2005 which comprise the principal accounting for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or policies, the Group income statement, the Group and Parent Company material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our balance sheets, the Group and Parent Company cash flow statements, responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
the Group and Parent Company statements of recognised income and expenses and the Group and Parent Company reconciliation of Basis of audit opinion movements in equity and notes 1 to 25.
These financial statements We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
We have also audited the information in the directors remuneration An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to report that is described as having been audited.
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and members those matters we are required to state to them in an Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent disclosed.
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have information and explanations which we considered necessary formed.
in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the directors Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors remuneration report to be audited are free from material The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
directors remuneration report and the financial statements in In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of Standards IFRSs as adopted for use in the European Union are set the directors remuneration report to be audited.
out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
Opinion Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of In our opinion: the directors remuneration report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in on Auditing UK and Ireland.
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December, 2005 and of its We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements profit for the year then ended: give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited have been the Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you if, in our applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial 1985, of the state of the Parent Companys affairs as at statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if 31 December, 2005: and we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the IAS Regulation.
Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Grant Thornton UK LLP Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not Registered Auditors required to consider whether the boards statements on internal Chartered Accountants control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the London effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its 23rd March, 2006 risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the annual report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
The other information comprises only the directors report, the 34 Candover Report and Accounts 2005
