Independent Auditors Report to the Members of The City of London Investment Trust plc W e have audited the Companys Financial Statements for Financial Statements.
This other information comprises the the year ended 30 June 2005 which comprise the Financial Highlights, Directors and Management, Chairmans Statement of T otal Return, Balance Sheet, Cash Flow Statement, Historical P erformance, T op 40 Investments, Statement, and the related notes 1 to 27.
These Financial Classification of Investments and P ortfolio W eighting, Statements have been prepared on the basis of the P ortfolio Managers Report, Estimated P erformance accounting policies set out therein.
W e have also audited Attribution Analysis, Distribution of the P ortfolio, Full List of the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that Investments, Report of the Directors, the unaudited part of is described as having been audited.
the Directors Remuneration Report, Corporate Governance Statement, Statement of Directors Responsibilities, Analysis This report is made solely to the Companys Members, as a of Ordinary Shareholders, Brief History, Dates of Dividend body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act and Interest Payments, Glossary of T erms, General 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might Shareholder Information, Annual General Meeting V enue, state to the Companys Members those matters we are Notice of Annual General Meeting and the List of Directors required to state to them in an Auditors Report and for no and Other Information.
W e consider the implications for our other purpose.
T o the fullest extent permitted by law, we do Report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the or material inconsistencies with the Financial Statements.
Company and the Companys Members as a body, for our Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
audit work, for this Report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Basis of audit opinion Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors W e conducted our audit in accordance with United The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Report, including the Financial Statements which are Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test required to be prepared in accordance with applicable basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures United Kingdom law and accounting standards as set out in the Financial Statements and the part of the Directors in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities in relation to Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an the financial statements.
The directors are also responsible assessment of the significant estimates and judgements for preparing the Directors Remuneration Report.
made by the directors in the preparation of the Financial Our responsibility is to audit the Financial Statements and Statements and of whether the accounting policies are the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory applied and adequately disclosed.
requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards and the W e planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
information and explanations which we considered necessary W e report to you our opinion as to whether the Financial in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give Statements give a true and fair view and whether the reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements and the Financial Statements and the part of the Directors part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
In forming our opinion we also also report to you if, in our opinion, the Report of the evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of Directors is not consistent with the Financial Statements, if information in the Financial Statements and the part of the the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
have not received all the information and explanations we Opinion require for our audit or if information specified by law or the In our opinion: Listing Rules regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the Company is not disclosed.
n the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company as at 30 June W e review whether the Corporate Governance Statement 2005 and of its revenue for the year then ended: and reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review n the Financial Statements and the part of the Directors by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly we report if it does not.
W e are not required to consider prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness Ernst & Y oung LLP of the Companys corporate governance procedures or its Registered Auditor risk and control procedures.
London W e read other information contained in the Annual Report 13 September 2005 and consider whether it is consistent with the audited 23
