Independent Auditors Report To the shareholders of The Body Shop International PLC We have audited the financial statements of The Body Shop inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities International PLC for the 52 weeks ended 26 February 2005 on do not extend to any other information.
These financial statements have been prepared Our report has been prepared pursuant to the requirements under the accounting policies set out on pages 42 and 43.
We have of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
No person also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report is entitled to rely on this report unless such a person is a person that is described as having been audited.
entitled to rely upon this report by virtue of and for the purpose of the Companies Act 1985 or has been expressly authorised to do Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors so by our prior written consent.
Save as above, we do not accept The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, responsibility for this report to any other person or for any other the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements purpose and we hereby expressly disclaim any and all such liability.
in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards are set out in the Directors Statement of Responsibilities.
Basis of audit opinion Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements, United includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the Kingdom Auditing Standards and the Listing Rules of the Financial amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part Services Authority.
of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the the Directors Report is not consistent with the financial statements, information and explanations which we considered necessary in if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable not received all the information and explanations we require for assurance that the financial statements and the part of the our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement presentation of information in the financial statements and the part reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
the 2003 FRC Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules Opinion of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
In our opinion: We are not required to consider whether the Board's statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion of the Groups and the Companys affairs as at 26 February on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance 2005 and of the Groups profit for the 52 weeks then ended: procedures or its risk and control procedures.
and We read other information contained in the Annual Report the financial statements and the part of the Directors and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly statements.
This other information comprises only the Letter prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. from the Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, the Performance Review, the Directors Report, the Corporate BDO Stoy Hayward LLP Governance Statement and the unaudited part of the Directors Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Remuneration Report.
We consider the implications for our report London if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material 28 April 2005 The Body Shop International PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 37
