Independent Auditors Report TO THE MEMBERS OF THE We read the other information contained in the Annual EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Report, including the Corporate Governance We have audited the financial statements on pages 27 Statement and the unaudited part of the Directors' to 42.
We have also audited the information in the Remuneration Report, and consider whether it is Directors' Remuneration Report that is described as consistent with the audited financial statements.
consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material This report is made solely to the Company's members, inconsistencies with the financial statements.
as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION undertaken so that we might state to the Company's We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing members those matters we are required to state to Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An them in an auditor's report and for no other purpose.
audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration the Company and the Company's members as a body, Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions of the significant estimates and judgements made by we have formed.
the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES appropriate to the Company's circumstances, OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Directors' Remuneration Report.
As We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all described on page 24, this includes responsibility for the information and explanations which we considered preparing the financial statements in accordance with necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence applicable United Kingdom law and accounting to give reasonable assurance that the financial standards.
Our responsibilities, as independent statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration Auditors, are established in the United Kingdom by Report to be audited are free from material statute, the Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other of the Financial Services Authority, and by our irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also profession's ethical guidance.
evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited.
statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors' OPINION Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly In our opinion: prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors' the financial statements give a true and fair view of Report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the state of affairs of the Company as at 31 March the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if 2005 and of the total return of the Company for the we have not received all the information and year then ended: and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors' remuneration and the financial statements and the part of the transactions with the Company is not disclosed.
Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the We review whether the corporate governance statement Companies Act 1985. on pages 19 to 23 reflect the Company's compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the KPMG Audit Plc Board's statements on internal control cover all risks and Chartered Accountants controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Registered Auditor Company's corporate governance procedures or its risk Edinburgh and control procedures.
24 May 2005 Page 26 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2005
