Notes continued 7 Directors remuneration $ million 2005 2004 2003 Total for all directors Emoluments 18 19 17 Ex-gratia payments to executive directors retiring in the year 1 Gains made on the exercise of share options 3 1 Amounts awarded under incentive schemes 8 6 4 Emoluments These amounts comprise fees paid to the non-executive chairman and the non-executive directors and, for executive directors, salary and benefits earned during the relevant financial year, plus bonuses awarded for the year.
Pension contributions Five executive directors participated in a non-contributory pension scheme established for UK staff by a separate trust fund to which contributions are made by BP based on actuarial advice.
One US executive director participated in the US BP Retirement Accumulation Plan during 2005.
Office facilities for former chairmen and deputy chairmen It is customary for the company to make available to former chairmen and deputy chairmen, who were previously employed executives, the use of office and basic secretarial facilities following their retirement.
The cost involved in doing so is not significant.
Further information Further details of individual directors remuneration are given in the summary directors remuneration report on page 40.
Independent auditors statement TO THE MEMBERS OF BP p. l. c. We have examined the groups summary financial statement for the year ended 31 December 2005.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 251 of the Companies Act 1985.
To the fullest extent required by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report or for the opinions we have formed.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS The directors are responsible for preparing BP Annual Review 2005 in accordance with applicable law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the summary financial statement within BP Annual Review 2005 with the full annual accounts, Directors Report and Directors Remuneration Report and its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in BP Annual Review 2005 and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
BASIS OF OPINION We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6 The auditors statement on the summary financial statement issued by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
OPINION In our opinion the summary financial statement is consistent with the full annual accounts, Directors Report and Directors Remuneration Report of BP p. l. c. for the year ended 31 December 2005 and complies with the applicable requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
Ernst & Young Registered Auditor London 6 February 2006 The auditors have issued an unqualified audit report on the annual accounts containing no statement under section 237 2 or section 237 3 of the Companies Act 1985.
