Independent Auditors Report to the Shareholders of Fidelity European Values PLC We have audited the financial statements of Fidelity Companys corporate governance procedures or its risk European Values PLC for the year ended and control procedures.
31 December 2005 which comprise the Income Statement, the Reconciliation of Movements in We read other information contained in the Annual Shareholders Funds, the Balance Sheet, the Cash Report and consider whether it is consistent with the Flow Statement and the related notes.
These financial audited financial statements.
The other information statements have been prepared under the accounting comprises the Chairmans Statement, the Managers policies set out therein.
We have also audited the Review, the Directors Report, the Corporate information in the Directors Remuneration Report that Governance Statement and the unaudited part of the is described as having been audited.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual extend to any further information.
Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted We conducted our audit in accordance with Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland Directors responsibilities.
The Directors are also issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit responsible for preparing the Directors Remuneration includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence Report.
relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to the significant estimates and judgements made by the be audited in accordance with relevant legal and Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, regulatory requirements and International Standards on and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate Auditing UK and Ireland.
to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act the information and explanations which we considered 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other to give reasonable assurance that the financial purpose or to any other person to whom this report is statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration shown or into whose hands it may come save where Report to be audited are free from material expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of statements give a true and fair view and whether the information in the financial statements and the part of financial statements and the part of the Directors the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
OPINION We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors In our opinion: Report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the financial statements give a true and fair view, in the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if accordance with United Kingdom Generally we have not received all the information and Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the explanations we require for our audit, or if information Companys affairs as at 31 December 2005 and of specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and its net return and cash flows for the year then transactions is not disclosed.
ended: and the financial statements and the part of the We review whether the Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the been properly prepared in accordance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code Companies Act 1985. specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
 LLP We are not required to consider whether the Boards Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors statements on internal control cover all risks and London controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the 6 March 2006 Page 26 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2005
