Independent Auditors Report Independent auditors' report to the members of Report, Corporate Governance Statement and other items Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC | We have audited the included in the contents section.
financial accounts which comprise the Statement of Total Return, We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement the Balance Sheet, the Cash Flow Statement and the Notes to the reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of Accounts which have been prepared under the historical cost the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the convention as modified by the revaluation of certain fixed assets Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if and the accounting policies set out in the statement of accounting it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards policies.
"We have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys Directors Remuneration Report ""the auditable part""."
corporate governance procedures or its risk and control Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors | The procedures.
Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the Basis of audit opinion | We conducted our audit in financial accounts in accordance with applicable United Kingdom accordance with auditing standards issued by the Auditing law and accounting standards are set out in the statement of Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, Directors' responsibilities.
The Directors are also responsible for of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the preparing the Directors Remuneration Report.
financial accounts and the auditable part of the Directors Our responsibility is to audit the financial accounts and the Remuneration Report.
It also includes an assessment of the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report in significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and the preparation of the financial accounts, and of whether the United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing accounting policies are appropriate to the company's Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for information and explanations which we considered necessary in no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person assurance that the financial accounts and the auditable part of to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come the Directors Remuneration Report are free from material save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall accounts give a true and fair view and whether the financial adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial accounts and the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration accounts.
Report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Opinion | In our opinion: Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the the financial accounts give a true and fair view of the state of Report of the Directors is not consistent with the financial the Company's affairs at 30 September 2005 and of its total accounts, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, return and cash flows for the year then ended: if we have not received all the information and explanations we the financial accounts have been properly prepared in require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and directors' remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
those parts of the Directors Remuneration Report required We read the other information contained in the annual report by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Act 1985. financial accounts.
The other information comprises the  LLP Chairman's Statement, the Managers Review, the Report of the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Directors, the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration London, 4 November 2005 26 Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC | Report and Accounts 2005
