Independent Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report to the and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness shareholders members of Foreign & Colonial of the company's corporate governance procedures Investment Trust PLC or its risk and control procedures.
We read other We have audited the financial statements of Foreign & information contained in the Annual Report and Colonial Investment Trust PLC for the year ended consider whether it is consistent with the audited 31 December 2005 which comprise the Income financial statements.
The other information comprises Statement, the Balance Sheet, the Cash Flow only the Chairman's Statement, the Business Review, Statement, the Reconciliation of Movements in the Report of the Directors, the unaudited part of the Shareholders Funds and the related notes.
These Directors' Remuneration Report and the Corporate financial statements have been prepared under the Governance statement.
We consider the implications accounting policies set out therein.
We have also for our report if we become aware of any apparent audited the information in the Directors' Remuneration misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Report that is described as having been audited.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Basis of audit opinion The directors' responsibilities for preparing the We conducted our audit in accordance with Annual Report, the Directors' Remuneration Report International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland and the financial statements in accordance with issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Accounting Practice are set out in the Directors' financial statements and the part of the Directors' Statement of Responsibilities.
Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial and the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report statements, and of whether the accounting policies are to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and appropriate to the company's circumstances, regulatory requirements and International Standards consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all This report, including the opinion, has been prepared the information and explanations which we considered for and only for the company's members as a body in necessary, in order to provide us with sufficient accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act evidence to give reasonable assurance that the 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving financial statements and the part of the Directors' this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any Remuneration Report to be audited are free from other purpose or to any other person to whom this material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or report is shown or into whose hands it may come save other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial information in the financial statements and the part of statements give a true and fair view and whether the the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited.
financial statements and the part of the Directors' Opinion Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
In our opinion: We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Report of the financial statements give a true and fair view, the Directors is not consistent with the financial in accordance with United Kingdom Generally statements, if the company has not kept proper Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the accounting records, if we have not received all the company's affairs as at 31 December 2005 and information and explanations we require for our audit, of its return and cash flows for the year then or if information specified by law regarding directors' ended: and remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
the financial statements and the part of the We review whether the Corporate Governance Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited statement reflects the company's compliance with have been properly prepared in accordance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code the Companies Act 1985. specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the  LLP, Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors, not.
We are not required to consider whether the London Board's statements on internal control cover all risks 2 March 2006 Report and Accounts 2005 49
