FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent Auditors report to the members of Friends Provident plc We have audited the Group and parent company financial We read other information contained in the annual report and statements of Friends Provident plc on pages 66 to 176 and from consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial 194 to 199 for the year ended 31 December 2005 which comprise statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we the Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated and parent become aware of any apparent misstatements or material company balance sheets, the Consolidated cash flow statement, the inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense and the not extend to any other information.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the Basis of audit opinion information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards having been audited.
on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys includes an assessment of the significant estimates and members those matters we are required to state to them in an judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone to the Groups and companys circumstances, consistently applied other than the company and the companys members, as a body for and adequately disclosed.
our audit work, for this report or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor information and explanations which we considered necessary in The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the remuneration report to be audited are free from material EU, and for preparing the parent company financial statements and misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
the Directors remuneration report in accordance with applicable law In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting presentation of information in the financial statements and the part Practice are set out in the Statement of directors responsibilities on of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
Opinion Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of In our opinion: the Directors remuneration report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2005 and of its profit for the We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements year then ended: give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited have accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 IAS Regulation: and whether, in addition, the Group financial statements have been the parent company financial statements give a true and fair properly prepared in accordance with Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
view, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors report is not Practice, of the state of the parent companys affairs as at 31 consistent with the financial statements, if the company has not December 2005: and kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the the parent company financial statements and the part of the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if Directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate governance report reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not KPMG Audit Plc required to consider whether the boards statements on internal Chartered Accountants control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the Registered Auditor effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its London risk and control procedures.
10 April 2006 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005 65
