309467 1-100 9 3 06 9:12 pm Page 95 We also report to you if, in our opinion, Opinion Independent the Directors Report is not consistent In our opinion: with the financial statements, if the company the Group accounts give a true and auditors report has not kept proper accounting records, fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as if we have not received all the information adopted by the EU, of the state of the to the members and explanations we require for our audit, Groups affairs as at 31 December 2005 or if information specified by law regarding and of its profit for the year then ended: of HBOS plc directors remuneration and other the Company accounts give a true and transactions is not disclosed.
fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as We have audited the Group and Parent with the provisions of the Companies Act Company accounts the accounts of HBOS We review whether the corporate governance 1985, of the state of the Companys affairs plc for the year ended 31 December 2005 statement on pages 68 to 72 reflects the as at 31 December 2005 and which comprise the Consolidated Income Companys compliance with the nine the accounts and the part of the Report of Statement, the Consolidated and Company provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code the Board in relation to remuneration policy Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and specified for our review by the Listing Rules and practice to be audited have been Company Cash Flow Statements, the of the Financial Services Authority, and properly prepared in accordance with the Consolidated and Company Statement of we report if it does not.
We are not required Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Recognised Income and Expense and the to consider whether the boards statements accounts, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
These accounts have been on internal control cover all risks and controls, prepared under the accounting policies set out or form an opinion on the effectiveness of therein.
We have also audited the information the groups corporate governance procedures in the Report of the Board in relation to or its risk and control procedures.
KPMG Audit Plc remuneration policy and practice that is described on page 76 as having been audited.
Chartered Accountants We read other information contained in the Registered Auditor Annual Report and Accounts and consider This report is made solely to the Companys Edinburgh whether it is consistent with the audited members, as a body, in accordance with accounts.
We consider the implications for section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
28 February 2006 our report if we become aware of any apparent Our audit work has been undertaken misstatements or material inconsistencies so that we might state to the Companys with the accounts.
Our responsibilities do members those matters we are required not extend to any other information.
to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent Basis of audit opinion permitted by law, we do not accept or We conducted our audit in accordance assume responsibility to anyone other than with International Standards on Auditing the company and the companys members UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing as a body, for our audit work, for this report, Practices Board.
An audit includes or for the opinions we have formed.
examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in Respective responsibilities of directors the accounts and the part of the Report of and auditors the Board in relation to remuneration policy The directors responsibilities for preparing and practice to be audited.
It also includes the Annual Report and Accounts and an assessment of the significant estimates the Report of the Board in relation and judgments made by the directors in the to remuneration policy and practice preparation of the accounts, and of whether in accordance with applicable law and the accounting policies are appropriate to International Financial Reporting Standards the Groups and Companys circumstances, IFRSs as adopted by the EU are set out in consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 73.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations Our responsibility is to audit the accounts which we considered necessary in order to and the part of the Report of the Board in provide us with sufficient evidence to give relation to remuneration policy and practice to reasonable assurance that the accounts and be audited in accordance with relevant legal the part of the Report of the Board in relation and regulatory requirements and International to remuneration policy and practice to be Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity We report to you our opinion as to whether or error.
In forming our opinion we also the financial statements give a true and fair evaluated the overall adequacy of the view and whether the financial statements presentation of information in the accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration and the part of the Report of the Board in Report to be audited have been properly relation to remuneration policy and practice prepared in accordance with the Companies to be audited.
Act 1985 and, as regards the financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Annual Report and HBOSplc Accounts 2005 95
