qxd 14 3 06 1:02 pm Page 103 Directors Report and Accounts 2005 British American Tobacco 103 REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS to the members of British American Tobacco p. l. c. We have audited the parent company financial statements the Corporate Governance Statement, the statement of British American Tobacco p. l. c. for the year ended of Directors responsibilities, the five year summary, 31 December 2005 which comprise the balance sheet and the quarterly analyses of profit, the Group financial the related notes.
These parent company financial statements statements and the Annual Review.
We consider the have been prepared under the accounting policies set implications for our report if we become aware of any out therein.
We have also audited the information in the apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies Remuneration Report contained in the Directors Report with the parent company financial statements.
Our and Accounts that is described as having been audited.
responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
We have reported separately on the Group financial Basis of audit opinion statements of British American Tobacco p. l. c. for the We conducted our audit in accordance with International year ended 31 December 2005.
Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual disclosures in the parent company financial statements Report and Accounts, including the Remuneration and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited.
Report and the parent company financial statements, It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally of the parent company financial statements, and of Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the statement whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the of Directors responsibilities.
Companys circumstances, consistently applied and Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial adequately disclosed.
statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory the information and explanations which we considered requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been to give reasonable assurance that the parent company prepared for and only for the Companys members as a financial statements and the part of the Remuneration body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall purpose or to any other person to whom this report is adequacy of the presentation of information in the shown or into whose hands it may come save where parent company financial statements and the part of expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the Remuneration Report to be audited.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent Opinion company financial statements give a true and fair view In our opinion: and whether the parent company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited have been the parent company financial statements give a true properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state Report is not consistent with the parent company financial of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2005: and statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting the parent company financial statements and the part records, if we have not received all the information and of the Remuneration Report to be audited have been explanations we require for our audit, or if information properly prepared in accordance with the Companies specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and Act 1985. other transactions is not disclosed.
 LLP We read other information contained in the Annual Report Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors and Accounts and consider whether it is consistent 1 Embankment Place, London with the audited parent company financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors 28 February 2006 Report, the unaudited part of the Remuneration Report,
