qxd 14 3 06 1:05 pm Page 25 Directors Report and Accounts 2005 British American Tobacco 25 REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS to the members of British American Tobacco p. l. c. We have audited the Group financial statements of of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk British American Tobacco p. l. c. for the year ended and control procedures.
31 December 2005, which comprise the Group income We read other information contained in the Annual Report statement, the Group statement of changes in total equity, and Accounts and consider whether it is consistent with the the Group balance sheet, the Group cash ow statement, audited Group financial statements.
The other information and the related notes including the principal subsidiary comprises only the Directors Report, the Remuneration undertakings and the principal associated undertakings.
Report, the Corporate Governance Statement, the These Group financial statements have been prepared Statement of Directors responsibilities, the five year under the accounting policies set out therein.
summary, the quarterly analyses of profit, the parent We have reported separately on the parent company company financial statements and the Annual Review.
We financial statements of British American Tobacco p. l. c. for consider the implications for our report if we become the year ended 31 December 2005 and on the information aware of any apparent misstatements or material in the Remuneration Report that is described as having inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors Basis of audit opinion The Directors responsibilities for preparing the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Annual Report and Accounts, including the Group Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the financial statements, in accordance with applicable law Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and as adopted by the European Union, are set out in the disclosures in the Group financial statements.
It also includes statement of Directors responsibilities.
an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the Group Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in financial statements, and of whether the accounting accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 the information and explanations which we considered and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial to any other person to whom this report is shown or into statements are free from material misstatement, whether whose hands it may come, save where expressly agreed caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming by our prior consent in writing.
our opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group financial statements.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements give a true and fair view and whether Opinion the Group financial statements have been properly prepared In our opinion: in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you if, in our accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2005 Group financial statements, if we have not received all the and of its profit and cash ows for the year then ended: and information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors the Group financial statements have been properly remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions  LLP of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and 1 Embankment Place, London we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider 28 February 2006 whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness
