Independent Auditors Report Independent auditors report to the infor mation specified by law regarding adequacy of the presentation of infor mation members of ICAP plc directors remuneration and transactions is in the Financial Statements.
We have audited the Financial Statements not disclosed.
which comprise the consolidated profit and Opinion loss account, the consolidated balance We read the other infor mation contained in In our opinion: sheet, the consolidated statement of total the annual report and consider the recognised gains and losses, the implications for our report if we become n the Financial Statements give a true and consolidated cash flow statement, the aware of any apparent misstatements or fair view of the state of the affairs of Company balance sheet and the related material inconsistencies with the Financial the Company and the Group at notes which have been prepared under the Statements.
The other infor mation 31 March 2005 and of the profit and historical cost convention and the comprises only the Group Profile, cash flows of the Group for the year accounting policies set out in the statement Chair mans Statement, Financial Highlights, then ended: of accounting policies.
We have also Group Chief Executive Officers Review, n the Financial Statements have been audited the disclosures required by Part 3 Operating and Financial Review, Directors properly prepared in accordance with of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 and Secretary, Directors Report, Corporate the Companies Act 1985: and contained in the Remuneration Committee Governance and the unaudited part of the n those parts of the Remuneration Report the auditable part.
Committee Report required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act Respective responsibilities of directors and We review whether the corporate 1985 have been properly prepared in auditors governance statement reflects the accordance with the Companies Act The directors responsibilities for preparing Companys and Groups compliance with 1985. the annual report and the Financial the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Statements in accordance with applicable Combined Code specified for our review by United Kingdom law and accounting the Listing Rules of the Financial Services standards are set out in the statement of Authority and we report if it does not.
We  LLP directors responsibilities included in the are not required to consider whether the Chartered Accountants and Directors Report.
The directors are also boards statements on internal control Registered Auditors responsible for preparing the Remuneration cover all risks and controls, or to for m an London, United Kingdom Committee Report.
opinion on the ef fectiveness of the 23 May 2005 Companys or Groups Corporate Our responsibility is to audit the Financial Governance procedures or its risk and Statements and the auditable part of the control procedures.
Remuneration Committee Report in accordance with relevant legal and Basis of audit opinion regulatory requirements and United We conducted our audit in accordance with Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the auditing standards issued by the Auditing Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes including the opinion, has been prepared for examination, on a test basis, of evidence and only for the Companys members as a relevant to the amounts and disclosures in body in accordance with Section 235 of the the Financial Statements and the auditable Companies Act 1985 and for no other part of the Remuneration Committee purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, Report.
It also includes an assessment of accept or assume responsibility for any the significant estimates and judgements other purpose or to any other person to made by the directors in the preparation of whom this report is shown or into whose the Financial Statements, and of whether hands it may come save where expressly the accounting policies are appropriate to agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the Companys and Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately We report to you our opinion as to whether disclosed.
the Financial Statements give a true and fair view and whether the Financial We planned and per for med our audit so as Statements and the auditable part of the to obtain all the infor mation and Remuneration Committee Report have been explanations which we considered properly prepared in accordance with the necessary in order to provide us with Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you sufficient evidence to give reasonable if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is assurance that the Financial Statements not consistent with the Financial and the auditable part of the Remuneration Statements, if the Company or Group has Committee Report are free from material not kept proper accounting records, if we misstatement, whether caused by fraud or have not received all the infor mation and other irregularity or error.
In for ming our explanations we require for our audit, or if opinion we also evaluated the overall Annual Report 2005 ICAP plc 41
