47 BRITISH ENERGY GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 31 MARCH 2005 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BRITISH ENERGY GROUP PLC FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 31 MARCH 2005 BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION We have audited the financial statements which comprise the Profit We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards and Loss Account, the Balance Sheets, the Cash Flow Statement, issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes the Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses and the examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts related Notes.
We have also audited the disclosures required by and disclosures in the financial statements and the auditable Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in part of the Remuneration Committee Report.
It also includes an the Remuneration Committee Report the auditable part.
assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
and the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the Statement We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the of Directors Responsibilities.
The Directors are also responsible for information and explanations which we considered necessary in preparing the Remuneration Committee Report.
order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the auditable part Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and of the Remuneration Committee Report are free from material the auditable part of the Remuneration Committee Report in misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of United Kingdom auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices the presentation of information in the financial statements.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with OPINION Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
In our opinion: We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state is shown or into whose hands it may come, save where expressly of affairs of the Company and the Group at 31 March 2005 agreed by our prior consent in writing.
and of the profit and cash flows of the Group for the period from 2 July 2004 to 31 March 2005: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements the financial statements have been properly prepared give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and the auditable part of the Remuneration Committee Report have those parts of the Remuneration Committee Report required by been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
 LLP We read the other information contained in the annual report Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors and consider the implications for our report if we become aware Edinburgh of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises only 27 July 2005 the Directors Report, the unaudited part of the Remuneration Committee Report, the Chairmans Statement, the Review of Notes Operating Performance, Financial Review, and the Corporate Social a The maintenance and integrity of the British Energy Group plc website is the Responsibility, Restructuring and Corporate Governance statements.
responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 statements since they were initially presented on the website.
FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
