BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 Financial Statements PAGE 39 DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES United Kingdom company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are required to: for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: of the Group for that period.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed.
After making enquiries, the Directors have formed a judgement, at the time of approving the financial statements, that there is a reasonable expectation that The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them foreseeable future.
For this reason, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They basis in preparing the financial statements.
are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
AUDITORS REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC We read the Directors Report and the other information contained in the Annual We have audited the financial statements of British Sky Broadcasting Group plc for Report for the above year as described in the contents section including the the year ended 30 June 2005 which comprise the Profit and Loss Account, the unaudited part of the Report on Directors Remuneration and consider the Balance Sheets, the Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 28.
These implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
We have also audited the information in the part of the Report on Directors Remuneration that is described as having been audited.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom auditing standards This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to statements and the part of the Report on Directors Remuneration described as them in an Auditors Report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted having been audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements and and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the opinions we have formed.
Company and the Group, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and As described in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities, the Companys Directors explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
They are also responsible the Report on Directors Remuneration described as having been audited are free for the preparation of the other information contained in the Annual Report from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
including the Report on Directors Remuneration.
Our responsibility is to audit the In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation financial statements and the part of the Report on Directors Remuneration of information in the financial statements and the part of the Report on Directors described as having been audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal Remuneration described as having been audited.
and regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
Opinion We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and In our opinion: fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Remuneration Report described as having been audited have been properly Company and the Group as at 30 June 2005 and of the profit of the Group for the prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our year then ended: and opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the the financial statements and part of the Report on Directors Remuneration Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by the Companies Act 1985. law regarding Directors remuneration and transactions with the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not complied with any of London the requirements set out in the Financial Services Authoritys Listing Rules 9.8.
8R 2 2 August 2005 with regards to the amount of each element in the remuneration package and information on share options, 9.8.
8R 3, 4 and 5 with regards to details of longterm incentive schemes for directors, 9.8.
8R 11 with regards to money purchase schemes, 9.8.
8R 12 with regards to defined benefit schemes, and we give a statement, to the extent possible, of details of any non-compliance.
Notes i An audit does not provide assurance on the maintenance and integrity of the website, including We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys controls used to achieve this, and in particular on whether any changes may have occurred to the compliance with the nine provisions of the July 2003 FRC Combined Code specified financial statements since first published.
These matters are the responsibility of the directors but for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report no control procedures can provide absolute assurance in this area.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness ii Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
statements differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
