158 We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement on Report of the independent auditors pages 111 to 127 reflects the companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our We have audited the groups financial statements on pages review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We 160 to 228 for the year ended 31 March 2005 which are not required to consider whether the boards statements comprise Consolidated Profit and Loss Account, Consolidated on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an Balance Sheet, Company Balance Sheet, Consolidated Cash opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate Flow Statement, Consolidated Statement of Total Recognised governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Gains and Losses, Reconciliation of Consolidated Shareholders Funds and the related notes 1 to 43.
These financial statements We read other information contained in the Annual Report have been prepared on the basis of the accounting policies set and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial out therein.
We have also audited the information on pages statements.
This other information comprises the Directors 139 to 146 in the Directors Remuneration Report that is Report, unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration described as having been audited.
Report, Chairmans Statement, Chief Executive Officers and Managing Directors Report, A Detailed Analysis of the groups This report is made solely to the companys members, as a Performance, Divisional Reviews and Corporate Governance body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act Report and Risk Management.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might for our report if we become aware of any apparent state to the companys members those matters we are misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial required to state to them in an auditors report and for no statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do information.
not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit Basis of audit opinion work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom Respective responsibilities of directors and Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An auditors audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
including the financial statements which are required to be It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the and accounting standards as set out in the Statement of financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are Directors Responsibilities in relation to the financial statements appropriate to the groups circumstances, consistently applied on page 157. and adequately disclosed.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in information and explanations which we considered necessary accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements, in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give United Kingdom Auditing Standards and the Listing Rules of reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part the Financial Services Authority.
of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration financial statements and the part of the Directors Report to be audited have been properly prepared in Remuneration Report to be audited.
accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the group is not disclosed.
Investec plc financial statements incorporating the results of Investec Limited Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the group as at 31 March 2005 and of the profit of the group for the year then ended: and the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered Auditor London 17 June 2005
