Financial Statements Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Jardine Basis of audit opinion Lloyd Thompson Group plc for the year ended 31st December We conducted our audit in accordance with International 2005 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, Recognised Income and Expense, the Consolidated Cash Flow on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and Statement, and the related notes.
These Group financial disclosures in the Group financial statements.
It also includes statements have been prepared under the accounting policies an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments set out therein.
made by the directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are We have reported separately on the parent company financial appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied statements of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc for the year and adequately disclosed.
ended 31st December 2005 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the 45 been audited.
information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors reasonable assurance that the Group financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also and the Group financial statements in accordance with evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards information in the Group financial statements.
IFRS as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Opinion Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in In our opinion: accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, for the companys members as a body in accordance with of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31st December 2005 Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: and purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume the Group financial statements have been properly prepared responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come the IAS Regulation.
save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the  LLP Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors, IAS Regulation.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the London Directors Report is not consistent with the Group financial 21st March 2006 statements, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified Notes: by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions a The maintenance and integrity of the Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc is not disclosed.
website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the the website.
Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and boards statements on internal control cover all risks and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the jurisdictions.
Groups Corporate Governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Statement, Operational Review, Financial Review, Directors Report, and the unaudited parts of the Directors Remuneration Report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
