Company Accounts Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of Basis of audit opinion Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc for the year ended 31st We conducted our audit in accordance with International December 2005 which comprise the Balance Sheet, Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Reconciliation of Movement in Shareholders Funds and the Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test related notes.
These Parent Company financial statements basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in have been prepared under the accounting policies set out the parent company financial statements and the part of the therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the parent company We have reported separately on the Group financial statements financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc for the year ended 31st are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently December 2005. applied and adequately disclosed.
105 Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, information and explanations which we considered necessary the Directors Remuneration Report and the parent company in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give financial statements in accordance with applicable law and reasonable assurance that the parent company financial United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the Our responsibility is to audit the Parent Company financial presentation of information in the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory to be audited.
requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared Opinion for and only for the companys members as a body in In our opinion: accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept the Parent Company financial statements give a true and or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent Companys affairs as at 31st December 2005: and in writing.
the Parent Company financial statements and the part We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have company financial statements give a true and fair view and been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies whether the Parent Company financial statements and the part Act 1985. of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors  LLP Report is not consistent with the parent company financial statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors, records, if we have not received all the information and London explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified 21st March 2006 by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
Notes: We read other information contained in the Annual Report and a The maintenance and integrity of the Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the company financial statements.
The other information comprises auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have only the Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Statement, occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on Operational Review, Financial Review, Directors Report, and the website.
the unaudited parts of the Directors Remuneration Report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other the parent company financial statements.
do not extend to any other information.
