Independent Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report to the members of We read other information contained in the Annual JPMorgan Fleming Continental European Investment Report and consider whether it is consistent with the Trust plc audited financial statements.
This other information comprises the Chairmans Statement, Investment We have audited the Companys financial statements for Managers Report, Facts, Summary of Results, the year ended 31st March 2005 which comprise the Performance, Financial Record, Ten Largest Investments, Statement of Total Return, Balance Sheet, Cash Flow Sector Analysis, Shareholder Analysis, List of Statement, notes i to vii and the related notes 1 to 19.
These Investments, Board of Directors, Directors Report, financial statements have been prepared on the basis of Corporate Governance, Remuneration Report, Directors the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also Responsibilities in Respect of the Accounts, Notice of audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Annual General Meeting and Information about the Report that is described as having been audited.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or This report is made solely to the Companys members, as material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Our responsibilities do not extend to any other Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we information.
might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and Basis of audit opinion for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by We conducted our audit in accordance with United law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing other than the Company and the Companys members as Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and opinions we have formed.
disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual includes an assessment of the significant estimates and Report including the financial statements which are judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of required to be prepared in accordance with applicable the financial statements, and of whether the accounting accounting United Kingdom law and accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, standards, and the Directors Remuneration Report are consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the information and explanations which we considered the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory to give reasonable assurance that the financial requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards and statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also statements give a true and fair view and whether the evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of financial statements and the part of the Directors information in the financial statements and the part of Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We Opinion also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report In our opinion: is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we the financial statements give a true and fair view of have not received all the information and explanations the state of affairs of the Company as at 31st March we require for our audit, or if information specified by law 2005 and of its return and profit for the year: and or the Listing Rules regarding Directors remuneration and transactions with the Company is not disclosed.
the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement properly prepared in accordance with the Companies reflects the Companys compliance with the nine Act 1985. provisions of the 2003 FRC Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an ERNST & YOUNG LLP opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys corporate Registered Auditor London, 9th June 2005 governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
