Independent Auditors Report To the members of JPMorgan Fleming Japanese Council Combined Code specified for our review by the Investment Trust plc Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and We have audited the financial statements of JPMorgan we report if it does not.
We are not required to Fleming Japanese Investment Trust plc for the year consider whether the Boards statements on internal ended 30th September 2005 which comprise the control cover all risks and controls, or to form an Statement of Total Return, the Balance Sheet, the Cash opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys Flow Statement and the related notes.
We have also corporate governance procedures or its risk and audited the information in the Directors Remuneration control procedures.
Report that is described as having been audited.
Basis of audit opinion Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the audit includes examination, on a test basis, of financial statements in accordance with applicable evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set the financial statements and the part of the Directors out in the statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements judgements made by the directors in the preparation and the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration of the financial statements, and of whether the Report in accordance with relevant legal and accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing circumstances, consistently applied and adequately Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act all the information and explanations which we 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving considered necessary in order to provide us with this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that other purpose or to any other person to whom this the financial statements and the part of the Directors report is shown or into whose hands it may come save Remuneration Report to be audited are free from where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we We report to you our opinion as to whether the also evaluated the overall adequacy of the financial statements give a true and fair view whether presentation of information in the financial the financial statements and the part of the Directors statements.
Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Opinion Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the In our opinion: Directors Report is not consistent with the financial the financial statements give a true and fair view statements, if the Company has not kept proper of the state of the Companys affairs at 30th accounting records, if we have not received all the September 2005 and of its total return and cash information and explanations we require for our audit, flows for the year then ended: and of if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and transactions with the Company is the financial statements and the part of the not disclosed.
Directors Remuneration Report required to be audited have been properly prepared in We read the other information contained in the Annual accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or those parts of the Directors Remuneration Report material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the The other information comprises only the Directors Companies Act 1985 have been properly prepared Report, the unaudited part of the Directors in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Remuneration Report, the Chairmans Statement, the Investment Managers Report and the corporate governance statement.
We review whether the corporate governance BEGBIES EVERETT CHETTLE statement reflects the Companys compliance with the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors nine provisions of the 2003 Financial Reporting London, 10th November 2005 JPMorgan Fleming Japanese 27
