Independent Auditors Report To the members of JPMorgan Fleming Overseas Managers Report, Directors Report, Corporate Investment Trust plc Governance statement and the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report.
We have audited the accounts which comprise the Statement of Total Return, the Balance Sheet, the Cash We review whether the Corporate Governance statement Flow Statement and the related notes which have been reflects the Companys compliance with the nine prepared under the historical cost convention as provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for modified by the revaluation of certain fixed assets and our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services the accounting policies set out in the statement of Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required accounting policies.
We have also audited the disclosures to consider whether the boards statements on internal required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on 1985 contained in the Directors Remuneration Report the effectiveness of the Companys corporate governance the auditable part.
procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors Basis of Audit Opinion The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing Report and the accounts in accordance with applicable standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
The relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the accounts Directors are also responsible for preparing the Directors and the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Remuneration Report.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the Our responsibility is to audit the accounts and the preparation of the accounts, and of whether the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report in accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys accordance with relevant legal and regulatory circumstances, consistently applied and adequately requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards disclosed.
issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Companys members as a body in accordance with the information and explanations which we considered Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or to give reasonable assurance that the accounts and the assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report are other person to whom this report is shown or into whose free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we prior consent in writing.
also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the accounts.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a true and fair view and whether the accounts and the Opinion auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report have In our opinion: been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of the Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Companys affairs at 30th June 2005 and of its total Directors Report is not consistent with the accounts, if the return and cash flows for the year then ended: Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we the accounts have been properly prepared in have not received all the information and explanations we accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and require for our audit, or if information specified by law those parts of the Directors Remuneration Report regarding Directors remuneration and transactions is not required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act disclosed.
1985 have been properly prepared in accordance with We read the other information contained in the annual the Companies Act 1985. report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material  LLP inconsistencies with the accounts.
The other information Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors comprises only the Chairmans Statement, the Investment London, 26th September 2005 Notes: a The accounts are published on the www.
com its website, which is a website maintained by the Companys manager JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited JPMAM.
The maintenance and integrity of the JPMAM website or any of its subsidiaries is, so far as it related to the Company, the responsibility of JPMAM: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the accounts since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of accounts may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
