Independent Auditors 1 Report To the Members of JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile We review whether the corporate governance Investment Trust plc statement reflects the Company's compliance with the We have audited the financial statements which nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code comprise the statement of total return, the balance specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the sheet, the cash flow statement and the related notes Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does which have been prepared under the historical cost not.
We are not required to consider whether the convention as modified by the revaluation of certain board's statements on internal control cover all risks fixed assets and the policies set out in the Statement and controls, or to form an opinion on the of Accounting Policies.
We have also audited the effectiveness of the Companys corporate governance disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Companies Act 1985 contained in the directors Basis of Audit Opinion remuneration report the auditable part.
We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual audit includes examination, on a test basis, of report and the financial statements in accordance evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting the financial statements and the auditable part of the standards are set out in the statement of directors' directors remuneration report.
It also includes an responsibilities.
The directors are also responsible for assessment of the significant estimates and preparing the directors remuneration report.
judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements accounting policies are appropriate to the Company's and the auditable part of the directors remuneration circumstances, consistently applied and adequately report in accordance with relevant legal and disclosed.
regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain This report, including the opinion, has been prepared all the information and explanations which we for and only for the Companys members as a body in considered necessary in order to provide us with accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving the financial statements and the auditable part of the this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any directors remuneration report are free from material other purpose or to any other person to whom this misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other report is shown or into whose hands it may come irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of writing.
information in the financial statements.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Opinion financial statements give a true and fair view and In our opinion: whether the financial statements and the auditable the financial statements give a true and fair view of part of the directors remuneration report have been the state of the Companys affairs at 31st January properly prepared in accordance with the Companies 2005 and of its total return and cash flows for the Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the year then ended: directors' report is not consistent with the financial the financial statements have been properly statements, if the Company has not kept proper prepared in accordance with the Companies Act accounting records, if we have not received all the 1985: and information and explanations we require for our audit, those parts of the directors remuneration report or if information specified by law regarding directors required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
Act 1985 have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We read the other information contained in the annual report and consider the implications for our report if  LLP we become aware of any apparent misstatements or Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors material inconsistencies with the financial London, 12th April 2005 statements.
The other information comprises only the chairmans statement, the investment managers report, the directors' report, the corporate governance statement, and the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report.
1 The financial statements are published on the www.
com its website, which is a website maintained by the Companys Manager, J. P. Morgan Fleming Asset Management UK Limited JPMFAM.
The maintenance and integrity of the website maintained by JPMFAM or any of its subsidiaries is, so far as it relates to the Company, the responsibility of JPMFAM.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of the maintenance and integrity of this website or any other website upon which the financial statements may be published and accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may occur to the financial statements following presentation on a website.
Visitors to any website containing the financial statements need to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements may differ from legislation in their jurisdiction.
