Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Bunzl plc We have audited the Group and parent company financial statements the Basis of audit opinion financial statements of Bunzl plc for the year ended 31 December 2005 We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards which comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Statement of on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Recognised Income and Expense, the Group and parent company Balance An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to Sheets, the Group Cash Flow Statement and the related notes.
These the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
the directors in the preparation of the financial statements and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, audited are free from material misstatement whether caused by fraud for this report or for the opinions we have formed.
or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to The directors responsibilities for preparing the Group financial be audited.
statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU and for preparing the parent Opinion company financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report in In our opinion: accordance with applicable law and UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance page 42. with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2005 and of its Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of profit for the year then ended: the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in on Auditing UK and Ireland.
accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and whether, in state of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2005: and addition, the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the financial Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, accordance with the Companies Act 1985. if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
KPMG Audit Plc We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects Chartered Accountants the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Registered Auditor Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the London Financial Services Authority and we report if it does not.
We are not 27 February 2006 required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Directors Report and Accounts and relevant sections of the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to other information.
Bunzl plc Directors Report and Accounts 2005 43
