Statement of the Independent Auditors to the Members of Bunzl plc pursuant to Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 We have examined the Summary Financial Statement on pages 22 to 26.
This statement is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in such a statement and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by the law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our work, for this statement or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the Summary Financial Statement in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the Summary Financial Statement within the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement with the full financial statements, the Directors Report and the Directors Remuneration Report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Summary Financial Statement.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of opinion We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6, The Auditors Statement on the Summary Financial Statement issued by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
Our report on the Groups full financial statements describes the basis of our audit opinion on those financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion the Summary Financial Statement is consistent with the full financial statements, the Directors Report and the Directors Remuneration Report of Bunzl plc for the year ended 31 December 2005 and complies with the applicable requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor London 27 February 2006 The auditors have issued an unqualified report on the full financial statements containing no statement under Sections 237 2 or 237 3 of the Companies Act 1985.
Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 27
