CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED The working environment Policy statement: All decisions about peoples employment are based solely on an objective assessment of their suitability for the job.
We reward and develop employees according to performance and skills within the context of business needs.
Some of the years developments in this area include: Recruitment Recruitment into our retail sites is now being aided by a number of close relationships we have with schools located in the communities near our London stores.
The stores offer work experience and placements for 16 year olds helping to aid their career development and improve their skills whilst providing us with a much needed source of employees.
Recruitment and training workshops are being prepared for Burberry managers which are designed to reinforce adherence to company policies and to ensure that commitment to equal opportunities and anti-discrimination procedures are followed.
Induction All contracts for new employees in the UK now include the Companys Global Policies and Ways of Working Document and the Burberry Code of Business Principles.
We have also developed a new Welcome to Burberry induction programme for Wholesale employees: This half-day programme provides employees with an understanding of the Groups business, its performance and culture, and emphasises our values and Code of Business Principles.
Policies We now have a comprehensive set of employment policies.
A revised policy on whistleblowing is being rolled out by the Internal Audit Department which will use a high profile internal campaign to promote its take-up.
Business partners and supply chain Policy statement: We treat our business partners according to our contractual agreements and pay when due.
We do not accept any gift or entertainment, which might or might be seen to put us under any obligation to the giver.
Supply chain issues within the apparel sector provide both direct and indirect threats to Burberrys reputation.
The process of acquiring new suppliers includes completion of a supplier evaluation.
Following this, risk assessments are carried out on the basis of which audits may be performed to ensure that any emerging issues are kept under review.
Such issues may include key supply chain risks and more general environmental and health and safety assessments.
The assessments then become the focus of assurance and audit activity.
Over the long term we are committed to work in partnership with suppliers and licensee businesses.
The most significant developments of the year can be summarised as follows: Direct Supplier Audits Over the last year, primary audits were carried out on 14 factories which were selected following a risk assessment.
12 of these will be subject to a further audit to ensure recommended actions have been taken.
We currently have 35 visits scheduled for the coming year.
Licensee Audits During the year, 29 factories identified following risk assessment were the subjects of audit visits, 12 of which are to be visited again for re-auditing evaluation.
Awareness raising We have continued to work with all direct suppliers and licensees to increase the awareness of Social, Ethical and Environmental issues.
Environmental Performance Policy statement: Burberry respects the environment and the local communities within which it does business.
As far as possible we will minimise our environmental impact.
Burberrys direct environmental impacts continue to be the consumption of energy electricity, gas, oil, and vehicle fuel in its buildings, in the manufacturing and distribution of products, solid waste produced on site and the consumption of raw materials.
Performance in these areas is managed by the environment committee.
The committee comprises operational staff with responsibility for operational management across the business.
This committees work has been effective in ensuring Burberrys efficient use of resources in the UK, and in making recommendations to other Group companies.
Data reporting has now been extended to cover Asia and Korea in addition to Spain and the US.
Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 05 39
