Independent auditors report to the members of Burren Energy plc We have audited the Group and individual Company financial statements We read the Directors report and the other information contained in the the financial statements of Burren Energy plc for the year ended annual report, as described in the contents section, including the unaudited 31 December 2005 which comprise the consolidated and individual part of the Directors remuneration report and we consider the implications Company income statements, the consolidated and individual Company for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or balance sheets, the consolidated and individual Company cash flow material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
statements, the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense and the related notes 1 to 46.
These financial statements have BAsis oF AuDit oPinion been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on audited the information in the Directors remuneration report that is Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit described as having been audited.
includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in remuneration report described as having been audited.
It also includes accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information for the opinions we have formed.
and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial rEsPEctivE rEsPonsiBilitiEs oF DirEctors AnD AuDitors statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report described The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the Directors as having been audited are free from material misstatement, whether remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in as adopted for use in the European Union are set out in the statement of the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report Directors responsibilities.
described as having been audited.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of oPinion the Directors remuneration report described as having been audited In our opinion: in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted for use in the European Union, of the state of the We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give Groups and the individual companys affairs as at 31 December 2005 a true and fair view in accordance with the relevant financial reporting and of the Groups and the individual companys profit for the year then framework and whether the financial statements and the part of the ended: and Directors remuneration report described as having been audited have the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 report described as having been audited have been properly prepared and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We report to you if, in our opinion, the in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the Directors report is not consistent with the financial statements.
report to you if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our sEPArAtE oPinion in rElAtion to iFrs audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration As explained in Note 2 to the financial statements, the Group and and other transactions is not disclosed.
Company, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply with IFRSs adopted for use in the European Union, has also complied with We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not complied with the IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
any of the four Directors remuneration disclosure requirements specified Accordingly, in our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
These view, in accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the Groups and Companys comprise the amount of each element in the remuneration package and affairs as at 31 December 2005 and of the Group and the Companys profit information on share options, details of long term incentive schemes, and for the year then ended.
money purchase and defined benefit schemes.
We give a statement, to the extent possible, of details of any non-compliance.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Deloitte & touche llP Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We London are not required to consider whether the boards statements on United Kingdom internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on 29 March 2006 the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
36 Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2005
