INDEPENDENT AUDIT ORS REPOR T To the members of London Stock Exchange plc if, in our opinion, the Directors report is not preparation of the financial statements, and of We have audited the financial statements which consistent with the financial statements, whether the accounting policies are appropriate comprise the profit and loss account, the if the Company has not kept proper accounting to the Companys circumstances, consistently balance sheets, the cash ow statement, the records, if we have not received all the applied and adequately disclosed.
statement of total recognised gains and losses information and explanations we require for and the related notes.
We have also audited our audit, or if information specified by law We planned and performed our audit so as to the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule regarding directors remuneration and obtain all the information and explanations which 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in transactions is not disclosed.
we considered necessary in order to provide the Remuneration report the auditable part.
us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable We read the other information contained in the assurance that the financial statements and Respective responsibilities of directors annual report and consider the implications for the auditable part of the Remuneration report and auditors our report if we become aware of any apparent are free from material misstatement, whether The directors responsibilities for preparing misstatements or material inconsistencies with caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
the annual report and the financial statements the financial statements.
The other information In forming our opinion we also evaluated the in accordance with applicable United Kingdom comprises only the Directors report, the overall adequacy of the presentation of law and accounting standards are set out in unaudited part of the Remuneration report, information in the financial statements.
the statement of directors responsibilities.
the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives The directors are also responsible for preparing review, the Operating and Financial Review Opinion the Remuneration report.
and the Corporate Governance statement.
In our opinion: Our responsibility is to audit the financial We review whether the corporate governance the financial statements give a true and fair statements and the auditable part of the statement reects the Companys compliance view of the state of affairs of the Company Remuneration report in accordance with relevant with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC and the Group at 31 March 2005 and the legal and regulatory requirements and United Combined Code specified for our review by the profit and cash ows of the Group for the Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, year then ended: Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including and we report if it does not.
We are not required the opinion, has been prepared for and only to consider whether the Boards statements the financial statements have been properly for the Companys members as a body in on internal control cover all risks and controls, prepared in accordance with the Companies accordance with Section 235 of the Companies or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Act 1985: and Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do Groups corporate governance procedures or not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume its risk and control procedures.
those parts of the Remuneration report responsibility for any other purpose or to any required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the other person to whom this report is shown or Basis of audit opinion Companies Act 1985 have been properly into whose hands it may come save where We conducted our audit in accordance with prepared in accordance with the Companies expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
auditing standards issued by the Auditing Act 1985.
An audit includes examination, We report to you our opinion as to whether the on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the  LLP financial statements give a true and fair view amounts and disclosures in the financial Chartered Accountants and Registered and whether the financial statements and the statements and the auditable part of the Auditors auditable part of the Remuneration report have Remuneration report.
It also includes an London been properly prepared in accordance with the assessment of the significant estimates and 19 May 2005 Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you judgements made by the directors in the 37 LONDON ST OCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPOR T 2005
