Independent Auditors Report To The Shareholders Of PartyGaming Plc We have audited the Group and Parent Company the Company Our report has been prepared pursuant to the terms of our financial statements the financial statements of PartyGaming Plc engagement letter and for no other purpose.
No person is entitled to for the year ended 31 December 2005 which comprises the Group rely on this report unless such a person is a person entitled to rely Income Statement, the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets, upon this report by virtue of the terms of our engagement letter or the Group and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements, the Group has been expressly authorised to do so by our prior written consent.
and Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity and the Save as above, we do not accept responsibility for this report to any related notes 1 to 27.
These financial statements have been prepared other person or for any other purpose and we hereby expressly under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited disclaim any and all such liability.
the information in the Directors' Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the accordance with applicable law and International Financial part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance adequately disclosed.
with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
PartyGaming Plc has We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the complied with the requirements of rules 9.8.
8 of the Listing information and explanations which we considered necessary in Rules and Schedule 7A of the UK Companies Act 1985 in preparing order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable its annual report, as if it was incorporated in the United Kingdom.
assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors As auditors, we have agreed that our responsibilities in relation to Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material the annual report will be those as set out below.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements the presentation of information in the financial statements and the give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
have been properly prepared in accordance with the Gibraltar Companies Consolidated Accounts Ordinance 1999, Opinion the Gibraltar Companies Accounts Ordinance 1999 and the In our opinion: Gibraltar Companies Ordinance 1930, as amended and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance properly prepared in accordance with Schedule 7A of the UK with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Groups and the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2005 and Directors Report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the of the Groups profit for the year then ended: Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not the financial statements have been properly prepared in received all the information and explanations we require for our accordance with the Gibraltar Companies Consolidated audit, or if information specified by the listing rules and Gibraltar Accounts Ordinance 1999, the Gibraltar Companies Accounts legislation is not disclosed.
Ordinance 1999 and the Gibraltar Companies Ordinance 1930, We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects as amended: and the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the been audited has been properly prepared in accordance with Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985. required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its BDO Stoy Hayward LLP risk and control procedures.
Chartered Accountants We read the Directors Report and the other information contained 8 Baker Street in the Annual Report for the above period described in the contents London W1U 3LL section, including the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration 28 February 2006 Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material BDO Fidecs Chartered Accountants Limited inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do Chartered Accountants not extend to any other information.
PO Box 575 Montegu Pavilion 8-10 Queensway Gibraltar 28 February 2006 79 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2005
