Man Group plc Annual Report 2005 58 Auditors Report Auditors Report Independent auditors report to We read the other information contained Opinion the members of Man Group plc in the Annual Report and consider the In our opinion: We have audited the accounts which implications for our report if we become comprise the Group Profit and Loss Account, aware of any apparent misstatements or the accounts give a true and fair view of the Group Statement of Total Recognised material inconsistencies with the accounts.
the state of affairs of the Company and Gains and Losses, the Group Balance The other information comprises only the the Group at 31 March 2005 and of the Sheet, the Group Cash Flow Statement, the Chairmans Statement, the Operating Review, profit and cash flows of the Group for the Company Balance Sheet and the related the Financial Review, the Corporate year then ended: notes which have been prepared under the Responsibility Report, the Directors Report the accounts have been properly prepared historical cost convention, as modified by which includes the Corporate Governance in accordance with the Companies Act the revaluation of certain assets, and the Statement and the unaudited part of the 1985: and accounting policies set out in the statement Remuneration Report.
those parts of the Remuneration Report of accounting policies.
We have also audited required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the the disclosures required by Part 3 of We review whether the Corporate Governance Companies Act 1985 have been properly Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 Statement reflects the Companys and prepared in accordance with the contained in the Remuneration Report the Groups compliance with the nine provisions Companies Act 1985. auditable part set out on pages 53 to 55. of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Respective responsibilities of Financial Services Authority, and we report directors and auditors if it does not.
We are not required to consider The directors responsibilities for preparing whether the Boards statements on internal the Annual Report and the accounts in control cover all risks and controls, or form  LLP accordance with applicable United Kingdom an opinion on the effectiveness of the Chartered Accountants and Registered law and accounting standards are set out in Companys or Groups corporate governance Auditors the Statement of directors' responsibilities.
procedures or its risk and control procedures.
London, England The directors are also responsible for preparing the Remuneration Report.
Basis of audit opinion 26 May 2005 We conducted our audit in accordance with Our responsibility is to audit the accounts Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing and the auditable part of the Remuneration Practices Board.
An audit includes Report in accordance with relevant legal examination, on a test basis, of evidence and regulatory requirements and United relevant to the amounts and disclosures in Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the the accounts and the auditable part of the Auditing Practices Board.
It also includes an including the opinion, has been prepared for assessment of the significant estimates and and only for the Companys members as a judgements made by the directors in the body in accordance with Section 235 of the preparation of the accounts, and of whether Companies Act 1985 and for no other the accounting policies are appropriate to purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, the Companys and Groups circumstances, accept or assume responsibility for any consistently applied and adequately other purpose or to any other person to disclosed.
whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly We planned and performed our audit so as agreed by our prior consent in writing.
to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to We report to you our opinion as to whether provide us with sufficient evidence to give the accounts give a true and fair view and reasonable assurance that the accounts whether the accounts and the auditable and the auditable part of the Remuneration part of the Remuneration Report have been Report are free from material misstatement, properly prepared in accordance with the whether caused by fraud or other Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is we also evaluated the overall adequacy of not consistent with the accounts, if the the presentation of information in the Company or Group has not kept proper accounts and the auditable part of the accounting records, if we have not received Remuneration Report.
all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
