Report of the Independent Auditor to the members of Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc We have audited the Group and Company financial statements reflects the Groups compliance with the nine provisions of the for the year ended 31 December 2005, which comprise the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, Consolidated Income Statement, Group and Company Balance and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider Sheets, Group and Company Statements of Changes in Equity, whether the Boards statement on internal controls covers all Group and Company Cash Flow Statements, and the related risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of notes 1 to 23.
These financial statements have been prepared either the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk on the basis of the accounting policies set out therein.
We have and control procedures.
also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a statements.
This other information comprises the Performance body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act Record, Chairmans Statement, Investment Managers Report, 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might Ten Largest Investments, Investments, Portfolio Analysis, state to the Companys members those matters we are required Directors Report, the unaudited part of the Directors to state to them in an auditors report and for no other Remuneration Report, Corporate Governance & Directors purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not Responsibilities, Analysis of Ordinary Shareholders, Base Cost, accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Management & Administration, Shareholder Information, Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit Notice of Annual General Meeting and Glossary.
We consider work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Respective responsibilities of Directors and the auditor financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, other information.
including the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements which are required to be prepared in accordance Basis of audit opinion with applicable United Kingdom law and International Financial We conducted our audit in accordance with International Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union, as set Standards on Auditing UK & Ireland issued by the Auditing out in the Statement on Corporate Governance & Directors Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, Responsibilities.
of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements, by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, International Standards on Auditing UK & Ireland and the and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report information and explanations which we considered necessary in to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
assurance that the financial statements and the part of the We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated received all the information and explanations we require for the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the our audit, or if the information specified by law or the Listing financial statements and the part of the Directors Rules regarding directors remuneration and transactions with Remuneration Report to be audited.
the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the statement on Corporate Governance and Directors Responsibilities Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc 27 Report of the Independent Auditor continued Opinion In our opinion: i the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group as at 31 December 2005 and of the revenue of the Group for the year then ended: and ii the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
As explained in Note 2 to the Group financial statements, the Group in addition to complying with its legal obligations to comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also complied with IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
In our opinion, the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2005 and of its revenue for the year then ended.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered Auditor London 9 February 2006 28
