Financial Statements Statement of Directors responsibilities in relation to the Financial Statements The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the auditors statement of auditors responsibilities set out in their report, is made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the Directors and of the auditors in relation to the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements.
The Directors are required to prepare financial statements for the group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare such financial statements in accordance with IFRS, the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial period the companys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards.
The Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a directors report and directors remuneration report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
The Directors consider that in preparing the financial statements the Company and the Group have used appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, and that all accounting standards which they consider to be applicable have been followed.
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company keeps accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Company and the Group, and which enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
The Directors have general responsibilities for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Auditors Report Independent auditors' report to the members of Cadbury Schweppes plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Cadbury Schweppes plc for the 52 week period ended 1 January 2006 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense and the related Segmental Reporting and Notes 1 to 43.
These Group financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
We have reported separately on the individual Company financial statements of Cadbury Schweppes plc for the 52 week period ended 1 January 2006.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Report & Accounts, the Directors Remuneration Report and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted for use in the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
86 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts 2005 We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements give a true and fair view in accordance with the relevant financial reporting framework and whether the Group financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the Group financial statements.
We also report to you if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors transactions with the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
We report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not complied with any of the four Directors remuneration disclosure requirements specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
These comprise the amount of each element in the remuneration package and information on share options, details of long term incentive schemes, and money purchase and defined benefit schemes.
We give a statement, to the extent possible, of details of any non-compliance.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statement on internal control covers all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the Directors Report and the other information contained in the Report & Accounts for the above period as described in the contents section including the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted for use in the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 1 January 2006 and of its profit for the period then ended: and the Group financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
As explained in Note 1 b, the Group in addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply with IFRSs as adopted for use in the European Union, has also complied with the IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Accordingly, in our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 1 January 2006 and of its profit for the period then ended.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London 13 March 2006 Report & Accounts 2005 Cadbury Schweppes 87
