Financial Statements for Cadbury Schweppes plc Statement of Directors responsibilities in relation to the Financial Statements The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the auditors statement of auditors responsibilities set out in their report, is made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the Directors and of the auditors in relation to the financial statements.
The Directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare financial statements for each financial period which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company as at the end of the financial year.
The Directors consider that in preparing the financial statements the Company has used appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, and that all accounting standards which they consider to be applicable have been followed.
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company keeps accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Company, and which enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
The Directors have general responsibilities for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Company and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report to the members of Cadbury Schweppes plc We have audited the individual Company financial statements of Cadbury Schweppes plc for the 52 week period ended 1 January 2006 which comprise the Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 to 13.
These individual Company financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
The corporate governance statement and the Directors Remuneration Report are included in the Report & Accounts of Cadbury Schweppes plc for the 52 week period ended 1 January 2006.
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Cadbury Schweppes plc for the 52 week period ended 1 January 2006 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the individual Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the individual Company financial statements in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the individual Company financial statements give a true and fair view in accordance with the relevant financial reporting framework and whether the individual Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We report if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the individual Company financial statements.
We also report to you if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read the Directors Report and the other information contained in the Report & Accounts for the above period as described in the contents section including the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the individual Company financial statements.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the individual Company financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the individual Company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
164 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts 2005 We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the individual Company financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the individual Company financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion: the individual Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 1 January 2006: and the individual Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London 13 March 2006 Report & Accounts 2005 Cadbury Schweppes 165
