Independent Auditors Statement to the members of Cadbury Schweppes plc We have examined the Summary Financial Statement which contained in the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement comprises the Summary Directors remuneration report, the as described in the contents section, and consider the implications Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related Segmental or material inconsistencies with the Summary Financial Statement.
Basis of opinion This report is made solely to the Company's members, as a body, We conducted our work in accordance with bulletin 1999 6 The in accordance with section 251 of the Companies Act 1985.
Auditors Statement on the Summary Financial Statement issued Our work has been undertaken so that we might state to the by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest Opinion extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility In our opinion, the Summary Financial Statement is consistent to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as with the full annual accounts, and the Directors Remuneration a body, for our audit work, for this report, for our audit report, or Report of Cadbury Schweppes plc for the 52 week period ended for the opinions we have formed.
1 January 2006 and complies with the applicable requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985, and the regulations Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors made thereunder.
The auditors report on the Companys annual The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Review and accounts was unqualified.
Summary Financial Statement in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the Summary Financial Statement with the full annual accounts and the Directors Remuneration Report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 251 of the Deloitte & Touche LLP Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors report whether the auditors opinion on the full annual accounts London was unqualified or qualified.
We also read the other information 13 March 2006 Summary of differences between IFRS and US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles From 3 January 2005, the Group has prepared its consolidated iii.
Under IFRS, certain derivative instruments were not required financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the to be recognised on the balance sheet at fair value until European Union EU.
IFRS differ in certain respects from generally 2 January 2005.
At this date, the Group adopted IAS 39 under accepted accounting principles in the US US GAAP.
All IFRS to IFRS on a prospective basis, requiring recognition of all US GAAP differences applicable to the Group are explained in derivative instruments at fair value on the balance sheet.
Under Note 42 to the Financial Statements contained in the Report & IFRS, the Group has not adopted hedge accounting.
The principle differences between IFRS and US movements in the fair value of derivatives are reflected in the GAAP are highlighted below: Consolidated Income Statement.
Under US GAAP, consistent with IFRS, all derivatives are recorded in the financial i.
US GAAP requires the recognition of certain intangible assets statements at fair value and all movements in the fair value of which are not recognised under IFRS.
This principally relates to derivatives are reflected in the Consolidated Income Statement.
customer lists which are amortised over their useful lives giving However, since US GAAP has required derivatives to be held rise to a reconciling item between US GAAP and IFRS income.
on balance sheet at fair value since 1 January 2001, there is In addition, different treatments prescribed on adoption of the an adjustment to unwind the transition accounting upon initial respective accounting standards for goodwill and intangibles adoption of SFAS 133 and IAS 39, resulting in a gain of has resulted in historic differences in the carrying value of 24 million recognised as a reconciling item.
Under IFRS actuarial gains and losses related to postretirement benefits are reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
Under US GAAP these actuarial gains and losses are amortised over the remaining expected service life of the scheme members.
Under US GAAP, for the purposes of amortising gains and losses, the 10% corridor has been adopted, and the market-related value of assets recognises realised and unrealised capital gains and losses over a rolling three year period.
As this results in differing assets from IFRS, different expected returns on assets arise.
36 Cadbury Schweppes Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005
