Independent Auditors Report to the members of Murray Income Trust PLC We have audited the Companys Financial Statements for Financial Statements.
This other information comprises the the year ended 30 June 2005 which comprise the Corporate Summary, Your Board, Highlights, Historic Statement of Total Return, Balance Sheet, Cash Flow Financial Record, Chairmans Statement, Summary of Statement, and the related notes 1 to 19.
These Financial Investment Changes during the Year, Summary of Net Statements have been prepared on the basis of the Assets, Distribution of Investments, Sector Comparison accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited with Benchmark, Investment Managers Review, Twenty the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that Largest Investments, Portfolio of Investments, Directors is described as having been audited.
Report, unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, Statement of Corporate Governance, Information This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a about the Manager, Shareholder Information, Marketing body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Strategy, Other Ways to Invest in Murray Income Trust Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we PLC, Glossary of Terms and Definitions and Corporate might state to the Companys members those matters we Information.
We consider the implications for our report if are required to state to them in an auditors report and for we become aware of any apparent misstatements or no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, material inconsistencies with the Financial Statements.
we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other Our responsibilities do not extend to any other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, information.
for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with United Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test Report, including the Financial Statements which are basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures required to be prepared in accordance with applicable in the Financial Statements and the part of the Directors United Kingdom law and accounting standards as set out Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities in relation to assessment of the significant estimates and judgements the Financial Statements.
The Directors are also made by the Directors in the preparation of the Financial responsible for preparing the Directors Remuneration Statements, and of whether the accounting policies are Report.
appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Our responsibility is to audit the Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory information and explanations which we considered requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards and the necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements and part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be We report to you our opinion as to whether the Financial audited are free from material misstatement, whether Statements give a true and fair view and whether the caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming Financial Statements and the part of the Directors our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly presentation of information in the Financial Statements prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is audited.
not consistent with the Financial Statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we Opinion have not received all the information and explanations we In our opinion: require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding Directors remuneration and the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of transactions with the Company is not disclosed.
the state of affairs of the Company as at 30 June 2005 and of its net return for the year then ended: We review whether the Statement of Corporate and Governance reflects the Companys compliance with the the Financial Statements and the part of the Directors nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Code specified for our Remuneration Report to be audited have been review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required Act 1985. to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys corporate governance Ernst & Young LLP procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Registered Auditor 26 September 2005 We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Edinburgh Murray Income Trust PLC 37
