Independent Auditors Report to the Shareholders of Murray International Trust PLC We have audited the financial statements of Murray International Summary, Your Board, Highlights, Historic Financial Record, Ten Trust PLC for the year ended 31 December 2005 which comprise Year Record, Chairmans Statement, Summary of Investment the Income Statement, Balance Sheet, Reconciliation of Changes during the Year, Summary of Net Assets, Portfolio of Movements in Shareholders Funds, Cash Flow Statement and the Investments Twenty Largest Investments, Portfolio of related notes 1 to 20.
These financial statements have been Investments, The Investment Process, Investment Managers prepared on the basis of the accounting policies set out therein.
Report, Attribution Analysis, Distribution of Investments, We have also audited the information in the Directors Distribution of Equity Investments, Directors Report, unaudited Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
part of the Directors Remuneration Report, Statement of Corporate Governance, Notice of Meeting, Information about the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, Manager, Shareholder Information, Marketing Strategy, Other in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our ways to Invest in Murray International Trust PLC, Glossary of audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Terms and Definitions and Corporate Information.
We consider Companys members those matters we are required to state to the implications for our report if we become aware of any them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the other information.
Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and Accounting statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant Practice as set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial assurance that the financial statements and the part of the statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the Directors Report is not consistent with the financial statements, if overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration not received all the information and explanations we require for Report to be audited.
our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
Opinion In our opinion: We review whether the Statement of Corporate Governance reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing of affairs of the Company as at 31 December 2005 and of its Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does net return for the year then ended: and not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards the financial statements and the part of the Directors statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys corporate prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and Ernst & Young LLP consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial Registered Auditor statements.
This other information comprises the Corporate 10 March 2006 Edinburgh 42 Murray International Trust PLC
