55 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the shareholders of Cairn Energy PLC We have audited the Group and parent company financial We read other information contained in the Annual Report statements the financial statements of Cairn Energy PLC for and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial the year ended 31 December 2005 which comprise the Group statements.
The other information comprises the Highlights Income Statement, Group and Parent Company Statement of 2005, Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Review, of Changes in Equity, Group and Parent Company Balance Geographical Assets, Operating and Exploration Review, Sheets, Group and Parent Company Statement of Cash Flows Corporate Responsibility, Financial Review, Corporate Governance and the related notes 1 to 32.
These financial statements Statement, Directors Report and the unaudited part of the have been prepared under the accounting policies set out Directors Remuneration Report.
We consider the implications for therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements Remuneration Report that is described as having been or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as Basis of audit opinion a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies We conducted our audit in accordance with International Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing might state to the Companys members those matters we are Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test required to state to them in an auditors report and for no basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do in the financial statements and the part of the Directors not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an Company and the Companys members as a body, for our assessment of the signi cant estimates and judgments made audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual and adequately disclosed.
Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS the information and explanations which we considered as adopted by the European Union as set out in the necessary in order to provide us with suf cient evidence to Directors Responsibility Statement included in the Corporate give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and Governance Statement.
the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements information in the financial statements and the part of the and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial Opinion statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial In our opinion: statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2005 We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report and of its pro t for the year then ended: is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company the parent company financial statements give a true and fair has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European received all the information and explanations we require Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the for our audit, or if information speci ed by law regarding Companies Act 1985, of the state of the parent companys directors remuneration and other transactions are not affairs as at 31 December 2005: and disclosed.
the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. re ects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code speci ed for our review In our opinion the Group financial statements give a true and fair by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and view, in accordance with IFRS, of the state of the groups affairs as we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider at 31 December 2005 and of its pro t for the year then ended.
whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of Ernst & Young LLP the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and Registered auditor control procedures.
