INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF NORTHERN ROCK PLC We have audited the Group and Company the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of of the financial statements, and of financial statements the financial the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether the accounting policies are statements of Northern Rock plc for the if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is appropriate to the Groups and Companys year ended 31 December 2005 which not consistent with the financial circumstances, consistently applied and comprise the Consolidated Income statements, if the Company has not kept adequately disclosed.
Statement, the Consolidated Balance proper accounting records, if we have not We planned and performed our audit so as Sheet, the Company Balance Sheet, the received all the information and to obtain all the information and Consolidated Statement of Recognised explanations we require for our audit, or if explanations which we considered Income and Expense, the Company information specified by law regarding necessary in order to provide us with Statement of Recognised Income and Directors remuneration and other sufficient evidence to give reasonable Expense, the Consolidated Cashflow transactions is not disclosed.
assurance that the financial statements and Statement, the Company Cashflow We review whether the Corporate the part of the Directors Remuneration Statement and the related notes.
These Governance Statement reflects the Report to be audited are free from material financial statements have been prepared companys compliance with the nine misstatement, whether caused by fraud or under the accounting policies set out provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined other irregularity or error.
We have also audited the Code specified for our review by the Listing opinion we also evaluated the overall information in the Directors Remuneration Rules of the Financial Services Authority, adequacy of the presentation of Report that is described as having and we report if it does not.
We are not information in the financial statements and been audited.
required to consider whether the Boards the part of the Directors Remuneration statements on internal control cover all Report to be audited.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF risks and controls, or form an opinion on DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS the effectiveness of the Groups corporate OPINION The Directors responsibilities for preparing governance procedures or its risk and In our opinion: the Annual Report and the financial control procedures.
statements in accordance with applicable the Group financial statements give a true law and International Financial Reporting We read other information contained in the and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as Standards IFRS as adopted by the Annual Report and consider whether it is adopted by the European Union, of the European Union are set out in the consistent with the audited financial state of the Groups affairs as at Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
The other information 31 December 2005 and of its profit and Directors are also responsible for preparing comprises only the Chairmans Statement, cash flows for the year then ended: the Directors Remuneration Report.
the Chief Executives Report, the Corporate the Company financial statements give a Governance statement, the unaudited part Our responsibility is to audit the financial true and fair view, in accordance with of the Directors Remuneration Report, the statements and the part of the Directors IFRS as adopted by the European Union Community and Environmental Report, the Remuneration Report to be audited in as applied in accordance with the Northern Rock Foundation report, the accordance with relevant legal and provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of Operating and Financial Review and the regulatory requirements and International the state of the parent companys affairs Directors Report.
We consider the Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
as at 31 December 2005 and cash flows implications for our report if we become This report, including the opinion, has been for the year then ended: and aware of any apparent misstatements or prepared for and only for the Companys material inconsistencies with the financial the financial statements and the part of members as a body in accordance with statements.
Our responsibilities do not the Directors Remuneration Report to be Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 extend to any other information.
audited have been properly prepared in and for no other purpose.
We do not, in accordance with the Companies Act giving this opinion, accept or assume BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
responsibility for any other purpose or to We conducted our audit in accordance with any other person to whom this report is  LLP International Standards on Auditing UK shown or into whose hands it may come Chartered Accountants and and Ireland issued by the Auditing save where expressly agreed by our prior Registered Auditors Practices Board.
An audit includes consent in writing.
Newcastle upon Tyne examination, on a test basis, of evidence 28 February 2006 We report to you our opinion as to relevant to the amounts and disclosures in whether the financial statements give a true the financial statements and the part of the and fair view and whether the financial Directors Remuneration Report to be statements and the part of the Directors audited.
It also includes an assessment of Remuneration Report to be audited have the significant estimates and judgments been properly prepared in accordance with made by the Directors in the preparation 49
