Statement of directors responsibilities in relation to financial statements The directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to The directors have responsibility for ensuring that the prepare financial statements for each financial year which Company keeps accounting records which disclose with give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Company Company and the Group as at the end of the financial year and which enable them to ensure that the financial and of the profit or loss for the financial year.
statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
The directors consider that in preparing the financial The directors have general responsibility for taking such statements on pages 34 to 71, the Company has used steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied and assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and other irregularities.
estimates, and that all accounting standards which they consider to be applicable have been followed.
Independent auditors report To the members of The Paragon Group of Companies PLC We have audited the financial statements of The Paragon Respective responsibilities of directors Group of Companies PLC for the year ended 30 September and auditors 2005 which comprise the consolidated profit and loss account, As described in the statement of directors responsibility, the the balance sheets, the consolidated cash flow statement, the Companys directors are responsible for the preparation of the reconciliation of movement in consolidated shareholders financial statements in accordance with applicable United funds and the related notes 1 to 36.
These financial Kingdom law and accounting standards.
They are also statements have been prepared under the accounting policies responsible for the preparation of the other information set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the contained in the annual report including the directors part of directors remuneration report that is described as remuneration report.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial having been audited.
statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited in accordance with relevant This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act auditing standards.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial required to state to them in an auditors report and for no statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do statements and the part of the directors remuneration report not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the described as having been audited have been properly Company and the Companys members as a body, for our prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 27 We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the complied with any of the four directors remuneration information and explanations which we considered necessary disclosure requirements specified for our review by the Listing in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
These comprise the reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the amount of each element in the remuneration package and part of the directors remuneration report described as having information on share options, details of long term incentive been audited are free from material misstatement, whether schemes, and money purchase and defined benefit schemes.
caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our We give a statement, to the extent possible, of details of any opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the non-compliance.
presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as We review whether the corporate governance statement having been audited.
reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the July 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by Opinion the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and we In our opinion: report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the financial statements give a true and fair view of the the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the 30 September 2005 and of the profit of the Group for the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and year then ended: and control procedures.
the financial statements and the part of the directors We read the directors report and the other information remuneration report described as having been audited contained in the annual report for the above year as described in have been properly prepared in accordance with the the contents section including the unaudited part of the Companies Act 1985. directors remuneration report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Basis of audit opinion Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom Birmingham auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
23 November 2005 An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the Company and the Group, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
28 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC
