Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the European Embedded Value EEV basis supplementary information The directors have chosen to prepare supplementary information identified and described the business covered by the EVM: in accordance with the EEV Principles issued in May 2004 by the applied the EVM consistently to the covered business: CFO Forum of European Insurance Companies and expanded by the Additional Guidance on European Embedded Value determined assumptions on a realistic basis, having regard Disclosures issued in October 2005. to past, current and expected future experience and to any relevant external data, and then applied them consistently: When compliance with the EEV Principles is stated, those principles require the directors to prepare supplementary information in made estimates that are reasonable and consistent: and accordance with the Embedded Value Methodology EVM contained described the basis on which business that is not covered in the EEV Principles and to disclose and explain any non-compliance business has been included in the supplementary information, with the EEV guidance included in the EEV Principles.
including any material departures from the accounting framework In preparing the EEV supplementary information, the directors have: applicable to the Groups financial statements.
Prepared the supplementary information in accordance with the EEV Principles: Independent auditors report to Prudential plc on the European Embedded Value EEV basis supplementary information We have audited the EEV basis supplementary information the Basis of audit opinion supplementary information on pages 204 to 229 in respect of the We conducted our audit having regard to International Standards year ended 31 December 2005.
The supplementary information on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices has been prepared in accordance with the EEV Principles issued in Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence May 2004 by the CFO Forum as supplemented by the Additional relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the supplementary Guidance on European Embedded Value Disclosures issued information.
It also includes an assessment of the significant in October 2005 together the EEV Principles using the estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation methodology and assumptions set out on pages 208 to 214.
The of the supplementary information, and of whether the accounting EEV supplementary information should be read in conjunction with policies applied in the preparation of the supplementary information the Groups financial statements which are on pages 62 to 195. are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
This report is made solely to the Company in accordance with the terms of our engagement.
Our audit work has been undertaken so We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the that we might state to the Company those matters we have been information and explanations which we considered necessary engaged to state in this report and for no other purpose.
To the in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume assurance that the supplementary information is free from material responsibility to anyone other than the Company for our audit misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of the supplementary information.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As described in the statement of directors responsibilities on Opinion this page, the directors responsibilities include preparing the In our opinion, the EEV basis supplementary information for the supplementary information on the EEV basis in accordance with year ended 31 December 2005 has been properly prepared in the EEV Principles.
Our responsibilities, as independent auditor, accordance with the EEV Principles using the methodology and in relation to the supplementary information are established in the assumptions set out on pages 208 to 214.
UK by the Auditing Practices Board, by our professions ethical guidance and the terms of our engagement.
Under the terms of engagement we are required to report to the Company our opinion as to whether the supplementary information has been properly prepared in accordance with the KPMG Audit Plc EEV Principles using the methodology and assumptions set out Chartered Accountants on pages 208 to 214.
We also report if we have not received all London the information and explanations we require for this audit.
15 March 2006 230 Prudential plc Annual Report 2005
