Independent auditors report to the members of Prudential plc We have audited the consolidated and parent company financial Basis of audit opinion statements the financial statements of Prudential plc for the We conducted our audit in accordance with International year ended 31 December 2005 which comprise the consolidated Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing income statement, the consolidated and parent company balance Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of sheets, the consolidated cash flow statement, the statement of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial change in shareholders equity and the related notes on pages statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be 62 to 195.
These financial statements have been prepared under audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the information in the directors remuneration report on pages 52 to 57 financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are that is described as having been audited.
appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the information and explanations which we considered necessary in Companys members those matters we are required to state to order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest assurance that the financial statements and the part of the extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility directors remuneration report to be audited are free from material to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy we have formed.
of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and Opinion the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law In our opinion: and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted The Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in by the European Union EU, and for preparing the parent accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, of the state of the company financial statements and the directors remuneration Groups affairs as at 31 December 2005 and of its profit for the report in accordance with applicable law and UK Accounting year then ended: Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities on page 196. the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part IAS Regulation: of the directors remuneration report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial 2005: and statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to the parent company financial statements and the part of the be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly Companies Act 1985 and whether, in addition, the Group financial prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. statements have been properly prepared in accordance with Article 4 of the International Accounting Standards Regulation.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all KPMG Audit Plc the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if Chartered Accountants information specified by law regarding directors remuneration Registered Auditor and other transactions is not disclosed.
London 15 March 2006 We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the FSA, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
