Independent auditors report to the members of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc We have audited the financial statements of The Royal Bank of We review whether the corporate governance statement Scotland Group plc the company and its subsidiaries reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of together the Group for the year ended 31 December 2005 the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing which comprise the accounting policies, the balance sheets as Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it at 31 December 2005 and 2004, the consolidated income does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statement, the cash flow statements, the statements of statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or recognised income and expense for each of the two years in form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate the period ended 31 December 2005 and the related Notes 1 to governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the We read the directors report and the other information 134 information in the part of the directors remuneration report that contained in the 2005 Annual Report as described in the is described as having been audited.
contents section including the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report and consider the implications for our This report is made solely to the companys members, as a report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are Basis of audit opinion required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other We conducted our audit in accordance with International purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Practices Board and with the standards of the United States company and the companys members as a body, for our audit Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.
An audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors the part of the directors remuneration report described as As described in the Statement of directors responsibilities, having been audited.
The Group is not required to have, nor the companys directors are responsible for the preparation of were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control the financial statements in accordance with applicable United over financial reporting.
An audit includes consideration of Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting Standards internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union.
They are audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, also responsible for the preparation of the other information but not for the purposes of expressing an opinion on the contained in the 2005 Annual Report including the directors effectiveness of the Groups internal controls over financial remuneration report.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial reporting.
Accordingly, we express no such opinion.
It also statements and the part of the directors remuneration report includes an assessment of the significant estimates and described as having been audited in accordance with relevant judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and financial statements and of whether the accounting policies International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
are appropriate to the circumstances of the company and the Group, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view in accordance with the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the relevant framework and whether the financial statements and information and explanations which we considered necessary the part of the directors remuneration report described as in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give having been audited have been properly prepared in reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the part of the directors remuneration report described as having IAS Regulation.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the been audited are free from material misstatement, whether directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the have not received all the information and explanations we presentation of information in the financial statements and the require for our audit, or if information specified by law part of the directors remuneration report described as having regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the been audited.
company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not complied with any of the four directors remuneration disclosure requirements specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
These comprise the amount of each element in the remuneration package and information on share options, details of long term incentive schemes, and money purchase and defined benefit schemes.
We give a statement, to the extent possible, of details of any non-compliance.
Independent auditors report to the members of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc UK opinion In our opinion: the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2005 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: the company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted for use in the European 135 Union as applied in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985, of the state of affairs of the company as at 31 December 2005: the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRS As explained in the Accounting policies, the Group in addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply with IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union, has also complied with the IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2005 and of its profit for the year then ended.
US opinion In our opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Group as at 31 December 2005 and 2004 and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the two years in the period ended 31 December 2005 in conformity with IFRS.
IFRS vary in certain significant respects from accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
Information relating to the nature and effect of such differences is presented in Note 46 to the financial statements.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Edinburgh, United Kingdom 27 February 2006 section 03 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Independent auditors report to the members of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc Financial statements
