Report of the independent auditors Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Report of the independent auditors Independent auditors report to the shareholders of We read other information contained in the Annual Report and Schroders plc consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
The other information comprises only the financial We have audited the Group and parent company financial highlights, the statement from the Chairman and the Chief statements the financial statements of Schroders plc for the Executive, the operating and financial review, the governance year ended 31 December 2005 which comprise the Group statements, the notice of the Annual General Meeting, the income statement, the Group and parent company balance shareholder information and the glossary.
We consider the sheets, the Group and parent company cash flow statements, the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent Group and parent company statements of recognised income and misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial expense and the related notes.
These financial statements have statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
47 have also audited the information in the remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Basis of audit opinion Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the with applicable law and International Financial Reporting financial statements and the part of the remuneration report to be Standards IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union are audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates set out in the statement of Directors responsibilities.
and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, of the remuneration report to be audited in accordance with consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys information and explanations which we considered necessary in members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in assurance that the financial statements and the part of the giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other remuneration report to be audited are free from material purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall our prior consent in writing.
adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the remuneration report to be audited.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial Opinion statements and the part of the remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies In our opinion: Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance you if, in our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with with IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union, of the the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2005 and of its accounting records, if we have not received all the information and profit and cash flows for the year then ended: explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is the parent company financial statements give a true and fair not disclosed.
view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects Companies Act 1985, of the state of the parent companys the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 affairs as at 31 Decemeber 2005 and cash flows for the year FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules then ended: and of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We the financial statements and the part of the remuneration report are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London 6 March 2006
