INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Independent Auditors Report to the members of Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC the Company We have audited the financial statements with the financial statements, if the Company Respective responsibilities on pages 36 to 49.
We have also audited has not kept proper accounting records, if of Directors and Auditors the information in the Directors Remuneration we have not received all the information and The Directors are responsible for preparing Report that is described as having been explanations we require for our audit, or if the Annual Report and the Directors audited.
information specified by law regarding Remuneration Report.
As described on Directors remuneration and transactions This report is made solely to page 33, this includes responsibility for with the Company is not disclosed.
the Companys members, as a body, in preparing the financial statements in accordance with section 235 of the accordance with applicable United We review whether the statement on pages Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has Kingdom law and accounting standards.
26 to 29 reflects the Companys compliance been undertaken so that we might state to Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC the Companys members those matters we are established in the United Kingdom by Code specified for our review by the Listing are required to state to them in an auditors statute, the Auditing Practices Board, the Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and report and for no other purpose.
To the Listing Rules of the Financial we report if it does not.
We are not required fullest extent permitted by law, we do not Services Authority, and by our professions to consider whether the Boards statements on accept or assume responsibility to anyone ethical guidance.
internal control cover all risks and controls, or other than the Company and the form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys members as a body, for our We report to you our opinion as to whether Companys corporate governance procedures audit work, for this report, or for the the financial statements give a true and fair or its risk and control procedures.
view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration We read the other information contained in Report to be audited have been properly the Annual Report, including the corporate prepared in accordance with the Companies governance statement and the unaudited part Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our of the Directors Remuneration Report, and opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent 34 ANNUAL REPORT 2005 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT consider whether it is consistent with the financial statements, and of whether the Opinion audited financial statements.
We consider accounting policies are appropriate to the In our opinion: the implications for our report if we become Companys circumstances, consistently aware of any apparent misstatements or applied and adequately disclosed.
the financial statements give a true and fair material inconsistencies with the financial view of the state of affairs of the Company We planned and performed our audit so as statements.
as at 31 March 2005 and of its total to obtain all the information and explanations return for the year then ended: and which we considered necessary in order to Basis of audit opinion the financial statements and the part of the provide us with sufficient evidence to give Directors Remuneration Report to be audited We conducted our audit in accordance reasonable assurance that the financial have been properly prepared in accordance with Auditing Standards issued by the statements and the part of the Directors with the Companies Act 1985.
An audit includes Remuneration Report to be audited are free examination, on a test basis, of evidence from material misstatement, whether caused relevant to the amounts and disclosures in by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In KPMG Audit Plc the financial statements and the part of the forming our opinion we also evaluated the Chartered Accountants Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
overall adequacy of the presentation of Registered Auditor It also includes an assessment of the information in the financial statements and Edinburgh significant estimates and judgements made the part of the Directors Remuneration Report by the Directors in the preparation of the to be audited.
5 May 2005 SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 35
