Section 06 Carillion plc Accountability Annual Report and Accounts 2005 45 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Carillion plc We have audited the Group and Parent Company financial We read other information contained in the Annual Report and statements the financial statements of Carillion plc for the year consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial ended 31 December 2005 which comprise the Consolidated Income statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we Statement, the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets, become aware of any apparent misstatements or material the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, the Consolidated inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities Statement of Recognised Income and Expense and the related notes.
do not extend to any other information.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in Basis of audit opinion the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards been audited.
on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments members those matters we are required to state to them in an made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as adequately disclosed.
a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and assurance that the financial statements and the part of the the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
by the EU, and for preparing the Parent Company financial In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of statements and the Directors Remuneration Report in accordance the presentation of information in the financial statements and the with applicable law and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 44.
Opinion In our opinion: Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, of the state with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2005 and of its profit Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the IAS Regulation: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have the Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 view, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting and whether, in addition, the Group financial statements have been Practice, of the state of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 properly prepared in accordance with Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
December 2005: and We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects Registered Auditor the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Birmingham Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the 8 March 2006 Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
