206697 Report & Accounts Back 24 3 06 15:36 Page 111 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO ST. JAMESS PLACE CAPITAL PLC ON THE EUROPEAN EMBEDDED VALUE BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION We have audited the EEV basis supplementary information the supplementary information of St. Jamess Place Capital plc on pages 112 to 121 in respect of the year ended 31 December 2005.
The supplementary information has been prepared in accordance with the European Embedded Value Principles issued in May 2004 by the CFO Forum as supplemented by the Additional Guidance on European Embedded Value Disclosures issued in October 2005 together the EEV Principles using the methodology and assumptions set out on pages 115 and 116.
The supplementary information should be read in conjunction with the group financial statements which are on pages 53 to 102.
This report is made solely to the company in accordance with the terms of our engagement.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company those matters we have been engaged to state in this report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As described in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 34, the directors responsibilities include preparing the supplementary information on the EEV basis in accordance with the EEV Principles.
Our responsibilities, as independent auditor, in relation to the supplementary information are established in the United Kingdom by the Auditing Practices Board, by our professions ethical guidance and terms of our engagement.
Under the terms of engagement we are required to report to the company our opinion as to whether the supplementary information has been properly prepared in accordance with the EEV Principles using the methodology and assumptions set out on pages 115 and 116.
We also report if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for this audit.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the supplementary information.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of supplementary information, and of whether the accounting policies applied in the preparation of the supplementary information are appropriate to the groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the supplementary information is free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of the supplementary information.
Opinion In our opinion, the EEV basis supplementary information for the year ended 31 December 2005 has been properly prepared in accordance with the EEV Principles using the methodology and assumptions set out on pages 115 and 116.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants Registerd Auditor London 27 February 2006 111
