com 63 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Standard Chartered PLC We have audited the Group Standard Chartered PLC and its We read other information contained in the Annual Report subsidiaries and Company Standard Chartered PLC financial and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements together referred to as the financial statements for statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we the year ended 31 December 2005 which comprise the Group become aware of any apparent misstatements or material Income Statement, the Group and Company Balance Sheets, inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities the Group and Company Cash Flow Statements, the Group and do not extend to any other information.
Company Statements of Recognised Income and Expense, and Basis of audit opinion the related notes.
These financial statements have been prepared We conducted our audit in accordance with International under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, that is described as having been audited.
of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might significant estimates and judgments made by the directors state to the Companys members those matters we are required in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and adequately disclosed.
the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the report, or for the opinions we have formed.
information and explanations which we considered necessary Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, assurance that the financial statements and the part of the the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from in accordance with applicable law and International Financial material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU are set out irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 62. the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the Report to be audited.
part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements Opinion and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
In our opinion: the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2005 and of its profit statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report for the year then ended: to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the financial the Company financial statements give a true and fair view, statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU as applied you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper 1985, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December accounting records, if we have not received all the information 2005: and and explanations we require for our audit, or if information the financial statements and the part of the Directors specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly transactions is not disclosed.
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects regards the financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
KPMG Audit Plc We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements London on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion Chartered Accountants on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance Registered Auditor procedures or its risk and control procedures.
