SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 36 Independent auditors report to the shareholders of SVG Capital plc We have audited the group and parent company financial statements We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider the financial statements of SVG Capital plc for the year ended whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
The other 31 December 2005 which comprise the Consolidated and Company information comprises only the Investment objective, Financial Income Statements, the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets, the highlights, Chairmans statement, Operating review, Private equity Consolidated and Company Cash Flow Statements, the Consolidated and portfolio review, 20 largest underlying companies, Board of Directors, List Company Statements of Change in Equity and the related notes 1 to 37. of investments Group, Report of the Directors, the unaudited part of These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting the Remuneration Report, Corporate governance, Board Committees, policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Company Summary, Information for shareholders, Notice and Agenda, Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit extend to any other information.
work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors Basis of audit opinion report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, applicable United Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited are regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other and Ireland.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited.
a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in Opinion accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS In our opinion: Regulation.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Report of the Directors is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information and the parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2005 and of the specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions Groups and the Companys profit for the year then ended: and is not disclosed.
the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Ernst & Young LLP Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not Registered auditor required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control London cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
