Independent Auditors Report to the members of Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC We have audited the consolidated and parent Company financial statements.
The other information comprises only financial statements the financial statements of Temple the Report of the directors, the unaudited part of the Bar Investment Trust plc for the year ended 31 December Directors Remuneration Report, the Chairmans 2005 which comprise the consolidated Income Statement, Statement, the Corporate Governance Statement.
We the consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets, consider the implications for our report if we become aware the consolidated and Parent Company Cash Flow of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies Statements, the consolidated and Parent Company with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not Statement of Change in Shareholders Equity and the extend to any other information.
These financial statements have Basis of audit opinion been prepared under the accounting policies set out We conducted our audit in accordance with International therein.
We have also audited the information in the Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, been audited.
on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and This report is made solely to the Companys members, as disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we includes an assessment of the significant estimates and might state to the Companys members those matters we judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the are required to state to them in an auditors report and for financial statements, and of whether the accounting no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other circumstances, consistently applied and adequately than the Company and the Companys members as a disclosed.
body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the we have formed.
information and explanations which we considered Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual give reasonable assurance that the financial statements Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be financial statements in accordance with applicable United audited are free from material misstatement, whether Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union as set opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and audited.
the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory Opinion requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK In our opinion: and Ireland.
the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial the European Union, of the state of the Groups statements give a true and fair view and whether the affairs as at 31 December 2005 and of its profit for financial statements and the part of the Directors the year then ended: Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and the parent Company financial statements give a true Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you if, in and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the by the European Union as applied in accordance financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of accounting records, if we have not received all the the state of the parent Companys affairs as at information and explanations we require for our audit, or if 31 December 2005: and information specified by law regarding directors the financial statements and the part of the remuneration and other transactions are not disclosed.
Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement been properly prepared in accordance with the reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review Regulation.
by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all Ernst & Young LLP risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness Registered Auditor of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk London and control procedures.
21 February 2006 We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST 20
