Report of the Independent Auditors to the members of TR Property Investment Trust plc W e have audited the Groups accounts for the year ended W e read other information contained in the Annual Report and 31 March 2005 which comprise the Group Statement of T otal consider whether it is consistent with the audited accounts.
Return, Group and Company Balance Sheets, Group Cash Flow This other information comprises Highlights of the Y ear, Profile, Statement and the related notes 1 to 26.
These accounts have Financial Highlights and Performance Information, Chairmans been prepared on the basis of the accounting policies set out Statement, Managers Report, Twenty Largest Equity therein.
W e have also audited the information in the Directors Investments, Investment Properties, the unaudited part of the Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Directors Remuneration Report, Report of the Directors and Corporate Governance Statement.
W e consider the implications This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a for our report if we become aware of any apparent body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act misstatements or material inconsistencies with the accounts.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
state to the Companys members those matters we are required Basis of Audit Opinion to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
W e conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom T o the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this to the amounts and disclosures in the accounts and the part of report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, made by the directors in the preparation of the accounts, and of including the accounts which are required to be prepared in whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
accounting standards as set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities in relation to the accounts.
W e planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in Our responsibility is to audit the accounts and the part of the order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance assurance that the accounts and the part of the Directors with relevant legal and regulatory requirements, United Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material Kingdom Auditing Standards and the Listing Rules of the misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or Financial Services Authority.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall W e report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a adequacy of the presentation of information in the accounts and true and fair view and whether the accounts and the part of the the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly Opinion prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
W e also In our opinion: report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the accounts, if the Company has not kept proper n the accounts give a true and fair view of the state accounting records, if we have not received all the information of affairs of the Company and of the Group as at 31 March and explanations we require for our audit, or if information 2005 and of the total return of the Group specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding directors for the year then ended: and remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
n the accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration W e review whether the Corporate Governance Statement Report to be audited have been properly prepared in reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of accordance with the Companies Act 1985. the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
W e are not required to Ernst & Y oung LLP consider whether the Boards statements on internal control Registered Auditor cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the London effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures 24 May 2005 or its risk and control procedures.
