Independent Auditors Report to the members of Witan Investment Trust plc We have audited the group and individual company financial not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements the financial statements of Witan Investment statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or Trust plc and subsidiaries Witan for the year ended form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate 31 December 2005 which comprise the consolidated income governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
statement, the consolidated and individual company balance sheets, the consolidated and individual company cash ow We read the directors report and the other information contained statements, the consolidated and individual company statements in the annual report including the unaudited part of the directors of changes in shareholders equity and the related notes 1 to 25. remuneration report and we consider the implications for our These financial statements have been prepared under the report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
information in the directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial companys members those matters we are required to state to statements and the part of the directors remuneration report them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the described as having been audited.
It also includes an assessment fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors responsibility to anyone other than the company and the in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this accounting policies are appropriate to the companys report, or for the opinions we have formed.
circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors information and explanations which we considered necessary in The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable the directors remuneration report and the financial statements assurance that the financial statements and the part of the in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and directors remuneration report described as having been audited International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or for use in the European Union are set out in the statement of other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also directors responsibilities.
evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the directors remuneration report described as having been audited.
part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal Opinion and regulatory requirements and International Standards on In our opinion: Auditing UK and Ireland.
the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted for use in the European We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial Union, of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 December statements give a true and fair view in accordance with the 2005 and of its profit for the year then ended: and relevant framework and whether the financial statements and the the individual company financial statements give a true and part of the directors remuneration report described as having fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted for use in the been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the European Union as applied in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also requirements of the Companies Act 1985, of the individual report to you if the company has not kept proper accounting company affairs as at 31 December 2005. records, if we have not received all the information and the financial statements and the part of the directors explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified remuneration report described as having been audited have by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act the company and other members of the group is not disclosed.
1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not complied with any of the four directors remuneration disclosure DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP requirements specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
These comprise the amount of each Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors element in the remuneration package and information on share London options, details of long term incentive schemes, and money 9 March 2006 purchase and dened benefit schemes.
We give a statement, to Note to those who access this document by electronic means the extent possible, of details of any non-compliance.
An audit does not provide assurance on the maintenance and integrity of the website, including controls used to achieve this, and in particular on whether any changes may have occurred to the financial statements since first published.
These We review whether the corporate governance statement reects matters are the responsibility of the directors but no control procedures can provide the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 absolute assurance in this area.
FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does financial information differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
