Independent Auditors Report to the Shareholders of Centrica plc Independent auditors report to the shareholders Basis of audit opinion of Centrica plc We conducted our audit in accordance with International We have audited the Group Financial Statements of Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Centrica plc for the year ended 31 December 2005 which Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Balance basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures Sheet, the Group Cash Flow Statement, the Group Statement in the Group Financial Statements.
It also includes an of Recognised Income and Expense and the related notes.
assessment of the significant estimates and judgements These Group Financial Statements have been prepared made by the Directors in the preparation of the Group under the accounting policies set out therein.
Financial Statements, and of whether the accounting policies We have reported separately on the parent are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently Company Financial Statements of Centrica plc for the applied and adequately disclosed.
year ended 31 December 2005 and on the information We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described all the information and explanations which we considered as having been audited.
necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group Financial Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors Statements are free from material misstatement, whether The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming and the Group Financial Statements in accordance with our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards presentation of information in the Group Financial Statements.
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Opinion Our responsibility is to audit the Group Financial In our opinion: Statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory the Group Financial Statements give a true and fair view, in requirements and International Standards on Auditing accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2005 prepared for and only for the Companys shareholders as and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: and a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies the Group Financial Statements have been properly Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group Financial Statements give a true and fair view and whether  LLP the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of London the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, 23 February 2006 the Directors Report is not consistent with the Group Financial Statements, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group Financial Statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors Report, the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Review, the Operating and Financial Review, the Group Financial Review, the Corporate Governance Statement and the Gas and Liquids Reserves.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group Financial Statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
38 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Financial Statements 40 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 44 Company Balance Sheet 111 Notes to the Company Balance Sheet 112 Gas and Liquid Reserves 119 Five Year Record 120
