Report of the independent auditors United Kingdom Opinion unaudited part of the directors remuneration report and Risk Independent auditors report to the shareholders of BT Group plc factors.
We have audited the financial statements which comprise the We review whether the corporate governance statement group profit and loss account, group and company balance sheets, reects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the group cash ow statement, group statement of total recognised 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing gains and losses and the related notes which have been prepared Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does under the historical cost convention and the accounting policies set not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards out in the Accounting Policies.
We have also audited the statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies form an opinion on the effectiveness of the companys or groups Act 1985 contained in the directors remuneration report the corporate governance procedures or its risk and control audited part.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Basis of audit opinion The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes law and accounting standards are set out in the statement of examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts directors responsibilities.
The directors are also responsible for and disclosures in the financial statements and the audited part of preparing the directors remuneration report.
It also includes an assessment Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors audited part of the directors remuneration report in accordance in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United accounting policies are appropriate to the companys Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with information and explanations which we considered necessary in Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility assurance that the financial statements and the audited part of the for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is directors remuneration report are free from material shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or agreed by our prior consent in writing.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements.
statements and the audited part of the directors remuneration report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Opinion Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the state of affairs of the company and the group at 31 March the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have 2005 and of the profit and cash ows of the group for the year not received all the information and explanations we require for then ended: the financial statements have been properly prepared our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and those parts of remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
the directors remuneration report required by Part 3 of Schedule We read the other information contained in the Annual Report 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly prepared in and Form 20-F and consider the implications for our report if we accordance with the Companies Act 1985. become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other  LLP information comprises only the Financial headlines, Chairmans Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors message, Chief Executives statement, Operating and financial London review, Report of the directors, Corporate governance, the 18 May 2005 United States Opinion Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm to the test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the board of directors and shareholders of BT Group plc financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and In our opinion, the accompanying group profit and loss account, significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the group balance sheet, group cash ow statement, group statement overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits of total recognised gains and losses and the related notes present provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of BT Group Accounting principles generally accepted in the United plc and its subsidiaries at 31 March 2005 and 2004, and the Kingdom vary in certain important respects from accounting results of their operations and their cash ows for each of the three principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
years in the period ended 31 March 2005, in conformity with Information relating to the nature and effect of such differences is accounting principles generally accepted in the United Kingdom.
presented in the United States Generally Accepted Accounting These financial statements are the responsibility of the groups Principles section.
management: our responsibility is to express an opinion on these As discussed in Note 1 to the financial statements the company financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits changed its method for accounting for the employee benefit trust of these statements in accordance with the standards of the Public in 2005.
Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
Those  LLP standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are London free of material misstatement.
An audit includes examining, on a 18 May 2005 70 BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2005
