Auditors reports Independent auditors report to the shareholders of Hanson PLC We have audited the group financial statements of Hanson PLC for the year ended December 31, 2005 which comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense and the related notes 1 to 33.
These group financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Hanson PLC for the year ended December 31, 2005 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the group financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as set out in the statement of Directors responsibilities for the accounts.
Our responsibility is to audit the group financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the group financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with the group financial statements, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and Form 20-F consider whether it is consistent with the audited group financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors report, the Chairmans statement, the Review of operations, Financial review and the Corporate governance statement.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the group financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of the group financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the group financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the group financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion, the group financial statements: give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the groups affairs as at December 31, 2005 and of its profit for the year then ended: and have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Ernst & Young LLP, Registered auditor, London, February 23, 2006 Report of independent registered public accounting firm To the Board of Directors and shareholders of Hanson PLC We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Hanson PLC as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related consolidated income statements, consolidated cash flow statements and consolidated statements of recognised income and expense for each of the two years in the period ended December 31, 2005.
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Companys management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland and the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.
An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Hanson PLC at December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the two years in the period ended December 31, 2005, in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union which differ in certain respects from accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America see note 33 of the Notes to the accounts.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States, the effectiveness of Hanson PLCs internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 23, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Ernst & Young LLP, London, England, February 23, 2006 Auditors report 68 Report of independent registered public accounting firm To the Board of Directors and shareholders of Hanson PLC We have audited managements assessment, included in the accompanying Managements Annual report on internal control over financial reporting on page 59, that Hanson PLC maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission the COSO criteria.
Hanson PLCs management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on managements assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating managements assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.
We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
A companys internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
A companys internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that 1 pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company: 2 provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorisations of management and Directors of the company: and 3 provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the companys assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
In our opinion, managements assessment that Hanson PLC maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on the COSO criteria.
Also, in our opinion, Hanson PLC maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, based on the COSO criteria.
We also have audited, in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland and the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States, the consolidated balance sheets of Hanson PLC as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related consolidated income statements, consolidated cash flow statements and consolidated statements of recognised income and expense for each of the two years in the period ended December 31, 2005 and our report dated February 23, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Ernst & Young LLP, London, England, February 23, 2006 Auditors report 69
