Independent auditors report Independent auditors report to the members of United Utilities PLC Basis of audit opinion We have audited the financial statements of United Utilities PLC for We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom the year ended 31 March 2005, which comprise the consolidated auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit profit and loss account, the balance sheets, the consolidated cash includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the ow statement, the reconciliation of net cash ow to movement in amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part net debt, the statement of total recognised gains and losses, the of the directors remuneration report described as having been reconciliations of movements in equity shareholders funds and the audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates related notes 1 to 36, together with the reconciliation of net cash and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the ow to movement in net debt.
These financial statements have been financial statements and of whether the accounting policies are prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have appropriate to the circumstances of the company and the group, also audited the information in the part of the directors remuneration consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
report that is described as having been audited.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in information and explanations that we considered necessary in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys assurance that the financial statements, and the part of the members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors directors remuneration report described as having been audited, report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated than the company, and the companys members as a body, for the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As described in the statement of directors responsibilities, the Opinion companys directors are responsible for the preparation of the In our opinion: financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of law and accounting standards.
They are also responsible for the affairs of the company and the group as at 31 March 2005 and preparation of the other information contained in the annual report, of the profit of the group for the year then ended: and including the directors remuneration report.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements, and the part of the directors remuneration the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited, in accordance with report described as having been audited have been properly relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. auditing standards.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements, and Deloitte & Touche LLP the part of the directors remuneration report described as having Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors been audited, have been properly prepared in accordance with the Manchester Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the 1 June 2005 directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have The above opinion is provided in compliance with UK requirements.
not received all the information and explanations we require for An opinion in accordance with auditing standards of the Public our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors Company Accounting Oversight Board in the US will be included in remuneration and transactions with the company and other the Annual Report on Form 20-F led with the US Securities and members of the group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reects the Accounting principles generally accepted in the UK vary in certain companys compliance with the nine provisions of the July 2003 significant respects from accounting principles generally accepted in FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules the US.
Information relating to the nature and effect of such differences of the Financial Services Authority and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the directors report and the other information contained in the annual report for the above year as described in the contents section, including the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report, and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2005 55
