Report of the Auditors Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Basis of audit opinion The British Land Company PLC We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom auditing We have audited the financial statements of The British Land Company standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes PLC for the year ended 31 March 2005 which comprise the profit and examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and loss account, the balance sheets, the statement of total recognised gains disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the directors and losses, the note of historical cost profit and losses, the reconciliation remuneration report described as having been audited.
It also includes of movements in shareholders funds, the cash flow statement, and the an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by related notes 1 to 29.
These financial statements have been prepared the directors in the preparation of the financial statements and of under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances information in the part of the directors remuneration report that is of the Company and the Group, consistently applied and described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work information and explanations which we considered necessary in order has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not described as having been audited are free from material misstatement, accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of or for the opinions we have formed.
information in the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As described in the statement of directors responsibilities, the Opinion Companys directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial In our opinion: statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs accounting standards.
They are also responsible for the preparation of the Company and the Group as at 31 March 2005 and of the profit of the other information contained in the annual report including the of the Group for the year then ended: and directors remuneration report.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described report described as having been audited have been properly prepared as having been audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. legal and regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Deloitte & Touche LLP Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors, London not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept 24 May 2005 proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the July 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures The National Trust is the largest conservation society in Europe, and the or its risk and control procedures.
properties in its care range from stately homes to Birmingham back-toWe read the directors report and the other information contained backs, from mile after mile of unspoiled coastline to an abandoned weapons in the annual report for the above year as described in the contents research station.
Through opening its sites to the public, the Trust encourages section including the unaudited part of the directors remuneration awareness of the historic environment in all its extraordinary diversity.
report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware Threading a fine line The smallest detail of each National Trust property of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the is carefully cherished.
But even in the hands of a conservator as skilled as financial statements.
Fiona Hutton, fragile items such as this 18th century tapestry can demand months of concentrated effort.
78 The British Land Company PLC The British Land Company PLC 79
