41 41 BRIXTON BRIXTON u INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF BRIXTON PLC We have audited the Group financial statements of Brixton plc for the year We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any ended 31 December 2005 which comprise the Group Income Statement, apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial the Group Balance Sheet, the Group Cash Flow Statement, the Group statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Statement of Recognised Income and Expense and the related notes 1 to 34.
These Group financial statements have been prepared under the Basis of audit opinion accounting policies set out therein.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit We have reported separately on the parent Company financial statements includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts of Brixton plc for the year ended 31 December 2005 and on the information and disclosures in the Group financial statements.
It also includes an in the Report on Directors remuneration that is described as having assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the been audited.
Directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and of whether This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall have formed.
adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group financial statements.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors Opinion The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group In our opinion the Group financial statements: financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2005 and of its profit for the year then ended: and Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act on Auditing UK and Ireland.
1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial statements have Ernst & Young LLP Registered auditor been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and 1 More London Place Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the London Directors report is not consistent with the Group financial statements, if we SE1 2AF have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and 27 March 2006 other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Brixton plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider statements since they were initially presented on the website.
whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and 2.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives review, the Operating review, the Financial review, the Directors report, and the unaudited part of the Report on Directors remuneration.
