Independent auditors report to the members of Capital & Regional plc We have audited the Group and individual Company financial We read the directors report and the other information contained statements the financial statements of Capital and Regional in the annual report for the above year as described in the plc for the year ended 30 December 2005 which comprise the contents section including the unaudited part of the directors consolidated profit and loss account, the consolidated and remuneration report and consider the implications for our report individual Company balance sheets, the statement of total if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material recognised gains and losses, the note of historical cost profits and inconsistencies with the financial statements.
losses, the reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders funds, the consolidated cash flow statement, the statement of Basis of audit opinion accounting policies and the related notes 1 to 37.
These financial We conducted our audit in accordance with International statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing out therein.
We have also audited the information in the directors Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, described as having been audited.
It also includes an assessment in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the Companys members those matters we are required to state the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this information and explanations which we considered necessary in report, or for the opinions we have formed.
order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors directors remuneration report to be audited are free from The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated United Kingdom law and United Kingdom Generally Accepted the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Accounting Practice and for preparing the parent individual financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration Company financial statements and the directors remuneration report described as having been audited.
report in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set Opinion out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
In our opinion: the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted of the directors remuneration report described as having been Accounting Practice, of the state of the Groups and the audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and individual Companys affairs as at 30 December 2005 and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing of the Groups loss for the year then ended: and UK and Ireland.
the Group and individual Company financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report descibed We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial as having been audited have been properly prepared in statements give a true and fair view in accordance with the accordance with the Companies Act 1985. relevant framework and whether the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with Deloitte & Touche LLP the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, London if the information and explanation we require for our audit, or if 13 April 2006 the information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not complied with any of the four directors remuneration disclosure requirements specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
These comprise the amount of each element in the remuneration package and information on share options, details of long-term incentive schemes, and money purchase and defined benefit schemes.
We give a statement, to the extent possible, of details of any non-compliance.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the July 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
