INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Hammerson plc We have audited the group financial statements the financial statements of Hammerson plc for the year ended 31 December 2005 which comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated statement of recognised income and expenses, the reconciliation of equity, the consolidated cash ow statement, the analysis of net debt, the statement of accounting policies and the related notes.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
We have reported separately on the individual company financial statements of Hammerson plc for the year ended 31 December 2005.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the Directors remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted for use in the European Union are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report described as having been audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view in accordance with the relevant financial reporting framework and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with the financial statements.
We also report to you if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information speci ed by law regarding directors transactions with the Company and other members of the group is not disclosed.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not complied with any of the four directors remuneration disclosure requirements speci ed for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
These comprise the amount of each element in the remuneration package and information on share options, details of long term incentive schemes, and money purchase and fide ned bene t schemes.
We give a statement, to the extent possible, of details of any non-compliance.
We review whether the corporate governance statement re ects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code speci ed for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statement on internal control covers all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the Directors report and the other information contained in the annual report for the above year as described in the contents section including the unaudited part of the Directors remuneration report and we consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
