Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Cobham plc Basis of audit opinion We have audited the group financial statements of Cobham plc for the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on year ended 31 December 2005 which comprise the Consolidated Income Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit Statement, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts Statement, the Statement of Recognised Income & Expense, the related and disclosures in the Group financial statements.
It also includes an notes and the accounting policies set out in the statement of Accounting assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the Policies.
These Group financial statements have been prepared under the directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and of accounting policies set out therein.
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
of Cobham plc for the year ended 31 December 2005 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information as having been audited.
and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the Group by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union are the Group financial statements.
set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Opinion Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance In our opinion: with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Section affairs as at 31 December 2005 and of its profit and cash flows for the 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving year then ended: and this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the Group financial statements, if we  LLP have not received all the information and explanations we require for our Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration Southampton and other transactions is not disclosed.
7 April 2006 We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Notes: companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined a The maintenance and integrity of the Cobham plc website is the Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider in other jurisdictions.
whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Review, the Business Review, the Financial Review, the statement on Corporate Social Responsibility, the statement on strategy, the statement on new structure, the Directors Report, the statement on Corporate Governance, and the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
