Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Cobham plc Basis of audit opinion We have audited the parent company financial statements of Cobham plc We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on for the year ended 31 December 2005 which comprise the Balance Sheet, Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit the Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses, the Reconciliation of includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts Movements in Shareholders Funds, the related notes and the accounting and disclosures in the parent company financial statements and the part of policies set out in the statement of Accounting Policies.
We have also audited the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the having been audited.
directors in the preparation of the parent company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Cobham circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
plc for the year ended 31 December 2005.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the parent company financial statements in sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent company accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent company Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements and financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance be audited.
with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been Opinion prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance In our opinion: with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 December 2005: and into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors consent in writing.
Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the parent company financial statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the  LLP information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is Southampton not disclosed.
7 April 2006 We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider Notes: whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial a The maintenance and integrity of the Cobham plc website is the statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does Statement, the Chief Executives Review, the Business Review, the Financial not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors Review, the statement on Corporate Social Responsibility, the statement on accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the strategy, the statement on new structure, the Directors Report, the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
statement on Corporate Governance, and the unaudited part of the b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and Directors Remuneration Report.
We consider the implications for our report dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material in other jurisdictions.
inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
