3.6 Independent Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report to the members of Land Securities Group PLC We have audited the financial statements which auditable part of the directors remuneration directors remuneration report.
It also includes comprise the profit and loss account, the balance report have been properly prepared in an assessment of the significant estimates and sheet, the cash flow statement, the statement accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We judgements made by the directors in the of total recognised gains and losses and the also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors preparation of the financial statements, and of related notes which have been prepared under report is not consistent with the financial whether the accounting policies are appropriate the historical cost convention as modified by statements, if the Company has not kept proper to the Companys circumstances, consistently the revaluation of certain fixed assets and the accounting records, if we have not received all applied and adequately disclosed.
accounting policies set out in the statement of the information and explanations we require for accounting policies.
We have also audited the our audit, or if information specified by law We planned and performed our audit so as to disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule regarding directors remuneration and obtain all the information and explanations 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the transactions is not disclosed.
which we considered necessary in order to directors remuneration report the auditable part.
provide us with sufficient evidence to give We read the other information contained in the reasonable assurance that the financial Respective responsibilities of directors annual report and consider the implications for statements and the auditable part of the and auditors our report if we become aware of any apparent directors remuneration report are free from The directors responsibilities for preparing the misstatements or material inconsistencies with material misstatement, whether caused by fraud annual report and the financial statements in the financial statements.
The other information or other irregularity or error.
In forming our accordance with applicable United Kingdom law comprises only the directors report, the opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy and accounting standards are set out in the unaudited part of the directors remuneration of the presentation of information in the statement of directors' responsibilities.
The report, the Chairmans Statement, the Financial financial statements.
directors are also responsible for preparing Highlights, the Operating and Financial Review the directors remuneration report.
and the Corporate Governance statement.
Opinion In our opinion: Our responsibility is to audit the financial We review whether the corporate governance the financial statements give a true and fair statements and the auditable part of the statement reflects the Companys compliance view of the state of affairs of the Company directors remuneration report in accordance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC and the Group at 31 March 2005 and of with relevant legal and regulatory requirements Combined Code specified for our review by the the loss and cash flows of the Group for and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, the year then ended: by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, and we report if it does not.
We are not required the financial statements have been properly including the opinion, has been prepared for and to consider whether the Boards statements on prepared in accordance with the Companies only for the Companys members as a body in internal control cover all risks and controls, or Act 1985: and accordance with Section 235 of the Companies form an opinion on the effectiveness of the those parts of the directors remuneration Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, Groups corporate governance procedures or report required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to in giving this opinion, accept or assume its risk and control procedures.
the Companies Act 1985 have been properly responsibility for any other purpose or to any prepared in accordance with the Companies other person to whom this report is shown or Basis of audit opinion Act 1985. into whose hands it may come save where We conducted our audit in accordance with expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination,  LLP We report to you our opinion as to whether the on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors financial statements give a true and fair view amounts and disclosures in the financial London and whether the financial statements and the statements and the auditable part of the 17 May 2005 80 Land Securities Annual Report 2005
