Aegis R&A 2005 Finance 49-72 12 4 06 7:08 am Page 1 Our business and strategy Our board and reports Our accounts Independent auditors report to the members of Aegis Group plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Aegis Group plc the Group for the year ended 31 December 2005 which comprise the consolidated Income Statement, the consolidated Balance Sheet, the consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense, and the related notes 1 to 35.
These Group financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited, in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements give a true and fair view in accordance with the relevant financial reporting framework and whether the Group financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited, have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the Group financial statements.
We also report to you if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors transactions with the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not complied with any of the four directors remuneration requirements specified for review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
These comprise the amount of each element in the remuneration package and information on share options, details of long-term incentive schemes and money purchase and defined benefit schemes.
We give a statement, to the extent possible, of details of any non-compliance.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statement on internal control covers all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the Directors Report and the other information contained in the annual report for the above year as described in the contents section and we consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited.
49 Aegis R&A 2005 Finance 49-72 12 4 06 7:08 am Page 2 Aegis Annual Report 2005 Independent auditors report to the members of Aegis Group plc Opinion In our opinion: the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2005 and of its profit for the year then ended: and the Group financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited, have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London 7 April 2006 50
