ANNUAL REPORT 2005 COMPASS GROUP PLC 37 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF COMPASS GROUP PLC We have audited the financial statements of Compass Group PLC We review whether the corporate governance statement for the year ended 30 September 2005 which comprise the reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of consolidated profit and loss account, the balance sheets, the July 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the consolidated cash flow statement and related notes, the the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses, report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the the reconciliation of movements in consolidated shareholders Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, funds and the related notes 1 to 26.
These financial statements or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate have been prepared under the accounting policies set out governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We have also audited the information in the part of the Remuneration Committees Report that is described as having We read the directors report and the other information been audited.
contained in the Annual Report for the above year as described in the contents sections including the unaudited part of the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a Remuneration Committees Report and consider the implications body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
Basis of audit opinion To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant report, or for the opinions we have formed.
to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Committees Report described as Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors having been audited.
It also includes an assessment of the As described in the statement of directors responsibilities, significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the Companys directors are responsible for the preparation the preparation of the financial statements and of whether the of the financial statements in accordance with applicable accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
They are also of the Company and the Group, consistently applied and responsible for the preparation of the other information contained adequately disclosed.
in the annual report including the Remuneration Committees Report.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the the part of the Remuneration Committees Report described as information and explanations which we considered necessary having been audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable legal and regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Committees Report described as having been We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also statements and the part of the Remuneration Committees evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information Report described as having been audited have been properly in the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also Committees Report described as having been audited.
report if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper Opinion accounting records, if we have not received all the information In our opinion, the financial statements give a true and fair and explanations we require for our audit, or if information view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as specified by law regarding directors remuneration and at 30 September 2005 and of the profit of the Group for the year transactions with the Company and other members of the then ended and the financial statements and the part of the Group is not disclosed.
Remuneration Committees Report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not Companies Act 1985. complied with any of the four directors remuneration disclosure requirements specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
These comprise the amount of each element in the remuneration package and information on share options, details of long-term incentive schemes, and money Deloitte & Touche LLP purchase and defined benefit schemes.
We give a statement, Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors to the extent possible, of details of any non-compliance.
