Shaftesbury BACK 05. qxd 7 12 05 14:51 Page 17 Independent auditors report We report to you our opinion as to whether the We planned and performed our audit so as to To the Members of Shaftesbury PLC financial statements give a true and fair view and obtain all the information and explanations which We have audited the financial statements which whether the financial statements and the auditable we considered necessary in order to provide us comprise the Consolidated Profit and Loss part of the Directors Remuneration Report have with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Account, the Balance Sheets, the Consolidated been properly prepared in accordance with the assurance that the financial statements and the Cash Flow Statement, the Statement of Group Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Total Recognised Gains and Losses, the opinion, the Directors' Report is not consistent with Report are free from material misstatement, Reconciliation of Group Historical Cost Profits and the financial statements, if the Company and Group whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or Losses, the Reconciliation of Movements in Group has not kept proper accounting records, if we have error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the Shareholders Funds and the related notes which not received all the information and explanations overall adequacy of the presentation of information have been prepared under the historical cost we require for our audit, or if information specified in the financial statements and the auditable part convention as modified by the revaluation of by law regarding Directors' remuneration and of the Directors Remuneration Report.
certain fixed assets and the accounting policies transactions is not disclosed.
set out in the statement of accounting policies.
We read the other information contained in the Opinion We have also audited the disclosures required by Annual Report and consider the implications for Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 In our opinion: our Report if we become aware of any apparent contained in the Directors Remuneration Report misstatements or material inconsistencies with the the financial statements give a true and fair view the auditable part.
The other information of the state of affairs of the Company and the comprises only the Directors' Report, the unaudited Group at 30th September 2005 and of the profit Respective responsibilities part of the Directors Remuneration report, the and cash flows of the Group for the year then ended: of Directors and Auditors Chairman's Statement, the Business Review and the financial statements have been properly the Corporate Governance Statement.
The Directors responsibilities for preparing the prepared in accordance with the Companies Act annual report and the financial statements in We review whether the Corporate Governance 1985: and accordance with applicable United Kingdom law Statement reflects the Companys compliance with and accounting standards are set out in the those parts of the Directors Remuneration the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined statement of Directors' responsibilities.
Report required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules The Directors are also responsible for preparing Companies Act 1985 have been properly prepared of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if the Directors Remuneration Report.
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover Our responsibility is to audit the financial all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the statements and the auditable part of the Directors  LLP effectiveness of the groups corporate governance Remuneration Report in accordance with relevant Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors procedures or its risk and control procedures.
legal and regulatory requirements and United London Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing 7th December 2005 Practices Board.
This Report, including the Basis of audit opinion opinion, has been prepared for and only for the We conducted our audit in accordance with Companys members as a body in accordance with auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and accept or assume responsibility for any other disclosures in the financial statements and the purpose or to any other person to whom this Report auditable part of the Directors Remuneration is shown or into whose hands it may come save where Report.
It also includes an assessment of the expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Company's circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
