30 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Financial statements Independent auditors report Independent auditors report to the members of Workspace Basis of audit opinion Group PLC We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards We have audited the financial statements which comprise issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes the profit and loss account, the balance sheet, the cash flow examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the statement, the statement of total recognised gains and losses amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and and the related notes which have been prepared under the the auditable part of the directors remuneration report.
historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates certain fixed assets and the accounting policies set out in the and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of statement of accounting policies.
We have also audited the the financial statements, and of whether the accounting disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, Act 1985 contained in the directors remuneration report consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors the information and explanations which we considered The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence and the financial statements in accordance with applicable to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in and the auditable part of the directors remuneration report the statement of directors responsibilities.
The directors are also are free from material misstatement, whether caused by responsible for preparing the directors remuneration report.
fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements of information in the financial statements.
and the auditable part of the directors remuneration report in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements Opinion and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing In our opinion: Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body of affairs of the Company and the Group at 31 March 2005 in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and of the profit and cash flows of the Group for the year and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, then ended: accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose the financial statements have been properly prepared in hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and consent in writing.
those parts of the directors remuneration report required We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have statements give a true and fair view and whether the been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies financial statements and the auditable part of the directors Act 1985. remuneration report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our  LLP opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting London records, if we have not received all the information and 10 June 2005 explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the annual report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises only the directors report, the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report, the chairmans statement, the operating and financial review and the corporate governance statement.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
