Independent Auditors Report We review whether the corporate governance Independent auditors report to the Respective responsibilities of Directors statement on pages 48 to 50 reflects the members of Crest Nicholson PLC and Auditors Company's compliance with the nine We have audited the financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing provisions of the 2003 FRC Code specified for on pages 32 to 47.
We have also audited the Annual Report and the Directors' our review by the Listing Rules, and we report the information in the Directors' remuneration report.
As described on page if it does not.
We are not required to consider remuneration report that is described 27 this includes responsibility for preparing whether the Board's statements on internal as having been audited.
the financial statements in accordance with control cover all risks and controls, or form applicable United Kingdom law and an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group's This report is made solely to the Company's accounting standards.
Our responsibilities, corporate governance procedures or its risk members, as a body, in accordance with as independent auditors, are established in and control procedures.
section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. the United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing Our audit work has been undertaken so that Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the We read the other information contained in we might state to the Company's members Financial Services Authority, and by our the Annual Report, including the corporate those matters we are required to state to profession's ethical guidance.
governance statement and the unaudited them in an auditor's report and for no other part of the Directors' remuneration report, purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by We report to you our opinion as to whether and consider whether it is consistent with law, we do not accept or assume the financial statements give a true and fair the audited financial statements.
responsibility to anyone other than the view and whether the financial statements We consider the implications for our report Company and the Company's members as and the part of the Directors' remuneration if we become aware of any apparent a body, for our audit work, for this report, report to be audited have been properly mis-statements or material inconsistencies or for the opinions we have formed.
prepared in accordance with the Companies with the financial statements.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors' report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors' remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
30 Independent Auditors Report Basis of audit opinion Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with In our opinion: Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing the financial statements give a true and Practices Board.
An audit includes fair view of the state of affairs of the examination, on a test basis, of evidence Company and the Group as at 31st relevant to the amounts and disclosures in October 2005 and of the profit of the the financial statements and the part of the Group for the year then ended: and Directors' remuneration report to be audited.
the financial statements and the part of It also includes an assessment of the the Directors' remuneration report to be significant estimates and judgements made audited have been properly prepared in by the Directors in the preparation of the accordance with the Companies Act 1985. financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group's circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants We planned and performed our audit so as Registered Auditor to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to London provide us with sufficient evidence to give 25th January 2006 reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors' 1 The Forum, Bath remuneration report to be audited are free 2 Kings Warren, Newmarket 3 Westhill Park, Birmingham from material mis-statement, whether 4 Port Marine, Portishead caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the 2 4 overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and 1 3 the part of the Directors' remuneration report to be audited.
