Company independent auditors report Company balance sheet at 31 December 2005 To the shareholders of Croda International Plc 2005 2004 We have audited the parent company financial statements of Croda International Plc for the year ended 31 December Note m m 2005 which comprise the Company balance sheet, the Company accounting policies and the related notes.
These parent Restated Fixed assets company financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited Tangible assets C 1.7 1.6 the information in the directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Investments Subsidiary undertakings D 121.4 126.3 We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Croda International Plc for the year ended Associated undertaking E 1.6 1.6 31 December 2005.
Other E 1.1 1.1 Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors 125.8 130.6 The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the directors remuneration report and the parent Current assets company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards Debtors F 2.0 0.7 United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
Cash at bank and in hand 37.6 46.7 Financial assets H 0.1 - Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on 39.7 47.4 Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members Creditors as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or Falling due within one year G 6.5 9.4 into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Net current assets 33.2 38.0 We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view and Creditors whether the parent company financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited Falling due after one year G 38.6 41.0 have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Net assets 120.4 127.6 directors report is not consistent with the parent company financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
Capital and reserves Preference share capital 24 1.1 1.1 We read other information contained in the annual report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group Ordinary share capital 22 13.6 13.6 financial statements.
The other information comprises only the directors report, the unaudited part of the directors Called up share capital 14.7 14.7 remuneration report, the Chairmans statement, the operating review, the financial review, the corporate governance Share premium account J 34.0 34.0 statement and the safety, health and environmental report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become Reserves J 71.7 78.9 aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Shareholders funds including non-equity interests 120.4 127.6 Basis of audit opinion Signed on behalf of the Board who approved the financial statements on 22 February 2006.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the parent company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently Martin Flower Barbara Richmond applied and adequately disclosed.
Chairman Group Finance Director We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent company financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent company financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2005: and the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Leeds 22 February 2006 70 Company independent auditors report Company balance sheet 71
