0197 DC AR 2005 p55-60 31 5 05 10:06 am Page 55 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2005 55 Independent auditors report to the members of Dairy Crest Group plc We have audited the Groups financial statements for the year statements.
This other information comprises the Directors ended 31 March 2005 which comprise the Consolidated profit report, unaudited part of the Report of the Board on directors and loss account, Statement of Group total recognised gains remuneration, Chairmans statement, Chief Executives review, and losses, Balance sheets, Consolidated cash flow statement, Operational review, Financial review, Corporate governance Accounting policies and the related notes 1 to 31.
These statement and Statement of the directors responsibilities.
We financial statements have been prepared on the basis of the consider the implications for our report if we become aware of accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the information in the Report of the Board on directors financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any remuneration that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a Basis of audit opinion body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An state to the Companys members those matters we are required audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or the part of the Report of the Board on directors remuneration assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this estimates and judgements made by the directors in the report, or for the opinions we have formed.
preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Report of the Board on directors remuneration and the financial We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law information and explanations which we considered necessary in and accounting standards as set out in the Statement of order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable directors responsibilities in relation to the financial statements.
assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Report of the Board on directors remuneration to be audited Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud part of the Report of the Board on directors remuneration to or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards and the information in the financial statements and the part of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
Report of the Board on directors remuneration to be audited.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial Opinion statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial In our opinion: statements and the part of the Report of the Board on directors remuneration to be audited have been properly prepared in the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to of affairs of the Company and of the Group as at 31 March you if, in our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with 2005 and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended: and the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information the financial statements and the part of the Report of the and explanations we require for our audit, or if information Board on directors remuneration to be audited have been specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding directors properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
Ernst & Young LLP We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects Registered Auditor the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 London FRC Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the 24 May 2005 Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial
