REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Daily Mail Basis of Audit Opinion and General Trust plc We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom We have audited the financial statements of Daily Mail and auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit General Trust plc for the year ended 2nd October, 2005 which includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the comprise the Group profit and loss account, the Group balance amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part sheet, the Group cash flow statement, the statement of total of the Remuneration Report described as having been audited.
recognised gains and losses, reconciliation of movement in Group It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and shareholders funds, the Group balance sheet, the accounting judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the policies and the related notes 1 to 40.
These financial statements financial statements and of whether the accounting policies are have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
appropriate to the circumstances of the Company and the Group, We have also audited the information in the part of the consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Remuneration Report that is described as being audited.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, information and explanations which we considered necessary in in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Companys members those matters we are required to state to Remuneration Report described as having been audited are free them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report we have formed.
described as having been audited.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors Opinion As described in the statement of directors responsibilities, the In our opinion: Companys Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with applicable United the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of Kingdom law and accounting standards.
They are also responsible affairs of the Company and the Group as at 2nd October, 2005 and for the preparation of the other information contained in the of the profit of the Group for the year then ended: and Annual Report including the Remuneration Report.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the financial statements and part of the Remuneration Report the Remuneration Report described as having been audited in described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory accordance with the Companies Act 1985. requirements and auditing standards.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report described as Deloitte & Touche LLP having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance Chartered Accountants and with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report if, in our opinion, the Registered Auditors Directors Report is not consistent with the financial statements, if London the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have 29th November, 2005 not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and transactions with the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the Directors Report and the other information contained in the Annual Report for the above year as described in the contents section including the unaudited part of the Directors remuneration report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
41 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
