Group Report of the Auditors INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements SHAREHOLDERS OF DANA PETROLEUM PLC on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form We have audited the Group financial statements of an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate Dana Petroleum plc for the year ended 31 December governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
2005 which comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Balance Sheet, the Group Cash Flow We read other information contained in the Annual Report Statement and the Group Statement of Changes in and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Equity and the related notes 1 to 33.
These Group financial statements have been prepared under the Group financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Highlights, Chairmans and Chief accounting policies set out therein.
Executives Review, Review of Operations, Financial Review, Report of the Directors, unaudited part of the We have reported separately on the parent Company Report on Directors Remuneration, Proven and Probable financial statements of Dana Petroleum plc for the year Reserves and Resources, and Exploration and Production ended 31 December 2005 and on the information in Interests.
We consider the implications for our report if we the Directors Remuneration Report that is described become aware of any apparent mis-statements or as having been audited.
material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend This report is made solely to the Companys members, to any other information.
as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys Basis of audit opinion members those matters we are required to state to We conducted our audit in accordance with International them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and the Company and the Companys members as a body, disclosures in the Group financial statements.
It also for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions includes an assessment of the significant estimates and we have formed.
judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, Respective responsibilities of directors consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
and auditors The Directors are responsible for preparing the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain Annual Report and the Group financial statements in all the information and explanations which we considered accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial adopted by the European Union as set out in the statements are free from material mis-statement, whether Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial of the presentation of information in the Group statements in accordance with relevant legal and financial statements.
regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Opinion In our opinion the Group financial statements: We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements give a true and fair view and whether give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS the Group financial statements have been properly as adopted by the European Union, of the state of prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2005 and and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to of its profit for the year then ended: and you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the Group financial statements, if we have been properly prepared in accordance have not received all the information and explanations with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the we require for our audit, or if information specified by law IAS Regulation.
regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
Ernst & Young LLP 12 June 2006 We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the companys compliance with the nine Registered Auditor 1 More London Place, provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services London SE1 2AF Dana Petroleum plc 2005 Annual Report | 35
