Auditors report Independent Auditors Report to the members of Basis of audit opinion fide La Rue plc We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards We have audited the financial statements which comprise the Group issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes Profit and Loss Account, the Balance Sheets, the Group Cash Flow examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts Statement, the Group Statement of Total Recognised Gains and and disclosures in the financial statements and the auditable part Losses, the Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds and of the Remuneration Report.
It also includes an assessment of the the related notes which have been prepared under the historical cost significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in convention as modified by the revaluation of certain fixed assets the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the and the accounting policies set out in the Statement of Accounting accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, Policies.
We have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
"of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the Remuneration Report ""the auditable part""."
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the assurance that the financial statements and the auditable part of the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom Remuneration Report are free from material misstatement, whether law and accounting standards are set out in the statement of caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion Directors Responsibilities.
The Directors are also responsible for we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of preparing the Remuneration Report.
information in the financial statements.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the Opinion auditable part of the Remuneration Report in accordance with In our opinion: relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the affairs of the Company and the Group at 26 March 2005 and of Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the profit and cash flows of the Group for the year then ended: the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into with the Companies Act 1985: and whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
those parts of the Remuneration Report required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the auditable part of the Remuneration Report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the company has not kept proper  LLP accounting records, if we have not received all the information Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified London by law regarding Directors remuneration and transactions is 24 May 2005 not disclosed.
Notes We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and The maintenance and integrity of the fide La Rue plc website is the responsibility consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the Auditors accept no responsibility for any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially statements.
The other information comprises only the Highlights, the presented on the website.
Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Review, the Operational Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of Reviews Cash Systems and Security Paper and Print, the Financial financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Review, the Corporate Responsibility Report, the Directors Report, the Corporate Governance Statement, the unaudited part of the Remuneration Report, the Principal Subsidiaries, Branches and Associated Companies, the Five-Year Record and the Shareholders Information.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys or Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
fide La Rue Annual Report Auditors report 33
