INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of fide Vere Group Plc We have audited the Groups Accounts for We report to you our opinion as to whether Basis of audit opinion the year ended 25 September 2005 which the Accounts give a true and fair view We conducted our audit in accordance comprise the Consolidated Profit and Loss and whether the Accounts and the part with United Kingdom Auditing Standards Account, Group and Company Balance of the Directors Remuneration Report to issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An Sheets, Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, be audited have been properly prepared in audit includes examination, on a test basis, Group Statement of Total Recognised Gains accordance with the Companies Act 1985. of evidence relevant to the amounts and and Losses, Reconciliation of Movement in We also report to you if, in our opinion, disclosures in the Accounts and the part of Shareholders Funds and the related Notes 1 the Directors Report is not consistent the Directors Remuneration Report to be to 31.
These Accounts have been prepared with the Accounts, if the company has audited.
It also includes an assessment of the on the basis of the accounting policies not kept proper accounting records, if we significant estimates and judgements made set out therein.
We have also audited the have not received all the information and by the Directors in the preparation of the information in the Directors Remuneration explanations we require for our audit, or if Accounts, and of whether the accounting Report that is described as having been information specified by law or the Listing policies are appropriate to the Groups audited.
Rules regarding Directors remuneration and circumstances, consistently applied and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with We review whether the Corporate We planned and performed our audit Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Governance Statement reflects the so as to obtain all the information and Our audit work has been undertaken so Companys compliance with the nine explanations which we considered necessary that we might state to the Companys provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code in order to provide us with sufficient members those matters we are required specified for our review by the Listing Rules evidence to give reasonable assurance that to state to them in an auditors report and of the Financial Services Authority, and we the Accounts and the part of the Directors for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent report if it does not.
We are not required to Remuneration Report to be audited are permitted by law, we do not accept or consider whether the Boards statements on free from material misstatement, whether assume responsibility to anyone other than internal control cover all risks and controls or caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
the Company and the Companys members form an opinion on the effectiveness of the In forming our opinion we also evaluated as a body, for our audit work, for this report, Groups Corporate Governance procedures the overall adequacy of the presentation of or for the opinions we have formed.
or its risk and control procedures.
information in the Accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be Respective responsibilities of We read other information contained in the audited.
Directors and Auditors Annual Report and consider whether it is The Directors are responsible for preparing consistent with the audited Accounts.
This Opinion the Annual Report, including the Accounts other information comprises the Chairmans In our opinion: which are required to be prepared in Statement, Chief Executives Strategy accordance with applicable United Kingdom Review, Operating Review, Financial Review, The Accounts give a true and fair view of law and accounting standards as set out in Report of the Directors, Corporate and the state of affairs of the Company and of the Statement of Directors Responsibilities Social Responsibility Statement, Statement the Group as at 25 September 2005 and in relation to the Accounts.
The Directors are on Corporate Governance and Directors of the profit of the Group for the year then also responsible for preparing the Directors Remuneration Report.
We consider the ended: and Remuneration Report.
implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or The Accounts and the part of the Directors Our responsibility is to audit the Accounts material inconsistencies with the Accounts.
Remuneration Report to be audited have and the part of the Directors Remuneration Our responsibilities do not extend to any been properly prepared in accordance with Report to be audited in accordance with other information.
the Companies Act 1985. relevant legal and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Ernst & Young LLP Authority.
Registered Auditor Manchester 30 November 2005 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT I ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 I 31
