ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 66 67 Independent auditors report To the members of Aga Foodservice Group plc We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial We have audited the Group financial statements of Aga Foodservice statements.
The other information comprises only the directors Group plc for the year ended 31st December 2005 which comprise report, the chairmans statement, the unuaudited part of the the Group income statement, the balance sheet, the cash flow remuneration report and the Corporate Governance Statement.
We statement, the statement of recognised income and expense and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any the related notes.
These Group financial statements have been apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
We have reported separately on the parent Company financial statements of Aga Foodservice Group plc for the year ended 31st Basis of audit opinion December 2005 and on the information in the directors We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors to the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements.
It The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the Group and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are by the European Union are set out in the statement of directors appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and information and explanations which we considered necessary in International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the assurance that the Group financial statements are free from material Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other presentation of information in the Group financial statements.
purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior Opinion consent in writing.
In our opinion: We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the state of the Groups affairs as at 31st December 2005 and of its Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also profit and cash flows for the year then ended: and report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the Group financial statements, if we have not received all the the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in information and explanations we require for our audit, or if accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and Regulation.
other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal  LLP control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its Birmingham risk and control procedures.
