DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 39 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of DS Smith Plc We have audited the financial statements Companys compliance with the nine Opinion on pages 40 to 64.
We have also audited the provisions of the 2003 FRC Code specified In our opinion: information in the Directors remuneration for our review by the Listing Rules, and we the financial statements give a true and fair report that is described as having been audited.
We are not required to view of the state of affairs of the Company consider whether the Boards statements on This report is made solely to the Companys and the Group as at 30 April 2005 and of internal control cover all risks and controls, Members, as a body, in accordance with the profit of the Group for the year then or form an opinion on the effectiveness of section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. ended: and the Groups corporate governance procedures Our audit work has been undertaken so that the financial statements and the part of or its risk and control procedures.
we might state to the Companys Members the Directors Remuneration Report to those matters we are required to state to We read the other information contained be audited have been properly prepared in them in an auditors report and for no other in the Annual Report, including the accordance with the Companies Act 1985. purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted Corporate Governance statement and the KPMG Audit Plc by law, we do not accept or assume unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Chartered Accountants responsibility to anyone other than the Report, and consider whether it is consistent Registered Auditor Company and the Companys Members with the audited financial statements.
London as a body, for our audit work, for this report, We consider the implications for our report 29 June 2005 or for the opinions we have formed.
if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies Respective Responsibilities of with the financial statements.
Directors and Auditors The Directors are responsible for preparing Basis of Audit Opinion the Annual Report and the Directors We have conducted our audit in accordance Remuneration Report.
As described on page with Auditing Standards issued by the 38, this includes responsibility for preparing Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes the financial statements in accordance with examination, on a test basis, of evidence applicable United Kingdom law and relevant to the amounts and disclosures in accounting standards.
Our responsibilities, the financial statements and the part of the as independent auditors, are established in Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
the United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing It also includes an assessment of the Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the significant estimates and judgements made Financial Services Authority, and by our by the Directors in the preparation of the professions ethical guidance.
financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the We report to you our opinion as to whether Groups circumstances, consistently applied the financial statements give a true and fair and adequately disclosed.
view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration We planned and performed our audit so as report to be audited have been properly to obtain all the information and explanations prepared in accordance with the Companies which we considered necessary in order to Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our provide us with sufficient evidence to give opinion, the Directors Report is not reasonable assurance that the financial consistent with the financial statements, if statements and part of the Directors the Company has not kept proper accounting Remuneration Report to be audited are free records, if we have not received all the from material misstatement, whether caused information and explanations we require by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In for our audit, or if information specified by forming our opinion we also evaluated the law regarding Directors remuneration and overall adequacy of the presentation of transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration We review whether the Corporate Governance Report to be audited.
statement on pages 27 to 29 reflects the
