Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Aggreko plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Aggreko Plc for the year ended 31 December 2005 which comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Statement of Recognised Income and Expense, the Group Balance Sheet, the Group Cash Flow Statement and the related notes.
These group financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Aggreko Plc for the year ended 31 December 2005 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the group financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the group financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the group financial statements, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited group financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors Report, the Chairmans Statement, the Operating and Financial Review and the Corporate Governance Statement.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the group financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the group financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the group financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the group financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion: the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 December 2005 and of its profit and cash ows for the year then ended: and the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Notes: a The maintenance and integrity of the Aggreko Plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve  LLP consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Glasgow b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
9 March 2006 58 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 ACCOUNTS Accounts Group Income Statement 60 Group Statement of Recognised Income and Expense 60 Group Balance Sheet 61 Group Cash Flow Statement 62 Notes to the Group Accounts 63 Independent Auditors Report Company 96 Company Balance Sheet 97 Company Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses 98 Notes to the Company Accounts 99
