Auditors report Independent Auditors report to the members of EMI Group plc We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider We have audited the Groups financial statements for the year ended whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
This other 31 March 2005 which comprise the Consolidated profit and loss account, information comprises the Directors report, unaudited part of the Consolidated balance sheet, Company balance sheet, Consolidated Directors Remuneration report, Chairmans statement, Operating cash flow statement, Statement of total recognised gains and losses, reviews, Financial review and Corporate governance statement.
Reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds and the related notes We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any 1 to 28.
These financial statements have been prepared on the basis apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial of the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
information in the Directors Remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom Auditing This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and Remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditor We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, including and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide the financial statements which are required to be prepared in accordance us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards as set statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities in relation to the audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud financial statements.
or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration report Directors Remuneration report to be audited in accordance with relevant to be audited.
legal and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
Opinion In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view of the We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give state of affairs of the Company and of the Group as at 31 March 2005 a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended: and the financial of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited have been properly statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration report prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the to you if, in our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with the Companies Act 1985. financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations Ernst & Young LLP we require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Registered Auditor Rules regarding Directors remuneration and transactions with the Group London is not disclosed.
23 May 2005 We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
