45 Enodis plc We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Company's compliance with the nine provisions of Independent Auditors the July 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report to the members report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the board's statements on internal control cover all risks and of Enodis plc controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group's corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the Directors report and the other information contained in the annual report for the above year as described in the contents section including the unaudited part of the We have audited the financial statements of Enodis plc for the Directors remuneration report and consider the implications for 52 weeks ended 1 October which comprise the Group profit our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements and loss account, the Group and Company balance sheets, the or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Group cash flow statement, the Statement of total recognised gains and losses, the statement of accounting policies and the Basis of audit opinion related notes 1 to 28.
These financial statements have been We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
also audited the information in the part of the Directors An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act described as having been audited.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made state to the Companys members those matters we are by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not circumstances of the Company and the Group, consistently accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the applied and adequately disclosed.
Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
information and explanations which we considered necessary in Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the As described in the Statement of Directors responsibilities in Directors remuneration report described as having been audited respect of the financial statements, the Companys Directors are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of standards.
They are also responsible for the preparation of the information in the financial statements and the part of the other information contained in the annual report including the Directors remuneration report described as having been Directors remuneration report.
Our responsibility is to audit the audited.
financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report described as having been audited in accordance with Opinion relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and In our opinion: auditing standards.
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial of affairs of the Company and the Group as at 1 October 2005 statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended: and statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report described as having been audited have been properly prepared the financial statements and part of the Directors in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to remuneration report described as having been audited you if, in our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with have been properly prepared in accordance with the the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper Companies Act 1985. accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and transactions with the Company and other members of the Deloitte & Touche LLP Group is not disclosed.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not London, England complied with any of the four Directors remuneration disclosure requirements specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the 21 November 2005 Financial Services Authority.
These comprise the amount of each element in the remuneration package and information on share Neither an audit nor a review provides assurance on the maintenance options, details of long term incentive schemes, and money and integrity of the website, including controls used to achieve this, and purchase and defined benefit schemes.
We give a statement, to in particular whether any changes may have occurred to the financial the extent possible, of details of any non-compliance.
These matters are the responsibility of the directors but no control procedures can provide absolute assurance in this area.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial information differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
