24898 PRE-ACC new 13 12 05 11:02 pm Page 36 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPOR T Independent auditors report to the members of We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited We have audited the financial statements of have been properly prepared in accordance with the Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC for the year Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our ended September 30 2005 which comprise the group opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the profit and loss account, the balance sheets, the group financial statements, if the company has not kept proper cash flow statement, the notes to the group cash flow accounting records, if we have not received all the statement, group statement of total recognised gains information and explanations we require for our audit, and losses, the reconciliation of movements in equity or if information specified by law regarding directors shareholders funds, and the related notes 1 to 26. remuneration and transactions with the company and These financial statements have been prepared under other members of the group is not disclosed.
the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the part of the directors We also report to you if, in our opinion, the company remuneration report that is described as having has not complied with any of the four directors been audited.
remuneration disclosure requirements specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services This report is made solely to the companys members, Authority.
These comprise the amount of each element as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the in the remuneration package and information on Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been share options, details of long term incentive schemes, undertaken so that we might state to the companys and money purchase and defined benefit schemes.
members those matters we are required to state to We give a statement, to the extent possible, of details them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than We review whether the corporate governance the company and the companys members as a body, statement reflects the companys compliance with the for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions nine provisions of the July 2003 FRC Combined Code we have formed.
specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does Respective responsibilities of directors and not.
We are not required to consider whether the auditors boards statements on internal control cover all risks As described in the statement of directors and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness responsibilities, the companys directors are responsible of the groups corporate governance procedures or its for the preparation of the financial statements in risk and control procedures.
accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
They are also responsible for the We read the directors report and the other preparation of the other information contained in the information contained in the annual report for the annual report including the directors remuneration above year as described in the contents section report.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial including the unaudited part of the directors statements and the part of the directors remuneration remuneration report and consider the implications for report described as having been audited in accordance our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory financial statements.
36 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 24898 PRE-ACC new 13 12 05 11:02 pm Page 37 Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the company and the group, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the group as at September 30 2005 and of the profit of the group for the year then ended: and the financial statements and part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London November 23 2005.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 37
