Independent auditors report to the members of FKI plc We have audited the Groups financial statements for the year ended We read other information contained in the Annual report and consider 31 March 2005 which comprise the Consolidated profit and loss account, whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
This other Consolidated balance sheet, Company balance sheet, Consolidated cash information comprises the Directors Report, unaudited part of the flow statement, Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses, Remuneration Report, Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Review, Consolidated reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders funds, the Operating and Financial Reviews and Corporate Governance Statement.
related notes 1 to 34 and the Principal Subsidiary Undertakings on page 78.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any These financial statements have been prepared on the basis of the apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
in the Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Basis of audit opinion This report is made solely to the Company's members, as a body, in We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom Auditing accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company's members examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are or for the opinions we have formed.
appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors adequately disclosed.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report, including the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information financial statements which are required to be prepared in accordance with and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards as set out in the with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial Statement of Directors Responsibilities in relation to the financial statements.
statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited are free The directors are also responsible for preparing the Remuneration Report.
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and Remuneration Report to be audited.
regulatory requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
Opinion We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give In our opinion: a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the of the Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in Company and of the Group as at 31 March 2005 and of the loss of the accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our Group for the year then ended: and opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding directors Act 1985. remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 Financial Reporting Council Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Ernst & Young LLP Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are Registered Auditor not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control London cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the 9 June 2005 Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
