INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF FORTH PORTS PLC We have audited the Group and parent company financial statements Basis of audit opinion the financial statements of Forth Ports PLC for the year ended 31st We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards December 2005 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
the Group and parent company Balance Sheets, the Group and parent An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant company Cash Flow Statements, the Group and parent company to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part Statements of Recognised Income and Expense and the related notes of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an and Appendix I.
These financial statements have been prepared under assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys as having been audited.
circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant be audited.
legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been Opinion prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in In our opinion: accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this Groups affairs as at 31st December 2005 and of its profit and Cash report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly Flows for the year then ended: agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the state of the parent Companys affairs as at 31st December of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly 2005 and Cash Flows for the year then ended: and prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance Report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the company has with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions  LLP is not disclosed.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Edinburgh We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC 20th March 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans Statement, the Group Chief Executive Statement, the Financial Review, the Directors Report, the Corporate Social Responsibility Report, the Corporate Governance Report, the Report of the Nomination Committee, the report of the Audit Committee and the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
