Financial Statements Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report to the Shareholders Basis of Audit Opinion of George Wimpey Plc We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on We have audited the Group and Parent Company financial statements Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit the financial statements of George Wimpey Plc for the year ended includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts 31 December 2005 which comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors and Parent Company Statements of Recognised Income and Expense, the Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Group and Parent Company the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the Cash Flow Statements, and the related notes.
These financial statements preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
is described as having been audited.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy Directors Responsibilities.
of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant Opinion legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing In our opinion: UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose affairs as at 31 December 2005 and of its profit and cash ows of the year or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands then ended: it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union as applied in true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the state Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2005 and cash ows in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS for the year then ended: and Regulations.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulations.
explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRS As explained in the Accounting Policies note to the financial statements, the We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Group and Parent Company in addition to complying with their legal obligation Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined to comply with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, have also complied Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services with the IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and In our opinion the Groups and Parent Companys financial statements give controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS, of the state of the Groups and governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2005 and of their cash ows We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider for the year then ended and the Groups profit for the year then ended.
whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Review, Operating and Financial Review, Corporate Social Responsibility Statement, Directors Report, Corporate Governance Statement and the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
London Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
