GKN plc 35 Annual Report 2005 Safety Award Scheme environmental indicators energy, waste, water by reference to volume The GKN Safety Award Scheme, which has been a key contributor in consumed or generated relative to weight of products shipped rather than transferring best practice in health and safety across the Group, has been run relative to sales as previously, recognising the disadvantages of using sales annually since 1997 and attracted 47 entries in 2005, demonstrating the high as a metric.
This methodology is reected in the performance data reported level of interest, involvement and commitment to safety throughout GKN.
We have however continued to use sales as the metric within our Leadership, employee involvement and team working together with excellent Aerospace businesses where the widely differing range of products progress were key attributes recognised by the judges.
Five teams received manufactured and the drive towards ever lighter components means that awards from Kevin Smith, Chief Executive, at an awards ceremony attended weight is not an appropriate measure of production.
As in last years review, by over 200 people.
The overall winner was GKN Aerospace St. Louis in the US we continue to report environmental performance on a divisional basis.
for the introduction of a safe behaviour observation and intervention This year we have included performance data relating to carbon dioxide CO 2 programme and improvement process, owned and implemented by line emitted as a result of energy consumed by the Group.
This includes indirect management with employee involvement and integrated into the quality emissions of CO from power stations that generate the electricity we consume 2 programme, and also for an excellent safety performance.
The other winners calculated using average data for the emissions of CO per kWh of generated 2 were GKN Driveline Trier, Germany, GKN Driveline Nagoya, Japan, GKN power for each country, published by the International Energy Agency.
Overall, OffHighway division and GKN Sheepbridge Stokes, UK.
CO emission levels follow a similar trend to energy consumption with only 2 Environment slight variations due to changes in energy mix.
Environmental management continues to form an important element of the Our business processes across the Group are diverse and this is reected in Groups integrated approach to risk management.
GKNs environmental the range of environmental performance by division.
In particular, Sinter Metals management system is part of this approach and is broadly based on the consumes energy and water at a much higher rate by unit weight of product international management standard, ISO 14001.
Both of these impose a than other divisions within the Group.
This business manufactures a high requirement for continuous improvement in environmental performance and, volume of small products using processes that are energy intensive and have in the case of ISO 14001, a requirement to demonstrate that improvement to high water usage due to its cooling processes.
Overall, most divisions achieved similar or slightly improved performances Environmental performance is reported to the Board and the Executive in each of the four key indicators compared with 2004 as shown in the Committee as part of the regular CSR reports.
In addition, any significant charts below.
incident is reported to Executive Committee members within 24 hours and reviewed at the next meeting of that Committee.
As the accuracy of our reported data continues to improve, this can result in anomalies in year-on-year comparison.
However, it also provides us with a Targets clearer focus for improvement opportunities which are receiving a high level GKN is committed to achieving compliance with ISO 14001 at all its of attention.
There are a significant number of initiatives throughout our plants manufacturing sites throughout the world.
96 plants are currently certied to which are contributing to improved performance.
For example, GKN Aerospace the ISO 14001 standard and a further three are planning to achieve St. Louis plant in the US, which represents over 50% of the divisions overall certication in 2006.
Two of our European companies continue to maintain water consumption, achieved a 63% reduction in its water consumption in certication to the ECO Management and Audit Scheme EMAS.
2005 following the installation of new recycling systems.
The GKN Sinter Operating sites are required to set targets, in particular on energy Metals plant in Manitowoc, USA also achieved significant savings in water consumption, water use and waste generation, in line with the commitment consumption due to the optimisation of water ow rates in the furnace cooling to continuous improvement.
zones prior to the installation of recirculatory water cooling towers.
A significant contribution to GKNs overall environmental footprint is the CO emitted by 2 Performance power stations that generate the electricity we use to run our plants.
In 2005 As reported in last years review, in our Automotive and OffHighway businesses we made a step towards reducing that impact when GKN Sinter Metals at we have progressively been measuring our performance against key Energy consumption CO emissions per unit 2 6,000 2,500 per unit of production of production kWh tonne 5,000 kg tonne 2,000 Aerospace measured Aerospace measured 4,000 against 1,000 sales against 1,000 sales 1,500 3,000 1,000 2,000 2003 2003 2004 2004 500 1,000 2005 2005 Aerospace Driveline Hoeganaes Sinter Other OffHighway Aerospace Driveline Hoeganaes Sinter Other OffHighway 0 0 Metals Automotive Metals Automotive
