Independent Auditors report to the members of GlaxoSmithKline plc We have audited the group financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline Basis of audit opinion plc for the year ended 31st December 2005 which comprise the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards consolidated balance sheet, consolidated income statement, on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
consolidated cash flow statement, consolidated statement of An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant recognised income and expense and the related notes.
These group to the amounts and disclosures in the group financial statements.
It financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and set out therein.
judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the group We have reported separately on the parent company financial financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ended 31st December appropriate to the groups circumstances, consistently applied and 2005 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report adequately disclosed.
that is described as having been audited.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order Respective responsibilities of directors and to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance auditors that the group financial statements are free from material The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
the group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the presentation of information in the group financial statements.
European Union are set out in the Directors statements of responsibility.
Opinion Our responsibility is to audit the group financial statements in In our opinion: accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the state of the groups affairs as at 31st December 2005 and of its companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the profit and cash flows for the year then ended: and Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or the group financial statements have been properly prepared in to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent Regulation.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs We report to you our opinion as to whether the group financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the group financial As explained in Note 1 to the group financial statements, the group statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the in addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply with IFRSs Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also as adopted by the European Union, has also complied with the IFRSs report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
with the group financial statements, if we have not received all the In our opinion the group financial statements give a true and fair view, information and explanations we require for our audit, or if in accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the groups affairs as at 31st information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and December 2005 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its  LLP risk and control procedures.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors We read other information contained in the Annual Report and London consider whether it is consistent with the audited group financial 1st March 2006 statements.
The other information comprises only the joint statement by the Chairman and Chief Executive, the financial summary, description of business, the corporate governance statement and the operating and financial review and prospects.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
GSK Annual Report 2005 83 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
