INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF GREENE KING PLC We have audited the groups financial statements for the fifty two We read other information contained in the annual report and weeks to 1 May 2005 which comprise the group profit and loss consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial account, the group balance sheet, the parent company balance statements.
This other information comprises the directors report, sheet, the group cash flow statement, the group statement of unaudited part of the directors remuneration report, the chairmans total recognised gains and losses, the reconciliation of statement, the chief executives review, the financial review, the movements in group shareholders funds and the related notes 1 group financial record, the financial highlights and the corporate to 27.
These financial statements have been prepared on the governance statement.
We consider the implications for our report basis of the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also if we become aware of any apparent misstatement of material audited the information in the directors remuneration report that inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities is described as having been audited.
do not extend to any other information.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a Basis of audit opinion body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit state to the companys members those matters we are required includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or the directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of report, or for the opinions we have formed.
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the including the financial statements which are required to be information and explanations which we considered necessary in prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable accounting standards as set out in the statement of directors assurance that the financial statements and the part of the responsibilities in relation to the financial statements.
directors remuneration report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the directors remuneration report to be audited in accordance with the presentation of information in the financial statements and the relevant legal and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom Auditing part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
Standards and the Listing rules of the Financial Services Authority.
Opinion We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial In our opinion: statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial - the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to of affairs of the company and of the group as at 1 May 2005 be audited are properly prepared in accordance with the and of the profit of the group for the fifty two weeks then Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the ended: and directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if - the financial statements and the part of the directors the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have remuneration report to be audited have been properly not received all the information and explanations we require for prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing rules regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects Ernst & Young LLP the companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Registered Auditor combined code specified for our review by the Listing rules, and we Cambridge report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the 5 July 2005 boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
