Report of the Independent Auditors to the Members of Greggs plc We have audited the group and parent company accounts the We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a accounts of Greggs plc for the 52 weeks ended 31 December true and fair view and whether the accounts and the part of the 2005 which comprise the consolidated income statement, the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly consolidated and parent company balance sheets, the consolidated prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as and parent company cashflow statements, the consolidated and regards the group accounts, Article 4 of IAS Regulation.
We also parent company statements of recognised income and expense report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not and the related notes.
The accounts have been prepared under consistent with the accounts, if the Company has not kept proper the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the accounting records, if we have not received all the information and information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified as having been audited.
by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 Companys members those matters we are required to state to FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest of the Financial Reporting Authority, and we report if it does not.
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures we have formed.
or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report, including Respective responsibilities of the corporate governance statement and the unaudited part of the directors and auditors Directors Remuneration Report, and consider whether it is The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and consistent with the audited accounts.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements the group and parent company accounts in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs or material inconsistencies with the accounts.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
as adopted by the EU are set out in the Statement of Directors responsibilities on page 24.
Our responsibility is to audit the accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 24 25 Report of the Independent Auditors to the Members of Greggs plc continued Basis of audit opinion Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards In our opinion: on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
the group accounts give a true and fair view, in accordance An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of the Groups to the amounts and disclosures in the accounts and the part of the affairs as at 31 December 2005 and of its profit for the 52 Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an weeks then ended: assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the the parent company accounts give a true and fair view, in Directors in the preparation of the accounts, and of whether the accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU as applied in accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and parent accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
of the state of the parent companys affairs for the 52 weeks We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information ended 31 December 2005: and and explanations which we considered necessary in order to the group and parent company accounts and the part of the provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been the accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by 1985 and, as regards the group accounts, Article 4 of the fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also IAS Regulations.
evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report KPMG Audit Plc to be audited.
Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor Newcastle upon Tyne 10 March 2006
