Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Halfords Group plc We have audited the financial statements which comprise We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement the Group Profit and Loss Account, the Balance Sheets, reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions the Group Cash Flow Statement, the Reconciliation of of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review Movements in Group Shareholders Funds and the related by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and notes.
We have also audited the disclosures required by we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 whether the Boards statements on internal control cover contained in the Directors Remuneration Report the all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the auditable part.
effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Basis of Audit Opinion Report and the financial statements in accordance with We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit are set out in the Statement of Directors responsibilities.
includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant The Directors are also responsible for preparing the to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements Directors Remuneration Report.
and the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report.
It also includes an assessment of the significant Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report in preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys and and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, adequately disclosed.
has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, the information and explanations which we considered in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence any other purpose or to any other person to whom this to give reasonable assurance that the financial report is shown or into whose hands it may come save statements and the auditable part of the Directors where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Remuneration Report are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also statements give a true and fair view and whether the evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of financial statements and the auditable part of the Directors information in the financial statements.
Remuneration Report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report Opinion to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not In our opinion: consistent with the financial statements, if the Company the financial statements give a true and fair view of the has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not state of affairs of the Company and of the Group as at received all the information and explanations we require for 1 April 2005 and of the profit and cash flows of the our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Group for the period then ended: Directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and We read the other information contained in the Annual those parts of the Directors Remuneration Report Report and consider the implications for our report if we required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act become aware of any apparent misstatements or material 1985 have been properly prepared in accordance with inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other the Companies Act 1985. information comprises only the Directors Report, the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, the  LLP Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Report, the Finance Directors Report and the Corporate Governance Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Statement.
Birmingham, 8 June 2005 Halfords Annual Report and Accounts 2005 37
