115 Alliance UniChem Plc Independent auditors report to the members of Alliance UniChem Plc We have audited the individual Company financial statements the financial statements of Alliance Unichem Plc for the year ended 31 December 2005 which comprise the balance sheet and the statement of accounting policies and the related notes A to P. These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Board report on remuneration that is described as having been audited.
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Alliance UniChem Plc for the year ended 31 December 2005.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the Board report on remuneration and the individual Company financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Directors responsibilities statement.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Board report on remuneration described as having been audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view in accordance with the relevant framework and whether the financial statements and the part of the Board report on remuneration to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We report to you if, in our opinion, the Report of the Directors is not consistent with the financial statements.
We also report to you if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and transactions with the Company is not disclosed.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not complied with any of the four Directors remuneration disclosure requirements specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
These comprise the amount of each element in the remuneration package and information on share options, details of long term incentive schemes, and money purchase and defined benefit schemes.
We give a statement, to the extent possible, of details of any non-compliance.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the Report of the Directors and the other information contained in the annual report for the above year and described in the contents section including the unaudited part of the Board report on remuneration and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Board report on remuneration described as having been audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Board report on remuneration described as having been audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Board report on remuneration described as having been audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2005: the financial statements and the part of the Board report on remuneration described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London, England 28 February 2006
