44 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Independent auditors report to the members of Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC We have audited the Group financial statements of Hikma We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group Pharmaceuticals PLC for the year ended 31 December 2005 financial statements give a true and fair view in accordance which comprise the consolidated income statement, the with the relevant financial reporting framework and whether consolidated statement of recognised income and expenses, the Group financial statements and the part of the Directors the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated cash flow remuneration report described as having been audited have statement, and the related Notes 1 to 44.
These Group been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act financial statements have been prepared under the accounting 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We report to you if, policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with the in the Directors remuneration report that is described as Group financial statements.
We also report to you if we have having been audited.
not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding We have reported separately on the individual company Directors transactions with the Company and other members financial statements of Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC for the of the Group is not disclosed.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a not complied with any of the four Directors remuneration body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act disclosure requirements specified for our review by the Listing 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
These comprise the state to the Companys members those matters we are amount of each element in the remuneration package and required to state to them in an auditors report and for no information on share options, details of long-term incentive other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we schemes, and money purchase and defined benefit schemes.
do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than We give a statement, to the extent possible, of details of any the Company and the Companys members as a body, for non-compliance.
our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report the Directors remuneration report and the Group financial if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the statements in accordance with applicable law and International Boards statement on internal control covers all risks and Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use in the controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the European Union are set out in the statement of Directors Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements We read the Directors report and the other information and the part of the Directors remuneration report described as contained in the Annual Report for the above year as having been audited in accordance with relevant United described in the contents section including the unaudited part Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and International of the directors remuneration report and we consider the Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 45 Basis of audit opinion Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International In our opinion: Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, accordance with IFRS as adopted for use in the European of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December Group financial statements and the part of the Directors 2005 and of its profit for the year then ended: and remuneration report described as having been audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and the Group financial statements and the part of the Directors judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the remuneration report described as having been audited have Group financial statements, and of whether the accounting been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRS We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all As explained in Note 2 of the Group financial statements, the the information and explanations which we considered Group, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to comply with IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union, give reasonable assurance that the Group financial statements has also complied with the IFRS as issued by the International and the part of the Directors remuneration report described Accounting Standards Board.
Accordingly, in our opinion as having been audited are free from material misstatement, the financial statements give a true and fair view, in whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
accordance with IFRS, of the state of the Groups affairs as at In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy 31 December 2005 and of its profit for the year then ended.
of the presentation of information in the Group financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report Deloitte & Touche LLP described as having been audited.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London, United Kingdom 28 March 2006
