Independent auditors report to the members of HMV Group plc We have audited the Groups financial statements for the Basis of audit opinion 53 week period ended 30 April 2005 which comprise the We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom Consolidated Profit and Loss Account, Consolidated Statement Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
of Total Recognised Gains and Losses, Reconciliation of An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence Movement in Shareholders Funds, Consolidated Balance relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial Sheet, Company Balance Sheet, Consolidated Cash Flow statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report Statement and the related notes 1 to 28.
These financial to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant statements have been prepared on the basis of the accounting estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information preparation of the financial statements, and of whether in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups having been audited.
circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act the information and explanations which we considered 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to state to the Companys members those matters we are give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and required to state to them in an auditors report and for no the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud not accept or assume any responsibility to anyone other than or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Opinion including the financial statements, which are required to be In our opinion: prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law the financial statements give a true and fair view of the and accounting standards as set out in the Statement of state of affairs of the Company and of the Group as at Directors Responsibilities in relation to the Financial 30 April 2005 and of the profit of the Group for the period Statements.
The Directors are also responsible for preparing then ended: and the Directors Remuneration Report.
the financial statements and the part of the Directors Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards and the Listing Rules of Ernst & Young LLP Registered Auditor the Financial Services Authority.
London We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial 27 June 2005 statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding Directors remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups Corporate Governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
This other information comprises the Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Statement, Operating Review, Financial Review, Corporate Governance Statement, unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report and Directors Report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
47 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005
