2 Or date of resignation from the Board if earlier.
3 Mr B C Davidsons shareholding has been amended to reflect an overstatement of 6,373 shares.
There have been no changes in any Directors holdings since 30 September 2005.
Executive share retention To ensure the interests of management remain aligned with those of shareholders, Executive Directors and senior executives are required to meet minimum shareholding guidelines, by building, over a period of five years from appointment, a holding in the Groups shares to a current minimum value broadly equivalent to three times base salary for the Chief Executive and Finance Director and twice their base salary in respect of the other Executive Directors.
Other executives are expected to invest at a level equivalent to between once and twice their base salary, dependent upon grade.
Failure to meet the minimum shareholding is a factor taken into account when determining eligibility for future LTIP awards.
All Executive Directors currently exceed their required shareholding.
Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP Each year since demerger in 1996, annual awards worth 75 per cent of basic salary have been made to Executive Directors under the LTIP and awards at a lower level have been made to other senior executives.
The awards, which vest three years after grant, are subject to the satisfaction of an applicable performance criterion, as set out below, over a three-year performance period.
All grants are at the absolute discretion of the Remuneration Committee and no employee has a right to receive any such grant.
For the December 2000 to November 2004 awards, the Committee replaced total shareholder return TSR with earnings per share EPS growth as the performance criterion.
This was seen as enhancing the incentive effect of the LTIP by focusing on the financial performance of the business, over which Directors and executives have power to influence.
The LTIP Rules give the Committee absolute discretion to ensure that the EPS performance criterion fully reflects the underlying performance of the Group before any awards vest, including maintenance of long-term return on capital employed.
This discretion gives the Committee the power to reduce, but not increase, the extent to which the award vests.
Outstanding awards vest on a sliding scale depending on average growth in basic EPS adjusted for amortisation, based on an agreed protocol to allow appropriate adjustments for exceptional and extraordinary items.
The adjustments are confirmed by the Auditors after adjusting for inflation over the period of the award.
No vesting occurs unless the Companys average real EPS growth is positive.
Full vesting occurs if average real EPS growth is equal to or exceeds 10 per cent per annum.
Between these two points the award vests on a straight-line basis.
In order to ensure that the performance criterion remained challenging the lower threshold was raised in 2003.
Therefore, for the 2003 and 2004 awards, vesting will only occur if average real EPS growth exceeds three per cent per annum.
The upper threshold of 10 per cent per annum real average EPS growth remained unchanged.
