Inchcape plc 100 Annual report and accounts 2005 Report of the Auditors Independent Auditors report to the members of Inchcape plc Basis of audit opinion We have audited the parent Company Financial statements of We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards Inchcape plc for the year ended 31 December 2005 which on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
comprise the balance sheet and the related notes to the accounts.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant These parent Company Financial statements have been prepared to the amounts and disclosures in the parent Company Financial under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited statements and the part of the Board report on remuneration the information in the Board report on remuneration that is described to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant as having been audited.
estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation We have reported separately on the Group Financial statements of the parent Company Financial statements, and of whether the of Inchcape plc for the year ended 31 December 2005. accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual report, the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order Board report on remuneration and the parent Company Financial to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom that the parent Company Financial statements and the part of the Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Board report on remuneration to be audited are free from material Accounting Practice are set out in the statement of Directors misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of Our responsibility is to audit the parent Company Financial the presentation of information in the parent Company Financial statements and the part of the Board report on remuneration to be statements and the part of the Board report on remuneration to audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements be audited.
and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, Opinion including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of In our opinion: the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in the parent Company Financial statements give a true and fair giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as at whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior 31 December 2005: and consent in writing.
the parent Company Financial statements and the part of the We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent Company Board report on remuneration to be audited have been properly Financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Company Financial statements and the part of the Board report on remuneration to be audited have been properly prepared in  LLP accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors in our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with the parent London Company Financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper 6 March 2006 accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Financial statements.
The other information comprises the Chairmans statement, the Operating and financial review, the Corporate social responsibility section, the Board of Directors, the Directors report, the Corporate governance report, the unaudited part of the Board report on remuneration, the Directors responsibilities, the Five year record and Company details.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
