Inchcape plc Annual report and accounts 2005 45 Report of the Auditors Independent Auditors report to the members of Inchcape plc Basis of audit opinion We have audited the Group Financial statements of Inchcape plc We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards for the year ended 31 December 2005 which comprise the on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant recognised income and expense, the consolidated balance sheet, to the amounts and disclosures in the Financial statements.
It also the consolidated cash flow statement and the related notes to the includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements accounts.
These Financial statements have been prepared under the made by the Directors in the preparation of the Financial statements, accounting policies set out therein.
and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups We have reported separately on the parent Company Financial circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
statements of Inchcape plc for the year ended 31 December 2005 We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the and on the information in the Board report on remuneration that is information and explanations which we considered necessary in order described as having been audited.
to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Financial statements are free from material misstatement, Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual report and opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of the Financial statements in accordance with applicable law and information in the Financial statements.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union are set out in the statement of Directors Opinion responsibilities.
In our opinion: Our responsibility is to audit the Financial statements in the Financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, of the International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2005 and of its profit including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the and cash flows for the year then ended: and Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Financial statements have been properly prepared in the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other IAS Regulation.
purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into  LLP whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors consent in writing.
London We report to you our opinion as to whether the Financial 6 March 2006 statements give a true and fair view and whether the Financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with the Financial statements, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate governance report reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Financial statements.
The other information comprises the Chairmans statement, the Operating and financial review, the Corporate social responsibility section, the Board of Directors, the Directors report, the Corporate governance report, the Board report on remuneration, the Directors responsibilities, the Five year record and Company details.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
