InterContinental Hotels Group 2005 87 independent auditors report to the shareholders of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC IN RELATION TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION We have audited the parent company financial statements of We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards InterContinental Hotels Group PLC for the year ended 31 December on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices 2005 which comprise Company balance sheet and the related notes Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence 1 to 9.
These parent company financial statements have been relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report also audited the information in the Remuneration Report that is to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant described as having been audited.
estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the parent company financial statements, and of whether We have reported separately on the Group financial statements the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC for the year ended circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, information and explanations which we considered necessary in in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the assurance that the parent company financial statements and the Companys members those matters we are required to state to part of the Remuneration Report to be audited are free from them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration we have formed.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND OPINION AUDITORS In our opinion: The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Remuneration Report and the parent company financial statements the parent company financial statements give a true and fair in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and Accounting view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs Practice as set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
as at 31 December 2005: and Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial the parent company financial statements and the part of the statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company Ernst & Young LLP, financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Registered auditor, London.
parent company financial statements and the part of the 1 March 2006 Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the parent company financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
The other information comprises only the financial highlights, operating and financial review, Directors Report, Corporate Governance Statement, Audit Committee Report, unaudited part of the Remuneration Report and US GAAP information.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
