InterContinental Hotels Group 2005 81 independent auditors report to the shareholders of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC IN RELATION TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS We read other information contained in the Annual Report and We have audited the Group financial statements of InterContinental consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial Hotels Group PLC for the year ended 31 December 2005 which statements.
The other information comprises only the financial comprise Group income statement, Group statement of recognised highlights, operating and financial review, Directors Report, income and expense, Group cash flow statement, Group balance Corporate Governance Statement, Audit Committee Report, sheet, corporate information and accounting policies and the related Remuneration Report and US GAAP information.
These Group financial statements have been prepared the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent under the accounting policies set out therein.
misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other We have reported separately on the parent company financial information.
statements of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC for the year ended 31 December 2005 and on the information in the BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial Companys members those matters we are required to state to statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility preparation of the Group financial statements, and of whether the to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable AUDITORS assurance that the Group financial statements are free from The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the United Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as set out in financial statements.
the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in OPINION accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and In our opinion the Group financial statements: International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial by the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group 31 December 2005 and of its profit for the year then ended: and financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the Group financial statements, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our Ernst & Young LLP, audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors Registered auditor, London.
remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
1 March 2006 We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 Financial Reporting Council Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
