Independent auditors report to the members of Interserve Plc We have audited the Group accounts and notes of Interserve Plc for the year We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the ended 31 December 2005 which comprise the consolidated income statement, Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated cash flow statement, the Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services consolidated statement of recognised income and expenses and the related Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider notes 1 to 32.
These Group accounts and notes have been prepared under the whether the boards statement on internal control covers all risks and accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate the directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We have reported separately on the individual Company accounts and notes We read the directors report and the other information contained in the of Interserve Plc for the year ended 31 December 2005. annual report for the above year as described in the contents section including the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report and we This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group accounts and notes.
been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or Basis of audit opinion assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group accounts and notes and the part of the directors Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors remuneration report described as having been audited.
It also includes an The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the directors assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors remuneration report and the Group accounts and notes in accordance with in the preparation of the Group accounts and notes, and of whether the applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, adopted for use in the European Union are set out in the statement of consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and Our responsibility is to audit the Group accounts and notes and the part explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited in sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group accounts and accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements notes and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
been audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group accounts and notes overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group accounts give a true and fair view in accordance with the relevant financial reporting and notes and the part of the directors remuneration report described as framework and whether the Group accounts and notes and the part of the having been audited.
directors remuneration report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 Opinion of the IAS Regulation.
We report to you if the directors report is not In our opinion: consistent with the Group accounts and notes, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information the Group accounts and notes give a true and fair view, in accordance specified by law regarding directors transactions with the Company and other with IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union, of the state of the members of the Group is not disclosed.
Groups affairs as at 31 December 2005 and of its profit for the year then ended: and We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not complied with any of the four directors remuneration disclosure requirements specified for the Group accounts and notes and the part of the directors our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
These remuneration report described as having been audited have been comprise the amount of each element in the remuneration package and properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and information on share options, details of long-term incentive schemes, and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
money purchase and defined benefit schemes.
We give a statement, to the extent possible, of details of any non-compliance.
50 Interserve Plc Annual Report 2005 Independent auditors report to the members of Interserve Plc continued Separate opinion in relation to IFRS As explained in note 1 of the Group accounts and notes, the Group, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply with IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union, has also complied with the IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Accordingly, in our opinion the accounts and notes give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2005 and of its profit for the year then ended.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London, United Kingdom 13 March 2006 Interserve Plc Annual Report 2005 51
