8185 Intertek AR p72 76 KM 01 03. qxp 3 3 06 1:32 pm Page 74 Annual Report 2005 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Intertek Group plc We have audited the Group and parent Company financial statements We read other information contained in the Annual Report and the financial statements of Intertek Group plc for the year ended consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial 31 December 2005 which comprise the Consolidated income statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become statement, the Consolidated and Parent Company balance sheets, the aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with Consolidated statement of cash flows, the Consolidated statement of the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any recognised income and expense and the related notes.
financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors Basis of audit opinion Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration adopted by the EU, and for preparing the Parent Company financial Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether statements and the Directors Remuneration Report in accordance caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion with applicable law and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Responsibilities on page 25.
Remuneration Report to be audited.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of Opinion the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with In our opinion: relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2005 and of its profit give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and for the year then ended: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have the Group financial statements have been properly prepared been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of and whether, in addition, the Group financial statements have been the IAS Regulation: properly prepared in accordance with Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
the Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept the state of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2005: proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly not disclosed.
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects KPMG Audit Plc the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Chartered Accountants Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Registered Auditor Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not 8 Salisbury Square required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control London cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness EC4Y 8BB of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
6 March 2006 74 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2005
