Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the preparation of the accounts Company law requires the directors to prepare accounts for each The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial of the Company and of the Group, and of the profit or loss for that position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure period.
In preparing the accounts, the directors are required to: that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and prevent and detect make estimates and judgements which are reasonable and fraud and other irregularities.
The directors have a reasonable prudent: and expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in state whether applicable accounting standards have been operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Report of the independent auditors to the shareholders of Invensys plc We have audited the Groups accounts for the year ended 31 March required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal 2005 which comprise the Consolidated profit and loss account, control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the Consolidated balance sheet, Company balance sheet, Consolidated effectiveness of the Companys corporate governance procedures or cash flow statement, Consolidated statement of total recognised its risk and control procedures.
gains and losses, Reconciliation of movements in consolidated shareholders deficit, Accounting policies, the related notes 1 to 27 We read the other information contained in the Annual report and and the list of principal subsidiaries as at 31 March 2005.
These consider whether it is consistent with the audited accounts.
This accounts have been prepared on the basis of the accounting policies other information comprises the Directors report, unaudited part set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the of the Remuneration report, the Financial summary and the other Remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
information listed on the contents page.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an Basis of audit opinion auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
amounts and disclosures in the accounts and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report, the preparation of the accounts, and of whether the accounting including the accounts which are required to be prepared in policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting applied and adequately disclosed.
standards as set out in the Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the preparation of the accounts.
The directors are also We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the responsible for preparing the Remuneration report.
information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Our responsibility is to audit the accounts and the part of the assurance that the accounts and the part of the Remuneration report Remuneration report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the accounts and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a true and fair view and whether the accounts and the part of the Opinion Remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in In our opinion: accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with the accounts, the Company and of the Group as at 31 March 2005 and of the if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have loss of the Group for the year then ended: and not received all the information and explanations we require for our the accounts and the part of the Remuneration report to be audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the directors remuneration and transactions with the Company is Companies Act 1985. not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Ernst & Young LLP Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Registered Auditor, London Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not 18 May 2005 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2005 35
