Independent auditors report to the members of AMEC plc We have audited the group and parent company accounts the Basis of audit opinion accounts of AMEC plc for the year ended 31 December 2005 which We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards comprise the group income statement, the group and parent company on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
balance sheets, the group cash flow statement, the group statement An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant of recognised income and expense and the related notes.
These to the amounts and disclosures in the accounts and the part of accounts have been prepared under the accounting policies set the directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes out therein.
We have also audited the information in the directors an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
by the directors in the preparation of the accounts, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and companys This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than accounts and the part of the directors remuneration report to the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors in the accounts and the part of the directors remuneration report The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the to be audited.
group accounts in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU, and Opinion for preparing the parent company accounts and the directors In our opinion: remuneration report in accordance with applicable law and UK the group accounts give a true and fair view, in accordance with Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice IFRS as adopted by the EU, of the state of the groups affairs as are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities on page 112. at 31 December 2005 and of its profit for the year then ended: Our responsibility is to audit the accounts and the part of the the group accounts have been properly prepared in accordance directors remuneration report to be audited in accordance with with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the parent company accounts give a true and fair view, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a true state of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2005: and and fair view and whether the accounts and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in the parent company accounts and the part of the directors accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and whether, in addition, remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared the group accounts have been properly prepared in accordance with in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, KPMG Audit Plc the directors report is not consistent with the accounts, if the Chartered Accountants company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not Registered Auditor received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, Manchester or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration 15 March 2006 and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the annual report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited accounts.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the accounts.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
