2005 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Independent Auditors Report to the We read other information contained in the shareholders of iSOFT Group plc Annual Report and consider whether it is We have audited the financial statements on pages consistent with the audited financial statements.
We have also audited the information in The other information comprises the Letter from the Remuneration Report that is described as the Chairman, the Chief Executives Report, the having been audited.
Operating and Finance Review, the Corporate Governance Report, the Corporate Social This report is made solely to the Companys Responsibility Statement, the unaudited part of the shareholders, as a body, in accordance with Remuneration Report, the Audit Committee Report Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our and the Five Year Summary.
We consider the audit work has been undertaken so that we might implications for our report if we become aware state to the Companys shareholders those matters of any apparent misstatements or material we are required to state to them in an auditors inconsistencies with the financial statements.
report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest Our responsibilities do not extend to any extent permitted by law, we do not accept or other information.
assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys shareholders as a Basis of audit opinion body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the We conducted our audit in accordance with United opinions we have formed.
Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on Respective responsibilities of directors a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and auditors and disclosures in the financial statements and the The directors responsibilities for preparing the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited.
Annual Report, the Remuneration Report and the It also includes an assessment of the significant 42 financial statements in accordance with applicable estimates and judgements made by the directors in law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards the preparation of the financial statements, and of are set out in the Statement of Directors whether the accounting policies are appropriate Responsibilities on pages 22 and 23. to the Group's circumstances, consistently applied Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and adequately disclosed.
and the part of the Remuneration Report to be We planned and performed our audit so as to audited in accordance with relevant legal and obtain all the information and explanations which regulatory requirements, United Kingdom Auditing we considered necessary in order to provide us Standards and the Listing Rules of the Financial with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Services Authority.
We report to you our opinion assurance that the financial statements and the as to whether the financial statements give a true part of the Remuneration Report to be audited are and fair view and whether the financial statements free from material misstatement, whether caused and the part of the Remuneration Report to be by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming audited have been properly prepared in accordance our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to of the presentation of information in the financial you if, in our opinion, the Report of the Directors is statements and the part of the Remuneration not consistent with the financial statements, if the Report to be audited.
Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and Opinion explanations we require for our audit, or if In our opinion: information specified by law or the Listing Rules the financial statements give a true and fair view regarding directors remuneration and transactions of the state of affairs of the Company and the with the Company and other members of the Group as at 30 April 2005 and of the Groups Group is not disclosed.
profit for the year then ended: and We review whether the Corporate Governance the financial statements and the part of the Statement reflects the Companys compliance with Remuneration Report to be audited have been the nine provisions of the Combined Code on properly prepared in accordance with the Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Companies Act 1985.
Reporting Council into 2003 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups RSM Robson Rhodes LLP corporate governance procedures or its risk and Chartered Accountants and Registered control procedures.
Manchester, England 21 June 2005 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2005 43
