Independent Auditors report to the members of J Sainsbury plc Basis of audit opinion We have audited the financial statements which comprise the We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards Group profit and loss account, the balance sheets, the Group cash issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes flow statement, the Group statement of total recognised gains and examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts losses, the reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders and disclosures in the financial statements and the auditable part funds and the related notes, which have been prepared under of the Directors Remuneration report.
It also includes an assessment the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of the significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors in of certain fixed assets and the accounting policies set out in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the notes to the financial statements.
We have also audited the the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Act 1985 contained in the Directors Remuneration report We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the the auditable part.
information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors assurance that the financial statements and the auditable part The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report of the Directors Remuneration report are free from material and the financial statements in accordance with applicable misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy Statement of Directors responsibilities.
The Directors are also of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
responsible for preparing the Directors Remuneration report.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the Opinion auditable part of the Directors Remuneration report in accordance In our opinion: with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices of affairs of the Company and the Group at 26 March 2005 Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and of the profit and cash flows of the Group for the year and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance then ended: with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume the financial statements have been properly prepared in responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come those parts of the Directors Remuneration report required by save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We  LLP also report to you if, in our opinion, the Report of the Directors is Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all London the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if 17 May 2005 information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Operating and financial review, the Report of the Directors, the Statement of corporate governance and the unaudited part of the Remuneration report.
We review whether the Statement of corporate governance reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 47
