Independent auditors report to the members of J D Wetherspoon plc We have audited the financial statements which comprise the profit and loss Basis of audit opinion account, the balance sheet, the cash flow statement, the note of historical We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards issued by the cost profits and the related notes.
We have also audited the disclosures Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements the directors remuneration report the auditable part.
and the auditable part of the directors remuneration report.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances, financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
accounting standards are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
The directors are also responsible for preparing the directors We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and remuneration report.
explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable part of statements and the auditable part of the directors remuneration report are the directors remuneration report in accordance with relevant legal and free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving Opinion this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any In our opinion: other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs at 24 July 2005 and of its profit and cash flows for the year We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a then ended: true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the auditable the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with part of the directors remuneration report have been properly prepared in the Companies Act 1985: and accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our those parts of the directors remuneration report required by Part 3 of opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly prepared in if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not accordance with the Companies Act 1985. received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and  LLP transactions is not disclosed.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London We read the other information contained in the annual report and consider 2 September 2005 the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises only the directors report, the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report, the chairmans statement and operating review, the finance review, the corporate social responsibility report and the corporate governance statement.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the companys corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
