Independent auditors report to the members of JJB Sports plc For the 53 weeks ended 30 January 2005 We have audited the Financial statements of JJB Sports Plc for the 53 We read the Directors report and the other information contained in the weeks ended 30 January 2005 which comprise the Profit and loss Annual report for the above accounting period as described in the Contents account, the Balance sheets, the Cash flow statement, the Statements of section including the unaudited part of the Directors remuneration report total recognised gains and losses, and the related notes 1 to 31 together and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any with the Reconciliations of movements in shareholders funds and the apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Financial Statement of accounting policies.
These Financial statements have been statements.
prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the part of the Directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom auditing This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members disclosures in the Financial statements and the part of the Directors those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and remuneration report described as having been audited.
It also includes an for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Directors in the preparation of the Financial statements and of whether the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the Company the opinions we have formed.
and the Group, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with As described in the statement of Directors responsibilities on page 23 of the sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Annual report, the Companys Directors are responsible for the preparation statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report described as of the Financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom having been audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused law and accounting standards.
They are also responsible for the preparation by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also of the other information contained in the Annual report including the evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Directors remuneration report.
Our responsibility is to audit the Financial Financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report described as described as having been audited.
having been audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
Opinion We report to you our opinion as to whether the Financial statements give a In our opinion: true and fair view and whether the Financial statements and the part of the the Financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs Directors remuneration report described as having been audited have been of the Company and the Group as at 30 January 2005 and of the profit properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also of the Group for the accounting period then ended: and report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with the the Financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration Financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting report described as having been audited have been properly prepared records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and transactions with the Company and other members of the Deloitte & Touche LLP Group is not disclosed.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Manchester We review whether the Corporate governance report reflects the 26 May 2005 Company's compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Board's statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group's corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
