Independent Auditors Report to the members of Johnston Press plc We have audited the group and individual described as having been audited have the financial statements and the part of company financial statements the been properly prepared in accordance the directors remuneration report financial statements of Johnston Press with the Companies Act 1985 and described as having been audited.
It also plc for the year ended 31 December 2005 whether, in addition, the group financial includes an assessment of the significant which comprise the group income statements have been properly prepared estimates and judgements made by the statement, the group statement of in accordance with Article 4 of the IAS directors in the preparation of the financial recognised income and expense, the Regulation.
We report to you if, in our statements, and of whether the group cash flow statement, the group and opinion, the directors' report is not accounting policies are appropriate to the individual company balance sheets, and consistent with the financial statements.
companys circumstances, consistently the related notes 1 to 45, together with the We also report to you if the company has applied and adequately disclosed.
group reconciliation of shareholders not kept proper accounting records, if we equity.
These financial statements have have not received all the information and We planned and performed our audit so been prepared under the accounting explanations we require for our audit, or if as to obtain all the information and policies set out therein.
We have also information specified by law regarding explanations which we considered audited the information in the directors directors remuneration and transactions necessary in order to provide us with remuneration report that is described as with the company and other members of sufficient evidence to give reasonable having been audited.
the group is not disclosed.
assurance that the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration This report is made solely to the We also report to you if, in our opinion, report to be audited are free from material companys members, as a body, in the company has not complied with any of misstatement, whether caused by fraud or accordance with section 235 of the the four directors remuneration disclosure other irregularity or error.
In forming our Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has requirements specified for our review by opinion we also evaluated the overall been undertaken so that we might state to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services adequacy of the presentation of the companys members those matters we Authority.
These comprise the amount of information in the financial statements and are required to state to them in an each element in the remuneration package the part of the directors remuneration auditors report and for no other purpose.
and information on share options, details report described as having been audited.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we of long term incentive schemes, and do not accept or assume responsibility to money purchase and defined benefit Opinion anyone other than the company and the schemes.
We give a statement, to the In our opinion: companys members as a body, for our extent possible, of details of any nonthe group financial statements give a audit work, for this report, or for the compliance.
true and fair view, in accordance with opinions we have formed.
IFRSs as adopted for use in the We review whether the corporate European Union, of the state of the Respective responsibilities of directors governance statement reflects the groups affairs as at 31 December 2005 and auditors companys compliance with the nine and of its profit for the year then ended: The directors responsibilities for preparing provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined the group financial statements have the annual report and the group financial Code specified for our review by the been properly prepared in accordance statements in accordance with applicable Listing Rules of the Financial Services with the Companies Act 1985 and United Kingdom law and International Authority, and we report if it does not.
We Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as are not required to consider whether the the individual company financial adopted for use in the European Union boards statements on internal control statements give a true and fair view, and for preparing the parent individual cover all risks and controls, or form an in accordance with United Kingdom company financial statements and the opinion on the effectiveness of the groups Generally Accepted Accounting directors remuneration report in corporate governance procedures or its Practice, of the state of the individual accordance with applicable United risk and control procedures.
companys affairs as at 31 December Kingdom law and United Kingdom 2005: and Generally Accepted Accounting Practice We read the directors report and the other the individual company financial are set out in the relevant statements of information contained in the annual report statements and the part of the directors directors responsibilities.
for the above year as described in the remuneration report described as contents section including the unaudited having been audited have been properly Our responsibility is to audit the financial part of the directors remuneration report prepared in accordance with the statements and the part of the directors and consider the implications for our Companies Act 1985. remuneration report described as having report if we become aware of any been audited in accordance with relevant apparent misstatements or material United Kingdom legal and regulatory inconsistencies with the financial requirements and International Standards statements.
on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Basis of audit opinion We report to you our opinion as to We conducted our audit in accordance whether the financial statements give a with International Standards on Auditing Deloitte & Touche LLP true and fair view in accordance with the UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Chartered Accountants relevant financial reporting framework and Practices Board.
An audit includes and Registered Auditors whether the financial statements and the examination, on a test basis, of evidence Edinburgh part of the directors remuneration report relevant to the amounts and disclosures in 8 March 2006 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 53
