Independent Auditors report to the members of Kingston Communications HULL PLC We have audited the financial statements of Kingston Communications HULL We read the directors report and the other information contained in the PLC for the year ended 31 March 2005 which comprise the profit and loss annual report for the above year as described in the contents section including account, the balance sheets, the cash flow statement, the statement of total the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report and consider the recognised gains and losses and the related notes 1 to 32 together with the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt and reconciliation of or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
movements in consolidated shareholders funds.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have Basis of audit opinion also audited the information in the part of the directors remuneration report We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom auditing standards that is described as having been audited.
issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken having been audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest statements and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone circumstances of the company and the group, consistently applied and other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit adequately disclosed.
work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with As described in the statement of directors responsibilities, the companys sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other They are also responsible for the preparation of the other information irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall contained in the annual report including the directors remuneration report.
adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited.
directors remuneration report described as having been audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements Opinion and auditing standards.
In our opinion: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the directors Company and the Group as at 31 March 2005 and of the profit of the Group remuneration report described as having been audited have been properly for the year then ended: and prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial the financial statements and part of the directors remuneration report statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have described as having been audited have been properly prepared in not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if accordance with the Companies Act 1985. information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the company and other members of the group is not disclosed.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the companys Leeds compliance with the nine provisions of the July 2003 FRC Combined Code 23 May 2005 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
