INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF HILTON GROUP PLC We have audited the Group financial statements of Hilton Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2005 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 40.
These Group financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the parent Company financial statements of Hilton Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2005 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the Group financial statements, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors Report, the Chairmans Statement, the Operating and Financial Review and the Corporate Governance Statement.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2005 and of its profit for the year then ended: and have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered auditor London 22 February 2006 Annual Report and Accounts 93 COMPANY ACCOUNTS CONTENTS 95 COMPANY BALANCE SHEET 96 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 104 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS 96 1 Basis of accounting RESPONSIBILITIES IN RELATION 2 Change in accounting policies TO THE ACCOUNTS 3 Summary of significant 105 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS accounting policies REPORT TO THE 97 4 Profit and loss account of the SHAREHOLDERS OF parent company HILTON GROUP PLC 5 Dividends paid and proposed 98 6 Fixed asset investments 7 Debtors 8 Creditors amounts falling due within one year 9 Creditors amounts falling due after more than one year 10 Provisions for liabilities and charges 99 11 Share capital 100 12 Reconciliation of shareholders funds and movements on reserves 13 Employee share ownership plans 101 14 Share-based payments 15 Pensions 103 16 Contingencies 17 Post balance sheet events 94 Annual Report and Accounts
