LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005 Independent auditors report P39 Independent auditors report Independent auditors report to the We review whether the corporate governance Opinion members of LogicaCMG plc statement reflects the companys compliance In our opinion: We have audited the group financial with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC the group financial statements give a true statements of LogicaCMG plc for the year Combined Code specified for our review by and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as ended 31 December 2005, which comprise the Listing Rules of the Financial Services adopted by the European Union, of the state the consolidated income statement, the Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are of the groups affairs as at 31 December consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated not required to consider whether the boards 2005 and of its profit and cash flows for the cash flow statement, the consolidated statements on internal control cover all risks year then ended: and statement of recognised income and expense and controls, or form an opinion on the the group financial statements have been and the related notes.
These group financial effectiveness of the groups corporate properly prepared in accordance with the statements have been prepared under the governance procedures or its risk and Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the parent We read other information contained in the company financial statements of LogicaCMG annual report and consider whether it is plc for the year ended and on the information consistent with the audited group financial in the directors remuneration report that is statements.
The other information comprises  LLP described as having been audited.
only the chairmans statement, the chief Chartered Accountants and Registered executives report, the operating and financial Auditors Respective responsibilities of directors review, the directors report, the corporate and auditors social responsibility statement and the London The directors responsibilities for preparing the corporate governance statement.
We consider 29 March 2006 annual report and the group financial the implications for our report if we become statements in accordance with applicable law aware of any apparent misstatements or and International Financial Reporting material inconsistencies with the group Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not Union are set out in the statement of directors extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion Our responsibility is to audit the group financial We conducted our audit in accordance with statements in accordance with relevant legal International Standards on Auditing UK and and regulatory requirements and International Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
An audit includes examination, on a report, including the opinion, has been test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts prepared for and only for the companys and disclosures in the group financial members as a body in accordance with statements.
It also includes an assessment of Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and the significant estimates and judgments made for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this by the directors in the preparation of the group opinion, accept or assume responsibility for financial statements, and of whether the any other purpose or to any other person to accounting policies are appropriate to the whom this report is shown or into whose groups circumstances, consistently applied hands it may come save where expressly and adequately disclosed.
agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We planned and performed our audit so as to We report to you our opinion as to whether the obtain all the information and explanations group financial statements give a true and fair which we considered necessary in order to view and whether the group financial provide us with sufficient evidence to give statements have been properly prepared in reasonable assurance that the group financial accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and statements are free from material Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report misstatement, whether caused by fraud or to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion not consistent with the group financial we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the statements, if we have not received all the presentation of information in the group information and explanations we require for our financial statements.
audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
