P88 Independent auditors report LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005 Independent auditors report Independent auditors report to the We report to you our opinion as to whether the We planned and performed our audit so as to members of LogicaCMG plc parent company financial statements give a obtain all the information and explanations We have audited the parent company true and fair view and whether the parent which we considered necessary in order to financial statements of LogicaCMG plc for the company financial statements and the part of provide us with sufficient evidence to give year ended 31 December 2005 which the directors remuneration report to be reasonable assurance that the parent company comprise the balance sheet and the related audited have been properly prepared in financial statements and the part of the notes.
These parent company financial accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We directors remuneration report to be audited statements have been prepared under the also report to you if, in our opinion, the are free from material misstatement, whether accounting policies set out therein.
We have directors report is not consistent with the caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In also audited the information in the directors parent company financial statements, if the forming our opinion we also evaluated the remuneration report that is described as having company has not kept proper accounting overall adequacy of the presentation of been audited.
records, if we have not received all the information in the parent company financial information and explanations we require for our statements and the part of the directors We have reported separately on the group audit, or if information specified by law remuneration report to be audited.
financial statements of LogicaCMG plc for the regarding directors remuneration and other year ended 31 December 2005. transactions is not disclosed.
Opinion In our opinion: Respective responsibilities of directors We read other information contained in the parent company financial statements give and auditors the annual report and consider whether a true and fair view, in accordance with The directors responsibilities for preparing the it is consistent with the audited parent United Kingdom Generally Accepted annual report, the directors remuneration company financial statements.
The other Accounting Practice, of the state of the report and the parent company financial information comprises only the chairmans companys affairs as at 31 December 2005: statements in accordance with applicable law statement, the chief executives report, the and and United Kingdom Accounting Standards operating and financial review, the directors the parent company financial statements and United Kingdom Generally Accepted report, the corporate social responsibility the part of the directors remuneration report Accounting Practice are set out in the statement and the corporate governance to be audited have been properly prepared in statement of directors responsibilities.
We consider the implications for accordance with the Companies Act 1985. our report if we become aware of any apparent Our responsibility is to audit the parent misstatements or material inconsistencies company financial statements and the part of with the parent company financial statements.
the directors remuneration report to be Our responsibilities do not extend to any audited in accordance with relevant legal and other information.
 LLP regulatory requirements and International Chartered Accountants and Registered Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This Basis of audit opinion Auditors report, including the opinion, has been We conducted our audit in accordance with prepared for and only for the companys International Standards on Auditing UK and London members as a body in accordance with Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices 29 March 2006 Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and Board.
An audit includes examination, on a for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts opinion, accept or assume responsibility for and disclosures in the parent company any other purpose or to any other person to financial statements and the part of the whom this report is shown or into whose directors remuneration report to be audited.
It hands it may come save where expressly also includes an assessment of the significant agreed by our prior consent in writing.
estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the parent company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the company's circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
