Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Lonmin Plc We read the other information contained in both the Annual Report We have audited the financial statements on pages 33 to 68.
We and the Annual Review, including the corporate governance have also audited the information in the directors remuneration statement and the unaudited part of the remuneration committee report that is described as having been audited.
report, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our inconsistencies with the financial statements.
audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to Basis of audit opinion them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the have formed.
remuneration committee report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups the remuneration committee report.
As described on pages 7 to 9, circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
this includes responsibility for preparing the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the standards.
Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, are information and explanations which we considered necessary in established in the United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Authority, and by our professions ethical guidance.
remuneration committee report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and presentation of information in the financial statements and the part the parts of the remuneration committee report to be audited have of the remuneration committee report to be audited.
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report Opinion is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has In our opinion: not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state information and explanations we require for our audit, or if of affairs of the Company and the Group as at 30 September information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and 2005 and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended: and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
the financial statements and the part of the remuneration committee report to be audited have been properly prepared We review whether the corporate governance statement on pages in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
10 to 14 reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, KPMG Audit Plc and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether Chartered Accountants the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and Registered Auditor controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups London corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
15 November 2005 Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2005 32
