Independent Auditors Report on the Group Financial Statements to the Members of Anglo American plc Basis of audit opinion We have audited the Group financial statements the financial statements of Anglo American plc for the year ended 31 December We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards 2005 which comprise the income statement, the balance sheet, the on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
cash flow statement, the statement of recognised income and expense, An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant the reconciliation from EBITDA to net cash flow from operations, the to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
It also statement of accounting policies and the related notes 2 to 43.
These includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements and set out therein.
of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
The corporate governance statement and the directors remuneration report are included in the individual Company annual report of Anglo We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information American plc for the year ended 31 December 2005. and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial We have reported separately on the individual Company financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by statements of Anglo American plc for year ended 31 December 2005 fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also and on the information in the directors remuneration report included evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in in the individual Company annual report that is described as having the financial statements.
Opinion This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in In our opinion: accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit the financial statements give a true and fair view in accordance with work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors IFRSs as adopted for use in the European Union, of the state of the report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, Groups affairs as at 31 December 2005 and of its profit for the we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the year then ended: and the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulations.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Separate opinion in relation to IFRS The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the As explained in Note 1, the Group in addition to complying with its financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law legal obligation to comply with IFRSs as adopted for use in the European and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted for Union, has also complied with the IFRSs as issued by the International use in the European Union are set out in the statement of directors Accounting Standards Board.
Accordingly, in our opinion the financial responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs, of the in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2005 and of its profit requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK for the year then ended.
Deloitte & Touche LLP We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors give a true and fair view in accordance with the relevant framework London and whether the financial statements have been properly prepared in 21 February 2006 accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulations.
We also report to you if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statement on internal control covers all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the directors report and the other information contained in the annual report for the above year as described in the contents section including the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
44 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2005
