Summary remuneration report continued Independent remuneration report review We note that the Committee has refined its modus operandi each This letter reports on the results of the review carried out by Mercer year taking into account any comments we have made in our reviews.
Human Resource Consulting Limited of the processes followed by the In addition, the Committee has taken steps to improve its processes, Anglo American Remuneration Committee the Committee that reflecting areas of improvement highlighted in the evaluation of the support the remuneration report for the financial year 2005.
Mercer Committee undertaken with input from external advisers.
undertook the review at the request of the chairman of the Committee in order to provide shareholders with assurance that the remuneration As a result, we believe that the Anglo American Remuneration processes followed are appropriate and that the Committee has Committee is exemplary in its conduct, decision making and reporting.
complied with the policies set out in the remuneration report.
The members of the Remuneration Committee are regularly updated on In order to reach our opinion, we reviewed the Committees Terms of executive compensation and corporate governance matters.
Reference and the minutes of its meetings held during the year as well as material presented to the Committee for its review.
We also Further detail regarding the Mercer review is included in a letter of this interviewed the chairman and secretary of the Committee.
Our review date addressed to the Committee Chairman which we understand will was not intended to audit the compensation data set forth in the be made available on the Companys website.
remuneration report or to evaluate the merits of the Anglo Americans remuneration programme.
Belinda Hudson Based on our review, Mercer is of the opinion that the processes Principal followed by the Committee during 2005 were fully consistent with its Mercer Human Resource Consulting Limited Terms of Reference and that the decisions taken by the Committee Dexter House were in line with the principles set out in the Remuneration Report.
2 Royal Mint Court It continues to be our view that the Committee takes a suitably robust London EC3N 4NA and pro-active approach to its work.
26 January 2006 Independent auditors statement to the members of Anglo American plc We have examined the summary financial statement which comprises apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary the summary directors report, consolidated income statement, financial statement.
consolidated balance sheet, consolidated cash flow statement and summary directors remuneration report.
Basis of opinion We conducted our work in accordance with bulletin 1999 6 The This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in Auditors Statement on the Summary Financial Statement issued accordance with section 251 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our work by the United Kingdom Auditing Practices Board.
has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors We have not considered the effect of any events between the date report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, on which we signed the full annual accounts of Anglo American plc, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the 21 February 2006, and the date of this statement.
Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, for our audit report or for the opinions we have formed.
Opinion In our opinion, the summary financial statement is consistent Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors with the full annual accounts, the directors report and the directors The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Review in remuneration report of Anglo American plc for the year ended accordance with applicable United Kingdom law.
Our responsibility is to 31 December 2005 and complies with the applicable requirements report to you our opinion on the consistency of the summary financial of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985, and the regulations statement with the full annual accounts, the directors report and the made thereunder.
directors remuneration report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the Deloitte & Touche LLP regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors contained in the Annual Review as described in the contents section, London and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any 1 March 2006 32 | Anglo American plc Annual Review 2005
