MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 29 Auditors report Independent auditors report to the members of We review whether the Corporate governance statement reects Marks and Spencer Group plc the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 We have audited the financial statements which comprise FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules the Consolidated profit and loss account, the Balance sheets, of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We the Consolidated cash ow statement, the reconciliation of net are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on cash ow to movement in net debt, the note of group historical internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion cost profits and losses, the consolidated statement of total on the effectiveness of the Companys or Groups corporate recognised gains and losses and the related notes.
We have governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A Basis of audit opinion to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the Remuneration report We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards the auditable part.
issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual report and disclosures in the financial statements and the auditable part and the financial statements in accordance with applicable of the Remuneration report.
It also includes an assessment of the United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the the statement of directors responsibilities.
The directors are preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the also responsible for preparing the Remuneration report.
accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys and Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable part of the Remuneration report in accordance with We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom information and explanations which we considered necessary in Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for assurance that the financial statements and the auditable part of the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section the remuneration report are free from material misstatement, 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown presentation of information in the financial statements.
or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by Opinion our prior consent in writing.
In our opinion: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial of affairs of the Company and the Group at 2 April 2005 and statements and the auditable part of the directors Remuneration of the profit and cash ows of the Group for the period then report have been properly prepared in accordance with ended: the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the financial statements have been properly prepared in the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have those parts of the remuneration report required by Part 3 of not received all the information and explanations we require for our Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and  LLP consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the London financial statements.
The other information comprises only the 23 May 2005 Chairmans statement, Chief Executives and Financial review, the Corporate governance statement, the unaudited part of the Remuneration report, Directors interests and the statement of Directors responsibilities, the Directors report, the Group financial record and the Annual review and summary financial statement.
