Annual report 2005 Independent Auditors report We have audited the financial statements which comprise the Group of the Group's corporate governance procedures or its risk and control profit and loss account, the balance sheets, the Group cash flow procedures.
statement, the statement of total Group recognised gains and losses, the note of Group historical cost profits and losses, the reconciliation Basis of audit opinion of movements in Group shareholders funds and the related notes.
We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards issued We have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the Directors test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the remuneration report the auditable part.
financial statements and the auditable part of the Directors remuneration report.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied law and accounting standards are set out in the statement of and adequately disclosed.
The Directors are also responsible for preparing the Directors remuneration report.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial part of the Directors remuneration report in accordance with relevant statements and the auditable part of the directors' remuneration report legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing are free from material mis-statement, whether caused by fraud or other Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 statements and the auditable part of the directors' remuneration report.
of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other Opinion purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into In our opinion: whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group at 1 October 2005 and We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements of the profit and cash flows of the Group for the year then ended: give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance auditable part of the Directors remuneration report have been properly with the Companies Act 1985: and prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report those parts of the Directors remuneration report required by Part to you if, in our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with the 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the annual report and  LLP consider the implications for our report if we become aware of Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors any apparent mis-statements or material inconsistencies with the 2 December 2005 financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors report, the unaudited part of the Directors remuneration report, the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives review, the Financial review, the Corporate and social responsibility report and the Corporate governance statement.
We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects the Company's compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the board's statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness 38 W&DB 2005
