Independent Auditors Report to the members of Matalan PLC for the 52 weeks ended 26th February 2005 We have audited the financial statements which comprise the We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the consolidated profit and loss account, the consolidated balance Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC sheet, the company balance sheet, the consolidated cash flow Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the statement, the consolidated statement of total recognised gains and Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not losses and the related notes which have been prepared under the required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal accounting policies set out in the statement of accounting policies.
control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the We have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule effectiveness of the Companys or Groups corporate governance 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the directors procedures or its risk and control procedures.
remuneration report the auditable part.
Basis of audit opinion Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes the financial statements in accordance with applicable United examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the statement and disclosures in the financial statements and the auditable part of directors responsibilities.
The directors are also responsible for of the directors remuneration report.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors preparing the board report on directors remuneration.
in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys auditable part of the directors remuneration report in accordance circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the information and explanations which we considered necessary in companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in assurance that the financial statements and the auditable part of giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other the directors remuneration report are free from material purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of consent in writing.
the presentation of information in the financial statements.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements Opinion give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and In our opinion: the auditable part of the directors remuneration report have been the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We affairs of the Company and the Group at 26th February 2005 also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not and of the profit and cash flows of the Group for the 52 weeks consistent with the financial statements, if the company has not kept then ended: proper accounting records, if we have not received all the the financial statements have been properly prepared in information and explanations we require for our audit, or if accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
those parts of the directors remuneration report required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 to be audited We read the other information contained in the annual report and have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any Act 1985. apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the  LLP financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors directors report, the unaudited part of the board report on directors remuneration, the chairmans statement, the operating review, the Manchester finance review and the corporate governance statement.
