CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Board of directors 1.
Sir Colin Terry KBE CB FREng DL 2.
Philip Green Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Group Corporate Affairs Director Sir Colin was appointed to the Board in Terry joined Meggitt in 1993 and was Philip joined Meggitt in 1994 and was February 2003, becoming non-executive appointed to the Board as Group Finance appointed to the Board in January 2001, Chairman on 1 July, 2004.
He spent 37 years Director in 1995, becoming Chief Executive responsible for legal and compliance in the Royal Air Force, where he reached the in January 2001.
Before joining Meggitt, he matters.
He relinquished the role of Company rank of Air Marshal.
Since retiring, he has spent 15 years at Lucas Aerospace.
Previously, Philip held the positions of Group Managing Director Chartered Accountant.
On 1 June 2009, Terry spent 14 years at British Aerospace.
He of In ite Engineering Services, Chairman was appointed as a non-executive director is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered of the Engineering Council UK, President and as the Chairman of the audit committee of Secretaries and Administrators.
of the Royal Aeronautical Society and the Filtrona plc, an international speciality plastic Council of European Aerospace Societies.
He and bre products supplier.
is President of the Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen and Families Association in Buckinghamshire where he is also a Deputy Lieutenant.
David Williams Non-Executive Director Group Finance Director Non-Executive Director Peter was appointed to the Board in January Stephen was appointed to the Board in David was appointed to the Board on 2004.
He is Chief Executive of Laird PLC and January 2004.
He has held a number of 13 December 2006.
He has held a number of has previously held senior management senior financial positions including, most senior financial positions and in 1991 joined positions with Invensys plc and BTR plc, was recently, Group Finance Director of Thistle distribution and outsourcing group Bunzl plc a non-executive board member of United Hotels plc.
Stephen also held the position of as Finance Director where he worked until Kingdom Trade & Investment and a nonGroup Finance Director of the Automobile retirement in January 2006.
He is currently executive director of Oxford Instruments plc.
Association and Group Financial Controller the Joint Chairman of Mondi plc and Mondi He is a Chartered Engineer and holds an MBA.
He is a Chartered Limited and is a non-executive director of Having regard to his recent appointment as a Management Accountant.
Tullow Oil plc and DP World Limited, chairing non-executive director of the Cookson Group the audit committee at both.
On 31 March plc on 1 February 2010, Peter has con rmed 2010, David will resign from his appointment to the Board that he will be standing down as non-executive director of Taylor Wimpey as an independent non-executive director on plc.
David Robins Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Sir Alan was appointed to the Board in May David was appointed to the Board in January 1996.
He was previously Chief Executive of 2002 and became Senior Independent ASW Holdings PLC and a director of The Director on 1 March 2007.
He was, until Morgan Crucible Company plc from 1995 December 2000, Chairman and Chief until April 2004.
A member of the Financial Executive of ING Barings, before which he Reporting Council from 1995 to 1999, Sir Alan spent 18 years at Phillips & Drew and UBS, is a Chartered Accountant and Chartered becoming Executive Vice President and Management Accountant.
Regional Head of UBS Europe.
He is Chairman of Henderson TR Paci c Investment Trust PLC and Oriel Securities Ltd and a director of a venture capital-backed company and chairman of two charities.
Membership of committees Audit Nominations Remuneration Ethics and trade David Williams Sir Colin Terry David Robins compliance Chairman Chairman Chairman Sir Colin Terry Peter Hill Terry Twigger Peter Hill Chairman David Robins Sir Alan Cox David Williams Terry Twigger Peter Hill Philip Green David Williams Stephen Young David Robins 30 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 10-1012 Meggitt Front Section.
