Corporate governance report Application of the principles in the Combined Code Nominations Committee The Company has applied the Principles of Good Governance set out in The Nominations Committee consists of Sir Colin Terry Chairman, Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued in Sir Alan Cox, Mr P J Hill, Mr D A Robins, Mr D M Williams and 2008 and available on the website of the Financial Reporting Council Mr T Twigger.
The Committee considers any new appointments to www.
uk, the Combined Code as reported in the Statement the Board but all directors are consulted and the decision to appoint of Compliance on page 37.
Further explanation of how the principles is taken by the Board as a whole.
All directors are subject to election have been applied is set out below and, in connection with Directors by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting AGM after remuneration policies and total packages, are contained in the their appointment and to re-election thereafter at intervals of no more Remuneration Report on pages 38 to 44. than three years.
In compliance with Combined Code requirements, Sir Alan Cox will be subject to annual re-election in 2010 and each Board composition subsequent year.
The Board has approved written terms of reference for the Committee which are available on the Companys website.
The Board considers it has a good balance of executive and nonexecutive directors, is of an appropriate size and includes the skills and The Board, its committees and proceedings experience required by the business.
The Board comprises a nonexecutive Chairman, Sir Colin Terry, a Chief Executive, Mr T Twigger, The Board met nine times during the year, and these meetings were two other executive directors and four non-executive directors.
The attended by all directors, except that Mr D M Williams was excused senior independent non-executive director is Mr D A Robins.
The senior from one meeting.
The Board regularly receives reports from the Chief independent non-executive director is available to shareholders if they Executive on the Groups activities, from the Group Finance Director on have concerns which contact through the normal channels has failed financial performance and treasury matters and from the Group to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
The independent Corporate Affairs Director on legal and compliance issues.
non-executive directors are considered by the Board to be Mr P J Hill, Strategic issues and other matters including capital structure, Mr D A Robins and Mr D M Williams.
financial reporting and controls are considered in line with a schedule Having regard to his appointment as a non-executive director of Cookson of matters reserved for the decision of the Board.
If a decision is not Group plc on 1 February 2010, Mr P J Hill has con rmed to the Board that reserved for the Board, then authority lies, in accordance with an he will be standing down as an independent non-executive director on 31 authorisation policy, with one of the Finance Committee of the Board, March 2010.
The recruitment process for a replacement has begun, and the Chief Executive, an executive director, presidents, site directors the Board will appoint a new non-executive director as soon as possible.
During the year, no unresolved concerns were recorded in the Boards minutes.
Sir Alan Cox is not judged to be independent under the Combined Code by virtue of his having been appointed for longer than nine years.
The Chairman talks with and holds informal meetings with the other However, the Board considers that his extensive experience in industry non-executive directors without the executives present.
and other organisations makes him a valuable member.
Biographical Committee membership, numbers of formal meetings held during and other relevant information on directors submitted for re-election is 2009 and attendance were as follows: provided in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Number of The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and there meetings Number of is a clear division of responsibilities which has been approved and during meetings agreed in writing by the Board.
Sir Colin Terry met the independence year attended criteria on appointment as Chairman on 1 July 2004.
Audit Mr D M Williams Chairman 3 3 The Board of Directors retains full and effective control of the Group Mr P J Hill 3 3 and is collectively responsible for the Groups success through its Mr D A Robins 3 3 leadership.
It sets the strategy, ensures appropriate resources are in place and reviews performance on a regular basis.
The Board is Remuneration responsible for setting the Groups values and standards and for Mr D A Robins Chairman 4 4 ensuring its obligations to shareholders, employees and others Mr P J Hill 4 4 are met.
Mr D M Williams 4 4 The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board and for ensuring Nominations its effectiveness.
Accurate, timely and clear information is provided Sir Colin Terry Chairman 1 1 to all directors and the Chairman must be satis ed that effective Sir Alan Cox 1 1 communication, principally by the Chief Executive and Group Finance Mr P J Hill 1 1 Director, is undertaken with the shareholders.
The Chairman Mr D A Robins 1 1 facilitates the contribution of non-executive directors and oversees Mr D M Williams 1 1 the relationship between them and the executive directors.
The Mr T Twigger 1 1 non-executive directors play a full part by constructively challenging and contributing to the development of strategy.
The performance of management, the integrity of financial information and the effectiveness of financial controls and risk management systems are monitored.
The non-executive directors are responsible for determining appropriate levels of remuneration for the executive directors and have an important role in appointing new directors.
The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive directors are available for inspection.
Their letters of appointment set out the expected time commitment required.
On appointment, their other signi cant commitments were disclosed, including the time involved.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 35 10-1012 Meggitt Back Section.
indd 35 35 09 03 2010 09 03 2010 14:22 14:22 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance report continued The Ethics and Trade Compliance Committee reviews these areas of Information and professional development compliance quarterly: The Board is supplied with the information it needs to discharge A review of the Groups key risks and the general risks environment its duties.
is presented annually to the Board: Every month, each business submits detailed operating and financial New directors receive an appropriate induction to the business.
reports covering all aspects of their performance.
Issues are Major shareholders have the opportunity to meet new non-executive communicated to the Management Board and the Board: directors should they wish to do so.
Presidents, site directors general managers as appropriate Directors are encouraged to update their skills regularly.
Their provide annual written con rmation that the business for which they knowledge and familiarity with the Group is facilitated by access to are responsible has complied with the Group Procedures Manual: senior management, reports on the business and visits to the Groups and operating facilities.
Resources are available to directors for developing The Board receives an annual report on its insurance coverage and and updating their knowledge and capabilities.
The Board allows all directors to take independent professional advice The process for identifying, evaluating and managing the signi cant at the Companys expense.
Committees are provided with suf cient risks faced by the Group is as follows: resources to undertake their duties.
All directors have access to the Following risk workshops at business, division and Group level, the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is responsible to Board reviewed the lists of key risks and mitigation plans which had the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with and been identi ed.
These risks are regularly reviewed by the that there is a good information ow within the Board.
The appointment businesses, divisional management and, by exception, the and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a Management Board: whole.
The Company maintains appropriate insurance for directors A regular review of the performance of each business is undertaken and of cers.
by the executive directors and senior Group management: The Group Procedures Manual establishes appropriate authority Performance evaluation levels throughout the Group to cover certain items of expenditure, In January 2010, the Board conducted a self-evaluation.
The Chairman financial commitments and other matters to ensure overall financial led a review and discussion to consider the Boards performance control is maintained throughout the Group.
The Group Procedures against some high level objectives and its own terms of reference.
Manual is reviewed and updated regularly: The Board was satis ed with its effectiveness.
The Audit and There is a comprehensive insurance programme: Remuneration Committees have considered their own performance There are programmes for business continuity, health and safety, during the year.
The performance of individual directors has been environment, trade compliance and ethics: and considered by the Chairman and Chief Executive in discussion with There is an on-going programme of assurance activities including other non-executive directors.
The non-executive directors have internal and external audit, external tax compliance reviews, considered the performance of the Chairman, taking into account the environmental and health and safety audits, property risk reviews views of the executive directors.
and export regulation compliance reviews.
The Board con rms that this process was in place for the year under Financial reporting review and up to the date of approval of the financial statements.
The financial statements contain an explanation of the directors The Board considers that there is considerable comfort in the fact that responsibility for the preparation of the accounts and a statement by the Groups cash in ow from operating activities represented 119% the auditors concerning their responsibilities.
The directors also 2008: 100% of underlying operating pro t in 2009. report that the business is a going concern.
Audit Committee and auditors Internal control The Audit Committee the Committee, appointed by the Board, The Group maintains a sound system of internal control to safeguard has three independent members.
The Chairman of the Committee is shareholders investment and the Groups assets.
The system is Mr D M Williams.
The Board has approved written terms of reference designed to manage the risk of failure to achieve business objectives for the Committee which were updated in January 2009 and are and can only provide reasonable assurance against material available on the Companys website.
The Board is satis ed that the misstatement or loss.
The Board con rms full implementation Committees members have recent and relevant financial experience.
of the Financial Reporting Councils updated Turnbull guidance on Internal Control 2005.
During 2009 the Committee met three times.
The external auditors attended these meetings to discuss the scope and the final results of The Board reviews the effectiveness of the system of internal control the 2008 audit in detail which included the main risks facing the via the following procedures: Group, the strategy for the 2009 audit and the hard close results of Regular reports at Board meetings on the state of the business from the 2009 audit.
The Committee monitors the integrity of the Groups the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director and on legal and financial statements and reviews the Groups internal controls and the compliance activities from the Group Corporate Affairs Director: effectiveness of the internal audit function.
The Committee also Regular reviews by the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of the reviews formal announcements relating to the Groups financial Groups internal controls and of the reports from the external auditors performance and any signi cant financial reporting statements and internal audit.
Internal audit visits to operating units are carried contained in those announcements.
out using a risk model which is approved by the Audit Committee: 36 M ME EG GG GI IT TT P T PL LC R C RE EP PO OR RT T A AN ND A D AC CC CO OU UN NT TS S 2 20 00 09 9 10-1012 Meggitt Back Section.
indd 36 36 11 03 2010 11 03 2010 04:33 04:33 The Committee has primary responsibility for recommending the Compliance with the Combined Code appointment, reappointment and removal of the external auditors.
The The Board con rms that throughout the year ended 31 December 2009 Company places great importance on the independence of its auditors the Company has complied with Section 1 of the Combined Code, with and is careful to ensure their objectivity is not compromised.
The the following exceptions: Committee agrees the fees paid to external auditors for their services as auditors and is required to approve any fees to the external auditors i A.
3.2 At least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, does not for non-audit services in excess of 0.1 million.
The Groups policies on comprise independent non-executive directors.
Whilst Sir Alan Cox professional accounting services are as follows: is no longer regarded as independent owing to his appointment as a non-executive director for more than nine years, the Board audit related services: the external auditors would be invited to considers that his extensive experience in industry and other undertake those services which they are required to, and most organisations makes him a valuable member of the Board: and suited to, perform: taxation: the Groups policy is not to employ its external auditors for ii A.
4.1 A majority of members of the Nominations Committee should taxation work.
The Groups principal tax advisor is Deloitte LLP: and be independent non executive directors and this was not the case consulting: the Groups policy is not to employ its external auditors during 2009.
Sir Alan Cox is no longer regarded as independent for general consulting work where this could impair their owing to his appointment as a non-executive director for more than independence or objectivity.
As a result, the Committee is made up of six members, of whom three are independent non-executive directors.
The Board The Group Ethics Line enables employees to raise any concerns about considers that Sir Alan Coxs extensive experience in industry and possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or otherwise.
other organisations makes him a valuable member of the This allows for proportionate and independent investigation and Committee.
Going concern Dialogue with institutional shareholders After making enquiries, the directors have formed a judgement, at the The Company values its dialogue with institutional and private time of approving the financial statements, that there is a reasonable investors.
Effective communication with fund managers, institutional expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources investors and analysts about strategy, performance and policy is to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this promoted by way of meetings involving the Chief Executive and Group reason, the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in Finance Director.
This statement of going concern The views of shareholders are reported to the Board by the Chief also constitutes part of the Business Review on pages 1 to 29.
The Chairman and other non-executive directors are By order of the Board available to attend meetings with shareholders.
Directors understanding of major shareholders views are enhanced by reports from the Companys brokers and attendance at analysts brie ngs.
Analysts notes on the Company are made available to all directors.
The Annual General Meeting The Board uses the AGM to communicate with its shareholders.
Proxy M L Young appointment forms for each resolution provide shareholders with the Company Secretary option to direct their proxy to vote for or against resolutions or to 1 March 2010 withhold their vote.
All proxy votes for, against and withheld are counted by the Companys Registrars and the level of voting for, against and withheld on each resolution is made available after the meeting and on the Companys website.
The proxy form and the announcement of the results of a vote make it clear that a vote withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes for and against the resolution.
Separate resolutions are proposed at the AGM on substantially separate issues and there is a resolution relating to the financial statements.
The respective Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees are available at the AGM to respond to questions.
It is usual for all other directors to attend.
The Notice of AGM and related papers should be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 37 10-1012 Meggitt Back Section.
