Corporate Governance report Statement of compliance Performance of the Board and each Committee is evaluated The Company supports the principles contained in the 2008 annually.
The Chairman has held meetings with the Directors, Combined Code on Corporate Governance that was issued including the senior independent non-executive Director, Mr Miles by the Financial Reporting Council the Combined Code.
Templeman, to discuss the performance of individual executive Directors and the Board as a whole.
It was considered that the The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for individual Directors and the Board as a whole were operating good governance.
Throughout the year ended 31 December effectively.
Directors determine whether there are any training 2009, the Company has complied with the provisions of section requirements by completing an evaluation questionnaire during 1 of the Combined Code and with the requirements of the new the year that is designed to identify any failures in the performance Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR on audit committees of the Board and each of its Committees.
The findings of the and corporate governance statements.
The statements below evaluations were reviewed by the Company Secretary and describe how the Company has applied the principles identified feedback was provided to the Board.
in the Combined Code and DTR directives.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, The Board one third or the number nearest to but not less than one third As at 31 December 2009 the Board comprised seven members, of Directors are required to retire and submit themselves for who also served throughout the year.
The members of the Board re-election at each Annual General Meeting of the Company.
It is include the four executive Directors: Christopher Miller Chairman, the policy of the Board that non-executive Directors are appointed David Roper Chief Executive, Simon Peckham Chief Operating for an initial term of three years, following which their appointment Officer and Geoffrey Martin Group Finance Director : and will be reviewed.
the three non-executive Directors: Miles Templeman senior non-executive Director, Perry Crosthwaite and John Grant.
The Directors proposed for re-election at the Annual General Meeting on 13 May 2010 are Mr David Roper, Mr Miles The Board is responsible to shareholders for the effective and Templeman and Mr John Grant.
The Board and Nomination proper management and control of the Company and has a Committee have carefully considered the time commitments formal schedule of matters reserved for its decisions.
Its primary required and the contribution made by each Director.
Both the roles are to determine and review Company strategy and policy, Nomination Committee and the Board are of the belief that the consider acquisitions and disposals, assess requests for major performance of each executive and non-executive Director capital expenditure, review trading performance, ensure adequate continues to be effective and that each Director demonstrates funding is available and appropriate personnel are in place, commitment to his role.
maintain sound internal control systems, report to shareholders and give consideration to all other significant financial matters.
All Directors receive a formal and tailored induction shortly after This process is undertaken in conjunction with senior management, their appointment.
Directors are advised that they have access to who in turn are responsible for the day-to-day conduct of the the advice and services of the Company Secretary, Garry Barnes, Groups operations and for reporting to the Board on items of who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed significance and the progress against objectives.
The Board and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The meets regularly during the year as well as on an ad-hoc basis Board may seek independent legal and financial advice in the as required by time critical business needs.
There were four furtherance of its duties, at the Companys expense.
scheduled Board meetings held during the year and the A pack of briefing papers and an agenda are provided to each attendance of each of the Directors is shown on page 38.
Director in advance of each scheduled Board or standing The Board believes that the Directors possess diverse business Committee meeting.
The Directors are able to seek further experience in areas complementary to the activities of the clarification and information on any matter from any other Director Company.
Biographies of the Directors are shown on pages 26 or employee of the Group whenever necessary.
These biographies identify any other appointments held taken by the Board in conjunction with the recommendations of its by the Directors.
The only executive Director to hold non-executive Committees and advice from external consultants, advisors and Director appointments elsewhere is Mr Christopher Miller, who senior management.
is Chairman of TMO Renewables Limited and is allowed to retain Chairman and Chief Executive the remuneration he receives from that appointment.
The roles and responsibilities of the Chairman of the Board and The terms and conditions of the executive Directors service the Chief Executive of the Company are segregated as required contracts and the non-executive Directors appointments are by Board policy.
The Chairman alone is responsible for the available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
leadership of the Board and for ensuring effective communication The non-executive Directors appointment letters are also with shareholders together with the other executive Directors.
The available on the Companys website: www.
Chief Executive is responsible for strategic direction and decisions involving the day-to-day management of the Company.
These In accordance with the provisions of the Combined Code, respective responsibilities are set out in writing and have been consideration has been given to the independence of all the approved by the Board, who consider that the respective roles non-executive Directors and the Board considers all the nonand responsibilities are clearly understood by both individuals and executive Directors to be independent.
The non-executive by the Board as a whole.
Directors are not entitled to any bonus or shares under the 2009 Incentive Share Scheme.
36 Melrose PLC Annual Report 2009 Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information The Board Christopher Miller Executive Chairman David Roper Chief Executive Simon Peckham Chief Operating Officer Geoffrey Martin Group Finance Director Miles Templeman Senior non-executive Director Perry Crosthwaite non-executive Director John Grant non-executive Director Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Miles Templeman Chairman Perry Crosthwaite Chairman Miles Templeman Chairman Perry Crosthwaite Miles Templeman Perry Crosthwaite John Grant John Grant John Grant Christopher Miller Committees of the Board The Audit Committee is also responsible for the development, In accordance with the provisions of the Combined Code, the implementation and monitoring of the Companys policy on Board has three standing Committees: the Audit, Remuneration external audit and for overseeing the objectivity and effectiveness and Nomination Committees: each of which includes the three of the auditors.
The Companys external auditors are recommended independent non-executive Directors.
The duties of the Committees for appointment and re-appointment by the Audit Committee are set out in formal terms of reference.
These are available which also assesses the appropriateness of the scope of audit from the Company Secretary and on the Companys website, work performed and provides recommendations in respect of www.
Membership of the Committees is shown their remuneration.
The Audit Committee receives regular reports above.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to each of from the Groups external auditors.
The Audit Committee has a policy on the engagement of the Audit Committee external auditor for the supply of non-audit services and the The Audit Committee currently comprises the three independent Committee is aware of the audit and non-audit services including non-executive Directors, and is chaired by Mr Miles Templeman.
taxation advice which have been provided by Deloitte LLP during Each member of the Audit Committee brings relevant financial 2009.
A significant proportion of the non-audit services related experience from senior executive and non-executive positions as to non-recurring work in connection with the provision of tax described in their biographies on pages 26 and 27. advisory services and the disposal of the Logistex businesses.
The provision of non-audit services was considered to be The Audit Committee invites the Group Finance Director, the Head appropriate, given the external auditors depth of knowledge of the of Financial Reporting and senior representatives of the external affairs and financial practices of the Group.
The Audit Committee and internal auditors to attend meetings as appropriate to the is satisfied that, notwithstanding non-audit work, Deloitte LLP business being considered.
In addition, the Audit Committee has have retained objectivity and independence during the year.
The the right to invite any other employees to attend meetings where Audit Committee will continue to monitor its policy in this regard this is considered appropriate.
The Audit Committee is expected and accepts that non-audit work should be controlled to ensure to meet not less than three times a year and the Audit Committee that it does not compromise the independence of the auditors.
The attendance of its members, along with the Group Finance Director, is shown in the table on Deloitte LLP were appointed in 2003.
Deloitte LLP submits a letter setting out how they believe their independence and objectivity have been maintained and they The function of the Audit Committee is to monitor and review are required to rotate the audit partners responsible for the Group the effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems, and subsidiary audits every 5 years.
The Groups audit signing accounting policies and practices, financial reporting process, partner will change as part of that rotation process in 2010. risk management procedures and compliance controls.
Integrity There are no contractual obligations that restrict the Groups of the Companys financial statements is monitored through the capacity to recommend a particular firm for appointment as auditor.
review of the Preliminary Results, Interim Statement and Annual Report by the Committee before they are presented to the Board for approval.
Annual Report 2009 Melrose PLC 37 Corporate Governance report continued Following the acquisition of FKI plc in July 2008, the size and Attendance at meetings complexity of the Group is such that the implementation of an The table below shows the attendance of each of the Directors internal audit programme has been deemed appropriate.
BM at the scheduled and significant meetings of the Board and Howarth, an external firm that provides internal audit services, its standing Committees held during the year.
The quorum were appointed as the Groups internal auditors on 3 June 2009. necessary for the transaction of business by the Board and A rotation programme is in place, such that every unit will have each of its standing Committees is two.
Briefing papers and an internal audit at least once every three years, with the largest meeting agendas are provided to each Director in advance of sites reviewed at least once every two years.
The internal auditors each meeting.
Decisions are taken by the Board in conjunction remit includes assessment of the effectiveness of the internal with the recommendations of its Committees and advice from control systems and review of the businesses balance sheets external advisors and senior management as appropriate.
The for compliance with the Groups accounting policies.
A report of representations of any Director who is unable to attend a meeting key findings and recommendations is presented to the Finance of the Board or a standing Committee are duly considered by Director, Head of Financial Reporting and Operations Controller, those Directors in attendance.
who are responsible for monitoring divisional managements Board Audit Remuneration Nomination response to these findings.
1 Number of meetings 4 3 3 3 Review of the internal audit process and scope of work Christopher Miller 4 n a n a 3 covered by the internal auditors is the responsibility of the Audit David Roper 4 n a n a n a Committee, to ensure their objectives, level of authority and Simon Peckham 4 n a n a n a resources are appropriate for the nature of the businesses under 2 Geoffrey Martin 4 3 n a n a review.
A report of significant findings is presented by the internal Miles Templeman 4 3 3 3 auditors to the Committee at each meeting and implementation of Perry Crosthwaite 3 3 3 3 recommendations by the Board is followed up at the subsequent John Grant 4 3 3 3 Committee meeting.
1 In addition, ad-hoc meetings are held from time to time which are attended by a quorum of Directors and are convened to deal with specific items of business.
Remuneration Committee 2 Mr Martin attends by invitation.
The Remuneration Committee currently comprises the three independent non-executive Directors and is chaired by Internal control and risk management Mr Perry Crosthwaite.
Objectives and policy The objective of the Directors and senior management is to The function of the Remuneration Committee is to make safeguard and increase the value of the business and assets of recommendations to the Board on the overall framework and the Group.
Achievement of this objective requires the development policy for the remuneration of the executive Directors and other of policies and appropriate internal control frameworks to ensure senior management, including performance related remuneration.
the Groups resources are managed properly and any key risks In developing its recommendations, the Committee considers are identified.
Schedule 8 of Part 15 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups overall system The Remuneration Committee is expected to meet not less than of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, while the role twice a year and during 2009 the Remuneration Committee of management is to implement the policies set by the Board in met three times.
The attendance of its members is shown in the respect of risk management and controls.
The Directors recognise table on this page.
The report to shareholders on how Directors that the systems and processes established by the Board are are remunerated, together with details of individual Directors designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure remuneration, is shown in the Remuneration report on pages to achieve business objectives and cannot provide absolute 40 to 43. assurance against material financial misstatement or loss.
Nomination Committee The Board is committed to satisfying the internal control guidance The Nomination Committee currently comprises Mr Christopher for Directors set out in the revised version of the Turnbull Guidance Miller and the three independent non-executive Directors and is on Internal Control.
In accordance with this guidance, there is an chaired by Mr Miles Templeman.
ongoing process, regularly reviewed by the Directors, for identifying, The Nomination Committee reviews the structure, size and evaluating, managing and mitigating where possible the significant composition of the Board, particularly in relation to its balance risks faced by the Group.
This process for reviewing the Groups of skills, experience and knowledge, and seeks to ensure that internal controls is consistent with prior years and has been in both executive and non-executive Directors have the necessary place throughout the 2009 financial year and up to the date of skills and attributes for the future success of the Company.
The approval of the Annual Report.
Nomination Committee reviews succession plans for the Directors and makes recommendations to the Board on membership of the Board and of its Committees.
The Nomination Committee retains external search consultants as appropriate.
The Nomination Committee is expected to meet not less than twice a year and during 2009 the Nomination Committee met three times.
The attendance of its members is shown in the table on this page.
38 Melrose PLC Annual Report 2009 Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information The Group has policies which address a number of key Whistleblowing and bribery and corruption policies business risks, including financial, treasury, health and safety The Group has a whistleblowing policy in place which enables and environmental risks.
The Groups financial risk management individuals to make protected disclosures to their divisional objectives and policies are described in the Finance Directors human resources manager, Group Company Secretary or senior review on pages 19 to 25.
Other key risks which could adversely independent non-executive Director if they have concerns about affect the Group are described in the Chief Executives review possible improprieties in financial reporting or other malpractices on pages 8 and 9: Business reviews on pages 10 to 18: and within their business.
Directors report on pages 28 to 35.
These policies and further A bribery and corruption policy is also in place for the Group detailed business unit specific policies are made available to that requires all employees to act with honesty, integrity and employees through manuals and also via specific employee transparency and conduct themselves in a lawful, ethical and briefings and other communications, as appropriate.
Under the policy employees are not to offer Managing and controlling risk or solicit any bribe, or similar inducement, and are required to The Group operates on a decentralised basis and the Directors report any offer of a bribe or unorthodox payment.
have established an organisational structure with clear reporting Communications with shareholders procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authority.
Principally via the executive Directors, the Company seeks to Divisional senior management, plant managers and financial build on a mutual understanding of objectives with its institutional controllers have been delegated responsibility by the Board shareholders through regular meetings and presentations for the establishment and implementation of detailed control following announcements of Annual and Interim Results.
The systems as appropriate for their business.
senior independent non-executive Director, Mr Miles Templeman, An established programme of regular review is in place at the is available to meet institutional shareholders should there be businesses and a culture of continuous improvement is encouraged unresolved matters they wish to bring to his attention.
The views by the Directors through regular meetings with senior management, of key analysts and major shareholders are communicated back review of operating performance and progress against business to the Board directly by individual Directors and via the Companys plans.
The ongoing process of review provides assurance that the brokers, ensuring all members of the Board develop an control environment is operating as intended.
understanding of the views of major shareholders.
The Audit Committee also monitors the effectiveness of the Corporate information is available on the Companys website, internal control processes implemented across the Group, through www.
review of the key findings presented by the external and internal The Board welcomes the attendance of shareholders at the AGM auditors and discussions with senior management on an and the attendance of all Directors is required.
The number of proxy ad-hoc basis.
The Board is responsible for considering the Audit votes cast for and against each of the resolutions proposed is Committees recommendations in respect of internal controls and announced at the AGM and a summary will be available shortly risk management and ensuring implementation by management after the AGM on the Companys website.
of those recommendations it deems appropriate for the business.
Internal financial controls By order of the Board The Group has a comprehensive system for assessing the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal financial controls, including strategic business planning and regular monitoring and reporting of financial performance.
A detailed annual budget is prepared by senior management and thereafter is reviewed and formally adopted by the Board.
The budget and other targets are regularly updated via a rolling forecast process and regular Garry Barnes business review meetings are held involving senior management, Secretary to assess the divisional and overall Group performance.
The 10 March 2010 results of these reviews are in turn reported to and discussed by the Board at each meeting.
As discussed in the Audit Committee section on pages 37 and 38 of this report, BM Howarth has been appointed as the Groups internal auditors.
Fifteen business units have been visited during the year and the Directors are pleased to report that there were no material deficiencies and the main recommendations presented in the internal auditors reports of key findings have now been, or are in the process of being implemented.
A further nineteen business units are planned for review during 2010.
The Board confirms that, from the review of internal controls, it has not determined any significant failings or weaknesses that it considers require remedial action.
The Board also confirms that it has not been advised of any material weaknesses in the internal control systems that relate to financial reporting.
