Corporate Governance The Board of Directors has a strong commitment to high standards of corporate governance and has applied the main and supporting principles of corporate governance as recommended in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, adopted by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 the Code, for the year ended 31 December 2009.
The Directors also seek to comply with guidelines issued by institutional investors and their representative bodies where it is practical to do so.
Compliance with the 2009 FrC Code The Directors consider that the Company has complied with all the Code provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2009.
32 MIchAEl PAgE InTErnATIOnAl direCtors assisting the chief Executive in the performance of his duties, including development and implementation of strategy, the Board and its operation operational plans, policies, procedures and budgets.
The Board of Michael Page International plc is the body These activities are performed at a regional level by four responsible for corporate governance, establishing policies and regional Boards, committees of the Board, for the UK, objectives, and the management of the groups resources.
EMEA, Asia Pacific and the Americas.
Each regional Board The Board currently comprises the chairman, who is deemed meets at least four times a year.
to be independent and has no operational responsibilities, three Executive Directors and three independent nonChairman Executive Directors.
collectively, they have a broad balance of The chairmans role is part time.
The chairman, Sir Adrian skills and experience.
The composition of the Board complies Montague, is responsible for the leadership and efficient with code Provision A.
The Board annually reviews operation of the Board, setting its agenda and ensuring all the composition of the Board and considers that there is directors provide an effective contribution.
The chairman is an appropriate balance of Executive and non-Executive also responsible for ensuring the provision of accurate and Directors on the Board.
timely information to the Board and effective communications The Board meets regularly throughout the year.
It has a formal with shareholders.
schedule of matters reserved to it and delegates specific It is the groups policy that the roles of chairman and chief responsibilities to committees.
During the meetings, the Executive are separate.
Board formally considers how and to whom matters covered at each meeting should be communicated and actioned In 2009, Sir Adrian Montague became Director of Anglian beyond the Board.
Decisions concerning matters of a more Water group AWg limited and AWg companies Osprey routine nature are dealt with by management below Board Acquisitions limited, Osprey holdings limited and AWg Plc.
The structure of the group facilitates the day-to-day he also became a member of the housing Finance group.
running of the business and enables efficient and effective senior independent director communication of issues to the Board when required.
The chairman and non-Executive Directors also met during the The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders year without the Executive Directors being present.
when they may have issues or concerns where contact through the normal channels of chairman, chief Executive Each of the committees has formal written terms of reference or Finance Director has either failed to resolve concerns, or which were reviewed in 2009. contact is deemed inappropriate.
The terms of reference for the Audit, remuneration and The Senior Independent Director at the beginning of the nomination committees are available on request and can year was Stephen Box, who retired from the Board on 22 be found on the groups website.
Following Stephens retirement, hubert reid was the manner in which they discharge their responsibilities are appointed to the role of Senior Independent Director.
The Executive Board, a committee of the Board, meets formally at least four times a year, and is responsible for AnnUAl rEPOrT 2009 33 re-election of directors nomination Committee All Directors are subject to retirement by rotation and The nomination committee comprises the non-Executive re-election by the shareholders in accordance with the Articles Directors and is chaired by Sir Adrian Montague.
It is of Association, whereby one third of the Directors retire by responsible for making recommendations to the Board on rotation each year.
Subject to the Board being satisfied new appointments, as well as making recommendations with the effectiveness, independence and commitment of a as to the composition of the Board generally, the balance non-Executive Director, there is no defined limit regarding the between Executive and non-Executive Directors appointed number of terms a Director may serve.
It is the Boards view to the Board and reviewing any conflicts of interest.
The terms that the comparatively long tenure of some of the Directors of reference of the nomination committee can be found on has been key to the Boards in-depth understanding of the our website.
All Directors are subject to election by induction and training programme the shareholders at the first Annual general Meeting following their appointment.
All Directors are subject to re-election every On appointment to the Board, each Director discusses with three years in accordance with the code.
the company Secretary the extent of training required and Sir Adrian Montague and charles-henri Dumon will retire by a tailored induction programme to cover their individual rotation and offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming requirements is then compiled.
Elements of the programme Annual general Meeting on 21 May 2010.
As a result of typically consist of meeting senior management, site visits their annual performance evaluation, the Board considers and attending internal conferences.
In addition, information that their individual performances continue to be effective, is provided on the companys services, group structure, with each director demonstrating commitment to their role.
Board arrangements, financial information, major competitors The Board is therefore pleased to support their re-election and major risks.
After an initial induction phase, updates are at the forthcoming Annual general Meeting.
Company secretary Performance evaluation All Directors have access to the advice and services of the The Board, as part of its commitment to ensuring effectiveness company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that and evaluating its performance, together with that of its Board procedures and applicable rules and regulations are Directors and committees, conducted an internal review observed.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to comprising a questionnaire concerning all aspects of procedure obtain independent professional advice, if necessary, at the and effectiveness.
Following completion of the questionnaires, the chairman met with the individual Directors to discuss their views and Board appointments to give feedback on their performance.
The results of the The Board follows formal and transparent procedures evaluation were reported to the Board and where areas of when appointing directors.
The nomination committee improvement have been identified, actions have been agreed identifies a shortlist of suitable candidates for non-Executive upon and training will be provided where required.
All the candidates are interviewed by the chairman and the chief Executive, and, in the case of the most hubert reid, as the Senior Independent Director, led a recent appointment, all candidates in the final shortlist were meeting of the non-Executive Directors to appraise the interviewed by the nomination committee.
Evaluations of all performance of the chairman.
The meeting took into candidates are discussed with all members of the nomination account any comments made by the Executive Directors.
committee and recommendations are subsequently made This evaluation is carried out annually.
34 MIchAEl PAgE InTErnATIOnAl succession planning attendance at meetings One of the basic premises behind the strategic development The number of meetings of the Board and committees and of the Michael Page business, is that growth is organic rather individual attendance by the members of the committees than through acquisitions of companies or hiring senior only are shown in Fig.
In order to achieve this organic Conflicts of interest growth, we require good people.
It is therefore one of the fundamental principles and a major part of the philosophy The company has implemented robust procedures, in line of the company that we train and develop our own people.
with the companies Act 2006, requiring Directors to seek This approach creates opportunities for career progression appropriate authorisation prior to entering into any outside and helps us attract and retain high calibre individuals.
Due to this philosophy of nurturing our own talent, succession In all cases where a potential conflict is identified, it is Board planning is inherently a key part of the business process.
policy that the Director in question is not involved in any We do not make promotions or move people within the discussion of the area or issue giving rise to the conflict.
business unless there is a clear successor for the vacant During the course of the year, the Board reviewed and position.
It is, therefore, one of the key responsibilities of all authorised, in accordance with the companys Articles levels of management, and not just the Board, to have a clear of Association, a small number of external directorships plan of development for their direct reports.
Attendance at Board Meetings Committee attendance shown for Committee members only Board Total meetings 12 Meetings attended Executive Steve Ingham 12 Charles-Henri Dumon 12 Stephen Puckett 12 Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Total meetings 12 9 4 2 Meetings attended Non-Executive Sir Adrian Montague CBE 12 N A N A 2 Stephen Box retired 22 May 2009 5 5 2 1 Ruby McGregor-Smith 10 8 3 2 Dr Tim Miller 12 9 4 2 Hubert Reid 12 9 4 2 Stephen Box attended all meetings prior to his retirement.
AnnUAl rEPOrT 2009 35 and other business interests held by individual directors.
The committee met nine times in 2009 to fulfil its duties and however, none were regarded as being of such significance included attendance by the external auditors where required.
as to give rise to a conflict of interest.
The committee also met with the external auditors during the year without the presence of management.
All directors are aware of their continuing obligation to report any new interests or changes in existing interests In 2009, the Audit committee discharged its responsibilities that might amount to a possible conflict of interest in order as set out in the terms of reference, which can be found on that these may be considered by the Board and appropriate our website, www.
tasks are to ensure the integrity of the companys Financial reporting process, review the effectiveness of the groups remuneration internal controls, internal audit and risk management function, remuneration Committee review the scope of the external audit, consider issues raised by the external auditors, and review the half-yearly and annual The remuneration committee comprises the independent accounts before they are presented to the Board, focusing non-Executive Directors and is chaired by Dr Tim Miller.
in particular on accounting policies and compliance, and The committee reviews the groups policy on the chairmans, areas of management judgement and estimates, as well as Executive Directors and senior executives remuneration and ensuring the independence of the external auditor and the terms of employment, makes recommendations upon this, provision of additional services to the company.
along with the specific level of remuneration to the Board, and also approves the provision of policies for the incentivisation objectivity and independence of external auditors of senior employees, including share schemes.
Deloitte are employed to perform work in addition to their statutory duties where it is felt that they are best placed The committee meets at least twice a year and is also attended by the chief Executive, except when his own remuneration to carry out the engagement as a result of their being the groups auditors.
All other work is awarded on the basis of is under consideration.
The remuneration report includes information on the Directors service contracts.
of reference of the remuneration committee can be found The objectivity and independence of the external auditor is on our website.
safeguarded by: The report of the remuneration committee can be found a. obtaining assurances from the external auditor that on pages 40 to 49 of the Annual report.
adequate policies and procedures exist within its firm to ensure the firm and its staff are independent of the group aCCountaBility and audit by reason of family, finance, employment, investment and audit Committee business relationships other than in the normal course of business : The Audit committee comprises the independent non-Executive Directors and is chaired by ruby Mcgregorb.
enfor cing a policy concerning the provision of nonSmith.
The committee members have broad experience and audit services by the auditor which governs the types of knowledge of financial reporting.
Their relevant qualifications work: and experience are shown in their biographies on the Board i. from which the external auditor is excluded: of Directors pages 22 and 23.
The Board believes that ii.
for which the external auditor can be engaged without ruby Mcgregor-Smith and hubert reid have recent and referral to the Audit committee: and relevant financial experience.
The other member of the Audit committee, Dr Tim Miller, has gained wide experience in iii.
for which a case-by-case decision is required, which includes all engagements over certain fee limits.
36 MIchAEl PAgE InTErnATIOnAl The following areas are considered to be unacceptable It is also the committees policy to consider whether there for the external auditors to undertake: should be an audit tender process and whether using auditors from one audit network continues to enhance the quality of selection, design or implementation of key financial the audit.
The committee reviews the past service of the systems: auditors who were first appointed in 1997. maintaining or preparing the accounting books and The committee has also considered the likelihood of a records or the preparation of financial accounts or withdrawal of the auditor from the market and noted that other key financial data: there are no contractual obligations to restrict the choice of provision of outsource financial systems: external auditors.
provision of outsource operational management To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors, the Audit functions: committee reviewed: recruitment of senior finance or other executives: the arrangements for ensuring the external auditors secondment of senior finance or other executives: independence and objectivity: provision of internal audit services: the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan valuation services or fairness opinions: and and any variations from the plan: any services specifically prohibited to be provided the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditors in their by a listed companys external auditors under UK handling of the key accounting and audit judgements: regulations.
and The following criteria also need to be met before the content of the external auditors reporting on internal the external auditors are contracted to provide such control.
services: Following the above, the Audit committee has recommended the firm has the necessary skills and experience to to the Board that Deloitte llP is re-appointed.
undertake the work: internal control there are no potential conflicts that may arise as a result of carrying out this activity: The responsibilities of the Directors in respect of internal the external audit firm is subject to the companys control are defined by the Financial Services Authoritys normal tendering processes: and listing rules that incorporate a code of Practice known as the combined code, which requires that Directors review in addition to the normal authorisation procedures and the effectiveness of the groups system of internal controls.
prior to inclusion in a tender, approval has to be given This requirement stipulates that the review shall cover by the group Finance Director and, if the fee exceeds all controls including operational, compliance and risk a certain level, the Audit committee.
management, as well as financial.
Internal control guidance c. enforcing a policy of reviewing all cases where it is for Directors on the combined code the Turnbull report proposed that a former employee of the external auditors was published in September 1999, updated October 2005. be employed by the group in a senior management The Board has assessed existing risk management position: and and internal control processes during the year ended d. monitoring the external auditors compliance with 31 December 2009 in accordance with the Turnbull guidance.
applicable UK ethical guidance on the rotation of audit The Board believes it has the procedures in place such that partners.
the group has fully complied for the financial year ended 31 December 2009 and at the date of this report.
AnnUAl rEPOrT 2009 37 The Directors are responsible for the groups system financial and operational controls.
of internal financial and operational controls, which are Individual operations complete an annual controls self designed to meet the groups particular needs and aim to assessment and certification statement.
Each operational safeguard group assets, ensure proper accounting records manager, in addition to the finance function for that are maintained and that the financial information used within operation, confirms the adequacy of their systems of the business and for publication is reliable.
internal control and compliance with group policies.
The statement also requires the reporting of any significant Any system of internal control can only provide reasonable, control issues, including suspected or reported fraud, that but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement have emerged so that areas of group concern can be and loss.
Key elements of the system of internal control are identified and investigated as required: as follows: risk management.
Identification of major business risks is carried out at group The Board of Directors meets at least ten times a year, level in conjunction with operational management and focusing mainly on strategic issues, operational and appropriate steps taken to monitor and mitigate risk: financial performance.
There is also a defined policy on matters reserved strictly for the Board.
The Managing public interest disclosure policy whistleblowing.
Director of each operating division is accountable for The audit committee has reviewed arrangements by which establishing and monitoring internal controls within that staff of the company may, in confidence, raise concerns division: about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
Arrangements are in place for annual business plan.
the proportionate and independent investigation of such The group has a comprehensive budgeting system with matters and for appropriate follow-up action: and an annual budget approved by the Board: internal audit activities.
The internal audit function is an independent, dedicated The group prepares a full-year reforecast on a quarterly Internal Audit team, comprising the head of Internal basis showing, by individual businesses disciplines, Audit and an Internal Auditor.
Businesses are visited on a the results to date and a reforecast against budget for the riskbased and rotational basis to assess the effectiveness remaining period up to the end of the year: of controls in mitigating specific risks.
risks are regularly reviewed and changes are made to the risk profile where necessary.
All internal audit activities Detailed monthly reports are produced showing are reported to the Audit committee.
During the year, comparisons of results against budget, forecast and the the Board monitored and reviewed the effectiveness of prior year, with performance monitoring and explanations the internal audit activities.
The group reports to shareholders on a quarterly basis: The Board has applied principle c. 2 of the combined Audit Committee.
code and confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks There is an established Audit committee whose activities faced by the group and that the processes have been are previously described: in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
38 MIchAEl PAgE InTErnATIOnAl relations with shareholders Board contact with shareholders communications with shareholders are given a high priority.
The main contact between the Board and shareholders is through the chief Executive and the group Finance Director.
They undertake two major investor roadshows each year in February March and August September, in which numerous one-to-one meetings with shareholders take place.
The outcome of these meetings and the views of shareholders are relayed back to the Board by the corporate brokers, at the end of each roadshow.
The groups corporate brokers also report monthly to the Board on broking activity during the month and any issues that may have been raised with them.
Shareholders are invited to attend the Annual general Meeting where they are able to discuss any concerns with the non-Executive Directors.
When requested by shareholders, individual matters can be discussed with the chairman or Senior Independent Director.
The group also has a website with an investor section http: investors.
co. uk that contains Company announcements and other shareholder information.
annual report The Annual report is designed to present a balanced and understandable view of the groups activities and prospects.
The Business review provides an assessment of the groups affairs and position.
The Annual report and Interim report are sent to all shareholders on the register.
The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the preparation of the Annual report.
The Statement of Directors responsibilities is shown on page 94.
A statement by the auditors about their reporting responsibilities is shown in the Independent Auditors report on pages 50 and 51.
