Management and governance Corporate governance Introduction The role of the non-executive directors is to ensure that independent The principal corporate governance guidance that applies to judgment is brought to board deliberations and decisions.
companies listed with the UK Listing Authority during the year reported on is contained in the Financial Reporting Councils The non-executive directors possess a wide range of skills and Combined Code 2006 the Combined Code.
The Combined Code, experience, relevant to the development of the Company, which which operates on a comply or explain basis, incorporates, among complement those of the executive directors.
others, recommendations by the Higgs Review regarding the role of non-executive directors and the Smith Review, which refers to audit The Chairman operates in a non-executive capacity and is considered committees.
Through their commitment to the highest standards of by the board to be independent of management and free from any corporate governance, the board endorses and supports the essential business or other relationship which could materially interfere with elements of the Combined Code and, apart from a few limited the exercise of his independent judgment.
exceptions as described below, believes the Group has fully complied with the Combined Code during the year reported on.
Where it has David Maloney, the non-executive senior independent director, Paul not, an explanation has been provided.
Pester and Tom Skelton, non-executive directors, are considered by the board to be independent.
Compliance statement The directors are committed to ensuring that the Company will work In accordance with the Combined Code, all directors will be subject towards compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the to election by the shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting Combined Code.
AGM of the Company after their appointment, and, thereafter, at least every three years.
Kevin Loosemore, Stephen Kelly and Nick Bray Throughout the year reported on the Company has been in will retire by rotation at the forthcoming AGM and, being eligible will compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the stand for re-election.
The non-executive directors are appointed for Combined Code on corporate governance, except for the following: speci c terms.
Full terms of their appointment are to be found in the remuneration report.
3.2 board of directors The Combined Code requires that at least half the board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise nonThe board has agreed procedures for directors to follow if they executive directors determined by the board to be independent.
believe they require independent professional advice in the Following the resignation of non-executive director Prescott Ashe, furtherance of their duties and these procedures allow the directors who was not regarded as independent on 8 September 2008, the to take such advice at the Companys expense.
In addition, all Company is now in compliance.
David Dominik, who was also not the directors have direct access to the advice and services of the regarded as independent, resigned on 18 February 2009.
The Company Secretary is accountable to the board through the Chairman on governance matters.
4.1 nomination committee The Combined Code requires the responsibility of the Company Secretary to ensure that board that a majority of members of the nomination committee should be procedures are followed and all rules and regulations are complied independent non-executive directors.
Under the direction of the Chairman, the Company Secretarys comprises the Chairman, David Maloney non-executive senior responsibilities include facilitating induction and professional independent director and Stephen Kelly executive director.
The development and ensuring the smooth ow of information within Company is aware that the Chairman is not regarded as independent the board and its committees, and between non-executive directors for purposes of the Combined Code.
The Chairman operates in and senior management.
Any new director receives a comprehensive, a non-executive capacity and is considered by the board to be formal and tailored induction into the Companys operations.
independent of management and free from any business or other Appropriate training is provided to new directors and is also available relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of his to other directors as required.
The terms of reference of the Chairman and Chief Executive Of cer The principles set out in the Combined Code cover four areas: have been agreed with the board and, in accordance with best the board, directors remuneration, accountability and audit and practice, their roles remain separate.
With the exception of directors remuneration which is dealt with separately in the remuneration report on pages As part of its leadership and control of the Company, the 42 to 49 the following section sets out how the board has applied board has agreed a list of items that are speci cally reserved these principles.
These include business strategy, nancing arrangements, material acquisitions and divestments, approval of the The board annual budget, major capital expenditure projects, risk management, The Group is controlled by the board, which is responsible for the treasury policies and establishing and monitoring internal controls.
Groups system of corporate governance.
As at 30 April 2009, the At each meeting, the board reviews progress of the Group towards board comprised six directors: its objectives, and monitors financial progress against budget.
Kevin Loosemore Non-executive Chairman In the year to 30 April 2010, the board will schedule meetings on Stephen Kelly Chief Executive Of cer a regular basis approximately every two months, with additional Nick Bray Chief Financial Of cer meetings when circumstances and business dictate.
In months in David Maloney Non-executive senior independent director which the board does not meet update calls are scheduled to review Paul Pester Non-executive director progress.
A schedule of meetings has been established.
All directors Tom Skelton Non-executive director receive an agenda and board papers in advance of meetings to help them make an effective contribution at the meetings.
In addition, the executive directors ensure regular informal contact is maintained Micro Focus Annual Report and 38 International plc Accounts 2009 with non-executive directors.
The board makes full use of appropriate policies, internal financial control systems and financial reporting technology as a means of updating and informing all its members.
The audit committee provides a forum through which the Groups external and internal auditors report to the board.
In the year under review, the board met on 13 occasions, 11 such The auditors are invited to attend meetings of the committee on meetings being scheduled formal board meetings with a further two a regular basis and have the opportunity to meet privately with additional meetings of the board called at short notice and held by committee members in the absence of executive management.
telephone to consider board issues.
The audit committee oversees the relationship with the auditor, including the independence and objectivity of the auditor taking While the board retains overall responsibility for, and control of, the into account UK professional and regulatory requirements and the Company, day-to-day management of the business is conducted relationship with the audit rm as a whole and the consideration by the executive directors.
Review of the Groups principal business of audit fees and fees for other non-audit work.
In addition, the activities is the responsibility of task teams, comprising the executive audit committee has developed a policy designed to ensure that directors together with executives responsible for the relevant tasks the auditors objectivity and independence is not compromised by who meet regularly.
its undertaking inappropriate non-audit work.
All signi cant nonaudit work commissioned from the external auditor requires audit The board receives papers on key subjects in advance of each board committee approval.
An outsourced internal audit function continues meeting.
These typically cover: to be provided by KPMG.
The Groups Chief Financial Of cer provides oversight and co-ordination of internal audit.
In order to ensure Strategy and budgets: independence internal audit has a direct reporting line to the audit Business and financial performance: committee and its chairman.
Corporate activities: Human resources: and The role of internal audit is to advise executive management and the Investor relations.
board on the extent to which the Groups systems of internal control are effective.
The internal audit plan for each year is determined The board has undertaken a formal and rigorous process for through a structured process of risk assessment and is approved by the evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees the audit committee.
and individual directors including the Chairman, as required by Combined Code provision A6.1.
This evaluation has been The nature and scope of the internal audits completed during the conducted by JCA Group Ltd and has taken the form of personal year was reviewed and approved by the audit committee and the interviews with the directors and observations of board and reports of results of completed audits received and responses of committee meetings.
The plan set out at the beginning of the year was achieved and the outcome of the work was in line The Chairman holds meetings with non-executive directors without with expectations.
the presence of executive directors.
The audit committees terms of reference include a process for Con icts of interest employees of the Company to raise in con dence concerns about Following the implementation of the relevant provisions of the possible impropriety in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
Companies Act 2006, the Company has put in place procedures to deal with con icts of interests, which have operated effectively.
The written terms of reference of the audit committee include, The board is aware of the other commitments of its directors and among other things, the following responsibilities: changes to these commitments are reported to the board.
To report to the board, identifying any matters in respect of which Board committees it considers that action or improvement is needed and making In accordance with best practice, the Company has established audit, recommendations as to the steps to be taken: nomination and remuneration committees, with written terms of reference for each that deal with their respective authorities and To ensure that the interests of shareholders are properly protected duties.
The full terms of reference of all the committees are available in relation to financial reporting and internal control: from the Company Secretary or can be located on the Companys website.
The Company is aware that the Chairman is not regarded To monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the as independent for the purposes of the Combined Code.
Company, including its annual and interim reports, preliminary results announcements and any other announcement relating Audit committee to its financial performance: The audit committee is comprised entirely of non-executive directors of the Company.
It is chaired by David Maloney, who the board To review the consistency of, and changes to, accounting policies: considers has recent and relevant financial experience.
The other members are Tom Skelton and Paul Pester.
To keep under review the effectiveness of the Companys internal controls and risk management systems: The audit committee has met six times during the financial year and will meet at least four times during the coming financial year and, To review the Companys arrangements for its employees to raise additionally as appropriate.
A schedule of meetings for the year has concerns, in con dence, about possible wrongdoing in financial been established.
reporting or other matters: The audit committee is responsible for reviewing the Groups annual To monitor and review the need for, and the effectiveness of, the accounts and interim reports prior to submission for approval to Companys internal audit function in the context of the Companys the full board.
This committee also monitors the Groups accounting overall risk management system: and Micro Focus Annual Report and 39 International plc Accounts 2009 Management and governance Corporate governance continued To oversee the relationship with the Companys auditors, ensuring To identify and nominate, for the approval of the board, the independence and objectivity of the auditor and considering candidates to ll board vacancies as and when they arise: audit fees and fees for non-audit work: to consider and make recommendations to the board in relation to the appointment, To give full consideration to succession planning for directors re-appointment and removal of the Companys external auditor.
and other senior executives: During the year, the committees business included consideration of To keep under review the leadership needs of the Group, both the following: executive and non-executive, with a view to ensuring the continued ability of the organisation to compete effectively in The effectiveness of internal control procedures: the marketplace: and The annual financial statements, full year results announcement, To review annually the time required from non-executives and half year results and other stock exchange announcements: evaluating whether they are spending enough time to ful l their duties.
The annual review of the performance and effectiveness of both the internal and external auditors: Remuneration committee Details of the remuneration committee are described in the Responses to a questionnaire on the audit committees remuneration report on pages 42 to 47. performance and effectiveness: Accountability and audit A strategic risk assessment exercise to identify and assess the The board is responsible for the preparation of financial statements Groups key risks and the controls in place to manage and that present a balanced assessment of the Groups financial position mitigate against these risks: and prospects.
This responsibility is administered primarily by the audit committee, the terms of reference of which are referred to above.
Review of the internal audit reports issued during the year and the risk based internal audit programme for 2010: Internal controls The board is ultimately responsible for establishing and monitoring Review of the external audit plan: internal control systems throughout the Group and reviewing their effectiveness.
It recognises that rigorous systems of internal control Review of the work integrating the corporate structure of are critical to the Groups achievement of its business objectives, that acquisitions made during the year: those systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and that they can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance The updated policy on Market Abuse and Insider Dealing: against material misstatement or loss.
Succession planning strategy for the finance function: The key elements of the control system are: Consideration of the FRC report on Challenges for Audit The Group operates a structured, objectives-driven approach to Committees Arising From Current Economic Conditions: ful l its core purpose and goals in respect of sustained pro tability and growth: Appointment of Deloitte as the Groups tax advisors: and Research and development and capital expenditure programmes The management of corporate fraud risks.
are subject to formal review and monitoring procedures: Nomination committee All contracts are reviewed.
The level of review depends on the size The nomination committee is comprised of Kevin Loosemore who and complexity of the contracts and associated risks.
There are chairs the committee, David Maloney, the non-executive Senior formal limits above which the review level is escalated: independent director and Stephen Kelly Chief Executive Of cer of the Company and has met two times during the financial year.
Reconciliations are performed on a timely basis for all major The nomination committee will meet at least twice during the accounts: and coming financial year.
David Dominik resigned as a director and from the committee on 18 February 2009 and Stephen Kelly was Systems and procedures are in place for all major transaction types appointed to the committee on 23 February 2009. with appropriate authorisation controls.
The nomination committee is responsible to the full board for There is an ongoing internal process for identifying, evaluating and proposing candidates to the board, having regard to the balance and managing the signi cant risks faced by the Company in association structure of the board.
The nomination committee uses consultants with the work performed by the outsourced internal audit function.
to identify suitable candidates where a position is identi ed.
This process has been in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the report and accounts and it is regularly The terms of reference of the nomination committee include, among reviewed by the board and accords with the Turnbull guidance.
other things, the following responsibilities: As part of the process that the Company has in place to review the To review the structure, size and composition of the board and effectiveness of the internal control system, there are procedures make recommendations to the board with regard to any changes: designed to capture and evaluate failings and weaknesses, and in the case of those categorised by the board as signi cant, procedures exist to ensure that necessary action is taken to remedy the failings.
Micro Focus Annual Report and 40 International plc Accounts 2009 This requirement is set out in the audit committees terms of Directors are normally provided with the agenda and supporting reference to report on a regular basis to the board on the Groups papers for board and committee meetings a week prior to the internal financial control procedures and to make recommendations meeting.
If unable to attend a meeting a director will provide to the board in this area.
feedback to the Chairman, chairman of the committee or the Company Secretary and their comments are then communicated The external auditors provide a supplementary, independent and at the meeting.
autonomous perspective on those areas of the internal control system which they assess in the course of their work.
Their findings Shareholder relations are regularly reported to both the audit committee and the board.
The Company values the views of shareholders and recognises their To ensure auditor objectivity and independence there is a stringent interests in the Groups strategy and performance.
process in place to approve non-audit work.
The Company reports formally to shareholders four times a year, Human resources around June preliminary announcement of annual results and The Group endeavours to appoint employees with appropriate skills, December interim statement.
The Company also publishes interim knowledge and experience for the roles they undertake.
management statements in or around August and February each year.
The annual report is expected to be mailed to shareholders The Group has a range of policies which are aimed at retaining and in August.
Separate announcements of all material events are providing incentives for key staff.
Objectives are set for departments made as necessary.
Regular communications are maintained with and employees that are derived from the Groups business objectives institutional shareholders and presentations are given to shareholders and performance is formally measured against these objectives twice when the half-year and full-year financial results are announced and per year.
The Group has a clear and well-understood organisational at other times.
In addition to the Chief Executive Of cer and Chief structure and each employee knows his or her line of accountability.
Financial Of cer, who have regular contact with investors, Kevin Loosemore, Chairman, and David Maloney, Senior Independent Announcements Director, are available to meet with shareholders as and when All major announcements are approved by the Chairman and the required.
The whole board is kept up to date at its regular meetings executive directors and circulated to the board prior to issue.
with the views of shareholders and analysts.
External analysts reports are also circulated to directors.
The Group also has internal and external checks to guard against unauthorised release of information.
com provides an overview of the business including its strategy, products and objectives.
Financial A comprehensive budgeting system allows managers to submit All Group announcements are available on the website and new detailed budgets which are reviewed and amended by executive announcements are published without delay.
The terms of reference directors prior to submission to the board for approval.
of each of the boards three committees and other important corporate governance documents are available on the website and Insurance from the Company Secretary.
Additionally, the Chief Financial Of cer The Group keeps under review its portfolio of insurance policies with provides a focal point for shareholders enquiries and dialogue its insurance brokers to ensure that the policies are appropriate to the throughout the year.
Annual General Meeting AGM Attendance at meetings The Companys AGM, which will be held on 24 September 2009 The number of board meetings and committee meetings attended at 3pm UK time will provide an opportunity for the board to meet by each director in the year to 30 April 2009 was as follows: with all shareholders and participation of shareholders is encouraged.
At the meeting, in addition to the statutory business, the board will Audit Remuneration Nomination be available for questions from shareholders.
Board committee committee committee Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended In accordance with the Combined Code recommendations, the Kevin Loosemore 13 13 5 5 2 2 Company will count all proxy votes and will indicate the level of Stephen Kelly 13 13 proxies lodged, the number of proxy votes for and against such Nick Bray 13 13 resolution and the number of votes withheld.
A resolution will Prescott Ashe 4 4 be proposed for each substantive issue and the chairs of the David Dominik 10 10 1 1 audit, remuneration and nomination committees will attend to David Maloney 13 12 6 6 5 5 2 2 answer questions.
Paul Pester 13 13 6 6 5 5 Tom Skelton 13 13 6 6 5 5 During period of appointment.
Note: Prescott Ashe resigned on 8 September 2008 David Dominik resigned on 18 February 2009 Micro Focus Annual Report and 41 International plc Accounts 2009
