com Corporate governance Corporate governance report Search report Corporate governance Financial statements The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate Responsibilities governance.
It is accountable to the Companys shareholders for The Board is responsible to the shareholders for the conduct of good governance in its management of the affairs of the Group.
the Companys business and determines Group strategy, reviews The Board con rms that the Company was fully compliant throughout trading performance, ensures adequate funding and examines the year ended 31 May 2009 with all the principles and provisions major investments.
It has a formal schedule of matters reserved of the FRC 2006 Combined Code on Corporate Governance for its decision including approval of the accounts and dividends, the Combined Code, subject to the explanations given below.
signi cant strategic decisions, the annual operating budget, transactions over 10m, settlement of litigation over a certain The Combined Code provides that the Board should include threshold, fundamental changes to the internal control system, the a balance of executive and non-executive Directors and in particular adoption of new employee incentivisation plans, and the delegation independent non-executive Directors such that no individual or of authority to committees, individual Directors and Of cers.
The full small group of individuals can dominate the Boards decision-taking.
schedule is available on the Companys website under the heading Following the resignation of Jim Malone as CFO, there is only one Corporate governance.
executive Director on the Board.
The Board has considered the matter and is of the opinion that the existing balance of the Board In light of the integrity of the individual Directors and of the current is such that the Company is still compliant.
balance of one executive Director, a non-executive Chairman and six non-executive Directors, the Board is of the view that no The Board, having conducted a review of the independence of the individual or small group of individuals can dominate the Boards non-executive Directors, considers them all to be independent in decision-taking.
3.1 of the Combined Code, save as explained below.
In conducting the review, the Board took into The Chairman is responsible for running the Board and carrying account a number of factors including whether each non-executive out the duties enumerated under the Combined Code, including Director is objective, provides a challenge to management, is ensuring effective communications with shareholders.
John Ormerod prepared to challenge the views of others, and whether he has any is the senior independent Director and provides an alternative to relationships or circumstances that are likely to affect his judgement.
the Chairman as a contact for shareholders.
He also chairs the Audit Committee and leads the annual performance review of The Board has speci cally considered the independence of the Chairman.
Jeff Ubben in view of his connection with one of the Companys signi cant shareholders, ValueAct, and has determined that, on The Chief Executive is supported in the management of the business balance, for Combined Code purposes it will no longer consider and, in particular, in the implementation of the turnaround strategy him to be independent.
launched in March 2007, by a team of senior executives, including the CFO, who constitute Misys Executive Vice Presidents EVPs.
In relation to the Audit Committee, it was disclosed in the 2008 The EVPs report to the Chief Executive and meet with him in person Annual Report that the Board was actively seeking to recruit at least or by telephone as a group every two weeks to discuss operational one additional independent non-executive Director.
Operational responsibility for the strategic development of was accordingly appointed on 5 November 2008 and Sir James the Group is shared between the Chief Executive and the EVPs, Crosby was appointed as a non-executive Director and Chairman with input from other senior managers around the Group.
Both are considered by the Board to be independent and to possess recent and relevant financial The Chief Executive and the EVPs report regularly to the Board experience but, of the two, only Philip Rowley has been appointed on all signi cant operational and strategic initiatives.
as a member of the Audit Committee.
A formal procedure exists to allow the Directors, in appropriate The Board circumstances, to take independent professional advice in respect Composition of their duties, with any fees incurred being paid by the Company.
In At the date of this report, the Board comprises the Chairman, one addition, all Directors may seek advice from the Company Secretary.
executive Director and six non-executive Directors.
Their biographies Independence and details of their membership of committees appear elsewhere The non-executive Directors ful l a vital role in corporate within this Corporate governance report.
The changes in the accountability by bringing their independent judgement to bear composition of the Board are set out in the Directors report.
The on issues brought before the Board and Board committees.
They Board collectively has a wide range of relevant business, financial bring considerable knowledge and experience from other areas and international experience, which is vital to the successful direction of business and public life, together with an international perspective, of a global company.
and their views carry signi cant weight in the Boards decisions.
At least once a year, they also meet as a group without executive Directors being present.
The matter of Jeff Ubbens independence under provision A.
3.1 of the Combined Code has been explained above.
Sir Dominic Cadbury was considered independent upon his appointment as Chairman.
There have been no signi cant changes to the Chairmans other commitments since the date of the last Annual Report.
Annual Report 2009 | Misys plc 49 Corporate governance report Overview Business review The non-executive Directors met as a group in April 2009 for two Con icts of interest primary reasons.
The first was to discuss, with the Chairman present, The Companys Articles of Association were amended at the 2008 the results of the performance evaluation of the Chief Executive.
The AGM with effect from 1 October 2008 to permit the Board to consider second was to discuss, in the absence of the Chairman and led by and, if it sees t, to authorise situations where a Director has an the senior independent Director, the performance of the Chairman interest that con icts, or may possibly con ict, with the interests and other issues.
As and when required, ad-hoc meetings are held of the Company Situational Con icts.
The Board has a formal to update the Board in-between Board meetings.
system in place for the Directors to declare Situational Con icts to be considered for authorisation by those Directors who have no interest As part of its evaluation of the performance of the Board, the Board in the matter being considered.
In deciding whether to authorise has reviewed the availability of the non-executive Directors, including a Situational Con ict, the non-con icted Directors must act in the the Chairman.
Sir James Crosby, Philip Rowley, John King and way they consider, in good faith, would be most likely to promote the John Ormerod, all of whom are non-executive Directors, are due success of the Company, and they may impose limits or conditions for election or re-election at the 2009 AGM and the Board considers when giving the authorisation, or subsequently, if they think this is that they are able to devote the necessary amount of time to the appropriate.
Any Situational Con icts considered by the Board, and business of the Company.
any authorisation given, are recorded in the Board minutes and in a register of con icts which will be reviewed annually by the Board.
Sir Dominic Cadbury has indicated that having served for nine years The Board has followed the prescribed procedures in deciding on the Board, he will not be seeking re-election and will stand whether, and on what terms, to authorise Situational Con icts and down as Chairman at the conclusion of the 2009 AGM.
Upon his believes that the systems it has in place for reporting and appointment to the Board, Sir James Crosby was indicated as considering Situational Con icts continue to operate effectively.
Chairman Designate and accordingly it is anticipated that he will be appointed as Chairman of the Company following the conclusion Board evaluation of the 2009 AGM.
During the second half of the year the Directors conducted, by way of a detailed questionnaire and discussion, an evaluation Mike Lawrie is the only executive Director on the Board.
He is of the performance of the Board collectively, of its four principal a non-executive Director of Juniper Networks, Inc. and does not Committees Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and Executive, hold any non-executive directorships with any FTSE 100 company.
of the Chairman, of the Chief Executive, and of individual Directors.
As part of this latter evaluation, the Chairman makes himself available Board processes to discuss any issues regarding individual performance or any One of the responsibilities of the Chairman is to ensure that Board areas of concern.
The former EVP General Counsel and Company members receive suf cient and timely information regarding Secretary provided initial feedback to the Chairman and the senior corporate and business issues to enable them to discharge their independent Director.
The Board received and reviewed the overall duties and to enable them to make further enquiries where average scores.
These results formed one of the bases for further necessary.
The Board regularly reviews the quality and quantity discussion by the Board collectively, and by the non-executive of this information and recommends adjustments as necessary Directors in respect of the evaluation of the Committees, the or advisable.
On a regular basis, the Board receives detailed performance of the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The review presentations from senior management from around the Group on identi ed a few areas requiring improvement and a plan of action the businesses, product strategy, partnerships, new opportunities to address the concerns raised has been adopted.
for the Group, and other matters of signi cance.
The Board meets at least eight times a year and aims to hold two meetings each year Board committees overseas, one of which is combined with a two-day conference The Board delegates certain of its responsibilities to six Board involving an in-depth review of Group strategy as well as meetings committees.
These committees operate in accordance with with senior management.
During the year two meetings were held formally fide ned written terms of reference that are available on the in the US and one in India, where the Group has signi cant Companys website.
These oversight roles are complemented by operations.
In addition to the scheduled meetings, during the year an active internal audit function.
Further details on internal control the Board held a number of ad-hoc meetings to consider the merger are provided in the section below.
Details of membership of the with Allscripts.
Board committees are set out elsewhere within this Corporate governance report.
The Board also reviews periodically whether the format and number of regularly scheduled meetings is appropriate for the anticipated During the year the Board reviewed the composition of its Board needs of the business.
It was agreed to re-examine the membership of the Board committees as and when new non-executive Directors join Training the Board.
The Chairman is also charged with ensuring that all new Board members are equipped to ful l their duties and meet their The Audit Committee is chaired by John Ormerod, who has recent responsibilities.
As part of the early familiarisation programme, and relevant financial experience.
As Jeff Ubben was deemed no new non-executive Directors meet with the Chief Executive and longer to be independent, he stepped down from the Committee the CFO individually and engage in an induction programme of and was replaced by Al-Noor Ramji with effect from 22 July 2008. visits to different businesses within the Group where they have the Its other members during the year were John King and Philip Rowley.
opportunity to meet the senior management.
All Directors receive The Committee met 11 times during 2008 09, with the CFO, Group training about their duties, signi cant changes in the law and the Financial Controller, Group Treasurer, representatives from Internal sectors in which the Company operates.
Audit and the external auditors, PwC, also attending by invitation.
50 Misys plc | Annual Report 2009 www www.. m miis sy ys s.. c co om m Corporate governance report Se Sea ar rc ch h Corporate governance Financial statements A partner of KPMG acts as Head of Internal Audit and has direct During the year the Committees work has included: access to the Committee Chairman.
reviewing the Groups draft 2008 financial statements and 2009 During the year the Committee met in private session with PwC interim results, and related announcements prior to Board twice, with the Head of Internal Audit once and with the CFO and approval, together with PwCs reports thereon: other senior management twice.
During the year, the Committee reviewing the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies: Chairman has held meetings with PwC and separately with the receiving and reviewing reports on the Groups risk Head of Internal Audit.
management processes: reviewing periodic reports from the internal audit function: The Committees duties include among others: to receive reports reviewing and approving PwCs terms of engagement, fees from the Groups external and internal auditors: to review and to and non-audit fees: report to the Board on draft financial information prior to publication: reviewing PwCs strategy for the audit of the 2009 financial to oversee and keep under review the relationship with the Groups statements: and external auditors: to review the effectiveness and reliability of the additional work undertaken in connection with the Groups system of internal control and the internal audit function: Allscripts merger.
to review any changes to financial reporting requirements: and to consider matters arising from the annual Group audit.
The Committee monitors on an ongoing basis the relationship with PwC to ensure their continuing independence, objectivity and The Committee receives appropriate information to enable it to effectiveness.
By reference to PwCs litigation record, financial ful l its responsibilities.
This includes drafts of external disclosures assets, structure of the rm and the level of their professional documents: supporting papers describing more fully the financial indemnity insurance cover, the Committee determines PwCs statements and notes to the accounts, areas of judgement applied etc.
financial stability and assesses the likelihood of their being able It also receives reports from external advisers PwC and KPMG.
to meet any liabilities arising from the audit engagement.
The Committee recognises that the independence of the Groups It is considered that PwC have carried out their obligations in an auditors is of paramount importance to shareholders and has effective and appropriate manner and on that basis a proposal will established a policy for monitoring and approving the level of be made for their re-appointment at the AGM.
non-audit fees e. g. accounting, tax or other financial consultancyrelated work paid to the Group auditors in order to identify and The Committee also interacts with the Remuneration Committee in minimise any potential con icts of interest.
The policy prohibits using respect of compensation policies and practices for senior executives PwC in projects which represent a real threat to the independence of the Company.
The Committee is satis ed that the current policies of the audit team, such as where the external auditors would be and practices are appropriate and consistent with good governance in the position of auditing their own work e. g. financial systems and the long-term objectives of the Company.
implementations or where there is evident self-interest, for example As a result of its work during the year, the Committee has concluded where an interest in the outcome of their work might con ict with that it has acted in accordance with its terms of reference and has the auditors objectivity.
If PwC is to be considered for the provision ensured as far as practically possible the independence of PwC.
of non-audit services such as tax advice and compliance or due The Chairman of the Committee intends to be available at the AGM diligence work in relation to acquisitions their scope and fees must to answer any questions on the work of the Committee.
be approved in advance by the CFO and the Committee Secretary and, in the case of fees in excess of 50,000 for a single project, The Nomination Committee has Sir Dominic Cadbury as its acting by the Committee Chairman.
This may involve a competitive tender Chairman.
It consists of all the non-executive Directors including process unless there are compelling commercial or timescale the Chairman.
It meets as necessary, liaising closely with the reasons to use PwC.
At each meeting the Committee is advised of Chief Executive.
It assesses the any signi cant non-audit work awarded to PwC since the previous suitability of persons for appointment as Directors and, when meeting which will already have been approved by the Committee appropriate, nominates new candidates for the approval of the Chairman as described above.
At its July meeting the Committee Board.
The Committee plays an important role in succession receives a full report of PwCs fees, both audit and non-audit, during planning for the Board and key senior executives and performs the past financial year.
The non-audit fees paid to PwC amounted regular assessments of the requirements of the Board as a whole.
to 3.2m or 60% of total fees paid, largely re ecting the additional Under its terms of reference, the Committee oversees the search work which was required of the Companys auditors as a result of and selection process for new Directors and aims to do so in the Allscripts merger.
The Committee considered any potential compliance with the recommendations of the Combined Code.
impact on the Auditors independence and was of the opinion that As such the Committee seeks to make appointments on merit and it was not impaired in consequence, nor was the quality of the audit against objective criteria.
The Committee also seeks to satisfy process adversely affected by PwCs non-audit work for the Group.
itself that there are in place plans for the orderly succession of appointments to the Board and to senior management positions.
The Committee has a policy prohibiting the hiring of former employees of the external auditors associated with the Companys The Remuneration Committee is chaired by John King.
Details audit into certain roles within the Group within two years following of the Committees main functions, Directors remuneration and their association with the audit, unless the Chairman of the Audit the Groups remuneration policies are set out in the Directors Committee gives prior consent.
Annually the Committee is advised remuneration report.
of any new hires caught by this policy.
No such circumstances arose in the year ended 31 May 2009.
Annual Report 2009 | Misys plc 51 Corporate governance report Overview Business review The Treasury Committee was established by the Board to review Relations with shareholders the function and operation of the Groups centralised treasury The Company acknowledges the importance of maintaining function, whose primary role is to manage the foreign exchange, a purposeful relationship with its investors.
The Chairman, the interest rate, liquidity and credit risks arising from the operation of the Chief Executive and the CFO hold brie ng meetings with financial business.
The Committee is governed by written terms of reference analysts and institutional shareholders, including presentations and meets as necessary, reporting its decisions to the next meeting following the interim and final results announcements, and their of the Board.
Its membership comprises the Chief Executive, the views are communicated to the Board.
CFO, the Group Treasurer and John Ormerod as the non-executive In addition, business and market brie ngs are held periodically to Director nominated by the Board.
ensure that the analysts and investing community receive a broader The Executive Committee was established by the Board in view of the Groups operations and the issues faced by the business.
January 2007 to facilitate the management of the business and affairs The Chief Executive and CFO regularly conduct one-on-one and or of the Company in-between meetings of the Board of Directors.
group meetings with institutional shareholders.
The Chairman, the Its membership comprises three or more Directors and its current senior independent Director and the non-executive Directors are members are the Chief Executive, the Chairman of the Board and available to meet with shareholders on request.
It is chaired by the Chief Executive.
It may exercise all of the powers and authority of the Board within The principal communications with private investors are through certain parameters as set out in its terms of reference.
The minutes the Companys website www.
com, the Annual Report and of Executive Committee meetings are circulated to all members of financial statements, the interim report, the interim management the Board for information.
All the Directors aim to attend the AGM, which provides shareholders with the opportunity to question the The General Purposes Committee transacts routine business of Chairman and the Board.
The Company responds as necessary the Board, principally in relation to the Companys employee share to enquiries from individual shareholders on a wide range of issues.
The Committee operates within clearly fide ned written terms of reference and financial limits.
It meets when necessary and reports The financial and other information, including presentations to to the Board on its decisions on a regular basis.
All the Directors, analysts and investors in audio, video and text formats, are made together with the Company Secretary, are members of the Committee.
available on the Companys website.
Further details are contained in the Investor information section.
The attendance record of each Director during the year is set out below: Internal control Audit Nomination Remuneration The Board of Directors has responsibility for the system of internal Director Board Committee Committee Committee control, which covers all aspects of the business.
In recognition of that responsibility, the Directors set policies and seek assurance Sir Dominic Cadbury 14 14 2 2 7 8 that the system of internal control is operating effectively.
Strategic, M Lawrie 14 14 operational, financial and compliance areas are all within the scope J King 13 14 10 11 2 2 8 8 of these activities, which also includes identifying, evaluating and J Ormerod 14 14 11 11 2 2 7 8 1 managing the related risks.
A Ramji 10 14 9 10 1 2 6 8 J Ubben 14 14 1 1 The Groups system of internal control, and the review of its P Rowley effectiveness, are in accordance with the Turnbull guidance.
appointed 5 Nov 2008 6 7 7 7 3 4 Sir James Crosby The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the system of appointed 30 Jan 2009 2 3 1 1 internal control on behalf of the Board, to which it regularly reports.
J Malone It carries out this review principally by means of discussions with resigned 9 Jan 2009 10 10 management on signi cant risks: a speci c review of plans for and the results of, internal and external audit work: and other relevant Figures in brackets indicate the maximum possible number of meetings each Director reports.
The Board considers the findings of the Audit Committee could have attended during the period.
and determines whether there are any signi cant internal control 1 Al-Noor Ramji attended all scheduled Board meetings apart from one.
The other failings or weaknesses that need to be addressed.
meetings at which he could not be present were ad-hoc meetings arranged at short notice.
The following section summarises the Groups system of internal The Executive Committee, General Purposes Committee and control, which comprises a number of distinct individual processes Treasury Committee held a number of ad-hoc meetings attended and procedures that, when taken together, provide a reasonable, by the Directors and accordingly are not included in the above table.
but not absolute, assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
All the Directors then in of ce attended the 2008 AGM.
52 Misys plc | Annual Report 2009 www www.. m miis sy ys s.. c co om m Corporate governance report Se Sea ar rc ch h Corporate governance Financial statements Risk management System of operating unit control procedures A risk management process has been developed that identi es, Business unit performance and internal control are monitored by evaluates and manages the key business, operational, financial and regular business unit management meetings.
Financial controls compliance risks that are considered important to the Group.
This and procedures are detailed in a Group Finance Manual, which is process involves an annual formal exercise facilitated by Internal regularly updated and published on the Groups intranet.
In addition, Audit to review and update the key risks facing the Group.
The results the monitoring role of the central and regional finance functions of this are presented to the Board for review and consideration.
have been strengthened in the year, focusing on higher risk areas such as treasury and cash management.
Each operating units The acquisition of the Allscripts business has altered the risk pro le general manager and chief financial of cer is also required to certify of the Group considerably.
A separate risk assessment has been in writing compliance or identify cases of non-compliance with the performed for this business and incorporated into the overall Group Groups policies and procedures, including the internal financial risk assessment.
Business risks and controls are evaluated by executive management The Groups principal subsidiary Allscripts is listed on NASDAQ, who determine which risks, in their opinion, are the most signi cant requiring it to comply with a number of financial reporting to the Group overall.
Senior executives are given responsibility to responsibilities to its shareholders governed by the US Securities deal with any items requiring action and decisions are then taken Exchange Act 1934.
These additional responsibilities include as to the most appropriate method of managing them.
The Audit publicly reporting that the controls existing within Allscripts over Committee considers any signi cant control matters raised in reports external financial reporting have been documented and tested from management, and by the internal and external auditors.
It then in accordance with the requirements of s. 404 of the US Sarbanesreports its findings to the Board.
Where weaknesses are identi ed, Oxley Act 2002. the Audit Committee requires appropriate action to be taken by management and may request Internal Audit to perform a speci c Internal audit review into these areas if required.
The Group utilises internal audit resource supplied by KPMG under an outsourcing agreement.
The internal audit function facilitates Financial monitoring and reporting managements strategic risk assessment.
This is approved by The Board approves an annual operating budget.
The Group the Audit Committee, and forms the basis of a risk-based internal operates a system of regular forecasts of expected performance audit plan.
against budget and these are reviewed by executive management and the Board.
The actual results, including key performance The reviews performed by Internal Audit, as part of the plan, provide indicators, are reported on a monthly basis and both the monthly objective assurance over the processes and controls in place to and cumulative results are compared with the budget, the latest manage the selected key strategic risks, making recommendations forecast and the prior year results.
for business and control improvements as required.
Actions are agreed in response to these recommendations and are followed During the year the Group strengthened its working capital and up by the Audit Committee to ensure that satisfactory control is cash management monitoring and reporting procedures.
Meetings are held periodically between the Audit same time the Group strengthened its procedures for monitoring Committee and KPMG at which executive management are not exposures and reviewing its foreign currency hedging strategy to present.
On an annual basis the Audit Committee reviews the mitigate risk.
Treasury policies are also kept under review and are remit and effectiveness of the internal audit function.
subject to regular reporting to the Board.
Summary and conclusion Delegated authorities The process and systems described above have been in place A clearly fide ned management and organisational structure has during the financial year ended 31 May 2009, or were adopted been established.
There are fide ned responsibilities which are during the year in response to changes in the risk pro le and retained by the Board.
fide ned levels of authority delegated to remained in place up to the date of the approval of the Annual Report management at Group and business unit level are established for and Accounts.
the approval of major development projects, contractual and other commitments of a revenue nature and capital expenditure.
Authority On behalf of the Board levels are reviewed periodically and approved by the Group or Kevin Wilson business units as appropriate.
Company Secretary Investment appraisal 28 July 2009 Potential capital investment or acquisition opportunities are reviewed rigorously against the Groups requirement for investment return, growth potential and normal terms and conditions before contractual commitment.
