Operating and Financial Shareholder Overview financial review Reports statements information Glossary Corporate governance statement As at 25 November 2009 The Board recognises the importance of good corporate governance Drummond Hall Chairman in creating a sustainable, successful and profitable business.
It is until 30 November 2009 committed to compliance with the principles of corporate governance as set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance of June 2008 the Combined Code which is available online at www.
The Board considers that the Company has complied throughout the year ended 26 September 2009 with all the provisions of the Combined Code except, from time to time only, those in respect of Board composition and balance A.
3.2, certain Board appointments as detailed below A.
6.1, attendance of the chairman of the Audit Committee at the Annual General Meeting D. 2.3 constitution of the Audit Committee C. 3.1, the Remuneration Committee B.
The information required by Disclosure and Transparency Rule DTR 7.1 is set out in the Audit Committee report on pages 40 to 41 and the information required by DTR 7.2 is set out in this Corporate governance statement, other than that required under DTR 7.2.
6 which is set out in the Directors report on pages 31 to 34.
Board composition At the start of FY 2009, the Board comprised the Non-Executive Chairman, four Executive Directors, three independent Non-Executive Directors and two non-independent Non-Executive Directors.
During the year various changes were made to the composition of the Board.
Aaron Brown and Tim Smalley who were appointed as representatives of the then largest shareholder, Violet Capital Group Ltd, stepped down from the Board on 8 October 2008 upon the disposal by Violet Capital Group Ltd of its significant shareholding.
On 31 December 2008, George Fairweather, an independent Non-Executive Director and chairman of the Audit Committee, resigned.
Simon Laffin was appointed as an independent NonExecutive Director and chairman of the Audit Committee on 29 January 2009 and was subsequently appointed as Senior Independent Director with effect from 1 June 2009.
Mike Bramley, Managing Director, Pubs & Bars retired from the Board on 30 April 2009.
On 21 May 2009 Tim Clarke, then Chief Executive, left the Group by mutual agreement and Adam Fowle became Acting Chief Executive on the same day.
Subsequent to Tim Clarkes departure, an external search company was appointed to search for candidates for the position of Chief Executive.
The results of the search were presented to the Nomination Corporate governance statement Committee.
Having considered the results of the search and the The Board is responsible for ensuring compliance with the Companys existing succession plans, the Nomination Committee Combined Code.
This includes reviewing internal controls, recommended the appointment of Adam Fowle as Chief Executive ensuring that there is an appropriate balance of skills and to the Board, recognising his considerable business knowledge experience represented on the Board and maintaining and experience and having objectively benchmarked his qualities relations with shareholders.
against other external candidates: Adam was then confirmed as Chief Executive on 3 August 2009.
Richard McGuire was appointed to the Board on 16 July 2009 as a representative of Piedmont Inc. the Companys largest shareholder.
Because of his association with Piedmont Inc. the Board concluded that Richard should not be determined independent.
Although an external agency would normally be For our latest financial information go to: used for non-executive appointments, the Nomination Committee www.
com investors recognised the request for representation on the Board by the Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2009 35 Corporate governance statement continued Companys major shareholder and did not engage an external meeting and were able to discuss issues arising directly with the agency in respect of this appointment.
However following a formal, Chairman and Chief Executive.
There are nine Board meetings rigorous and transparent review of the prior experience and skills currently planned for FY 2010. of Richard McGuire, which revealed his financial expertise, the Nomination Committee recommended his appointment to the The Board is responsible to shareholders for the strategic direction, Board as a Non-Executive Director.
Richard McGuire is a member development and control of the Group.
It therefore approves of the Nomination Committee but does not sit on the Audit or strategic plans and annual capital and revenue budgets.
significant investment proposals and the performance of past investments and maintains an overview and control of the Groups Denis Jackson and Ray MacSharry were appointed to the Board as operating and financial performance.
It monitors the Groups independent Non-Executive Directors on 28 August 2009 following overall system of internal controls, governance and compliance consultation with major shareholders.
No external agency search was and ensures that the necessary financial and human resources carried out in respect of either of these appointments.
However, are in place for the Company to meet its objectives.
The Board a formal evaluation of Mr Jackson against the requirements of the has established a schedule of matters which are reserved for role of Non-Executive Director and the complementary skills and its attention which are published on the Companys website.
experience held by other Board members was conducted by an external agency.
Having made due enquiry of them and having The Board has adopted objective written criteria for the received their written assurances in this regard, the Board was appointment of Directors and the roles of the Chairman, Chief satisfied that Denis Jackson and Ray MacSharry were independent Executive and Non-Executive Directors have been defined in writing.
However, when the independence of each of the Non-Executive Directors was reviewed by a Sub Committee of the The Executive Directors may be permitted to accept one external Board on 25 November 2009, the Sub Committee was unable to non-executive director appointment with the Companys prior reach a conclusion regarding the independence of Denis Jackson approval and as long as this is not likely to lead to conflicts of interest.
The Company Secretarys responsibilities include ensuring good Following the year end Tony Bates was appointed to the Board information flows to the Board and its committees and between senior as an independent Non-Executive Director on 13 October 2009. management and the Non-Executive Directors.
The appointment and Tony was recruited with the assistance of an external agency.
removal of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board.
Tony Bates, Denis Jackson and Ray MacSharry were appointed The Company Secretary is responsible through the Chairman for as members of the Audit and Remuneration Committees on advising the Board on all corporate governance matters and for 16 October 2009.
Following the year end Piedmont Inc. exercised assisting the Directors with their professional development.
This its right to appoint an additional representative Director, Douglas includes regular corporate governance and business issues updates, McMahon, to the Board.
Again, as this was pursuant to a request as well as the use of operational site visits and the provision of from the Companys major shareholder an external agency was not external courses where required.
During the year, the Company engaged.
Douglas McMahons appointment as a non-independent Secretary facilitated a comprehensive induction for each of the Non-Executive Director was recommended to the Board by the newly appointed Directors, tailored to individual requirements Nomination Committee.
Douglas McMahon does not sit on any and including guidance on requirements of, and Directors duties Board committees.
in connection with, the Combined Code and the Companies Act 2006 as well as other relevant legislation.
On 25 November 2009 the Board consisted of the Non-Executive Chairman, two Executive Directors and eight Non-Executive Directors Directors.
The following were Directors of the Company during the year: Date appointed Date left For the reason set out above, it has not been possible for the Tim Clarke Chief Executive 10 02 03 21 05 09 Board to confirm whether the Company has complied with section Mike Bramley Managing Director, Pubs & Bars 15 04 03 30 04 09 A.
3.2 of the Combined Code in relation to at least half of the Board George Fairweather Independent Non-Executive Director 15 04 03 31 12 08 comprising independent Non-Executive Directors.
Sara Weller Independent Non-Executive Director 15 04 03 Sir Tim Lankester Independent Non-Executive Director 16 05 03 Drummond Hall Chairman from 20 06 08 30 07 04 Board and committee structure Adam Fowle Chief Executive from 03 08 09 01 10 07 To support the principles of good corporate governance, the Board Jeremy Townsend Finance Director 31 01 08 Aaron Brown Non-independent Non-Executive Director 20 06 08 08 10 08 and Committee structure operates as set out below.
Tim Smalley Non-independent Non-Executive Director 20 06 08 08 10 08 Simon Laffin Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 29 01 09 The Board Richard McGuire Non-independent Non-Executive Director 16 07 09 Denis Jackson Independent Non-Executive Director 28 08 09 During FY 2009 there were nine scheduled Board meetings Ray MacSharry Independent Non-Executive Director 28 08 09 including a two day off-site meeting which considered the Determined independent on appointment Groups strategy and a further nine Board meetings which were called at short notice.
George Fairweather was unable to attend Following the year end Tony Bates was appointed as an independent one scheduled Board meeting, Sir Tim Lankester and Mike Non-Executive Director on 13 October 2009 and Douglas McMahon Bramley were each unable to attend one of the Board meetings was appointed as a non-independent Non-Executive Director on called at short notice and Sara Weller was unable to attend two 18 November 2009.
The biographical details of Board Directors as of these.
Where a Director was unable to attend a meeting, they at 25 November 2009 are set out on page 28 and these include their were provided with all the papers and information relating to that main commitments outside the Company.
36 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Operating and Financial Shareholder Overview financial review Reports statements information Glossary The Company ensures that Directors submit themselves for Other than their fees which are disclosed on page 49, the Nonre-election at least every three years.
Executive Directors received no remuneration from the Company during the year.
When Non-Executive Directors are considered for appointment, the Nomination Committee will take into account Adam Fowle and Sara Weller will retire by rotation at the AGM on 28 January 2010: Adam Fowle will stand for reappointment, Sara their other responsibilities in assessing whether they can commit sufficient time to their prospective directorship.
Weller will not be offering herself for reappointment, however Sara will be attending the 2010 AGM and will retire at its conclusion.
Tony Bates, Denis Jackson, Simon Laffin, Ray MacSharry, Richard All Directors are briefed by the use of comprehensive papers McGuire and Douglas McMahon, having been appointed since the circulated in advance of Board meetings and by presentations last AGM, will stand for reappointment at the 2010 AGM.
at the meetings in addition to receiving minutes of previous meetings.
Their understanding of the Groups business is enhanced by business specific presentations and operational visits to the More information about the Directors standing for reappointment Companys businesses.
Separate strategy meetings and meetings is set out in the AGM Notice.
with senior executives are attended.
The training needs of Directors and of members of the Boards Committees are formally considered Details of the Executive Directors service contracts are set out on an annual basis and are also considered throughout the year.
on page 51 and on the Companys website.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment Committees which are available for inspection at the registered office of the The Committees of the Board each have written terms of Company during normal business hours and at the place of reference approved by the Board, which are available on the the Annual General Meeting from at least 15 minutes before Companys website.
and until the end of the meeting.
Audit Committee Chairman Simon Laffin is chairman of the Audit Committee: Simon has chaired Drummond Hall is the Chairman of the Board.
He ensures that the Audit Committee since his appointment as an independent appropriate communication is maintained with shareholders.
He has Non-Executive Director on 29 January 2009.
George Fairweather responsibility for the smooth running of the Board and for ensuring chaired the Audit Committee until he resigned from the Board on that all Directors are fully informed of matters relevant to their roles.
He also chairs the Nomination Committee.
The other Audit Committee members during the year were Sara Weller and Sir Tim Lankester, both independent Non-Executive Directors.
Following the year end on 16 October 2009 Chief Executive three further independent Non-Executive Directors were appointed Adam Fowle is the Chief Executive and has responsibility for as members of the Committee, namely Tony Bates, Denis Jackson implementing the strategy agreed by the Board and for the and Ray MacSharry.
Since 16 October 2009 the Audit Committee executive management of the Group.
Adam was appointed Acting has consisted of Simon Laffin and five Non-Executive Directors.
Chief Executive on 21 May 2009 following Tim Clarkes departure The Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive and the Finance and was confirmed as Chief Executive on 3 August 2009.
Director attend at the invitation of the Committees Chairman.
During FY 2009 the Committee met five times.
Senior Independent Director Simon Laffin was appointed Senior Independent Director on 1 June Further details about the Committee are included in the Audit 2009.
Before that date there had not been a Senior Independent Committee report on pages 40 and 41.
Director in place since Drummond Hall relinquished the position upon his appointment as Chairman of the Board in June 2008.
Remuneration Committee The Board considered it appropriate to allow sufficient time for The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Sara Weller, an Simon Laffin to fully familiarise himself with the business before independent Non-Executive Director.
Drummond Hall, Chairman, considering him for the position of Senior Independent Director.
and Sir Tim Lankester, an independent Non-Executive Director, Despite there not being a Senior Independent Director during have been members throughout the year.
George Fairweather, a the period there has at all times been a strong representation of former independent Non-Executive Director was a member of the independent Non-Executive Directors on the Board available to Remuneration Committee until his resignation from the Board on meet with shareholders and no meetings were requested with the 31 December 2008 and Simon Laffin was appointed as a member Senior Independent Director during the year.
of the Remuneration Committee on 29 January 2009.
For the four week period between George Fairweathers resignation and the Non-Executive Directors appointment of Simon Laffin, the Company did not comply with The Company has experienced Non-Executive Directors.
the provision of the Combined Code in respect of establishing In addition to the Chairman, who was independent upon his a Remuneration Committee of at least three independent appointment, the Board considers Tony Bates, Simon Laffin, Non-Executive Directors.
Following the year end on 16 October Sir Tim Lankester and Sara Weller to be independent as they are free from any business or other relationship which could materially influence their judgement and they represent a strong source of advice and independent challenge.
As noted above, Subsequent to the date of this report the Directors standing for a Sub Committee of the Board was unable to reach a conclusion reappointment have changed.
Refer to the Notice of Annual General Meeting regarding the independence of Denis Jackson and Ray MacSharry for the up to date AGM business.
Richard McGuire was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 16 July 2009 as a representative of the Despite a Sub Committee of the Board being unable to reach a conclusion Companys largest shareholder, Piedmont Inc. and is therefore not regarding the independence of Denis Jackson and Ray MacSharry, the Board regarded as independent.
Douglas McMahon was also appointed can confirm that this has not further impacted the Companys compliance with as a representative of Piedmont Inc. on 18 November 2009 and the Combined Code for the year ended 26 September 2009 in relation to the is not regarded as independent.
In addition until 8 October 2008 constitution of either the Audit or Remuneration Committees.
there were two other Non-Executive Directors, Aaron Brown and Tim Smalley who, because they were connected to the Companys largest shareholder at the time, Violet Capital Group Ltd, were not Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2009 37 regarded as independent.
Corporate governance statement continued 2009 Tony Bates, Denis Jackson and Ray MacSharry were General Purposes Committee appointed as members of the Remuneration Committee.
Since The General Purposes Committee comprises any two Executive 16 October 2009 the Remuneration Committee has consisted of Directors or any one Executive Director together with a senior Sara Weller, chairman of the Committee, five other Non-Executive officer from an agreed and restricted list of senior executives.
This Committee met 11 times during It is always chaired by a Director.
It attends to business of a FY 2009. routine nature and to the administration of matters, the principles of which have been agreed previously by the Board or an appropriate committee.
Further details about the Remuneration Committee are included in the Remuneration report on pages 42 to 44.
Disclosure Committee The Disclosure Committee considers and decides upon matters Nomination Committee brought to its attention, which would be likely to give rise to an Drummond Hall, Chairman, chairs the Nomination Committee.
The obligation to make a market announcement under the FSA Listing Chief Executive is a member of the Committee: Tim Clarke was a Rules.
It comprises the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the member until his departure from the Board on 21 May 2009, Adam Director of Corporate Affairs and the Company Secretary & General Fowle joined the Committee on 3 August 2009.
Sir Tim Lankester and Sara Weller, both independent Non-Executive Directors, have Counsel.
There was nothing for the Committee to consider in the year and therefore it did not meet.
been members of the Nomination Committee throughout the year.
George Fairweather, a former independent Non-Executive Director, was a member until his resignation from the Board on 31 December Executive Committee 2008 and Simon Laffin was appointed a member of the Nomination The Executive Committee, which is chaired by the Chief Executive, Committee on 29 January 2009.
Following the year end Richard consists of the Executive Directors and certain other senior McGuire, a non-independent Non-Executive Director, was appointed executives as shown on pages 28 and 29. as a member of the Nomination Committee on 16 October 2009.
For the four week period between George Fairweathers resignation The Executive Committee meets every four weeks and has and the appointment of Simon Laffin, and between 16 October day-to-day responsibility for the running of the Groups business.
2009 and the date of this report, the Company did not comply with It develops the Groups strategy and annual revenue and capital the provision of the Combined Code in respect of the Nomination budgets for Board approval.
It reviews and recommends to the Committee consisting of a majority of independent Non-Executive Board any significant investment proposals.
Since 16 October 2009 the Nomination Committee has consisted of the Chairman, the Chief Executive, three of the This Committee monitors the financial and operational performance independent Non-Executive Directors and one of the nonof the Group and allocates resources within the budgets agreed independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Company Secretary is by the Board.
It considers employment issues, ensures the Group secretary to this Committee.
A copy of the terms of reference for has an appropriate pool of talent and develops senior management this Committee is publicly available within the Investor section of manpower planning and succession plans.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates for Independent advice appointment to the Board.
It is also responsible for succession Members of the Board may take independent professional advice planning and reviewing the output of the Board effectiveness in the furtherance of their duties and they have access to the advice review.
and services of the Company Secretary & General Counsel, the Companys legal advisers and external auditors.
It met 10 times during the year to consider inter alia succession planning and to recommend the appointment of Adam Fowle Internal control as acting and then Chief Executive.
It also recommended the The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control appointments of Denis Jackson, Ray MacSharry and Simon Laffin and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In order as independent Non-Executive Directors and the appointment to discharge that responsibility, the Board has established the of Simon Laffin as Senior Independent Director.
The Committee procedures necessary to apply the Combined Code, including considered whether it was appropriate to have representation from clear operating procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated the Companys major shareholder on the Board and the necessity authority.
These procedures have been in place since the Group of strengthening the financial experience of the Board and, was listed and are regularly reviewed by the Board.
accordingly, it recommended the appointment of Richard McGuire as a non-independent Non-Executive Director.
Following the The Company has in place internal control and risk management year end the Committee also recommended the appointment systems in relation to the Companys financial reporting process of Tony Bates as an independent Non-Executive Director and and the Groups process for preparation of consolidated accounts.
the appointment of Douglas McMahon as a non-independent These systems include policies and procedures to facilitate Non-Executive Director pursuant to the appointment rights the maintenance of records that accurately and fairly reflect contained within a deed entered into with Piedmont Inc. transactions, provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit the preparation of financial There was full attendance at each meeting except that Simon Laffin statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting did not attend the meeting to consider his appointment as Senior Standards IFRS or UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, Independent Director: Tim Clarke did not attend the meeting to as appropriate, and that require reported data to be reviewed and consider termination of his appointment: George Fairweather was reconciled.
unable to attend one scheduled meeting: and Simon Laffin was unable to attend one meeting which was called at short notice.
Where a Director was unable to attend a meeting and the meeting did not relate to their own appointment, they were provided with all the papers and information relating to that meeting and were able to discuss issues arising directly with the chair of the Committee and the Company Secretary.
38 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Operating and Financial Shareholder Overview financial review Reports statements information Glossary Business performance is managed closely and the Board and the The AGM provides a useful interface with private shareholders, Executive Committee have established processes, as part of the many of whom are also customers.
All proxy votes received in normal good management of the business, to monitor: respect of each resolution at the AGM are counted and the balance strategic plan achievement, through a comprehensive series of for and against, and any votes withheld, are indicated.
The chairmen strategic reviews: of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination committees attend to financial performance within a comprehensive financial planning, answer questions.
Given the timing of the resignation of George accounting and reporting framework: Fairweather and the appointment of Simon Laffin on 29 January 2009 capital investment and asset management performance, with there was no chair of the Audit Committee in attendance at the detailed appraisal, authorisation and post investment reviews: 2009 AGM.
However, the Finance Director and each of the other consumer insight data and actions to evolve brands and formats Board members were in attendance to answer any questions that to ensure that they continue to be appealing and relevant: and would usually be answered by the chair of the Audit Committee.
risk management, through an ongoing process, which accords with the Turnbull Guidance and provides assurance, through Board effectiveness evaluation reports from Group Assurance, that the significant risks faced Notwithstanding the level of Board changes during FY 2009 by the Group are being identified, evaluated and appropriately the Board agreed that it would be appropriate to carry out an managed, having regard to the balance of risk, cost and opportunity.
The Board carried out a formal Board Governance Assessment including a review of the membership and In addition, the Audit Committee receives: effectiveness of its principal committees and of the performance of reports from Group Assurance on the work carried out under the individual Directors.
annual internal audit plan: and reports from the external auditors.
The process included the completion of a detailed questionnaire by each Board Director who served during the year and included Through the monitoring processes set out above, the Board has an opportunity to make comments.
The areas covered were conducted a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal the Boards role and its organisation, the Board dynamic and control during the year ended 26 September 2009.
The system of relationships, quality of information flows and decision-making, internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the Board committees, performance monitoring and Board priority risk of failure to achieve business objectives and, as such, it can only tasks.
A separate evaluation of both the independence and provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material continuing performance of Sir Tim Lankester and Sara Weller was misstatement or loss.
In that context, the review, in the opinion undertaken given that both Directors have now served six years on of the Board, did not indicate that the system was ineffective or the Board.
The evaluation concluded that they continue to remain unsatisfactory and the Board is not aware of any change to this independent, perform to a very high level and that their longevity status up to the approval of this Annual report.
on the Board is a benefit to the Board as a whole: the evaluation also noted that neither Sir Tim Lankester nor Sara Weller had served for With regard to insurance against risk, it is not practicable to insure six years concurrently with the Executive Directors who had joined against every risk to the fullest extent.
The Group regularly reviews the Board in October 2007 and January 2008.
The output was both the type and amount of external insurance that it buys with compiled into a report which was subsequently discussed between guidance from an external independent body, bearing in mind the the Chairman and the rest of the Board.
availability of such cover, its cost and the likelihood and magnitude of the risks involved.
Non-independent Non-Executive Director appointments were assessed as part of the Boards overall requirements.
Shareholder relations The evaluations concluded that the Board and its committees The Board recognises that it is accountable to shareholders for continued to be effective and that all Directors had a good range the performance and activities of the Company.
The Company of experience, contributed effectively to Board discussions and formally updates the market on its financial performance at least retained a high level of commitment to their roles.
The significant five times a year, at the interim and preliminary results in May and time contribution made by the Non-Executive Directors during November respectively, the interim management statements in the year was noted, particularly given the number of Board January and July and a pre-close trading update in September.
The and Committee meetings held at short notice.
The evaluation content of these updates is posted and webcast on the Companys highlighted the individual competencies of each of the Directors.
website, together with general information about the Company so as to be available to all shareholders.
The Company has a regular During the year the Non-Executive Directors met without the programme of meetings with its major institutional shareholders Executive Directors present, and the Non-Executive Directors also which provides an opportunity to discuss, on the back of publicly met without the Chairman present, led by the Senior Independent available information, the progress of the business.
The Company Director, to appraise the Chairmans performance.
The outcome of also commissions an independent survey of investors each year to this appraisal was positive and confirmed that he devoted sufficient determine external views of the Company: the feedback is then time to his role.
used by the Board to inform the Companys future direction.
On a more informal basis, the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the An external evaluator was used as part of the evaluation process for Finance Director regularly report to the Board the views of major FY 2008 and is intended to be used again for the evaluation for FY 2010. shareholders about the Company, and the Senior Independent Director and other Non-Executive Directors are available to meet T ony Bates, Denis Jackson, Ray MacSharry and Richard McGuire did not participate as they had only recently joined the Board at the time the evaluation shareholders on request and are offered the opportunity to attend was carried out.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2009 39
