Corporate governance report Mondi is committed to strong ethical values and professionalism in all its activities.
As an essential part of this commitment the boards of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc together the Boards support the highest standards of corporate governance and best practice and are committed to the principles of transparency, integrity and accountability.
company will take into account, in the of Mondi from Anglo American plc, Dual listed company exercise of their powers, the interests of his ongoing relationship with the structure the shareholders of the other.
Group and relevant business Mondi operates under a dual listed experience: and company DLC structure, which also as a result of the aforemenCompliance statement requires compliance with the corporate tioned need to undertake a Mondi has complied throughout the and accounting regulations of South thorough recruitment process, year with the principles contained in Africa and the UK.
Mondi Limited and David Williams remained as chair of the South African King II Code of Mondi plc together the Mondi Group the DLC audit committee pending Corporate Practices and Conduct or Mondi have separate corporate the appointment of John Nicholas available at www.
co. za and identities and separate stock exchange on 2 October 2009.
No DLC audit Section 1 of the UK Combined Code listings.
Mondi Limited has a primary committee meetings were held on Corporate Governance issued by listing on the JSE Limited JSE, while during the period between August the Financial Reporting Council and October.
Mondi plc has a primary listing on the available at www.
uk save in London Stock Exchange and a respect of the following matters: Boards of directors secondary listing on the JSE.
Under the as explained further below, Cyril DLC structure, any ordinary share held Ramaphosa, joint chairman, was In order to manage the DLC structure in either Mondi Limited or Mondi plc not considered independent upon of Mondi effectively, the boards of gives the holder an effective economic appointment: Mondi Limited and Mondi plc are interest in the whole Mondi Group.
with the departure of Sir John identical.
The Boards manage Mondi Parker, joint chairman, on 4 August as if it were a single unified economic 2009 when he took up the The relationship between Mondi enterprise and, in addition to their chairmanship of Anglo American Limited and Mondi plc is underpinned duties to the company concerned, plc, and pending the appointment by the DLC structure principles, which have regard to the interests of the of John Nicholas on 2 October provide that: ordinary shareholders of both Mondi 2009, the Boards comprised three Mondi Limited and Mondi plc and Limited and Mondi plc in the executive directors and three nontheir subsidiaries must operate as if management of the Mondi Group.
executive directors, excluding the they are a single corporate group, joint chairmen.
This was a with Mondi Limited and Mondi plc As at 31 December 2009 there were temporary position and resulted having boards of directors nine directors: the joint chairmen, three from the need to undertake a comprising the same individuals: and executive directors and four independent thorough recruitment process to the directors of Mondi Limited and non-executive directors.
There is a appoint an independent nonMondi plc will, in addition to their strong mix of skills and industry executive director who had the duties to the company concerned, experience, particularly of Europe and relevant financial experience to have regard to the interests of the South Africa, locations important to chair the DLC audit committee: Mondi Limited shareholders and the Mondis operations.
David Williams was appointed joint Mondi plc shareholders as if the two chairman on 4 August 2009 in companies were a single unified place of Sir John Parker as an On appointment each non-executive economic enterprise and for that internal candidate in light of his director receives letters of appointment purpose the directors of each prior involvement in the demerger from each of Mondi Limited and Mondi 50 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group plc setting out, among other things, their arrangements.
In addition, each shareholders through their oversight term of appointment, the expected time company holds additional meetings to and challenge to management, to commitment for their duties to Mondi cover any specific local requirements.
All protect the Groups assets and to and details of any DLC committees of Board meetings are convened by formal ensure that the Group operates within which they are a member.
Non-executive notice, incorporating a detailed agenda.
a framework of robust corporate directors are initially appointed for a governance and ethical behaviour.
three-year term after which their With the challenging economic appointment may be extended for a environment experienced during 2009 The Boards have also regularly reviewed second term subject to mutual the Boards have focused much of their the major investment projects in Poland agreement and shareholder approval.
time on reviewing financial performance and Russia.
In accordance with the and production capacity, rigorously matters reserved for the Boards, a number The directors holding office during the controlling the cost base and of other regular reviews of shareholder year ended 31 December 2009 are maintaining the focus of the Group on matters and the implementation of Group listed below, together with their its core strengths.
The Boards have policies, including the code of business attendance at Board meetings held reacted to developments and provided ethics and the share dealing code, have during the year.
Those in office as at leadership to the management, been considered.
A copy of the full the date of this report, together with supporting some difficult decisions that schedule of matters reserved for the their biographical details, can be found had to be made during the year.
There Boards is available on the Mondi Group on pages 44 to 47. has been constructive challenge in the website at www.
In view boardroom and discussions on the of the broad nature of the Boards During the year there were six short term strategies and longer-term responsibilities, certain specific duties combined DLC Mondi Limited and performance objectives.
Key areas of have been delegated to committees as Mondi plc board meetings in focus have been the need to manage detailed below.
accordance with the DLC structure and risk and fulfil their obligations to Communication between directors Directors Mondi Limited Mondi plc DLC outside formal meetings has increased board board board during the year with additional one meeting one meeting six meetings information and financial updates Sir John Parker 1 1 4 provided to them in hard copy, by Cyril Ramaphosa 1 1 6 e-mail and telephone as appropriate.
David Williams 1 1 6 David Hathorn 1 1 6 Non-executive director meetings, Andrew King 1 1 6 chaired by the joint chairmen, are held Colin Matthews 1 1 6 twice a year.
One meeting has no Imogen Mkhize 1 1 6 executive management in attendance Peter Oswald 1 1 6 and one is attended by the chief John Nicholas n a n a 2 executive officer.
Anne Quinn 1 1 6 Sir John Parker resigned from the boards of both Mondi Limited and Mondi plc on 4 August 2009.
For further information on the directors please go to page 44 of this report: or click on John Nicholas was appointed a director of both Mondi Limited and Mondi plc on 2 October 2009. www.
com aboutus Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 51 Directors report Corporate governance report continued A policy is in place pursuant to which and lead the management team: While David Williams was independent each director may obtain independent ensure that the Group has effective upon appointment, Cyril Ramaphosa professional advice at Mondis expense processes and controls: and was not considered independent upon in the furtherance of their duties as a ensure that the Boards receive appointment in view of his existing director of either Mondi Limited or accurate, timely and clear information connection with Mondi as chairman of Mondi plc.
No requests were received about the Groups performance.
the Shanduka Group, which has during the year.
shareholdings in Mondi Shanduka The joint chairmen and chief executive Newsprint Proprietary Limited and Throughout the year to 31 December officer work together to ensure that Mondi Packaging South Africa 2009, in line with market practice, there is effective co-ordination of their Proprietary Limited see page 160.
Mondi maintained directors and roles and responsibilities.
In particular, Notwithstanding this, Mondi benefits officers insurance.
they work closely together on matters greatly from his considerable such as the relationships with major knowledge and experience, particularly Joint chairmen and chief shareholders, government, analysts, of the South African business executive officer media and other external relationships environment, and the Boards firmly Mondi has joint chairmen, Cyril at a senior level and on major believe that this justifies his acquisitions and disposals.
Ramaphosa and David Williams, with appointment.
In addition, David the chief executive officer role held Williams, together with the four The joint chairmen maintain a regular separately by David Hathorn.
The independent non-executive directors, dialogue with each other and manage division of responsibilities between the provides the required level of the Boards through mutual agreement.
joint chairmen and the chief executive independent oversight.
Cyril excuses himself from any Board level officer has been clearly defined and David Hathorn, chief executive officer, discussions involving matters in which approved by the Boards.
does not hold any directorships external he may have an interest through the to Mondi.
The main positions held by Shanduka Group.
The principal responsibilities of the joint Cyril Ramaphosa and David Williams chairmen include to: outside the Mondi Group are detailed in lead the Boards, ensuring their Senior independent their biographies set out on page 44. effectiveness and setting their director There has been no material change to agenda: Anne Quinn was appointed senior the commitments of Cyril Ramaphosa ensure high standards of corporate independent director in August 2009, during the year.
David Williams was governance: in place of David Williams.
One of her appointed joint chairman in August ensure that the Boards set a clear key responsibilities since being 2009 and is relinquishing his and appropriate strategy for the appointed has been to chair a meeting directorship of Taylor Wimpey plc on Group: and of the non-executive directors at which 31 March 2010.
The Boards continue to ensure effective communication with the performance of the joint chairmen consider that their external directorships shareholders and other stakeholders.
She will be available do not interfere with the time they devote to Mondi, with both having to shareholders should they have any The principal responsibilities of the made themselves available to concerns that contact through other chief executive officer include to: lead the business: management and other directors channels has failed to resolve or for chair the DLC executive committee when required.
which such contact may be 52 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group inappropriate.
No requests were Regular updates on developments in Induction and governance and regulation are provided received during the year from professional development to the Boards by the company shareholders to meet with the senior John Nicholas, who joined the Boards secretaries, in addition to which independent director.
in October 2009, received a tailored function specialists present at Board induction programme in accordance meetings at regular intervals, to assist Company secretaries with established procedures.
This the directors to discharge their duties included meetings with divisional Philip Laubscher is the company and responsibilities.
Directors are also business unit executives and other secretary of Mondi Limited and Carol made aware of relevant external training members of the DLC executive courses and workshops which may Hunt the company secretary of Mondi committee, site visits and meetings support their position on the Boards or plc.
The appointment and removal of with key advisers, primarily the external on a committee.
As explained below, the company secretaries is a matter for audit partners of Deloitte in South the directors wish to increase their the Boards.
All directors have access Africa and the UK in view of his focus on continuing professional to the advice and services of the appointment as chairman of the DLC development.
In addition, a briefing year the company secretaries have from the UK company secretary was While it is acknowledged that valuable ensured compliance with the correct provided on the DLC structure and its experience can be gained by executive Board procedures.
They report at each implications for the Boards, as well as directors serving as non-executive Board meeting on relevant corporate the corporate governance issues in directors on the boards of other governance and regulatory matters and South Africa and the UK affecting the companies, the Boards have in place a changes, including the provision of Group, directors duties and continuing policy setting out the parameters within advice on the performance of directors obligations of the stock exchange which this is acceptable.
The executive directors must seek the prior approval listings.
The company secretaries duties and the continuing obligations of provide all directors with a handbook of the Boards on the appropriateness the stock exchanges on which Mondi is of any proposed appointment and containing the committee remits and listed.
This was particularly important ensure that the number of any such key Group policies together with during 2009 when the governance and commitments is contained, with the other material to assist them in regulatory landscape in both South respective time commitments understanding and fulfilling their duties.
Africa and the UK changed substantially manageable.
A director will retain any This is regularly reviewed and updated.
with the introduction of new Companies fee paid to them in respect of Acts and governance codes.
directorships held that are external to Where the opportunity arises, site visits Mondi.
Peter Oswald is the only have been arranged in conjunction with Under the direction of the joint executive director holding an external Board meetings.
During 2009 the chairmen, the company secretaries position, being a non-executive director Boards visited the Groups operations manage the provision of information of Telekom Austria AG.
at Ste ti in the Czech Republic and in and documentation to the Boards.
In addition, opportunities to Performance evaluation particular, meeting papers are issued introduce the Boards to local one week in advance thereby allowing management teams are taken, using During the year the action plan from directors sufficient time to prepare fully site visits, meetings and Board the previous evaluation was regularly for any Board or committee meetings.
reviewed to ensure that the objectives Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 53 Directors report Corporate governance report continued set had been achieved.
In particular, a The key theme that emerged from the the Group with sound leadership based questionnaire was circulated to evaluation was the desire of directors, on many years of industry experience members of the senior management in the current fast moving regulatory and knowledge.
team to enable the Boards to gain an and governance environment, with insight into the effectiveness of increasing emphasis being placed on It was concluded that the leadership and communications from the Boards, the board effectiveness, to ensure that combined business knowledge of the results of which were reviewed.
The they receive continuing professional joint chairmen was invaluable to Mondi.
Groups brokers presented investor development, with targeted training feedback to the Boards after the halfand development programmes for the Procedure for conflicts yearly and full-year results.
Other of interest matters raised were more procedural The company law regime introduced in Following a review by the DLC in nature.
Action plans to address the October 2008 by the UK Companies nominations committee, it was agreed matters raised in the review have been Act 2006 on directors conflicts of that an internally facilitated formulated and agreed with the interest and the articles of association performance evaluation of the Boards, Boards.
In particular, the company of both Mondi Limited and Mondi plc principal committees and individual secretaries will be agreeing with the directors remained appropriate for allows directors to authorise potential joint chairmen a revised programme of 2009.
The evaluations were led by the conflicts.
Procedures are in place to training involving a number of different joint chairmen and supported by the manage such situations.
This will include expanding company secretaries and comprised a on the governance and regulatory questionnaire completed by each The procedures include the following: updates provided in-house, director regarding various aspects of an initial review by the company supplementing these with specifically the performance of the Boards.
In secretaries of the details of any targeted presentations from external addition to covering the regular board potential conflicts of interest, or advisers and, where appropriate, matters, the questionnaire also covered changes to previously authorised attendance at external training specific areas highlighted in the 2008 conflicts, notified by a director and courses for individual directors to evaluation.
Questionnaires were also presentation of the facts to the enhance their understanding of any completed by each member of the Boards for consideration: matters that may arise during their principal DLC committees relating to an unconflicted quorum of the work on the Boards or committees.
the activities of each committee.
The Boards consider, in accordance with joint chairmen interviewed each the articles of association and their Anne Quinn, as senior independent director on a one-to-one basis.
Cyril other statutory duties, the details director, led the review of the joint Ramaphosa interviewed those based in and, where considered appropriate, chairmen at a meeting of the nonSouth Africa and David Williams authorise the potential conflict.
Having undergone interviewed the non-South Africandirector is advised of the outcome a change during the year, the benefit based directors.
Further input for these and the scope and limitations of the gained from the continuity and stability interviews was obtained through the authorisation, where applicable: provided by David Williams during the use of an additional questionnaire a record is maintained of all difficult economic environment completed by each director providing experienced in 2009 was authorisations given, including the their views of their fellow directors in a number of areas such as preparedness acknowledged.
David, working scope and any limitations to such for, and contribution at, meetings.
alongside Cyril Ramaphosa, provides authorisations: and 54 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group all authorisations are reviewed on an secretary to each of the DLC systems, details of which can be found annual basis by the Boards to committees.
on pages 30 to 32 of this report.
Time ensure that it is appropriate for the has been scheduled at one meeting each The membership of each of the DLC relevant matter to remain authorised.
year for the committee to meet separately committees, together with the with the internal and external auditors attendance at committee meetings held Board committees without executive management present.
during the year, are detailed below.
The DLC committees, to which the The DLC audit committee oversees the Boards delegate specific areas of Membership of each committee is kept relationship with the external auditors: responsibility as described below, have under review and, in particular, will be is responsible for their appointment, authority to make decisions according to considered when each committee reappointment and remuneration: their terms of reference.
Work undertakes its annual evaluation.
reviews the effectiveness of the programmes are agreed by each external audit process: and ensures committee that are designed around the that the objectivity and independence DLC audit committee annual business calendar and their of the external auditors is maintained.
As The DLC audit committee operates on Deloitte & Touche and Deloitte LLP part of the annual evaluation procedures, a Group-wide basis.
The committee were appointed as Mondis external each committee reviews its terms of met four times during the year and in auditors at the time of the demerger of reference and these are available at the 2010 has four meetings scheduled Mondi from Anglo American plc in July Mondi Group website.
The committees around the Groups financial cycle.
As such, the DLC audit are empowered, through their terms of The Group heads of internal audit and committee does not consider that it reference, to seek independent representatives from the external would be appropriate at this time to professional advice at Mondis expense auditors, Deloitte & Touche and put the audit out to tender, but will Deloitte LLP, are regularly in in the furtherance of their duties.
continue to keep this under review.
Representatives from Deloitte report to While only committee members are the committee on their independence The committee has responsibility, among entitled to attend committee meetings, and objectivity and the mechanisms other things, for monitoring the integrity the chairmen of each committee can employed to ensure this is maintained.
of the Groups financial statements and invite, as they consider appropriate, The committee, having considered the reviewing the results announcements.
It management and advisers to meetings also has responsibility for reviewing the Deloitte report which did not raise any to provide information, answer effectiveness of the Groups system of matters of concern, has concluded that questions and generally to assist the internal controls and risk management it is satisfied that auditor independence committees in carrying out their duties.
To ensure that the Boards as a whole Members DLC audit committee have an understanding of any key four meetings issues under consideration by a Colin Matthews 4 committee, each committee chairman John Nicholas chairman 1 provides a report to the Boards Anne Quinn 4 following each committee meeting.
David Williams former chairman 3 The company secretaries of Mondi John Nicholas was appointed as chairman of the committee on 2 October 2009 and David Williams resigned Limited and Mondi plc each act as from the committee on that date.
Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 55 Directors report Corporate governance report continued and objectivity have been maintained.
The head of internal audit has direct addition, each of the members of the Following a review by the committee of access and responsibility to the DLC DLC audit committee has appropriate audit committee and works closely with knowledge and understanding of the effectiveness of the external the committee in co-ordination with the financial matters, sufficient to enable auditors, a recommendation was made external auditors.
Internal audit reports them to consider effectively the to, and accepted by, the Boards that are presented at each meeting of the financial and accounting issues that are resolutions to reappoint Deloitte & committee and cover a range of presented to the committee.
Touche and Deloitte LLP be proposed matters relating to the work of the at the annual general meetings of internal audit team.
The reports include The committee has discharged its Mondi Limited and Mondi plc to be details of audits carried out, the results responsibilities as set out in its terms of held in May 2010. and managements response to reference to the extent appropriate matters raised during the audits.
during the year and specific matters A policy that formalises the Maintaining sound oversight and reviewed by the committee included: arrangements regarding the provision control of activities through the use of reviewing the integrity of the Mondi of non-audit services provided by the internal audit reviews is considered by Group half-yearly results, full-year auditors of Mondi Limited and of Mondi the committee to be a key element of results and interim management plc to the Group sets out the its work.
The structure and resources statements and annual report, procedures for the pre-approval of of the internal audit function are also including reports from the Group such services.
All non-audit services regularly reviewed.
controller and the external auditors provided by the auditors are preon the results: approved by either the Group chief Following a review, and in accordance the review and approval of the financial officer or the DLC audit with the JSE Listings Requirements, external audit plan and proposed committee chairman under delegated the DLC audit committee has satisfied fees for the 2009 year-end: approval authorities from the DLC audit itself that Andrew King, Mondis chief monitoring the effectiveness of the committee.
The policy also details financial officer, has the appropriate risk management process, including those non-audit services, including expertise and experience.
Andrew is a the review of specific Group risks financial information systems design, chartered accountant and throughout both through the annual review of all internal audit outsourcing and actuarial his career has held various finance and key Group risks identified and a valuation services, that are prohibited.
more detailed review of at least two Reports are presented to the of those risks at each meeting: committee at each meeting detailing The Boards consider that John monitoring the effectiveness of the any non-audit services approved since Nicholas, who replaced David Williams Groups system of internal controls: the previous meeting, to enable the as chairman of the committee in a review of the non-audit services committee to monitor the provision of October 2009, has appropriate, recent policy, services approved and how these services to ensure that they do and relevant financial experience.
He is such fees could be reduced: not impair the external auditors a chartered accountant and a member monitoring and reviewing the independence and objectivity.
While of the UK Financial Reporting Review effectiveness of internal audit there remains a number of historic Panel.
He was formerly the group activities, which included: a review of matters where the external auditors will finance director of Tate & Lyle plc and the internal audit charter: audits continue to be used to assist in the is currently the audit committee carried out and the results thereof: work, it is anticipated that the level of chairman of Ceres Power Holdings plc, the programme for 2009 and 2010: such services will diminish.
Hunting PLC and Rotork p. l. c..
In reports received via Speakout the 56 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group Groups whistle-blowing facility : and retirements and appointments of Williams will be standing for re-election on fraud: additional and replacement directors.
at the next annual general meetings of consideration, and recommendation While one of the joint chairmen chairs Mondi Limited and Mondi plc.
to the Boards, of the implementation this committee, he is not permitted to As a consequence of David Williams of new significant accounting policies, chair meetings during discussions being appointed joint chairman, the in particular IFRS8 and IAS1: regarding his performance or when the committee was then involved in a search a review of new regulations appointment of a successor is being for a new independent non-executive introduced in South Africa regarding discussed.
director with the requisite financial the responsibilities of audit knowledge to take over from David as committees: and The main focus for the committee chairman of the DLC audit committee.
a review of the terms of reference of during the year was managing the David Williams led the search, as he had the committee and its performance appointment of a new joint chairman a thorough understanding of the against those terms.
following the departure of Sir John requirements for the audit committee Parker in August when he took on the chairmanship having held that role within DLC nominations chairmanship of Anglo American plc.
Mondi since its listing in 2007.
A shortlist committee The committee, recognising the of three candidates were each position of Mondi in having joint The DLC nominations committee interviewed by the joint chairmen, chief chairmen a condition of the South operates on a Groupwide basis.
The executive and chief financial officer.
The African Ministry of Finance and the committee meets periodically as non-executive directors then had the complexities of the dual listed required to discharge its duties and met opportunity to speak with the preferred structure, considered that the three times during the year.
The chief candidate ahead of the committees appointment of David Williams, then executive officer is invited to attend formal consideration of the appointment senior independent director, as the meetings and provides information to of John Nicholas.
His appointment was replacement for Sir John Parker, was support the work of the committee.
recommended to the Boards and appropriate.
John will be standing for stability and continuity for the Group, The committee is responsible for election by shareholders at the next making recommendations to the especially during a difficult economic annual general meetings of Mondi Boards on the composition of each period.
This recommendation was made board and committee and on to and accepted by the Boards.
David Limited and Mondi plc.
Members DLC nominations committee As a result of the changes to the three meetings composition of the Boards, the Colin Matthews 3 committee also considered the Imogen Mkhize 3 composition of the other Board John Nicholas 1 committees and the appointment of a Sir John Parker former chairman 2 new senior independent director.
Anne Quinn 3 Having completed their review, the Cyril Ramaphosa 3 committee nominated the appointment David Williams chairman 3 of Anne Quinn as senior independent director and as a member of the DLC John Nicholas was appointed as a committee member on 2 October 2009. sustainable development committee.
Sir John Parker resigned on 4 August 2009 and David Williams took over as committee chairman.
Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 57 Directors report Corporate governancereport continued The committee implemented the has responsibility for making reports of major incidents within the evaluation process for the Boards, the recommendations to each board on Group and monitored the senior the Groups policy on remuneration of committees and the individual directors managements response to such senior management, for the as explained in more detail above.
determination, within agreed terms of A number of other regular matters were reviewed by the committee in reference, of the remuneration of the A summary report from the directors on joint chairmen and of specific accordance with its terms of reference.
the Groups sustainability practices is set remuneration packages for each of the In particular, it was important during a out on pages 34 to 43 and further details, executive directors and members of challenging year to ensure the strength including a full review of our sustainability senior management, including pension of management resource and activities and progress in 2009, can be rights and any compensation succession planning together with a payments.
In addition, the committee is found on the Mondi Group website.
review of the time commitment from responsible for the implementation of each director.
DLC executive Pursuant to the Articles one-third of committee The committees full report on directors are required to stand for The DLC executive committee operates directors remuneration is set out on re-election in each year based on those on a Group-wide basis.
The members pages 61 to 72. who have been the longest serving of the DLC executive committee are since their election or last re-election.
DLC sustainable detailed on page 48.
The committee is Having considered the results of the development committee director evaluations and concluded that chaired by David Hathorn and met ten each continues to demonstrate times during the year, with nine The DLC sustainable development appropriate commitment to their committee operates on a Group-wide meetings scheduled for 2010. respective roles, the committee made basis.
The committee met six times recommendations to the Boards for the during the year and plans to meet six The DLC executive committee is re-election of David Hathorn, Colin times in 2010.
The committee has responsible for the day-to-day Matthews and David Williams at the responsibility for overseeing the management of the Group and its next annual general meetings in Groups policy, targets and business operations within the limits addition to John Nicholas, who was performance on safety, health, the set by the Boards, with particular focus appointed by the Boards during the environment, social responsibility, other on financial, operational and safety year.
The recommendations were sustainable development matters and performance, together with policy endorsed by the Boards.
The committee implementation in line with the Groups reviewed the Groups key sustainable DLC remuneration development policies, received detailed strategy agreed by the Boards.
committee Members DLC remuneration committee The DLC remuneration committee four meetings operates on a Group-wide basis.
The Colin Matthews 4 committee met four times during the Imogen Mkhize 4 year and plans to meet four times in Anne Quinn chairman 4 2010 with additional meetings David Williams 4 convened as required.
The committee 58 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group from shareholders and other interested Members DLC sustainable development committee parties on a variety of subjects.
For six meetings those shareholders wishing to receive David Hathorn 6 communications from the Group via Colin Matthews chairman 6 electronic means, facilities are available Sir John Parker 4 for this, including for the submission of Anne Quinn 2 proxy votes for general meetings.
Sir John Parker resigned on 4 August 2009 and was replaced as a member of the committee by Anne Quinn.
Shareholders can also use the annual general meetings as an opportunity to question the directors directly regarding whichever is the higher standard of Communication with the Group.
governance and regulation between shareholders South Africa and the UK.
Dealing in securities Ensuring that shareholders, be they institutional, private or employee The Boards have adopted a share The chief executive officer and chief shareholders, receive accurate and dealing code for dealing in securities of financial officer have a programme of timely information about the Groups Mondi Limited and Mondi plc which is regular dialogue with institutional financial performance, operational and based on regulatory and governance shareholders, analysts and fund development activities, sufficient for best practice.
The code sets out the managers.
Periodically site visits are them to make an informed judgement arranged to help increase the restrictions placed on directors, senior regarding their investments is knowledge and understanding of the management and other key employees considered by the Boards to be Group.
Summaries of the feedback with regard to their share dealing to extremely important.
To this end a from these discussions and meetings ensure that they do not abuse their variety of communication mechanisms are also presented to the Boards.
The access to information about the Group are used, with the Mondi Group Boards also receive feedback directly pending its public release and website providing a range of financial from brokers and advisers which availability to shareholders and other and business information about the enables them to gain a clear interested parties.
The code is Group, including an archive of past understanding of the views and reviewed regularly and updated as announcements and share price opinions of those interested in the required to ensure continued information as well as the Groups Group.
In addition, the Boards are compliance with regulation and best sustainability activities and practices.
supported by the Group corporate practice.
All contact with The DLC structure requires Mondi to investors and other interested parties is All dealings by directors and persons comply with the disclosure obligations strictly controlled through the discharging managerial responsibilities forming part of the Listings application of Group guidelines to and their connected persons are Requirements of the JSE Limited and ensure that no price sensitive announced to the JSE Limited and the the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, information is made available on a London Stock Exchange when they Listing Rules and Prospectus Rules of selective basis and that all occur.
Details of the directors interests the UK Listing Authority.
The Boards shareholders are treated equally.
in the shares of both Mondi Limited review and monitor the procedures that are in place to ensure compliance and Throughout the year responses are and Mondi plc can be found in the have agreed to apply on each issue given to letters and e-mails received remuneration report on pages 68 to 72.
Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 59 Directors report Corporate governance report continued The proxy voting results will be made Business ethics available on the Mondi Group website.
The Boards have adopted a Code of Business Ethics, which applies The notices of the annual general throughout the Group and sets clear meetings, which include explanations principles for the conduct of the of each resolution, are contained in Groups business activities.
The code separate circulars which are being sent has five key elements, three of which to all shareholders in advance of the are monitored and reviewed by the meetings, in accordance with the DLC sustainable development corporate governance codes of South committee human rights, stakeholders Africa and the UK.
and sustainability and the other two by the DLC audit committee legal compliance and honesty and integrity.
The directors believe that the Group has robust compliance systems and procedures in place in relation to the code.
The directors are not aware of any material non-compliance of the code.
The code is available on the Mondi Group website.
Annual general meetings The annual general meetings of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc will be held on 6 May 2010 in Johannesburg and London respectively.
It is expected that all directors and, in particular, the chairmen of the principal committees will be present thereby providing an opportunity for shareholders to ask questions of the directors about Mondis activities and prospects.
Separate resolutions will be proposed for each item of business to be considered at the annual general meetings.
All resolutions at the meetings will be voted on by taking polls, with the verified results announced as soon as practicable following the close of both meetings.
60 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group
