Business Overview Business Review Management Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Financial Statements General Corporate Governance Report The Board considers that Gerald Corbett was The Board of Directors Board of independent on appointment as Chairman and Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Company is considers Michael Wemms and Rob Rowley to be committed to high standards of corporate governance independent, being independent in character and and supports the principles laid down in the revised judgement and free from relationships or circumstances Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, June 2008 by the Financial Reporting Council their judgement.
This Corporate Governance Report describes how the principles of the Combined Code are When determining the Chairmans independence on applied by the Company and reports on the Companys appointment, the Board had regard to his share award compliance with the Combined Codes provisions.
Under the Share Award, Gerald Corbett purchased ordinary shares in the Company on the listing Compliance of the Company on 31 July 2007 Listing at 1.70 per The Board considers that the Company has complied ordinary share to the value of 200,000 and provided with the provisions of the Combined Code throughout he completes three years service as Chairman of the the year ended 31 December 2009 and to the date of Company from Listing and retains the ordinary shares this report except as set out below.
he purchased on Listing during that three year period, he will be entitled to subscribe at nominal value for two Board of Directors times the number of ordinary shares he purchased on The Board currently has eight members, comprising the Listing.
The Board believes that the number of ordinary Non-Executive Chairman, Gerald Corbett, two shares subject to the Share Award is not sufficient to Independent Non-Executive Directors, Michael Wemms have an impact on his independence and thus and Rob Rowley, and five Executive Directors, Simon concludes that the Chairman was independent on Nixon, Paul Doughty, Peter Plumb, Graham Donoghue appointment.
Shareholder approval was obtained prior and David Osborne.
Michael Wemms has been to the entry by the Company into the Share Award.
designated as the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
Conflicts of interest The Companys Articles of Association were amended The Board normally meets on at least eight occasions in at the 2008 Annual General Meeting, in line with the each financial year including a two day strategy Companies Act 2006, to allow the Board to authorise conference.
To enable the Non-Executive Directors to potential conflicts of interest that may arise and to more freely discuss the performance of the Groups impose limits or conditions, as appropriate, when giving management, the Chairman meets with the Nonany authorisation.
Any decision of the Board to Executive Directors at least once each year without the authorise a conflict of interest is only effective if it is Executive Directors present.
agreed without the conflicted Directors voting or without their votes being counted and in making such a The Board considers that all the Directors are able to decision, the Directors must act in a way they consider devote sufficient time to their duties as Directors.
in good faith will be most likely to promote the success Biographies of the Board are set out on pages 24 and of the Company.
The Company has established a 25 including details of the significant commitments of procedure for the appropriate authorisation to be the Chairman.
The Board is satisfied that these sought prior to appointment of any new Director or appointments do not conflict with the Chairmans ability prior to a new conflict arising and for the regular review to carry out his duties and responsibilities effectively for of actual or potential conflicts of interest.
the year, this procedure was adhered to and operated effectively.
Independence Non-Executive Directors The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors bring wide and varied commercial experience to Board and Relationship Agreement Committee deliberations.
The practice of the Company The majority shareholder of the Company is Simon is to appoint Non-Executive Directors for specified Nixon.
The Company and Simon Nixon entered into a terms of three years, subject to a maximum of up to 12 relationship agreement on 11 July 2007 to regulate the months notice within that period and also subject to ongoing relationship between them Relationship re-election and to Companies Act provisions relating to Agreement.
The principal purpose of the Relationship the removal of a Director.
Each of the Non-Executive Agreement is to ensure that the Company is capable Directors, including the Chairman, currently holds a of carrying on its business independently of Simon letter of appointment reflecting this.
Nixon, and that transactions and relationships with Simon Nixon are at arms length and on normal commercial terms.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2009 33 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued The Company and Simon Nixon have agreed in the The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the day to Relationship Agreement that Simon Nixon is entitled to day running of the Group, carrying out agreed strategy appoint such number including himself as a Director and implementing specific Board decisions.
one Non-Executive Director for as long as he holds the beneficial interest in at least 15% of the ordinary shares Role of the Board of the Company, two Non-Executive Directors for as The Board is collectively responsible for the Groups long as he holds the beneficial interest in at least 30% of performance and meets regularly to review the the ordinary shares of the Company and three Nonoperation and performance of the Group.
The Board has Executive Directors for as long as he holds the beneficial a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision making and matters delegated to Committees of the interest in at least 50% of the ordinary shares of the Board which are available on the Groups website at Company.
The Relationship Agreement will terminate if www.
These include the Simon Nixon holds less than 15% of the ordinary shares Groups strategy: business plan and annual budget: of the Company.
acquisitions and disposals and other major investments and capital projects.
The Relationship Agreement also includes a protocol to be observed in relation to any Non-Executive Director There is an established procedure for the preparation appointed by Simon Nixon to deal with potential and approval each year by the Board of business plans conflicts of interest and the provision of confidential and the annual budget.
The Board receives reports on information.
performance against the business plan and budget and reviews any significant variances each time it meets.
As at the date of this report, Simon Nixon had not This information enables business performance to be appointed any Non-Executive Directors pursuant to his monitored, evaluated, discussed and challenged where rights in the Relationship Agreement.
necessary and enables informed, sound decisions to be made.
Division of responsibilities The positions of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Board Committees are not combined, ensuring a clear division of The Board has three principal Committees Audit, responsibility at the head of the Company.
The division Nomination and Remuneration to which various of roles and responsibilities between the Chairman and matters are delegated.
The Committees all have formal Chief Executive Officer is clearly established, set out in written terms of reference that have been approved by writing and has been approved by the Board.
The the Board and are published on the Groups website at Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, www.
They are also available in setting its agenda and monitoring its effectiveness.
He hard copy form on application to the Company ensures effective communication with shareholders and Secretary.
that the Board is aware of the views of major shareholders.
He facilitates both the contribution of the Details of the work of the Audit, Nomination and Non-Executive Directors and constructive relations Remuneration Committees are given in the reports of between the Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
those Committees on pages 38 to 48.
The Directors who served on each of the Committees during the year are set out below: Committee Chairman Member Member Audit Rob Rowley Gerald Corbett Michael Wemms Nomination Gerald Corbett Michael Wemms Rob Rowley Remuneration Michael Wemms Gerald Corbett Rob Rowley 34 Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2009 Business Overview Business Review Management Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Financial Statements General Board and Committee attendance The attendance record of the Directors at scheduled Board and Committee meetings during the year is set out in the following table.
The Board scheduled 10 meetings during the year and ad hoc conference calls were also convened to deal with specific matters which required attention between scheduled meetings.
Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Executive Directors Simon Nixon 9 Peter Plumb 10 Paul Doughty 10 Graham Donoghue 8 David Osborne 9 Non-Executive Directors Gerald Corbett 10 4 2 5 Michael Wemms 9 4 2 5 Rob Rowley 10 4 2 5 Total number of scheduled meetings held 10 4 2 5 The Executive Directors of the Company may attend The conclusions of those evaluations have been meetings of the Committees at the invitation of the presented to the Board by the Chairman and the Senior Chairman of the respective Committee.
The evaluation process is designed to cover Board processes, the Directors structure and capability of the Board, strategic The Companys Articles of Association require that new alignment, Board dynamics and the skills brought to the Directors appointed by the Board must retire and Board by each Director.
The Board evaluation process submit themselves for re-election by shareholders at the confirmed that the Board and its Committees were next Annual General Meeting following their operating effectively.
The Companys Articles of Association further require that all Directors must retire and submit Development themselves for re-election at least every three years.
The Chairman and Company Secretary are responsible for preparing and implementing an induction programme for The Company provides Directors and officers insurance Directors, including guidance as to their duties, cover for the benefit of Directors in respect of claims responsibilities and liabilities as a Director of the Company arising in the performance of their duties.
With effect and business familiarisation.
Business familiarisation from 14 December 2009, the Company has also granted involves Directors visiting the Companys offices and indemnities to each of its Directors and the Company giving the Directors the opportunity to meet the Secretary to the extent permitted by law and its Articles executive management team and other senior managers of Association.
They also have the opportunity to discuss organisational, operational and administrative matters.
Board evaluation Every Director has access to appropriate training as The Board has established a formal process for the required following their appointment.
annual evaluation of the performance of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors.
Questionnaires Information were prepared which provided the framework for the Board members are given appropriate documentation in evaluation process.
Each Director completed the a timely manner in advance of each Board or questionnaires commenting on the performance of the Committee meeting.
This normally includes a detailed other Directors, the Board and each Committee and report on current trading and full papers on matters submitted the completed questionnaires for collation.
where the Board or Committee will be required to make Utilising the responses to the questionnaires, the a decision or give its approval.
Specific business related Chairman has conducted interviews with each Director presentations are given when appropriate.
and assessed their individual performance.
The Chairman has carried out an evaluation of the The Directors have access to the advice and services of performance of the Board as a whole and of each the Company Secretary.
The Company Secretary is Committee and, led by the Senior Independent Nonresponsible for ensuring that Board procedures are Executive Director, the Non-Executive Directors have followed and providing advice to the Board on corporate met and assessed the performance of the Chairman governance.
Both the appointment and removal of the taking into account the views of the Executive Directors.
Company Secretary are matters for the Board as a whole.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2009 35 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against Directors can, where they judge it necessary to material misstatement or loss.
discharge their responsibilities as Directors, obtain independent professional advice at the Companys The key features of the Groups system of internal expense.
Directors have the right to require that any control and risk management are: concerns they may have are recorded in the appropriate Board or Committee minutes.
A comprehensive annual business planning and budgeting process, requiring Board approval, against Shareholder relations which the Groups actual performance and any The Board is committed to establishing and maintaining significant variances are regularly reviewed by the good communications with shareholders.
executives, including the Chairman, Chief Executive A schedule of matters reserved for the Boards Officer and Chief Financial Officer regularly meet with approval to ensure it maintains control over analysts and institutional shareholders to keep them appropriate strategic, financial, organisational, informed of significant developments and to develop an compliance and capital investment issues.
understanding of their views which are reported back to An organisation structure with clearly defined lines of the Board.
Formal presentations are given to analysts responsibility and delegation of authority.
and shareholders covering the full year and half year Regular reviews by management and the Audit results.
The Company Secretary deals with questions Committee of the key risks facing the Group and the from individual shareholders.
actions being taken to mitigate and manage them.
An annual two day strategy conference to discuss The results and results presentations, together with all and approve the Groups strategic direction, plans information reported to the market via the regulatory and objectives and the risks to achieving them.
information service, press releases and other shareholder information, are published on the Groups In addition, the Audit Committee receives: website at www.
com to be viewed and accessed by all shareholders.
Reports from the external auditors in relation to the Financial Statements and the material financial The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, reporting judgements contained in them.
Michael Wemms, is available to shareholders if they have Reports from the external auditors in relation to the concerns which contact through the normal channels of system of internal control and the reviews by the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial external auditors of that system.
Officer has failed to resolve, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
The Audit Committee has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control All shareholders will have the opportunity to ask and risk management during the financial year ended 31 questions at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Board considers that in the The Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination and context of the control environment described above, the Remuneration Committees will be available to answer Groups system of internal control and risk management questions at that meeting.
Shareholders may also is effective and satisfactory.
contact the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer or, if more appropriate, the Senior Independent NonCompliance with the Combined Code Executive Director to raise any issue with one or all of The Directors consider that during the financial year the Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
ended 31 December 2009 and to the date of this report, the Company complied with the Combined Code except The Company will prepare separate resolutions on each substantially separate issue at the forthcoming Annual as follows: General Meeting.
The result of the vote on each resolution will be published on the Groups website after A.
3.2 During the year at least half the Board, excluding the Annual General Meeting and will be announced via the Chairman, did not comprise Independent Nonthe regulatory information service.
The Company is continuing the process, with the assistance of an external search Internal control and risk management company, to appoint additional Independent NonThe Board is responsible for the Groups system of Executive Directors.
internal control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system of internal control is B.
2.1 The Remuneration Committee does not currently designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of comprise at least three Independent Non-Executive failure to achieve business objectives and can only Directors.
The Company is continuing the process, with the assistance of an external search company, 36 Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2009 Business Overview Business Review Management Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Financial Statements General to appoint additional Independent Non-Executive Directors.
It is currently anticipated that at least one of the appointees will become a member of the Remuneration Committee.
C. 3.1 The Audit Committee does not currently comprise at least three Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Company is continuing the process, with the assistance of an external search company, to appoint additional Independent Non-Executive Directors.
It is currently anticipated that at least one of the appointees will become a member of the Audit Committee.
D. 1.1 As a result of regular feedback provided to the Board by the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer following their dialogue with major shareholders, the Senior Independent NonExecutive Director believes he is aware of the views of major shareholders.
Unless requested by major shareholders, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director does not attend meetings with them.
This report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Darren Drabble Company Secretary 23 February 2010 Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2009 37
