Corporate Governance Nomination Committee Report company, to appoint additional Independent The Nomination Committee presents a separate report Non-Executive Directors.
in relation to the financial year ended 31 December 2009.
At the invitation of the Chairman of the Nomination Composition of the Nomination Committee Committee, the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial The Nomination Committee comprises the three Officer and Human Resources Director may attend Non-Executive Directors, Gerald Corbett Chairman of meetings of the Nomination Committee.
The Company the Nomination Committee, Michael Wemms and Rob Secretary acts as secretary to the Nomination Rowley.
Rob Rowley and Michael Wemms are Committee.
The members of the Nomination Committee considered by the Board to be independent.
Gerald can, where they judge it necessary to discharge their Corbett was considered by the Board to be responsibilities, obtain independent professional advice independent on appointment.
Biographies of the at the Companys expense.
members of the Nomination Committee are set out on pages 24 and 25.
The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee are published on the Groups website at Operation of the Nomination Committee www.
com and are available in hard The Nomination Committee met on two occasions copy form on application to the Company Secretary.
Details of the attendance at Nomination Committee meetings are set out in the Corporate This report was approved by the Board and signed on Governance Report on page 35. its behalf by: The Nomination Committees duties include: Evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board.
Gerald Corbett Considering the size, structure and composition of Chairman of the Nomination Committee the Board.
23 February 2010 Where necessary, considering and recommending to the Board persons who are appropriate for appointment as Directors.
Ensuring that succession planning for the Board is in place.
The Nomination Committee has a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board.
The process involves the Nomination Committee interviewing suitable candidates who are proposed by either existing Board members or by an external search company.
Careful consideration is given to ensure appointees have enough time available to devote to the role and that the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board is maintained.
When the Nomination Committee has identified a suitable candidate, the Chairman of the Nomination Committee will make a recommendation to the Board with the Board making the final decision.
When dealing with the appointment of a successor to the Chairman, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director will chair the Nomination Committee instead of the Chairman.
During the year, the Nomination Committee reviewed the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board together with the size, structure and composition of the Board, and reviewed the succession plans for the Board.
The Nomination Committee has also continued the process, with the assistance of an external search 40 Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2009
