Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report The Audit Committee presents a separate report in The Audit Committee undertakes its activities in line relation to the financial year ended 31 December 2009. with an annual work plan.
The Audit Committee agrees the scope of the audit work and discusses the results of Composition of the Audit Committee the full year audit and half year review each year.
The Audit Committee comprises the three NonExecutive Directors, Rob Rowley Chairman of the Audit The terms of reference of the Audit Committee Committee, Gerald Corbett and Michael Wemms.
Rob are published on the Groups website at Rowley and Michael Wemms are considered by the www.
com and are available in hard Board to be independent.
Gerald Corbett was copy form on application to the Company Secretary.
considered by the Board to be independent on appointment.
Biographies of the members of the Audit During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed the Committee are set out on pages 24 and 25.
Rob Rowley Groups whistle blowing procedures to ensure is a qualified accountant and was formerly finance arrangements are in place to enable employees to raise director of Reuters plc and chairman of the audit concerns about possible malpractice or wrongdoing by committee at Prudential plc.
He is currently chairman of the Group or any of its employees on a confidential the audit committee at Liberty International plc.
This includes arrangements to proportionately Board is satisfied that Rob Rowley has recent and and independently investigate such matters and for relevant financial experience.
Operation of the Audit Committee Internal control and risk management The Audit Committee met on four occasions during the The Board is responsible for the Groups system of year.
Details of the attendance at Audit Committee internal control and risk management and for reviewing meetings are set out in the Corporate Governance its effectiveness.
The Audit Committee monitors and Report on page 35. undertakes an annual review of the effectiveness of, and the framework for, the Groups system of internal control The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, and risk management.
This includes annual together with the external auditors, will normally attend consideration as to whether there is a need to establish meetings at the invitation of the Chairman of the Audit an internal audit function.
The external auditors are regularly invited by the Audit Committee to advise them of any matters The Audit Committee undertook a review of the which they consider should be brought to the Audit effectiveness of, and the framework for, the Groups Committees attention without the Executive Directors system of internal control and risk management, present.
The external auditors may also request a including financial, operational and compliance controls meeting with the Audit Committee if they consider during the year.
In addition to this review, the external it necessary.
auditors provided the Audit Committee with comprehensive reports of the results of their controls The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Audit testing as part of the external audit.
The members of the Audit Committee can, basis, the Audit Committee also reviewed the key risks where they judge it necessary to discharge their facing the Group and the actions being taken by responsibilities, obtain independent professional advice management to mitigate and manage them.
During the year the Audit Committee considered the The Audit Committees duties include: need to establish an internal audit function and concluded that the control systems are sufficient for the Monitoring the financial reporting process.
size and complexity of the Group such that an internal Monitoring the statutory audit of the Groups audit function is not required at this time.
This will be Financial Statements.
Reviewing the Groups Financial Statements and the material financial reporting judgements contained in Review of the work of the external auditors them.
Subject to the annual appointment of the external Monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups internal auditors by shareholders, the Audit Committee regularly control and risk management systems.
reviews the relationship between the Group and the Reviewing and monitoring the independence of the external auditors.
This review includes an assessment external auditors and the provision of additional of their performance, cost-effectiveness, objectivity services to the Group.
Advising the Board on the appointment and removal of the external auditors and the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditors.
Reviewing the Groups whistle blowing procedures.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2009 Business Overview Business Review Management Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Financial Statements General The Audit Committee is responsible for ensuring that an appropriate relationship is maintained between the Group and the external auditors.
The Group has implemented a policy of controlling the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors in order to ensure that their objectivity and independence is safeguarded.
This control is exercised by ensuring that all non-audit services are subject to the prior approval of the Audit Committee.
During the year, the Audit Committee continued with the appointment of other accountancy firms to provide non-audit services to the Group and anticipates that this will continue in 2010.
The Audit Committee, having considered the external auditors performance during their period in office, recommends their reappointment.
A full breakdown of the audit and non-audit related fees is set out in note 4 to the Group Financial Statements on page 60.
The Audit Committee discussed the level of fees and considered them appropriate given the current size of the Group.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that the level and scope of non-audit services undertaken by the external auditors does not impair their independence and objectivity.
This report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Rob Rowley Chairman of the Audit Committee 23 February 2010 Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2009 39
