34 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Business Review Corporate Sustainability continued Corporate sustainability Ethics governance The corporate sustainability governance arrangements are part of the overall The Group seeks to maintain high ethical standards in all its activities.
Group governance arrangements described in the Corporate Governance It has an Ethics Committee comprising the Vice-Presidents of Risk, Human Report on pages 54 to 58.
The Board has put in place corporate procedures, Resources and Corporate Affairs and it monitors compliance with the Groups management structures and risk management procedures at both Group and Ethics Code, which is described below.
business unit level to ensure the implementation of its sustainable development The Committee reports to the Chief Executive Officer of AMSA, with principles and social and environmental strategy.
oversight by the Audit Committee, and its responsibilities include investigating The Directors responsibilities, including those relating to risk management allegations of breaches of the Ethics Code.
The Ethics Committee met four and control, are described in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities times during 2009.
It focused on approving a revised Ethics Code and its on page 62. dissemination and communication to the Group.
The Board established a Corporate Sustainability Committee in 2008, The Groups Ethics Code emphasises the Boards commitment to carry comprising two Non-Executive Directors, RF Jara and GS Menndez, out business in a responsible and transparent manner.
The Code demands and J-P Luksic, the Group Chairman see Directors biographies on pages honesty, integrity and responsibility from all employees and contractors.
The committee met once in 2009 to review performance and It also establishes the requirement to respect human rights, local customs establish future strategic direction.
As part of this process, it reviewed and values and the rights of neighbouring communities.
In addition, and approved the 2008 Sustainability Report.
it establishes a procedure to identify and manage potential conflicts of interest.
Employees may report any unethical behaviour, anonymously A second executive committee, the Corporate Sustainability Reporting if necessary, via the intranet.
Committee, comprises the Chief Executive Officer of AMSA, the General Managers of Antofagasta Railway Company plc and Aguas fide Antofagasta During 2009 four reports were made.
The reports referred to the Ethics S. A. the Vice-President of Corporate Affairs and the Corporate Managers Committee, were fully investigated and dealt with in an appropriate manner.
responsible for environmental and external affairs.
The committee In 2010 the Group will conduct training for all employees and contractors oversaw publication of the Groups 2008 sustainability reports and to raise awareness of the revised Ethics Code.
continues to steer the businesses towards best practice in performance measurement and reporting.
The Group reports sustainability performance to different stakeholders through a range of reports: Group Annual Report, Group Summary Sustainability Report and the Group Full Sustainability Report.
The Groups two largest mines, Los Pelambres and El Tesoro, also produce annual site reports.
AMSA provides information for the Social and Environmental Report published by the Chilean Mining Council, a national industry organisation.
