54 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Governance Corporate Governance Report Introduction Directors The Board Antofagasta plc Antofagasta has an uncommon ownership structure for a company listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The E. Abaroa Foundation, The Directors collectively have responsibility for the conduct of the Groups an entity in which members of the Luksic family are interested, controls business.
The Board, which met five times during 2009, comprises an 60.66% of the ordinary share capital and 94.12% of the preference share Executive Chairman and seven Non-Executive Directors, five of whom are capital of the Company through two investment vehicles, Metalinvest considered by the Board to be independent.
Prior to his resignation in Establishment and Kupferberg Establishment.
Aureberg Establishment, which October 2009, the Board also included Mr. JW Ambrus, who was considered is controlled by Antofagastas Chairman, Mr. J-P Luksic, holds 4.26% of the by the Board to be independent.
There is a schedule of matters specifically ordinary share capital of the Company.
Although incorporated in the United reserved for the Board.
The Board is responsible for: Kingdom and listed on the London Stock Exchange, the Groups businesses, providing leadership: which comprise mining, transport and water distribution, are principally located in Chile, the largest copper producing country in the world.
setting the Groups strategic objectives and key policies: Antofagastas Board is committed to managing the operations of the Group ensuring that appropriate resources are in place to enable the Group to with a view to maximising value for all shareholders.
The Board currently has meet its objectives: eight members, comprising an Executive Chairman and seven Non-Executive reviewing the Groups performance: and Directors.
Two of the eight Directors including the Chairman are members of the Luksic family.
Six of the Directors, including the Chairman, are based in overseeing the Groups internal control systems.
Chile, where the Groups operations are principally located: one Director is The Chairman will always attempt to persuade the Board to act as a single based in the United Kingdom, where the Company is incorporated and listed team by obtaining consensus at Board meetings but, in exceptional on the London Stock Exchange: and one Director is based in the United States.
circumstances, decisions may be taken by majority.
The agenda for Board The day-to-day operations of the Group are carried on through the boards meetings are set by the Chairman in consultation with the other Directors.
of each division of the Group, Antofagasta Minerals S. A. mining, Responsibility for developing and implementing the Groups strategic and Antofagasta Railway Company plc FCAB railway and other transport financial objectives is delegated to the senior management of the Group.
services and Aguas fide Antofagasta S. A. water distribution.
Each division Accordingly, the boards of Antofagasta Minerals S. A. mining, the Antofagasta is headed by a chief executive officer who reports to his divisional board Railway Company plc railway and other transport services and Aguas fide and the Chairman of the Group.
The Antofagasta Board oversees these Antofagasta S. A. water distribution meet regularly to consider strategic, divisional boards and provides strategic direction.
operational and risk management issues in more detail.
There is substantial In its consideration of Corporate Governance matters, the Board is mindful overlap between membership of the Board of Antofagasta plc and these of the principles set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance three divisional boards.
The chief executive officer of each division reports to issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 the Combined his divisional board and to the Chairman of the Group: the Board oversees Code.
However, given the ownership structure and asset base of the Group, these divisional boards and provides strategic direction.
The Board is also the Board believes that full adherence to the Combined Code is not responsible for reviewing the performance of management.
Nevertheless, the Board considers that its structure and balance Executive Directors scrutinise the performance of management in meeting as set out in more detail below under the heading Directors provide an goals and objectives and also monitor the reporting of performance, through appropriate basis for ensuring its effectiveness and the protection of the the activities of the Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee.
interests of all shareholders in the Company.
The Directors of the Company as at 8 March 2010 are set out on page 121.
The Board describes below how it applied the corporate governance As noted above, Mr. JW Ambrus resigned as a Director on 14 October 2009. principles contained in the Combined Code during 2009.
Two areas where The recognised senior independent Non-Executive Director is Mr. CH Bailey, the Company did not comply with the detailed Combined Code provisions are who is also Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Mr. GS Menndez is Chairman set out at the end of this report under the heading Statement of Compliance of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The Board does not have with the Detailed Provisions of the Combined Code.
a Director formally designated as Chief Executive.
Overview Business Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 55 The role of the Chairman The Board does not consider Mr. RF Jara or Mr. GA Luksic to be independent.
Mr. RF Jara provides advisory services to the Group, as explained Mr. J-P Luksic is Chairman of the Board.
His role is that of a full-time in the Remuneration Report on page 60.
Mr. GA Luksic is the brother of Executive Chairman, and he has no other significant commitments that Mr. J-P Luksic, the Chairman of Antofagasta plc.
Mr. GA Luksic is chairman prevent him from devoting sufficient time to this role.
As explained above, of Quienco S. A. and chairman or a director of Quiencos other listed the Group does not have a Board member who is designated as Chief subsidiaries.
Mr. J-P Luksic and Mr. GS Menndez are also non-executive Executive.
Mr. Marcelo Awad is chief executive officer of Antofagasta directors of Quienco and some of its listed subsidiaries.
Like Antofagasta, Minerals S. A. : Mr. Miguel Seplveda is chief executive officer of the Quienco is also controlled by the Luksic family.
Antofagasta Railway Company plc: and Mr. Marco Ktulas is the chief executive officer of Aguas fide Antofagasta S. A.
The Board believes that the Company is not at risk from a concentration Appointments to the Board of power by Mr. J-P Luksic having executive responsibilities as Chairman.
The Nomination Committee currently comprises Mr. GS Menndez In reaching this conclusion, it has taken into consideration the strong Chairman, Mr. CH Bailey and Mr. RF Jara.
As explained above, presence of Non-Executive Directors on the Board, the structure of the Audit, Mr. CH Bailey and Mr. GS Menndez are considered by the Board Remuneration and Nomination Committees designed to devolve away from to be independent Non-Executive Directors.
the Chairman responsibility and control of certain key areas of Board The Nomination Committee periodically reviews the composition of the responsibility, and the delegation of management responsibility to the chief Board including the balance between Executive and Non-Executive Directors executive officer of each division.
and considers succession planning for both Executive and Non-Executive Directors and the Groups senior management.
It is also responsible for the Board balance and independence process for new Board appointments and makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment of new Directors and is responsible for ensuring The Board considers five of its seven Non-Executive Directors to be that appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria.
In independent Mr. CH Bailey, Mr. GS Menndez, Mr. fide Yarur, Mr. JG Claro fulfilling these responsibilities, the Nomination Committee consults the and Mr. WM Hayes.
The Board is satisfied that this balance limits the scope Chairman, Mr. J-P Luksic.
The Nomination Committee meets as necessary for an individual or small group of individuals to dominate the Boards and, in any case, at least once a year.
Its terms of reference are available decision-making.
The Directors Report sets out biographical details of from the Companys registered office and may be viewed on the Companys each Director and identifies those Directors standing for re-election on website www.
In making appointments to the Board, the Nomination Committee considers Mr. Yarur, Mr. Claro and Mr. Hayes meet the independence criteria set the skills, experience and knowledge of the existing Directors and assesses out in Combined Code provision A.
3.1 and the Board is satisfied as to which of the potential candidates would most benefit the Board.
the potential candidates knowledge and experience of Chile, the mining The Board is satisfied that Mr. Bailey remains independent in character and industry, Latin America, capital markets and the regulatory environment, and judgement, notwithstanding that he has served on the Board for more than that they have sufficient time to devote to the role.
The Chairman ensures nine years, since he does not receive any remuneration from the Company that any new Directors are provided with a full induction on joining the Board.
other than Non-Executive Directors fees, nor does he have any other All Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment with the Company relationships with the Company or its majority shareholder.
The Board is for an initial period of three years from the date of their appointment, subject also satisfied that Mr. Menndez remains independent in character and to reappointment at the Annual General Meeting.
These letters require the judgement, notwithstanding that he has also served on the Board for more Non-Executive Directors to undertake that they will have sufficient time to than nine years and notwithstanding that he is a non-executive director of discharge their responsibilities.
The letters of appointment are available for Quienco S. A. a Chilean-listed company also controlled by the Luksic family inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and some of its subsidiaries, including Banco fide Chile and Telefnica del Sur and at the Annual General Meeting for 15 minutes prior to and during S. A.
This is because he does not receive any remuneration from the Group the meeting.
other than in a non-executive capacity.
His position in the Quienco group is also solely as a non-executive director.
The Board considers that Mr. Baileys and Mr. Menndezs length of service is of considerable benefit to the Information and professional development Board given their wealth of knowledge and experience of the Group and The Directors receive information for review ahead of each Board or of Latin America and of the mining industry, and therefore proposes Committee Meeting.
In addition, they receive regular reports and forecasts both for re-election.
for the Group and each significant operation to ensure that they remain properly briefed about the performance and financial position of the Group 56 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued throughout the year.
All Directors have access to management and to Re-election such further information as is needed to carry out their duties and Each Director is elected by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting responsibilities fully and effectively.
Furthermore, all Directors are entitled to following his first appointment.
The Companys Articles of Association seek independent professional advice concerning the affairs of the Group provide that not less than one-third of the Directors must retire by rotation at the Companys expense.
each year and that each Director is re-elected at least once every three years.
Non-Executive Directors who have served for more than nine years The Company also provides Directors with the necessary resources to are subject to annual re-election in accordance with provision A.
7.2 of the develop and update their knowledge and capabilities.
In particular, the Combined Code.
Directors are regularly updated on the Groups business, the competitive and regulatory environment in which it operates and other changes affecting The Directors retiring and standing for re-election at this years Annual the Group as a whole.
The Directors based outside Chile visit the country General Meeting are Mr. CH Bailey, Mr. WM Hayes, Mr GS Menndez and regularly and at least once a year, and the Directors based outside the United Mr. fide Yarur.
Biographical details of these Directors are set out in the Kingdom also regularly visit this country, again normally at least once a year.
Directors Report on pages 50 and 51.
Group management in the United Kingdom and Chile is responsible for The Chairman confirms that the Board is satisfied that each of the Directors ensuring that Board procedures and applicable rules and regulations are proposed for re-election continues to be effective and continues to complied with and for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all demonstrate commitment to his role.
Company secretarial advice is provided by Petershill Secretaries Limited.
Remuneration The membership of the Remuneration Committee, a statement of the Performance evaluation Companys policy on remuneration, and the remuneration details and The Board periodically considers its performance and effectiveness.
shareholding interests of each Director are contained in the Remuneration A performance evaluation of the Board, its committees and its individual Report on pages 59 to 61. members was conducted during 2009 by Mr. GS Menndez, with the assistance of senior management.
Mr. CH Bailey, as the senior independent Non-Executive Director was responsible for the evaluation of the Chairman.
Accountability and audit The results were discussed with the Chairman and considered by the Board and were taken into account in the decision to recommend re-election of the Internal control retiring Directors at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting during 2010.
The Board has applied principle C. 2 of the Combined Code by establishing a The Board is satisfied that each Director continues to contribute effectively continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant and to demonstrate commitment to his role.
The Board regularly reviews the process, which is an Directors attendance at meetings in 2009 The number of Board and Committee meetings held during 2009, together with details of each Directors attendance, is set out below: Board Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Number Maximum Number Maximum Number Maximum Number Maximum attended possible attended possible attended possible attended possible J-P Luksic 5 5 CH Bailey 3 5 3 3 1 1 2 2 GS Menndez 5 5 3 3 1 1 2 2 RF Jara 5 5 1 1 fide Yarur 5 5 3 3 2 2 GA Luksic 3 5 1 JW Ambrus 4 4 JG Claro 5 5 WM Hayes 5 5 1 Mr. JW Ambrus resigned from the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 14 October 2009.
All Directors in office at the time of the Annual General Meeting in June 2009 attended that meeting.
Each Director withdrew from any meeting when his own position was being considered.
Overview Business Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 57 ongoing activity from the start of each financial year to the date of approval of Whistleblowing procedures this report and which is in accordance with revised guidance on internal The Audit Committee, whose other functions are described below, is control published in October 2005 the Turnbull Guidance.
The Board is responsible for reviewing arrangements by which employees of the Group responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate of financial reporting or other matters.
An Ethics Code is in place across the the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide Group, which includes a procedure to enable employees to raise concerns, reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
An Ethics Committee, comprising members of senior management, is responsible for implementing, developing and In compliance with Provision C. 2.1 of the Combined Code, the Board updating the Ethics Code and investigating any allegations of impropriety.
regularly reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
The Ethics Committee reports directly to the Chief Executive of Antofagasta The Boards monitoring covers all controls, including financial, operational Minerals S. A.
The Audit Committee considers the results of this work and and compliance controls and risk management.
It is based principally on the operation of the Ethics Code as part of its annual review of the reviewing reports from management to consider whether significant risks effectiveness of internal control.
are identified, evaluated, managed and controlled and whether any significant weaknesses are promptly remedied and indicate a need for more extensive monitoring.
The Board has also performed a specific assessment Audit Committee and auditors for the purpose of this Annual Report.
This assessment considers all The Audit Committee currently comprises Mr. CH Bailey Chairman, significant aspects of internal control arising during the period covered by Mr. GS Menndez and Mr. fide Yarur, all of whom are considered by the the report including the work of internal audit.
The Audit Committee assists Board to be independent Non-Executive Directors.
All three members are the Board in discharging its review responsibilities.
considered to have recent and relevant financial experience.
During the course of its review of the system of internal control, the Board The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year with the external auditors has not identified nor been advised of any failings or weaknesses which it in attendance.
The Audit Committees purpose is to assist the Board in has determined to be significant.
Therefore a confirmation in respect of meeting its responsibilities relating to financial reporting and control matters.
necessary actions is not required.
In particular, it reviews the scope and nature of the audit and issues arising from it and is responsible for ensuring the independence of the external Further information relating to the Groups risk and management systems auditors including their objectivity and effectiveness, monitoring the is given in the Corporate Sustainability report on page 35. provision of any non-audit services and for making recommendations to the Board for the appointment, reappointment or removal of the external auditors.
Going concern The Audit Committee periodically reviews if it is necessary to re-tender the The Boards statement on going concern is included in the Financial Review audit engagement.
It reviews the internal control and risk assessment on page 49. procedures adopted by the Group described in the section under the heading Internal Controls above, including a review of the effectiveness of the internal audit function.
The internal audit function is responsible for reviewing Corporate sustainability the adequacy of the internal control environment across the Group and for The Board takes into account the community, social, environmental and reporting the findings of the internal audit work to the audit committee on a ethical impact of its decisions and is responsible for the relevant policies of regular basis.
The Audit Committee also monitors the integrity of the financial the Group.
A Corporate Sustainability committee, comprising Mr. J-P Luksic, statements and Directors statements on internal controls and reviews the Mr. GS Menndez and Mr. RF Jara, was formed in 2008 to assist the Board going concern basis prior to its endorsement by the Board.
The Committee in its responsibilities with respect to the Groups social responsibility.
also reviews the preliminary announcement, the half yearly financial report The Committee met once in 2009, with all three members in attendance.
and any other public reports relating to the Groups financial performance.
Key issues of social responsibility are identified and assessed through the The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are available from the Groups risk management processes described under Internal Control Companys registered office and may be viewed on the Companys above.
During 2009 the Group also published its second separate website www.
Sustainability Report to provide further information on its social and The Audit Committee is authorised by the Board to investigate any activity environmental performance in respect of 2008.
More information on within its terms of reference.
It is authorised to seek any information it corporate sustainability is given on pages 32 to 41. requires from any employees and all employees are directed to co-operate with any request made by the Audit Committee.
58 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued The Companys external auditors, Deloitte LLP, have provided non-audit Statement of compliance with the detailed provisions of services to the Company, which amounted to US$106,000.
This comprised the Combined Code the provision of services relating to the preparation for the adoption of As explained above, the Company complied with the detailed code provisions IFRS by the Groups Chilean subsidiaries, tax compliance and other contained in the Combined Code throughout 2009 and to the date of this consultancy services.
report except as follows: The Audit Committee has reviewed the level of these services in the course the Board does not have a separately identified Chief Executive and hence of the year and is confident that the objectivity and independence of the at Board level there is no formal separation of the functions of Chairman auditors are not impaired by reason of such non-audit work.
The Audit and Chief Executive provision A.
As explained above, the Group has Committee has also considered the effectiveness of the external audit separate chief executives for its mining, transport and water distribution function through the year through meetings with Deloitte LLP, a review of divisions who report to their respective divisional boards and to the their audit plan and a consideration of the results of work performed by the Chairman of the Group.
The Board considers that its predominantly external auditors prior to release of the half year and full year results.
non-executive composition combined with the delegation of management responsibility to the chief executive officer of each division achieves an appropriate balance and prevents a concentration of power in its Executive Relations with shareholders Chairman: and Directors and senior management regularly meet with institutional performance related pay measures did not apply to Board members shareholders and analysts in the United Kingdom, Europe, Chile and the provision B.
The Board considers this appropriate given its United States.
The senior independent Non-Executive Director, Mr. CH Bailey, predominantly Non-Executive composition and the role of the only also attends meetings with major shareholders when required.
Other Executive Director, who is a member of the controlling family, as Chairman Non-Executive Directors are given the opportunity to meet with major of the Board.
Performance related bonuses are paid to senior management shareholders and attend meetings if requested to do so by shareholders.
in the Group based on a combination of personal, divisional and Group These meetings ensure that the Board is able to develop and maintain an performance assessed against targets set at the start of each year.
understanding of the views of several of the Companys major investors.
The Company carries out a formal programme of presentations to update institutional shareholders and analysts on developments in the Group after the announcement of the half year and full year results.
In addition, quarterly production figures and financial results are published for the mining, transport and water divisions.
Copies of these results and production announcements, presentations and other press releases issued by the Company are available on its website.
As noted above, during the year the Group also published a separate Sustainability Report in respect of 2008 to provide further information on its social and environmental performance.
The Companys Annual General Meeting AGM is also used as an opportunity to communicate with both institutional and private shareholders: the Board of Directors encourages all shareholders to attend.
The notice of the AGM is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days in advance of the meeting.
At the meeting, the Company complies with the Combined Code as it relates to voting, including votes withheld, the separation of the resolutions and the attendance of committee chairmen.
