70 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual Report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Corporate governance Statement of compliance with the Combined Code Throughout the year ended 3 January 2010 the Company has been in compliance with Section 1 of the June 2008 edition of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code.
This statement describes how the Company has applied the main and supporting principles of the Code.
It should be read in conjunction with the Business review and Remuneration report on pages 32 to 63 and pages 77 to 85 respectively.
Directors The Board The Board is collectively responsible to the Companys shareholders for the success of the Company.
The Board is satisfied it has met the Codes requirements for its effective operation.
It has set the Companys strategic aims, which were reviewed by the Board at its strategy meeting during the year, and has ensured that there is a framework of prudent and effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed.
The Board sets the Companys values and standards, which are contained in the Core Values Statement and Ethics Policy, both of which are referred to on pages 48 and 49 in the Business review.
The Board met formally 11 times during the year to review current performance against agreed objectives and to make and review major business decisions.
There is a schedule of matters specifically reserved for the Board including significant contractual commitments including the acquisition or disposal of companies businesses, treasury and intellectual property transactions, the review of the effectiveness of risk management processes, major capital expenditure and corporate responsibility.
One meeting each year is specifically focused on strategy and the longer term development of the Company.
Various matters are delegated to duly authorised sub-committees of the Board, as is further described below.
There were no changes to the membership of the Board during the year and there were no changes of role.
As at 3 January 2010 the Board comprises Tim Stevenson, Chairman: Mark Robertshaw, Chief Executive Officer: Kevin Dangerfield, Chief Financial Officer, and three independent non-executive Directors.
Martin Flower is the Senior Independent Director.
Biographies of the Directors, including details of their other main commitments, are set out on page 64.
All Directors submit themselves for election by the shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment and for re-election at least once every three years.
Should a non-executive Director serve for more than six years, his re-election would be subject to particularly rigorous review.
Should any Director serve for longer than nine years he would then be subject to annual re-election.
The attendance of each Director at Board and Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committee meetings is set out in the table below.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Eligible Eligible Eligible Eligible Director to attend Attended to attend Attended to attend Attended to attend Attended Tim Stevenson 11 11 7 7 1 1 Mark Robertshaw 11 11 1 1 Kevin Dangerfield 11 11 Martin Flower 11 11 5 5 7 7 1 1 Andrew Given 11 11 5 5 7 6 1 1 Simon Heale 11 11 5 4 7 7 1 1 Excludes meetings attended by invitation for all or part of a meeting.
Indicates a Director deemed by the Board to be independent, or in the case of the Chairman, independent on appointment.
The Chairman and the non-executive Directors met without the executive Directors present on multiple occasions during the year.
In addition, the Senior Independent Director and the other non-executive Directors met without the Chairman present.
Should a Director have concerns about the running of the Company or a proposed action which are not resolved, their concerns would be recorded in the Board minutes.
An appropriate Directors and Officers liability insurance policy is in place.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate, clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for running the Board and the Chief Executive Officer is responsible for running the Companys business.
The management of the Groups operating Divisions report to the Chief Executive Officer.
71 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual Report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Board balance and independence Throughout the year the Company complied with the requirement of the Code that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise non-executive Directors determined by the Board to be independent.
At the year end, in addition to the Chairman, whom the Company deemed to be independent on appointment, the Board comprised two executive Directors and three further non-executive Directors deemed by the Board to be independent.
In addition to the factors set out in the Code, the Boards assessment of a non-executive Directors independence and effectiveness covers their total number of commitments and any relationships with major suppliers or with charities receiving material support from the Company.
The structure and shape of the Board were reviewed during the year.
The Board has frequent interaction with senior management and the Divisional Chief Executives normally attend Board meetings.
Thus, it was considered that the current level of executive representation on the Board remains appropriate.
Appointments to the Board As is further detailed in the report of the Nomination Committee, set out on page 75, there is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for appointments to the Board.
The Board is satisfied that there are succession plans in place for appointments to the Board and for senior management.
There were no new appointments to the Board during the year and none of the Directors changed role.
Information and professional development The Board receives, in a timely manner, information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties, with Board papers generally sent out five working days before each meeting.
All Directors received a full, formal and tailored induction on joining the Board.
Each Directors experience and background is taken into account in developing a tailored programme.
Non-executive Directors are encouraged to visit operating sites and to meet with management.
In addition to visits by individual Directors and the Chairman, each year at least one Board meeting is held at an operating facility.
During 2009 formal Board meetings took place at the Technical Ceramics site in Rugby, UK and at the Carbon Divisions site at Swansea, UK.
In addition, the Board visited the NP Aerospace site in Coventry, UK.
Training and development needs are assessed as part of the Board performance review process and the Directors regularly update and refresh their skills and knowledge, taking into account environmental, social and governance matters.
The Company Secretary keeps the suitability of external courses under review.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who, with the Chairman, is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are observed.
A procedure is in place to enable the Directors to seek independent professional advice at the Companys expense in connection with their duties as Directors.
Performance evaluation The Board undertook a formal evaluation of its performance, its committees and of the individual Directors during the year.
The review consisted of a structured interview between the Chairman and each Director, the Divisional Chief Executives and the Company Secretary.
These one-to-one discussions were complemented by a questionnaire and each Director had the opportunity to raise broader issues relating to the Companys strategy and governance.
The results of the review were communicated to the Board with one-to-one feedback where appropriate.
The evaluation concluded that the Board performs effectively, that the Board calendar and agendas are appropriate with open discussions and effective follow-through by the executive team.
The Chairman and the non-executive Directors also confirmed that they have sufficient time to fulfil their commitments to the Company.
As noted above, training needs are assessed.
The recommendations to be implemented following the 2009 Board performance evaluation include: increasing the amount of interaction outside the formal Board environment, reviews of the Board procedures in relation to capital expenditure proposals and the Board evaluation process for 2010, increasing the focus on succession planning throughout the business and further presentations of the Groups technology to the Board.
The non-executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, met without the Chairman present to evaluate the Chairmans performance during the year, taking into account the views of the executive Directors.
The recommendations made following the 2008 Board performance review were implemented during the year, including with regard to increased reporting between meetings, enhancing the exposure of the Board to senior management, with the Divisional Chief Executives normally attending Board meetings and with Board meetings held at two manufacturing locations and a Board visit to a third manufacturing site during 2009.
72 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual Report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Corporate governance continued Remuneration Remuneration policy and practice is discussed in the Remuneration report on pages 77 to 85.
Accountability and audit Financial reporting In its reporting to shareholders, the Board aims to present the balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects required by the Code and in accordance with the Accounting Standards Boards Reporting Standard 1, The Operating and Financial Review.
This is included in the Business review on pages 32 to 63.
The Board also presents updated information in its Interim and other public reports.
A summary of the statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the financial statements is set out on page 76 and the going concern statement is set out in the Business review on page 59.
Internal control The Board has overall responsibility for establishing and maintaining a sound system of internal control to safeguard shareholders investment and the Companys assets.
Through the Audit Committee, the Board reviews the effectiveness of the internal control system annually and did so during the year.
This review covered all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls, and risk management systems.
The Audit Committee receives regular risk management reports covering the full range of risks faced by Morgan Crucible as a Group and ensures there are adequate systems in place and evaluates their effectiveness.
The Directors believe that the Groups system of internal financial controls provides reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that: the assets of the Group are safeguarded: transactions are authorised and recorded in a correct and timely manner: and that such controls would prevent and detect, within a timely period, material errors or irregularities.
The system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, risk and to address key business and financial risks, including social, environmental and ethical risks.
The internal control framework complements the Groups management structure.
The main features of the Groups systems for internal control and for assessing the potential risks to which the Group is exposed are summarised as follows: Control environment The Groups management processes include delegated authorities and the segregation of duties with documented policies and manuals.
These cover financial procedures, environmental, health and safety practice and other areas.
In addition, there is a schedule of matters reserved for the Board.
The Groups Core Values Statement, Ethics Policy and other supporting policies and procedures set out the Groups commitment to the highest standards of corporate and individual behaviour and provide guidance for employees.
The Groups Whistleblowing line is available to employees and others in this regard.
The Chief Executive of each Division makes an annual statement of compliance to the Board confirming that for each of the businesses for which he is responsible, the financial statements are fairly presented in all material respects, appropriate systems of internal controls have been developed and maintained and the businesses comply with Group policies and procedures.
Financial reporting A detailed budgeting system for each Division exists with an annual consolidated budget reviewed and approved by the Board.
Businesses present their revenue and capital expenditure budgets for approval.
Monthly results for the Group are presented to the Executive Committee and the Board, including comparisons against budget and the prior year.
The Groups annual and half-yearly results are reported externally, in addition to interim management statements.
The annual results are audited.
Performance monitoring There are regular meetings of the Board and of the Executive Committee.
A comparison of forecast and actual results is considered, including cash flows and comparisons against budget and the prior year.
Divisional management teams also meet regularly to review performance.
Presentations of actual and forecast performance are made to the Executive Committee and the Board by the Groups Divisional Chief Executives.
In addition, regular site visits are made by members of the Executive Committee.
Risk management The identification of major business risks is an ongoing process carried out in conjunction with operating management.
Steps are taken to mitigate or manage any material risks identified.
The Board, either directly or through the Audit Committee, receives reports on financial, taxation, insurance, pension, legal and social, environmental and ethical risks from management.
The Divisional Chief Executives cover risk issues at their management meetings and the Director of Risk Assurance helps to ensure that internal control and risk management is embedded into the Groups operations through the Risk Management Committee, which is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer and is attended by the Chief Financial Officer of each Division.
Risk factors Morgan Crucibles businesses are affected by a number of factors, many of which are influenced by macroeconomic trends and are therefore outside the Companys immediate control, although, as described above and in the Business review, the identification and management of such risks is carried out systematically.
These are further discussed in the Risk management section on page 60.
Internal audit The Groups internal audit function reviews internal control and risk management processes.
The Audit Committee approves the plans for internal audit reviews and receives reports accordingly.
Actions resulting from internal audit reviews are agreed with management.
A new internal auditor was appointed during the year and has direct access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
73 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual Report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Audit Committee and auditors The Board has formal and transparent arrangements for considering how the Directors apply the Companys financial reporting and internal control principles, and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Companys auditors.
This requirement is met by the work of the Audit Committee, as described below, and by the audit work carried out by the Companys external auditors, KPMG Audit plc.
The Audit Committee has received confirmation from KPMG Audit plc that its general procedures support the auditors independence and objectivity in relation to non-audit services.
After considering such procedures the opinion of the Audit Committee was that the auditors objectivity and independence was safeguarded despite the provision of non-audit services by KPMG Audit plc.
Conflicts of interest The Board has procedures in place to address the requirements of Section 175 of the Companies Act 2006 concerning the duty of the Directors to avoid conflicts of interest.
These procedures are in accordance with the GC100 guidance.
Accordingly the Directors are required to continue to 1 disclose proposed outside interests before they are taken in order to enable a prior assessment of any actual or potential conflict: and 2 disclose without delay any situation which arises which gives rise to an actual or potential conflict.
During the year the Board undertook a review of Directors outside interests to identify actual or potential conflicts of interest, including the interests of connected persons where such interests could give rise to an indirect conflict.
This confirmed that there were no actual conflicts of interest and the only potential conflicts of interest identified were outside directorships.
The Board considered each Directors situation and authorised any potential conflicts for a period of 15 months from December 2009.
Such authorisation is revocable at any time at the Boards discretion.
Should an actual or potential conflict be identified, the Board shall consider whether to authorise the situation and, if so, the terms of any authorisation.
In the event of an actual conflict arising, the Director concerned is to notify the Chairman the Chairman would notify the Senior Independent Director and the Director would be excluded from the relevant information, debate and decision.
The Board is responsible for undertaking a regular review of any authorisations given and will itself, or through one of its committees, ensure that the procedures for reporting and, if appropriate, authorising conflicts and potential conflicts of interest are operated correctly.
In addition, the Nomination Committee will review the outside interests of a proposed Director to identify actual or potential conflicts of interest and will make recommendations to the Board as to whether the situation should be authorised.
Relations with shareholders Dialogue with shareholders The importance of dialogue with major shareholders is recognised and meetings are held in order to help achieve a mutual understanding of objectives.
In this respect, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer make themselves available to major shareholders as appropriate throughout the year, in particular at the time of the Preliminary and Interim announcements.
The Chairman also discusses governance and other matters directly with shareholders.
The Chairman and the non-executive Directors are invited to investor briefings and attend meetings with major shareholders when requested.
The Senior Independent Director is available to attend separate meetings with major shareholders on request.
Following the announcement of the Groups Preliminary and Interim results and after other significant statements and presentations, investor opinion is canvassed and any feedback is made available to the Board.
In addition, the Board is provided with brokers reports and feedback from shareholder meetings on a regular basis.
To help facilitate dialogue with shareholders, the Investors section of the Companys website includes details of Stock Exchange announcements, press releases, presentations, webcasts and other relevant information.
Constructive use of the AGM The Annual General Meeting is normally attended by all members of the Board and by a representative of the auditors.
At the AGM held in April 2009, the Chief Executive Officer made a short business presentation.
Shareholders are also invited to ask questions during the meeting and have the opportunity to meet the Directors and other members of senior management before and after the formal meeting.
The results of the proxy voting on all resolutions are provided for all attendees and are released to the London Stock Exchange and published on the Companys website as soon as practicable after the meeting.
74 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual Report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Corporate governance continued Board committees The full terms of reference of the following Board committees are available upon request and are also available on the Companys website.
Audit The Audit Committee assists the Board in effectively discharging its responsibilities for financial reporting and corporate control.
Martin Flower, Andrew Given and Simon Heale were members of the Committee throughout the year.
All members of the Committee are independent Directors and Andrew Given, the Chairman of the Committee, has the requisite financial experience.
The Audit Committee met five times during the year and has the power to, and does, request the attendance at meetings of any Director, auditor or member of management as may be considered appropriate by the Chairman of the Committee.
At the end of each meeting the non-executive Directors who are members of the Committee also meet the auditors without the executive Directors or other members of management present.
The Committee identifies and confirms that it receives the information it needs to enable it to fulfil its responsibilities.
This is complemented by an annual presentation made by the Divisional Chief Executives and Chief Financial Officers on the internal control environment within their respective Divisions.
The Audit Committees terms of reference include: Monitoring and making appropriate recommendations to the Board with regard to the financial reporting process, the integrity of the financial statements of the Company, any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance and reviewing significant financial reporting judgments contained in them.
Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the Companys internal control, internal audit and risk management systems.
Making recommendations to the Board, for it to put to the shareholders for their approval in general meeting, in relation to the appointment, reappointment and removal of the external auditors and to approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditors.
Reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements.
Developing and implementing policy on the engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant ethical guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors.
Reporting to the Board, identifying any matters in respect of which it considers that action or improvement is needed and making recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
The Committee has the authority to investigate any matters according to its terms of reference and may obtain external advice at the cost of the Company.
The Director of Risk Assurance and the internal auditor both have access to the Chairman of the Committee and meet, when appropriate, with the Committee without other executives present.
The work of the Committee in discharging those responsibilities in respect of 2009 included: Reviewing the Groups 2008 financial statements and 2009 Interim statements prior to Board approval.
The review of the process by which the Groups main business risks are assessed and managed, with the principal risks being considered by the Board as a whole.
Reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit and risk management systems.
Consideration of the work and plans for the internal audit function.
Appraisal of the Companys Whistleblowing line and related procedures and policies.
Confirmation of the external auditors terms of engagement and fee structures.
Monitoring the level of non-audit work of the auditors, which in 2009 included services amounting to 0.1 million, mainly in connection with tax advice.
To ensure the objectivity and independence of the external auditors, the policy implemented by the Committee for the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors is in summary as follows: Certain non-audit services may not be provided by the external auditors, including the review of their own work: they may not make management decisions: their work must not create a mutuality of interest: and they may not put themselves in the position of advocate.
Any non-audit work proposed to be placed with the external auditors with a fee in excess of 200,000 should be referred to the Audit Committee.
The prior approval of the Audit Committee is required for any non-audit work which, when added to the fees paid for other non-audit work, would total more than 80% of the audit fee.
75 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual Report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements During the year the proportion of the auditors fees for non-audit work relative to the audit fee was 5% 2008: 11%.
The external auditors have processes in place to safeguard their independence and have written to the Committee confirming that, in their opinion, they are independent.
The Company last changed its auditors in late 2001 and undertook a formal review of the external auditors which included a re-tender presentation during 2007.
During 2008 the external auditors rotated the partner responsible for the Groups audit work.
As a result the Committee recommended to the Board that the Groups audit work should not be put out to third-party tender during 2009.
Remuneration As is further described in the Remuneration report on pages 77 to 85, the Remuneration Committee has responsibility for setting remuneration for all executive Directors and the Chairman, including benefits such as share options and awards under the Companys incentive plans, pension rights and any compensation payments.
The Committee also monitors the level and structure of remuneration for senior management.
Tim Stevenson, Martin Flower, Andrew Given and Simon Heale, who is the Committee Chairman, were members of the Committee throughout the year.
The Committee is assisted in its duties by the Chief Executive Officer, the Company Secretary and the Director of Human Resources.
No member of the Committee or attendee is present when their own remuneration is under consideration, nor do they participate in any relevant voting.
The Committee also has the power to request, for all or part of any meeting, the attendance of any Director or member of management as may be considered appropriate by the Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee met seven times during the year.
It is the Companys policy to disclose the fees of any executive Director who serves as a non-executive Director of another company.
During the year Mark Robertshaw served as a non-executive Director of Rathbone Brothers plc.
The fees received by Mark Robertshaw in this regard are shown on page 82.
The report of the Remuneration Committee, which includes details of the Committees responsibilities and terms of reference and of the Directors remuneration and Directors interests in options and shares, is set out on pages 77 to 85.
Nomination The Nomination Committee leads the process for Board appointments and makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment of new Directors.
A majority of members of the Nomination Committee are independent non-executive Directors.
Tim Stevenson as Chairman of the Committee, Martin Flower, Andrew Given, Simon Heale, and Mark Robertshaw were members of the Committee throughout the year.
The Committee has the power to request the attendance of any other Director or member of management, for all or part of any meeting, as may be considered appropriate by the Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee formally met once during 2009 and also held further informal discussions regarding the shape and size of the Board.
No nominations to the Board or changes in role were made during the year.
The Nomination Committee reviews the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board, succession planning and the leadership needs of the Group.
In the light of this review, the Committee prepares a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment.
Candidates for appointment as Director are considered by the Committee, taking advice from external consultants where appropriate.
The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive Directors are available for inspection.
Non-executive Directors, including the Chairman, are asked to undertake that they will have sufficient time to meet their commitments to the Company.
Their other significant commitments are disclosed to the Board before appointment, with an indication of the time involved, and the Board is informed of any subsequent changes.
The terms of appointment for non-executive Directors do not include a notice period.
Disclosure and Transparency Rules This statement complies with sub-sections 2.1: 2.2 1 : 2.3 1 : 2.5: 2.7 and 2.10 of Rule 7 of the UK Listing Authority Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The information required to be disclosed by sub-section 2.6 of Rule 7 is shown in the Directors report on pages 66 to 69 and is incorporated in this statement by reference.
