Corporate governance The Company believes that the promotion objectives: details of its hedging system of internal control is monitored by of the interests of investors, customers, staff arrangements and its exposure to credit the business.
and other stakeholders will be achieved and liquidity risks.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing through striving for high standards of As at 28 March 2009, the group was debt the Company may include some of those corporate governance.
To this end, the free, with a positive cash balance of set out below.
It should be borne in mind Company considers that it has complied 24.8 million.
Furthermore, it has long term that this is not an exhaustive list and that throughout the 52 week period ending on contracts with its franchisees around the there may be other risks that have not been 28 March 2009 with the provisions set out world and long standing relationships with considered or risks that the board consider in Section 1 of the 2006 Combined Code many of its suppliers.
As a consequence, now are insignificant or immaterial in nature, on Corporate Governance published by the the directors believe that the group is well but that may arise and or have a larger Financial Reporting Council having applied placed to manage its business risks successfully effect than originally expected.
the main and supporting principles set out despite the uncertain economic outlook.
External risks The groups banking facility expires on The group is reliant upon manufacturers The board 31 May 2010, so at this stage the group in other countries, particularly China, The leadership of the Mothercare plc has not sought written commitment from its India and the Far East.
Global economic business is provided by the Mothercare plc relationship bank that the facility will be conditions including global demand for board.
It operates on a unitary basis and renewed.
Formal renewal discussions will be goods and services affecting sales levels comprises the chairman, four independent opened during the course of the coming year.
and the availability of credit lines for non-executive directors, and two full-time business to its key suppliers affecting executive directors, being the group chief The current economic conditions may product supply will continue to affect executive and the group finance director.
create uncertainty around the groups the performance of the groups A key element of the boards responsibility is trading position and particularly over the businesses as will the effect of exchange monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness level of demand for the groups products.
rate movements, principally the US dollar: of the Companys system of internal control.
The groups latest forecasts and projections cost price movements including raw The non-executive directors play a pivotal have been sensitivity tested for reasonably materials and the difficulty of passing on role in challenging and scrutinising its possible adverse variations in trading input cost price increases, governmental effectiveness and integrity.
The Company performance and show that the group and supra-national regulation affecting has maintained a system of internal control is expected to operate within the terms of imports: taxation: duties and levies.
within an executive management structure its current borrowing facility and covenants with defined lines of responsibility and for the reasonably foreseeable future.
The failure to react appropriately to delegation of authority within prescribed changes in the economic environment After making appropriate enquiries, the financial and operational limits.
The system generally or consumer confidence issues directors have a reasonable expectation of internal control is based on financial, affecting the groups core customers that the Company and the group have operational, compliance and risk control in the UK and in overseas markets, adequate resources to continue in policies and procedures together with particularly from the reduction in real operational existence for the foreseeable regular reporting of financial performance disposable incomes caused by, amongst future.
The financial statements are therefore and measurement of key performance other things, the contraction of the global prepared on the going concern basis.
Risk management, planning, economy, expected future increases in budgeting and forecasting procedures are Risk management personal and indirect taxation, interest also in place together with formal capital The business review sets out progress made rate movements and the availability of investment and appraisal arrangements.
during the year against the challenges that consumer credit.
the board has set for the business.
In this Going concern The group is potentially vulnerable to section the principal risks and uncertainties The groups business activities, and the adverse movements in exchange rates that face the business are set out.
This factors likely to affect its future development as it pays for a large proportion of its section also forms part of the business are set out in the business review.
The goods in foreign currency, principally review requirements.
financial position of the group, its cash flows the US dollar.
Whilst the group effects and liquidity position are set out in the The board recognises that the management transactions, the effect of which seeks to financial review on pages 16 to 18.
In of risk through the application of a hedge the exposure to adverse exchange addition, notes 22 and 23 to the financial consistent process during the year, as rates, there is no guarantee that the statements include the groups objectives, required by Code provision C2 Internal transactions will be sufficient to cover policies and processes for managing its Control, is key to ensuring that a robust all likely exposure.
capital: its financial risk management 29 Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Governance Corporate governance continued With the continued expansion of the Any disruption to the relationship with, or during the year.
The process outlined above groups international franchise operations, failure of, key suppliers could adversely has been in effect during the period and up the group may be exposed to sales affect the groups ability to meet its sales to the date of the approval of the accounts concentration risk as certain franchise and profit plans if suitable alternatives by the board.
The audit committee regularly partners extend their activities in their could not be found quickly.
reviews the process and output of the existing and additional territories.
programme of risk management on behalf Any failure of the groups logistics, As at 28 March 2009, the groups largest of the board.
distribution and information technology franchisee represents approximately platforms may restrict the ability of the In addition to the evaluation of business 8.8 per cent of group sales.
The groups Company to make product available risk referred to above, the programme of brands are potentially exposed to firstly in its stores, Direct and International specific risk management activity continued the commercial risk in the default by businesses thereby failing to meet during the year across the activities of both franchisees of payment for amounts due customer expectations adversely brands in the United Kingdom.
Under this on royalties and goods supplied, and affecting sales and profits.
programme, individual stores are tested secondly whilst the group seeks to insure against a risk assessment model that the receivables from franchisees the A failure in the current economic climate emphasises health and safety, disability group may be exposed to the liquidity of to invest appropriately in the groups discrimination, fire safety and internal the credit insurance market and or credit infrastructure, people, tangible and process compliance.
It is intended that as quality of the insurers or potential default intangible assets as it seeks to balance the groups overseas operations develop, of banks or insurance companies in short and long term profitability drivers.
appropriate aspects of the risk providing security for franchisee primary The Company and the group may be management review activity will be default.
International operations are also exposed to counterparty risk in respect implemented or refined as appropriate.
exposed to the possibility in some markets of its hedging, banking, insurance or of political restrictions on remittance of The internal audit function a combination other finance based contracts and funds to the UK or refusal to enforce the of internal resources and external resource particularly in the ability of the relevant relevant brands intellectual property provided by  LLP counterparties being able to continue rights against infringers.
supplements the risk-based approach set to meet their obligations.
Furthermore, the Company has The group continues to operate defined the group is primarily dependent upon adopted procedures to ensure auditor benefit pension schemes albeit that they one banking relationship and, whilst independence, the details of which are set are now closed to new members.
The this relationship has been supportive out in the section below detailing the work volatility in movement of real asset and in the past, there is no guarantee of the audit committee.
liability values together with, amongst that in the current economic climate others, those of the discount rate used this will continue on the same terms.
The board believes that the system of for the accounting assumptions under The group will be seeking to renew internal control described can provide IAS 19 directly affect the net surplus or its facilities during the coming year.
only reasonable and not absolute deficit in the schemes and the variability assurance against material mis-statement Against this background, the system of of the charge contained within the or loss.
The audit committee periodically internal control is designed to manage financial statements.
reviews the system of internal control on rather than eliminate risks.
Internal risks In order to effectively manage risk, the Both ELC and Mothercare have a During the course of its review of the system executive committee has overall reputation for quality, safety and integrity.
of internal control, the board has not responsibility for ensuring that a rolling This may be seriously undermined by identified nor been advised of any failings programme of structured risk assessments adverse press or regulatory comment on or weaknesses which it has determined to of those areas having a significant effect aspects of its business both in the UK and be significant.
Therefore a confirmation in on the future of the business is carried overseas, whether justified or not.
To this respect of necessary actions has not been out.
The programme ensures, so far as end, the group takes all reasonable care considered appropriate.
practicably possible, that the appropriate to safeguard the reputation of its brands, risk management processes are identified, The group aspires to achieve high standards particularly in product manufacture and controls established, residual risks evaluated in corporate governance and the principles supply areas, by engaging independent and that the necessary action and risk adopted by the group are commented on third parties to validate critical areas avoidance measures taken or monitoring briefly below: of its manufacturing and supply chain undertaken.
Elements of the programme are for compliance with its ethical code.
reviewed by the internal audit function 30 The board and directors the group chief executive, group finance The Company also provides an indemnity The board of Mothercare plc meets regularly director, the operational directors within the for the benefit of each person who was a and maintains overall control of the groups group and the group company secretary.
director of Mothercare Pension Trustees Ltd, affairs through a schedule of matters which is a corporate trustee of the Companys Throughout the period the board has been reserved for its decision.
These include occupational pension schemes, in respect of supplied with information and papers setting the group strategy, the approval of liabilities that may attach to them in their submitted at each board meeting which the annual budget and financial statements, capacity as directors of that corporate trustee.
ensures that the major aspects of the major acquisitions and disposals, authority These provisions, which are qualifying groups affairs are reviewed regularly in limits for capital and other expenditure pension scheme indemnity provisions as accordance with a rolling agenda and and material treasury matters.
Details defined in Section 235 of the Companies Act programme of work.
All directors, whether of the terms of reference of the boards 2006, were in force throughout the year and executive or non-executive, have committees are also set out in the corporate are currently in force.
unrestricted access to the group company governance section of the Companys secretary and executives within the group Directors conflicts of interest website at www.
on any matter of concern to them in respect With effect from 1 October 2008, the board The non-executive directors are of their duties.
In addition new directors are has implemented revised procedures independent and free from any business given appropriate training on appointment whereby potential conflicts of interests are or other relationship that could interfere to the board.
Appropriate time is made reviewed regularly.
These procedures have materially with their judgement.
The during the year for continuing training on been designed so that the board may be non-executive directors do not participate relevant topics concerning the functioning of reasonably assured that any potential in any bonus, share option or pension the board and the obligations of directors.
situation where a director may have a scheme of the Company.
The Company has undertaken to reimburse direct or indirect interest which may conflict legal fees to the directors if circumstances or may possibly conflict with the interests The chairmans other business commitments should arise in which it is necessary for them of the Company are identified and where are set out in the biographical details on to seek separate, independent, legal advice appropriate dealt with in accordance page 24 and there have been no significant in furtherance of their duties.
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the changes during the period relating to with the Articles of Association, one third Companys Articles of Association.
of the directors are required to offer The board has not had to deal with any The board considers that the balance themselves for re-election every year.
achieved between executive and nonDirectors interests and indemnity The remuneration committee, chaired executive directors during the period was arrangements during the year by David Williams, appropriate and effective for the control At no time during the year did any director establishes the remuneration policy generally, and direction of the business.
hold a material interest in any contract of approves specific arrangements for the The board is assisted by committees that significance with the Company or any of chairman and the executive directors and it has established with written terms of its subsidiary undertakings other than a reviews and comments upon the proposed reference.
The roles of the remuneration, third-party indemnity provision between arrangements for senior executives so as audit and nomination committees are each director and the Company and service to ensure consistency within the overall set out below.
Prior to 17 July 2008, when contracts between each executive director remuneration policy.
Full disclosure of the Richard Rivers joined the board and its and the Company.
The Company has Companys remuneration policy and details committees, the audit, remuneration and purchased and maintained throughout of the remuneration of each director is set nomination committees were comprised the year directors and officers liability out in the remuneration report on pages 34 of the three non-executive directors with insurance in respect of itself and its to 37 and in Appendix A on pages 76 to 79. the chairman additionally serving on the directors.
The directors also have the benefit During the period no director was, and remuneration and nomination committees.
of the indemnity provision contained in the procedures are in place to ensure that A record of the meetings held during the Companys Articles of Association.
These no director is, involved in deciding or year of the board, its committees and the provisions, which are qualifying third-party determining his or her own remuneration.
attendance by individual directors is set indemnity provisions as defined by Section The nomination committee, chaired during out at page 33.
236 of the Companies Act 2006, were in the year by Ian Peacock, comprises all of force throughout the year and are currently The board has delegated day-to-day and the non-executive directors.
Details of directors remuneration, business management control of the group reference of the committee is set out on the service contracts and interests in the shares to the executive committee.
The committee makes of the Company are set out in the directors committee consists of nine executives, being proposals on the size, structure, composition remuneration report.
31 Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Governance Corporate governance continued and appointments to the board.
It carries of major shareholders.
The outcome accounts, having in both cases received a out the selection process and agrees of meetings with major shareholders report from the external auditors on their the terms of appointment of non-executive is reported by the group chief executive review and audit of the respective reports directors.
An external search agency at board meetings on a periodic basis.
and accounts: is ordinarily used to assist in the Mindful always of its obligations to the assisted the board in its detailed review identification of suitable candidates for investing community as a whole, the Company of the going concern principle board appointments.
The nomination reaches a wider audience by the use of its underpinning the results of the group committee also reviews succession planning website at www.
com and, for the period in the light of the Financial on an annual basis.
with a view to encouraging full participation Reporting Councils additional guidance The board is of the opinion that the directors of those unable to attend the AGM, on going concern and liquidity seeking re-election at the AGM have provides an opportunity for shareholders risk published in November 2008: continued to give effective counsel to ask questions of their board by email reviewed the preliminary and interim and commitment to the Company and to investorrelations@mothercare.
com or statements prior to them being issued accordingly should be re-appointed.
by the provision of a reply-paid question to the markets: service to the chairman.
During the period the board carried out considered the output of the procedures a further evaluation of its effectiveness The audit committee was chaired during used to evaluate and mitigate risk within and operation.
The review was carried the year by Bernard Cragg, the senior the group: out by the group company secretary, non-executive director.
The remit of the using an in-depth questionnaire approach.
audit committee is to review the scope and reviewed the effectiveness of the groups The chairman also interviewed each issues arising from the audit and matters internal controls and disclosures made in non-executive director drawing upon relating to financial control.
It also assists the annual report: the themes and issues disclosed by the the board in its review of corporate agreed the fees and terms of appointment questionnaire.
The review which took governance and in the presentation of the of the external auditors: place between December 2008 and Companys financial results through its January 2009 concluded that the board, review of the interim and full year accounts reviewed both the committees and the its committees and individual directors before approval by the board, focusing in external auditors effectiveness: contributed effectively to the overall particular on compliance with accounting agreed the work plan of the internal audit operation and review of the Companys principles, changes in accounting practice function and reviewed the resultant affairs.
Karren Brady and Bernard Cragg and major areas of judgement.
The full output from that plan: and have or will complete six years as nonterms of reference are set out under the executive directors with the Company on corporate governance section of the reviewed and assessed the groups 23 July and 25 March 2009 respectively.
compliance with corporate governance As good governance requires, the board principles.
The audit committee comprises the four considered carefully and concluded that non-executive directors.
The group The audit committee reviews annually the it would be appropriate for each company secretary acts as secretary independence of the external audit firm non-executive director to be offered the to the committee.
Bernard Cragg is a and the individuals carrying out the audit opportunity to serve for a further period chartered accountant with considerable by receiving assurances from and assessing of three years.
financial and varied commercial experience.
the audit firm against best practice principles.
Shareholder relations The Company The committee seeks to balance the benefits The committee met four times during the maintains regular dialogue with institutional of continuity of audit personnel and the period.
No specific remuneration of shareholders following presentation of the need to assure independence through the non-executive directors is ascribed financial performance of the business to the change of audit personnel by agreeing with to membership of the audit committee investing communities.
Opportunities for the audit firm staff rotation policies.
other than a supplement of 5,000 dialogue take place at least four times a paid to Bernard Cragg in respect of In addition, a policy in respect of non-audit year following the announcement of the half his chairmanship of the committee.
work by the audit firm is also in effect, and full year results and trading statements the general principle being that the audit at the AGM and post Christmas.
During such The main activities of the audit committee firm should not be requested to carry meetings the board is able to put forward in the 52 weeks ended 28 March 2009 out non-audit services on any activity of its objectives for the business and discuss During the period the audit committee has: the group where they may, in the future, performance against those objectives reviewed the financial statements both in be required to give an audit opinion.
and develop an understanding of the views 32 the interim report and full year report and The group has, however, recognised that taxation advice is an acceptable Director attendance statistics for the 52 week period ended 28 March 2009 Committee derogation from this principle.
Director Board Audit Nomination Remuneration The committee has assisted the board in the assessment of the adequacy of the Maximum number of meetings 7 4 1 5 resourcing plan for the internal audit Ian Peacock 7 4 1 5 function.
In respect of the activities of the Karren Brady 7 4 1 5 function, the committee has received reports Bernard Cragg 7 4 1 5 upon the work carried out and the results Ben Gordon 7 4 1 5 of the investigations including management Neil Harrington 7 4 1 5 responses, their adequacy and timeliness.
Richard Rivers 4 6 1 3 1 1 2 3 David Williams 7 3 5 A review was also held of the effectiveness of the audit committee and the external Notes: Richard Rivers was appointed on 17 July 2008.
Figures in parentheses indicate the maximum number of meetings auditors during the year.
It was considered since Mr Rivers appointment.
that the work of the audit committee during Ben Gordon and Neil Harrington attend meetings of the audit and remuneration committees upon the the year was effective measured against invitation of the respective chairmen.
Ian Peacock attends meetings of the audit committee on the same basis.
In addition to the board meetings above there were two ad hoc board meetings, which approved the interim its terms of reference and general audit and full year report and accounts respectively.
These meetings are constituted by the board from those committee practice.
In respect of the auditor members available at that time having considered the views of the whole board beforehand.
effectiveness review, it was considered that the external auditors had carried out their obligations in an effective and appropriate manner.
As a result of its work during the year, the committee has concluded that it has acted in accordance with its terms of reference and has ensured as far as possible by enquiry of them the independence of the external auditors.
The chairman of the committee will be available at the AGM to answer any questions on the work of the committee.
33 Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Governance
