Governance Corporate Governance Report The Group operates to a high standard of Corporate Governance.
Independent Non-Executive Directors In pursuit of such standards, the Directors apply a governance The Board considers that all of the Non-Executive Directors are approach that complies with all of the provisions of the Combined independent of management and free of any business relationship Code on Corporate Governance adopted by the Financial or other circumstance that could materially interfere with the Reporting Council in June 2008 the Code.
Where practicable, exercise of objective, unfettered or independent judgement.
the Directors seek to comply with guidelines issued by institutional In determining their dependence, the Board reviews all Directors investors and their representative bodies.
interests which may give rise to a potential or perceived conflict, and any circumstances relevant to their current or ongoing The Board independence as set out in the Code.
The role of the Board The Boards principal responsibility is to deliver shareholder Lynton Barker was appointed as Non-Executive Director and value and provide an overall vision and leadership for the Company.
deemed by the Board to be independent notwithstanding his It determines the Companys strategic direction: reviews the previous position as Chairman of Hedra, a Company acquired by Companys operating and financial performance: provides oversight the Group.
In reaching the determination, the Board have regard that the Company is adequately resourced and effectively controlled: to all circumstances and is satisfied that Lynton Barker remains an and is the primary decision-making body for all matters considered independent Director.
as significant to the Company as a whole.
Each Non-Executive Director serves for a fixed term of not There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the the Board, exceeding three years that may be renewed by mutual agreement.
which provides a framework for the Board to oversee the control of Subject to the Board being satisfied with a Directors performance, the Groups direction and affairs.
These include the approval of the independence and commitment, there is no specified limit Groups long-term objectives and commercial strategy: the approval regarding the number of terms a Director may serve.
The of budgets and business plans, and oversees the Groups comparatively long tenure of several Directors, in our judgement, compliance with regulatory obligations.
has been instrumental to the Boards in-depth understanding of the Group and its operation.
New and long-service directors alike The full schedule of matters reserved for the Board is available on challenge and bring considerable knowledge.
Senior Independent Director Board composition and Board balance The Senior Independent Director, Rodney Westhead, is available The Board comprised nine members for part of 2008 and 2009 to shareholders should they have any issues or concerns that they and reduced to eight members following the retirement of Richard have been unable to resolve through normal channels, or when Benton on 1 May 2009.
Two members are Executive Directors and such channels would be inappropriate.
He is also responsible six members, including the Chairman, are Non-Executive Directors.
for leading the Boards discussion regarding the Chairmans Collectively, they have a diverse range of skills and experience.
The Board annually reviews the composition of the Board and Board process considers that there is an appropriate balance of Executive and The Board is responsible for the overall strategy of the Group Non-executive Directors on the Board.
and carries out its duties assisted by the Board Committees.
The Committees activities are described on pages 43 to 44.
Chairman and Chief Executive The separate roles and objectives of the Chairman and the To enable the Directors to fulfil their duties and obligations, Chief Executive are clearly defined in written role descriptions.
all Directors are fully briefed on important developments in These are reviewed and reapproved annually by the Board.
the various business activities which the Group carries out and regularly receive information concerning the Groups operations, Richard Benton was Chairman of the Board until his retirement in finances and risk factors.
The Directors are also frequently advised May 2009 when he was succeeded by Bo Lerenius.
The Chairman on regulatory and best practice requirements which affect the is responsible for the leadership and efficient operation of the Groups business.
Comprehensive papers are circulated to Board, for ensuring that corporate governance matters are Directors in advance of Board meetings and presentations addressed, and for representing the Company externally and made at the meetings where appropriate.
communicating with shareholders when required.
The Board is scheduled to meet monthly and no less than 10 times The Chief Executive, Richard Cuthbert, is responsible for the a year.
In addition to normal scheduled meetings, the Board development and implementation of policy and strategy and for convenes from time to time to deal with urgent matters.
In the year the day-to-day operations of the Group.
He is also responsible under review, the Board met 17 times and held eight Committee for chairing the Group Management Board and leads the meetings.
The Board also meets at least once a year to review the communication programme with analysts and potential investors, strategic direction of the Group.
The Chairman and Non-Executive providing feedback to the Board on a regular basis.
Directors meet annually without the Executive Directors present and the Senior Independent Director is responsible for leading the appraisal of the Chairmans performance with the other Non-Executive Directors.
Corporate Governance Report 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 42 Mouchel Group plc Governance The table below shows the number of board meetings held during On appointment, new Directors receive a wide-ranging and the year and the attendance by individual Directors.
comprehensive induction covering the Groups operations and the legal, regulatory and other obligations of a Director of a listed Number of Board meetings held in 2009 17 company.
The induction includes site visits and meetings with 1 Bo Lerenius Chairman 11 11 key management and the Companys legal and financial advisors.
Richard Cuthbert 17 17 The Directors also attend external courses where necessary.
Kevin Young 17 17 Lynton Barker 16 17 Election and re-election of Directors Debbie Hewitt 16 17 In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, one-third Ian Knight 16 17 of the Board is required to retire by rotation each year, but if any Sir Michael Lyons 13 17 Director has, at the start of the AGM, been in office for three years Rodney Westhead 13 17 or more since his or her last appointment or reappointment, he or 2 Richard Benton 12 12 she shall retire at the AGM.
In addition, any Director appointed during the year is subject to election at the AGM after their 1 appointed 30 January 2009 appointment.
The Non-Executive Directors are appointed for 2 retired 1 May 2009 an initial three-year term after which they are subject to annual reappointment.
Conflict of interest In line with the Companies Act 2006, the Company has established Board Committees a robust procedure requiring Directors to seek appropriate The Board is assisted in discharging its responsibilities authorisation prior to entering into any outside business interests.
through three principal Committees: the Audit Committee: Actual or potential conflicts of interest are reviewed by the Board.
the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee.
In assessing potential conflicts, the Board takes into consideration In addition to the Board Committees, the Group Management the impact on time commitment.
Board assists the Chief Executive in implementing the day-to-day management responsibilities of the Group.
Group Company Secretary All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Each Committee is responsible for the activities within its defined Company Secretary and may, in furtherance of their duties, seek terms of reference.
The Chairman of each Committee provides the independent professional advice, including legal advice at the Board with a summary of key issues considered at the meetings of Companys expense.
The Company Secretary is responsible the Committees and the minutes of the meetings were circulated to for ensuring that Board procedures and applicable rules and the Board.
The Company Secretary, in consultation with the Chairman, ensures that the information presented to the Board Committees are authorised to engage the services of Board is not only timely but of sufficient quality to enable members external advisers as they deem necessary in the furtherance to make informed decisions.
of their duties at the Companys expense.
Board performance and evaluation Reports of the Committees are set out on pages 43 to 44 and An effective Board is crucial to the success of the Group.
To assess pages 46 to 51. the performance of the Board and its committees, the Board undertook a formal and thorough evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees.
Each Board member completed Audit Committee a detailed questionnaire, the responses to which were all reviewed Number of meetings held in 2009 3 by the Chairman and discussed with the entire Board.
The Board Ian Knight Chairman 3 3 considered the merit of using an external body to manage the Debbie Hewitt 3 3 performance evaluation process and concluded that it remained Rodney Westhead 2 3 appropriate for the Board to evaluate its own performance.
1 Bo Lerenius 2 2 The evaluation covered areas such as the Boards role and culture, 1 appointed 31 July 2009 strategy, current issues and performance, risk management and attended by invitation controls, Board structure, succession planning, Board and principal committee meetings.
The conclusion was that the Board operated The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its effectively.
The outcome of the evaluations undertaken over the responsibilities for the integrity of the Companys external financial past four years was also reviewed and the progress on any actions reporting: the assessment of the adequacy and effectiveness of the noted.
internal financial and risk control function: the Groups accounting policy and monitoring the effectiveness and objectivity of the Directors induction and training external Auditors.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee The Board receives regular briefings by senior executives, the were reviewed during the year.
Companys advisors, and other means, to update and develop their skills and knowledge, and to gain a thorough understanding of the The Committee members have broad experience and knowledge Groups businesses and operations.
During the year, the Board of financial reporting.
Their biographical details can be found on continued to receive briefings on new requirements introduced pages 36 and 37 of this Report.
The Board believes that Ian Knight by the Companies Act 2006.
External training is made available and Rodney Westhead have recent and relevant financial experience.
Corporate Governance Report 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 43 Mouchel Group plc Governance Corporate Governance Report continued The Committee held three scheduled meetings during the year The Nomination Committee primarily focuses on the structure, size, and considered all matters under its remit.
The external Auditors, composition and skills of the Board to ensure that it is comprised the Group Finance Director, the Group Financial Controllers and of individuals who are best able to discharge the responsibilities the Chief Executive normally attend, by invitation, all meetings of required by the Group.
It also makes recommendations to the the Committee.
Other members of senior management are also Board concerning the succession planning for the Directors: invited to attend as appropriate to present reports.
advises the Board on issues of Directors conflicts of interest and independence and conducts a rigorous and transparent process It is the Committees practice at each meeting to meet separately when making or renewing appointments of Directors to the Board.
with the external Auditor and without any members of management being present, and to meet with the management without the The Committee met four times during the year and the members external Auditor present to discuss matters relating to any issues attendance record is set out above.
arising from the audit and matters relating to the Auditors remit and performance.
During the year, the Board accepted the Committees recommendations to appoint Bo Lerenius as a Non-Executive The Groups Auditor has direct access to the Committee to raise Director and subsequently as Chairman of the Company.
An any matters for discussion.
external executive search consultant was engaged to help identify suitable candidates with the skills and capabilities required, who During the year, the Committees activities included: underwent a rigorous interview process.
The effectiveness of the Committees performance was evaluated as part of the overall a review of the Companys financial announcements including the Board evaluation exercise during the year.
Annual Report and Accounts and associated documentation, placing particular emphasis on their fair presentation and the Group Management Board reasonableness of the judgemental factors and appropriateness The Group Management Board GMB supports the Chief of significant accounting policies used in their preparation: Executive and the Group Finance Director in the performance monitoring the Groups overall system of risk management: of their duties, including: a review of the effectiveness of the internal systems with respect to financial control: t he development and implementation of strategy, the Group a review of the Auditors independence, performance and corporate plan and operational plans, policies, procedures effectiveness: and budgets: review of the arrangements by which employees may, in the monitoring of operating and financial performance on confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in all a day-to-day basis: areas: and the assessment and control of risk: a review of the effectiveness of the Groups Fraud policy, the the prioritisation and allocation of resources: Groups Business Ethics policy, the Groups Anti-Corruption ensuring active cooperation and communication between policy and the Groups Whistle-blowing policy.
all parts of the business: monitoring of competitors: and The effectiveness of the Committees performance was evaluated leading and facilitating change and learning in the organisation.
as part of the overall Board evaluation exercise during the year.
The GMB is chaired by the Chief Executive, and comprises the The full terms of reference of the Committee can be found on the Group Finance Director, the Group Company Secretary, the Human Companys website.
Resources Director and the Managing Directors of the principal businesses.
Remuneration Committee The Report of the Remuneration Committee can be found on pages Internal control and risk management 46 to 51 of the Report.
The Board is responsible for establishing, reviewing and maintaining the Groups systems of internal control and risk management and Nomination Committee ensuring that these systems are effective for managing the business Number of meetings held in 2009 4 risk within the Group.
1 Bo Lerenius Chairman Lynton Barker 4 4 The Group has established a framework for identifying, evaluating Debbie Hewitt 4 4 and managing significant risks faced by the Group.
The framework Ian Knight 4 4 of risk management and internal control operating within the Group Sir Michael Lyons 3 4 has been in place throughout the year and is in accordance with the Rodney Westhead 3 4 Turnbull Guidance.
The framework is reviewed annually and is 2 Richard Benton Chairman 4 4 designed to safeguard shareholders investments and the Groups assets while ensuring that proper accounting records are maintained.
1 appointed 1 May 2009 2 retired 1 May 2009 Corporate Governance Report 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 44 Mouchel Group plc Governance It is the responsibility of management to ensure that the controls Risk management and procedures that operate within the framework are followed The Board has overall responsibility for identifying, evaluating and that the Board is kept fully appraised of any risks and control and managing major business risks facing the Group.
It regularly issues, both operational and financial, that arise from the reporting reviews business assessments of risk exposure and control, and structures which exist within the Group.
The Board recognises that it determines appropriate action.
There is an ongoing process for any system of internal control exists to minimise the risk of failure identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced rather than to eliminate it, and that any system of internal control by the business.
The process involves monthly reports, by can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against management, of the risk and internal control issues faced by material mis-statement or loss.
These risks are then reported to the GMB and the Audit Committee and the Board is kept fully appraised of The risk management of joint ventures and strategic partnerships any risks and internal control issues arising from these reports.
is agreed between the parties and periodic reviews are carried out A Bid Committee meets fortnightly and reviews all material bids.
The Board also receives monthly reports and key performance measures on health, safety and environmental matters.
The Audit Committee annually reviews the effectiveness of the risk management system and its internal controls and reports its Internal audit findings to the Board.
The Business Review Function provides rigour to the internal control and risk management process.
It reports to the GMB, Audit The framework through which the Group mitigates both operational Committee and the main Board.
The Business Review Functions and financial risk is described below.
The Group continually looks remit is to review, as part of the Groups risk management, the for ways to improve these processes and this year there have been performance and conduct of the Groups projects, contracts, joint a number of initiatives designed to reduce the commercial exposure ventures and partnerships, examining any relevant components of of the Group and further embed a risk management culture within performance, including financial and commercial matters, risks and the Group.
exposures, resourcing issues, client relationships, progress and performance against programme.
It also reviews and reports on Strategic control the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls including systems The Board reviews the Groups strategic plans annually.
against the strategic plan is monitored at Board and GMB meetings.
The GMB is responsible for monitoring the Groups Given the Groups size and complexity, an internal audit function strategic progress and is accountable to the Board in this regard.
Delegated authorities Relations with shareholders The Board has set clear terms of reference for its Committees, all The Board is committed to a continuing dialogue with its of which were reviewed during the financial year.
The Group has institutional shareholders.
Following the announcement and an organisational reporting structure with clearly defined delegated presentation of the half-year and year-end results, there are a series authorities to executive management and reporting systems for of formal meetings with institutional shareholders.
These meetings financial results, risk exposure and control assessment.
are a two-way dialogue whereby the Executive Directors can appraise the investors of the Groups business and future plans and Financial control the shareholders can communicate any concerns they may have.
The Group has a comprehensive system for reporting financial The Non-Executive Directors and Chairman are available to attend results to the Board.
Each business stream prepares monthly these meetings.
The Companys brokers and financial PR advisors results with a comparison against budget and forecast.
The Group provide feedback from the shareholder and analyst meetings and Chief Executive and Group Finance Director hold monthly review present the results to the Board.
meetings with each of the Managing Directors of the individual business streams.
Actions are identified and a financial report The Groups investor relations section on its website contains prepared for the GMB and the Board for review of the Group information on the Groups financial results, its corporate policies as a whole.
Additionally, the AGM provides a useful interface with shareholders.
All shareholders are invited to Business stream controls attend the AGM and all members of the Board will be available at Each business stream is responsible for identifying, evaluating and the meeting to answer questions.
Procedures are in place to ensure that risks are identified from project bidding stage through to project The Company seeks to promote the use of e-communications and completion stage and include reviews against key performance encourages its shareholders to sign up to receive Company indicators.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf.
Amanda Massie Group Company Secretary 16 October 2009 Corporate Governance Report 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 45 Mouchel Group plc
