888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Corporate Governance 888 Holdings plc the Company is admitted to the UK Official List Group budgets and dividend policy.
The Board also determines key and traded on the London Stock Exchange, but it is not subject to appointments.
The Board receives regular updates on shareholders the UK Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued in June views.
2008 the Code as it is a Gibraltar incorporated company.
The Directors support high standards of Corporate Governance and will The Board has established a calendar of business.
This provides continue to comply with the Code as far as it is appropriate for a for the financial calendar, strategic planning, annual budgets and company incorporated in Gibraltar.
performance self-assessments, as well as the conduct of standing business.
The calendar forms the basis for effective integration The Board of business activities as between the Board and its principal The Directors consider it essential that the Company should be both Committees see pages 29 and 30, which individually consider their led and controlled by an effective Board.
own operating frameworks against the Boards business programme.
Composition The Board has established a formal process for the annual evaluation Following the resignation of one Director on 30 December 2009, of the performance of the Board, its committees and individual the Board consists of seven Directors as follows: three Independent Directors.
The evaluation process covered a range of issues such as Non-executive Directors, one non-Independent Non-executive Board processes, Board roles and responsibilities, Board agendas Director, a Non-executive Chairman, and two Executive Directors, and committee processes.
The Board and its committees were found comprising the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer.
The biographical details of all of the Directors are given on page 27.
The Board plans to meet six times a year.
During 2009, the Board Strategic approach met six times.
The Board focuses upon the Groups long-term objectives, strategic and policy issues and considers the management of key risks Set out below are details of the Directors attendance record at facing the Group.
The Board is responsible for acquisitions and Board and Committee meetings in 2009. divestments, major capital expenditure projects and considering Total number of meetings held during the year ended December 2009 and the number of meetings attended by each Director Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee Total held in year 6 3 4 Richard Kilsby 5 n a n a Gigi Levy 6 n a n a n a Aviad Kobrine 6 n a n a n a John Anderson 5 n a n a n a Shay Ben-Yitzhak 4 n a n a n a Michael Constantine 6 3 4 Brian Mattingley 6 3 4 Amos Pickel 5 3 3 n a The Chairman has responsibility for ensuring that agendas for Board to appraise the performance of the Chairman.
The Directors have meetings are set in advance.
Board papers are issued to Directors wide ranging business experience, and no individual, or group of sufficiently in advance of meetings to facilitate both informed debate individuals, dominates the Boards decision making.
The Board considers that Brian Mattingley, Michael Constantine and Non-executive review and performance Amos Pickel satisfy the criteria of the Code to act as Independent appraisal Non-executive Directors.
The Board is satisfied that, upon his The Chairman holds meetings at least once per year with the appointment as Chairman, Richard Kilsby met the independence Non-executive Directors without the Executive Directors being criteria of the Code.
The other significant commitments of the present.
Led by the Senior Independent Director, the Non-executive Chairman during 2009 are detailed in his biography on page 27.
Directors meet once per year without the Chairman present in order The Board considers that Mr Kilsbys other commitments do not 28 17555 30 03 2010 Proof 11 17555888COM.
com interfere with the discharge of his responsibilities to the Group and is Shay Ben-YItzhak and Aviad Kobrine were appointed for a period satisfied that he makes sufficient time available to serve the Company of three years, following their reappointment by the shareholders effectively.
at the 2008 Annual General Meeting.
Michael Constantine, Brian Mattingley and Amos Pickel were appointed for a period of three Reserved powers and delegation years, following their reappointment by the shareholders at the 2009 A schedule of matters reserved to the Board has been adopted Annual General Meeting.
and its content is reviewed to align it with operational needs and the Boards preference to monitor and, where appropriate, approve Audit Committee matters of substance to the Group as a whole.
Senior executives The Audit Committee comprises three Independent Non-executive have given written undertakings to ensure compliance within their Directors: Brian Mattingley Chair, Michael Constantine and business operations with the Boards formal schedule of matters Amos Pickel.
The Board is satisfied that Brian Mattingley has reserved to it for decision or approval.
sufficient recent and relevant financial experience to Chair the Audit Committee.
Normally, by invitation, the Chairman, Chief Executive Division of responsibilities Officer and Chief Financial Officer and, where appropriate, the The responsibilities of the Chairman are clearly and formally defined, Internal Auditor and representatives of the Companys external with the Chairman being responsible for the effective operation of the auditors attend the Audit Committee meetings.
Board as a whole and supporting key external relationships.
The Audit Committees terms of reference are available on request to Other issues the Company Secretary and are included on the Companys website, All Directors have access to the advice and services of the www.
Company Secretary and the Companys nominated advisers, who are responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
In summary, the Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging Directors are able to seek independent professional advice, if its responsibilities with regard to financial reporting, external and required, at the Companys expense provided that they have first internal audits and controls, including reviewing 888s annual financial notified their intention to do so.
The appointment or removal of the statements, considering the scope of annual audit and the extent Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
of non-audit work undertaken by external auditors, approving 888s internal audit programme, advising on the appointment of external The Board accepts that there should be a formal, rigorous and auditors and reviewing the effectiveness of internal control systems.
transparent procedure for the induction of new Directors, which has been formulated with the guidance of the Nominations Committee.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee comprises three Independent NonThe opportunity to hold office as Non-executive Directors of other executive Directors, Michael Constantine Chair, Brian Mattingley companies enables Directors of 888 to broaden their experience and and Amos Pickel, as well as Richard Kilsby, Chairman.
The knowledge, which will benefit the Company.
Executive Directors may Nominations Committee did not meet during 2009. be allowed to accept Non-executive appointments with the Boards prior permission, so long as these are not likely to lead to any conflict The Nominations Committee assists the Board in discharging of interest.
Executive Directors may be required to account for fees its responsibilities relating to the composition of the Board.
The received from such other companies.
Nominations Committee is responsible for reviewing, from time to time, the structure of the Board, determining succession plans The Company has arranged insurance cover in respect of legal for the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and identifying and actions against its Directors.
To the extent permitted by Gibraltar law, recommending suitable candidates for appointment as Directors.
The the Company also indemnifies the Directors.
Neither the insurance Nominations Committees terms of reference are available on request nor the indemnity provides cover where a Director has acted to the Company Secretary and are included on the Companys fraudulently or dishonestly.
Re-election of Directors Remuneration Committee All Directors are subject to reappointment by shareholders at the The Companys Remuneration Committee comprises three first Annual General Meeting after their appointment, and thereafter, Independent Non-executive Directors: Brian Mattingley chair, in accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company, at Michael Constantine and Amos Pickel.
intervals of no more than three years.
Gigi Levy and John Anderson were appointed as Directors Mr Anderson for an initial period of three years at the 2007 Annual General Meeting.
indd 29 30 03 2010 12:34 30 03 2010 12:34 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Corporate Governance continued The Board has overall responsibility for determining the framework of Brian Mattingley, the Senior Independent Director, is available Executive remuneration and its cost.
It is required to take account of any to shareholders to address any issues where contact with the recommendation made by the Remuneration Committee in determining Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer is the remuneration, benefits and employment packages of the Executive inappropriate or where such contact has failed to resolve the issue.
Directors and senior management and the fees of the Chairman.
All shareholders are welcome to attend the 2010 Annual General The Remuneration Report, which outlines the Remuneration Meeting and private investors are encouraged to take advantage of Committees work and details of Directors remuneration, is on pages the opportunity given to ask questions.
The Chairmen or nominated 31 to 38.
The Remuneration Committees terms of reference are members of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees available on request to the Company Secretary and are included on will attend the meeting and be available to answer questions.
Compliance with the Code Provisions Risk Management and Internal Control As 888 Holdings Public Limited Company is registered in Gibraltar, it The Directors acknowledge that they are responsible for the is subject to compliance with Gibraltar statutory requirements and is Companys system of internal control, for setting policy on internal not bound by the UK Combined Code.
The main legislation relevant control and risk management, and for reviewing the effectiveness to companies in Gibraltar is the Gibraltar Companies Act, which is of internal control and risk management.
It is managements role to based on the UK Companies Act 1929.
888 Holdings Public Limited implement Board policies on risk and control, including reporting.
Company is in full compliance with the Gibraltar Companies Act.
The system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can Going Concern only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against After careful review of the Groups budget for 2010, its medium-term material misstatement or loss.
plans, liquid resources and all relevant matters the Directors are confident that the Company and the Group have adequate financial The Board has delegated responsibility to the Audit Committee to resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable review the appropriateness and adequacy of systems of internal future.
They have therefore continued to adopt the going concern control and risk management in relation to the financial reporting basis in preparing the financial statements.
process on an ongoing basis and to make recommendations to the Board.
The Company has an Internal Auditor who reports to the The principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group are Audit Committee.
888s payment risk management team, based in Gibraltar, has Corporate Social Responsibility Statement developed stringent payment risk management and fraud control The Groups Chief Executive Officer is the Director responsible for procedures.
The team makes use of external and internal systems to monitoring corporate social responsibility within 888.
The Board manage the payment risks.
Detailed procedures exist throughout the receives periodic reports on the Groups activities in this area Companys operations and compliance is monitored by operational from the Chief Executive Officer.
Further details are set out in the management and the Internal Auditor.
Corporate Social Responsibility report on pages 22 to 25.
The Directors periodically review the effectiveness of the Groups Community systems of internal control and risk management.
The review Sponsorship considers individual risk control responsibilities, reporting lines and 888 is a sizeable employer with a visible presence in Gibraltar qualitative assessments of residual risks.
and enjoys a good relationship with the local community.
During 2009, the Group continued its policy of reinforcing this relationship Relations with Shareholders and Key Financial by making contributions to a number of local causes, primarily Audiences educational.
The Company maintains an active and regular dialogue with principal and institutional shareholders and sell-side analysts through a Charities planned programme of investor relations and financial PR activity.
The In 2009, the Group made donations totalling US$124,799 outcome of these meetings is reported to the Board.
The programme 2008: US$107,821 to organizations promoting various social includes formal presentations of full year and interim results, quarterly causes in Gibraltar and Israel.
release of Interim Management Statements, analysts conference calls and periodic road shows.
