Corporate Governance Report Statement of Compliance with the Combined Code In the opinion of the Directors the Company, on an ongoing basis, complies with the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance revised in 2008 which is available online at www.
uk the Code save for the composition of the Nomination Committee A.
The Board considers that, as the representative of the Companys main shareholder, Jorge Cosmen, who is not considered independent, should be a member of the Nomination Committee in order to be involved in the recruitment process for Board appointments.
Prior to the appointment of John Devaney on 2 April 2009 the other members of the Nomination Committee were Tim Score who was not considered independent whilst acting as Interim Chairman and Sir Andrew Foster who is considered independent.
During the year in question, as a result of Board members holding interim positions while the Board was without a Chairman and subsequently a Chief Executive the Company was non-compliant from time to time with those requirements of the Code in respect of Board composition and balance A.
3.3, the composition of the Remuneration Committee B.
2.1 and the composition of the Audit Committee C. 3.1 as follows: Tim Score held the position of Interim Chairman and Senior Independent Director until 19 January 2009 when Roger Devlin was appointed as Senior Independent Director for the remainder of the period of Tim Scores interim chairmanship: prior to the appointment of John Devaney as Chairman on 2 April 2009, Tim Score held the position of Interim Chairman.
Excluding the Interim Chairman, the Board comprised seven Directors of whom only three Non-Executive Directors Miranda Curtis, Roger Devlin and Sir Andrew Foster were considered by the Board to be independent.
After John Devaneys appointment as Chairman, Tim Score was again considered independent when he resumed his role as Senior Independent Director on 2 April 2009: during the period of Tim Scores interim chairmanship, only two of the members of the Remuneration Committee, Roger Devlin and Miranda Curtis, were considered independent: following the resignation of Richard Bowker on 10 July 2009, John Devaney assumed the role of Executive Chairman until 15 February 2010, combining the roles of both Chairman and Chief Executive: and prior to John Devaneys appointment, the Company was in non-compliance with the requirement that the Audit Committee should be made up solely of independent Non-Executive Directors as Tim Score was both Chairman and a member of the Audit Committee.
Applying the principles of good governance The Board of Directors, Chairman and Chief Executive The Directors believe it is essential for the Group to be led and controlled by an effective Board that provides entrepreneurial leadership within a framework of sound controls.
The Board is responsible for setting the Groups strategic aims, its values and standards and ensuring the necessary financial and human resources are in place to achieve its goals.
As at the date of this Report the Board consists of the Chairman, three Executive and five Non-Executive Directors.
A full list of the Directors with details of their biographies and Committee memberships is given on page 28.
The offices of Chairman and Chief Executive were held separately until the resignation of Richard Bowker on 10 July 2009 when John Devaney was appointed Executive Chairman as described above.
However he relinquished his executive responsibilities upon the appointment of Dean Finch as Chief Executive on 15 February 2010.
The division of responsibilities between the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive is shown below.
Main responsibilities of the Chairman include: chairing and managing the business of the Board: together with the Chief Executive, leading the Board in developing the strategy of the business and ensuring this is effectively implemented by the executive management team: ensuring that there is effective dialogue with investors concerning mutual understanding of objectives: in conjunction with the Nomination Committee, taking responsibility for the composition and replenishment of the Board: periodically reviewing with the Board its working practices and performance: and ensuring there is effective contribution from the Non-Executive Directors and a constructive relationship between the Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
Main responsibilities of the Chief Executive include: the development and implementation of management strategy: the day-to-day management of the Group: managing the executive management team: and fostering relationships with key stakeholders.
National Express Group PLC 35 Corporate Governance Report continued Applying the principles of good governance continued Tim Score is the Senior Independent Director.
The Board considers all of the Non-Executive Directors to be independent other than Jorge Cosmen and considered John Devaney to be independent upon appointment as Chairman.
Mr Cosmen is not considered to be independent by the Board due to his close links with the ALSA business and significant interests in the shares of the Company which are held through European Express Enterprises Limited.
The Non-Executives bring a variety of different experiences and considerable knowledge to assist with Board decisions.
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any of the Companys share option or bonus schemes and their service is non-pensionable.
The Board normally meets at least eight times during the year.
In 2009, given the exceptional challenges faced by the Company, the Board met 26 times.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Boards decision, the main terms of which are shown on page 40.
The attendance record of the Directors is shown below.
During the year the Chairman met on several occasions with the Non-Executives without the Executive Directors present to allow informal discussions on a variety of issues.
The Executive Directors are responsible for the day-to-day management of the Groups businesses, implementation of its strategy, policies and budgets and its financial performance.
Executive management meetings, involving the Executive Directors and senior management from the divisions are held regularly to discuss current issues.
The Company purchases Directors and Officers Liability Insurance for the Company and its subsidiaries, which gives appropriate cover for any legal action brought against its Directors.
The Board and its principal Committees The following tables set out the number of meetings of the Board and its Committees during the year and individual attendance by the Board and Committee members at these meetings.
All of the Committees are authorised to obtain legal or other professional advice as necessary, to secure the attendance of external advisors at their meetings and to seek information required from any employee of the Company in order to perform their duties.
The full terms of reference of the principal Committees are available on the Companys website at www.
The Board of Directors Meetings Name of Director Attended Possible 1 Richard Bowker Chief Executive 11 11 Tim Score Senior Independent Director 26 26 John Devaney 2 Chairman 21 21 Executive Directors Jez Maiden 26 26 Ray OToole 26 26 Non-Executive Directors 3 Jorge Cosmen Deputy Chairman 16 26 Miranda Curtis 24 26 Roger Devlin 25 26 Sir Andrew Foster 26 26 Company Secretary: Tony McDonald also acts as Secretary to the Board Committees.
1 Resigned from the Board on 10 July 2009.
2 Appointed to the Board on 2 April 2009.
Appointed as Executive Chairman from 10 July 2009 to 15 February 2010.
3 Jorge Cosmen absented himself from Board and Committee meetings during the period in which the approach to the Company from the CVC consortium was being discussed.
Committees of the Board The Board has established a number of Committees with defined terms of reference and receives reports of their proceedings.
The principal Committees are the Remuneration Committee, the Nomination Committee, the Audit Committee and the Safety and Environment Committee.
The members of each principal Committee, their attendance and main duties are shown on pages 37 to 39.
In addition there is an Executive Committee with authority to approve routine matters of business and a Tax and Treasury Committee which reviews the Groups tax planning, banking facilities and treasury reports.
36 National Express Group PLC Audit Committee Meetings Name of Director Position Attended Possible Tim Score Chairman 3 3 Roger Devlin 3 3 Sir Andrew Foster 3 3 The role of the Audit Committee The Committee oversees the process for selecting the external auditor, assesses the continuing independence of the external auditor and recommends approval of the audit fee to the Board.
It is responsible for ensuring that provision of non audit services does not impair the external auditors independence or objectivity.
It discusses with the external auditor the nature and scope of the audit and any issues or concerns arising from the audit process.
The Committee reviews the internal audit programme, considers major findings of the internal audit investigations and reviews managements financial reporting and risk management.
The Committee reviews the half-year and annual financial statements and the effectiveness of the Companys internal control and risk management systems.
The Committee meets at least three times a year and met three times in 2009.
The agenda reflects the duties delegated to it by its terms of reference, details of which are summarised above.
There are a number of standing items considered during the year such as consideration of the internal and external audit reports, review of the Annual Report and Accounts, review of the preliminary and half year announcements, and review of the Corporate Governance Report.
At the invitation of the Committee, and as appropriate to the matters under discussion, meetings may be attended by the Executive Directors and internal and external auditors.
Full minutes are kept by the Secretary of the matters considered and decisions taken by the Committee.
Outside of the meeting process the Committee Chairman has regular contact with the Executive Directors, other Committee members and the auditors on a variety of topics.
Main activities during the year Other items that were considered and discussed during 2009 included: a review of the 2009 internal and external audit plans: a review of proposed changes in the Groups internal audit structure to be implemented in 2010: a review of proposals for the North America transformation project: annual fitness checks within the subsidiaries: and the external auditors performance and fees.
Review of external auditors The Audit Committee assesses and reviews on a regular basis the independence of the external auditors.
As part of their determination the Audit Committee considers a report by the external auditors on the firms independence which is required in order to carry out their professional duties and responsibilities as auditors.
Policy on auditors providing non-audit work The Committee has an approved policy on the provision of non-audit services.
The policy sets the approvals policy for the following types of service: services that are considered to have general pre-approval by the Audit Committee, by virtue of the approval of the policy: services that require specific pre-approval, on a case-by-case basis, before any work can commence: and services that cannot be supplied by the external auditors prohibited services.
The services that have general pre-approval are tax, transaction investigation and valuation, advisory and corporate finance services.
The fees for these services are pre-approved up to a level of 25% of the total fees paid to the external auditors.
For services exceeding this limit specific pre-approval is required.
In deciding whether or not to grant approval for the provision of specific services by the external auditors, the Audit Committee includes in its consideration the following factors: i whether the external auditing firm is best placed to provide an effective and efficient service, given its familiarity with the Companys processes, systems and people: and ii the level of non-audit fees paid to the external auditors in the year as a proportion of the annual external audit fee.
The majority of non-audit work undertaken by the external auditors during the year relates to advice in respect of the Rights Issue which was announced on 13 November 2009, a 350 million Sterling bond issue launched on 7 January 2010 and overseas financing structures and tax advisory compliance services.
These items the Committee believes would be impractical and costly to provide through another party.
National Express Group PLC 37 Corporate Governance Report continued Remuneration Committee Meetings Name of Director Position Attended Possible Roger Devlin Chairman 5 5 Miranda Curtis 5 5 Tim Score 5 5 The role of the Remuneration Committee The Committee is responsible for determining broad policy for the remuneration of the Executive Directors including the Chief Executive, the divisional Chief Executives, the Chairman of the Company and the Company Secretary.
Within the terms of the agreed policy the Committee will determine the total individual remuneration package of each Executive Director including, where appropriate, bonuses, incentive payments, pension arrangements and share options.
The Committee is responsible for selecting, appointing and setting the terms of reference for any remuneration consultants who advise the Committee.
The Committee ensures that contractual terms on termination, and any payments made, are fair to the individual and the Company, that failure is not rewarded and the duty to mitigate loss is, where appropriate, fully recognised.
Further information on the activities of the Remuneration Committee is provided in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 42.
Nomination Committee Meetings Name of Director Position Attended Possible Tim Score Chairman resigned 2 April 2009 3 3 John Devaney Chairman appointed 2 April 2009 2 2 Sir Andrew Foster 5 5 1 Jorge Cosmen 4 5 1 Jorge Cosmen absented himself from Board and Committee meetings during the period in which the approach to the Company from the CVC consortium was being discussed.
The role of the Nomination Committee The Committee is responsible for identifying and nominating for the approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise.
It will give full consideration to succession planning, and keep under review the leadership needs of the organisation, both Executive and Non-Executive.
The Committee reviews the time required from a Non-Executive Director and uses performance evaluation to assess whether the Non-Executive Director is spending enough time on fulfilling their duties.
The Nomination Committee leads the process for Board appointments and makes recommendations to the Board.
The Committee will prepare a description of the role and requirements for any particular appointment based on its evaluation of the Board as a whole.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and at the AGM of the Company.
The Non-Executive Directors disclose to the Board their other significant commitments.
The procedures adopted by the Company in relation to Directors conflicts of interest are detailed on page 40.
External advisors are normally appointed when recruiting Board members: they use as a basis for their search a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment proposed by the Nomination Committee.
Main activities during the year During the year the Committee: considered who should act as Senior Independent Director during the term of Tim Scores interim Chairmanship: appointed search consultants to identify a shortlist for a permanent successor for the Chairmans position and made a recommendation for the formal appointment of John Devaney to the role of Chairman: considered the role specification for a new Chief Executive to replace Richard Bowker, appointed search consultants for the Chief Executives position and interviewed candidates for this position, following which Dean Finch was recommended to the Board for appointment as Chief Executive.
38 National Express Group PLC Safety and Environment Committee Name of Director Position Attended Possible Miranda Curtis Chairman 4 4 1 Jorge Cosmen 3 4 Roger Devlin 4 4 John Devaney appointed 2 April 2009 3 3 Sir Andrew Foster 4 4 Tim Score 4 4 1 Jorge Cosmen absented himself from Board and Committee meetings during the period in which the approach to the Company from the CVC consortium was being discussed.
The role of the Safety and Environment Committee The Committee is responsible for reviewing and challenging constructively the structure, content and operation of the safety management arrangements put in place by members of the executive management of the Groups operating companies.
It reports periodically to the Board its observations on the safety management arrangements in place and reviews and makes recommendations to the Board on any specific safety management issues relating to the Group or any subsidiary company.
The Board supports the highest standards of corporate governance and ethical practices within all its operations and continues to review its policies on an ongoing basis.
The Board has endorsed a set of principles which establish the framework for how its businesses operate.
Key to these is working in an open and honest manner.
Main activities during the year During the year the Committee: visited Group locations to review safety practices and procedures: reviewed compliance by the North America division with the requirements of the Groups Health and Safety policy: monitored the progress of implementation of the Groups Health and Safety Plan 2009-2011: and considered the strategic aims of the business in relation to risk and liability and efficiency of energy use.
Information and professional development Reports from the Executive Directors, which include in-depth financial information, are circulated to Board members prior to every Board meeting.
Senior management and advisors give presentations to the Board on significant matters during the year.
Under the direction of the Chairman, the Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring Board procedures are followed and applicable rules and regulations are complied with and advises the Board on governance matters.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and the appointment or removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
There is a procedure in place for any Director to take independent professional advice where considered necessary.
On appointment, Directors are offered an appropriate training course and are thereafter encouraged to keep abreast of matters affecting their duties as a Director and to attend training courses relevant to their role.
An induction process is in place for new Directors, the aims of which are to: build an understanding of the nature of the Company, its business and the markets in which it operates: establish a link with the Groups employees: and build an understanding of the Groups main relationships including stakeholders and customers.
Performance evaluation Formal evaluation of the Boards performance is periodically carried out using external consultants.
The external consultants receive evaluation questionnaires from each of the Directors and the Company Secretary.
The questionnaires cover the performance of the Board as a whole and individual Board members.
As a follow up to the questionnaires individual meetings are held by the consultants with each Board member at which the answers to the questionnaires are explored further and additional matters raised, before being discussed with the Chairman of the Board and the Board as a whole.
Subsequently the Board agrees a series of actions to improve its performance and increase its effectiveness.
It is anticipated that the next formal appraisal will be carried out in late 2010.
Re-election In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association all Directors submit themselves for election at the Annual General Meeting following their appointment and thereafter by rotation at least once every three years.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for specific terms, subject to re-election.
Non-Executive Directors will only be put forward for re-election if, following performance evaluation, the Board believes the Directors performance continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role.
Remuneration and service contracts The Directors Remuneration Report including details of remuneration policy and service contracts is set out on pages 42 to 54.
National Express Group PLC 39 Corporate Governance Report continued Directors conflicts of interest The Board has a procedure in place to deal with a situation where a Director has a conflict of interest, as required by the Companies Act 2006.
As part of this process, the members of the Board prepare a list of other positions held and all other conflict situations that may need authorising either in relation to the Director concerned or his her connected persons.
The Board considers each Directors situation and decides whether to approve any conflict situations, taking into consideration what is in the best interests of the Company and whether the Directors ability to act in accordance with his or her wider duties is affected.
Each Director is required to notify the Company Secretary of any potential or actual conflict situations that will need authorising by the Board.
Authorisations given by the Board are reviewed annually.
Accountability and audit Statements of the respective responsibilities of the Directors and auditors are set out on pages 34 and 55.
Internal control The Boards responsibilities The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board maintains full control and direction over appropriate strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues and has put in place an organisational structure with formally defined lines of responsibility, delegated authorities and clear operating processes.
The systems that the Board has established are designed to safeguard both the shareholders investment and the assets of the Group, and are described below.
Key elements of the control framework Financial reporting process management and specialists within the Finance Department are responsible for ensuring the appropriate maintenance of financial records and processes to ensure that all information is relevant, reliable and in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations, and distributed both internally and externally in a timely manner.
A review of the consolidation and financial statements is completed by management to ensure that the financial position and results of the Group are appropriately reflected.
All financial information published by the Group is subject to the approval of the Audit Committee.
Strategic and financial planning an annual budgeting and strategic planning process has been established whereby each division and constituent operating company assesses its competitive position and goals, taking account of the strategic risks faced.
This strategy is translated into a financial plan with clear milestones and performance indicators.
Performance management the performance of each division and operating company against its plan is closely monitored by a formal monthly reporting process and by the attendance of the relevant Executive Directors at monthly divisional board meetings.
Annual fitness check process a self assessment review takes place at each operating company to assess the integrity of the balance sheet and to challenge the effective operation of key financial and information systems controls within each material accounting cycle.
This process is led by divisional Finance Directors and is closely monitored by Group finance and validated by the internal audit function.
Capital investment a clear process is in place for the approval of capital expenditure, which includes detailed appraisal of the benefits of the proposed investment and any associated key risks.
Material capital expenditure requires Board approval.
Health and safety health and safety standards and benchmarks have been established in all our businesses and the performance of operating companies in meeting these standards is closely monitored.
Risk management reporting process each division and operating company evaluates its internal control environment and key risks, and the results are reviewed at management level and passed to the Audit Committee before being presented to the Board.
This process is reviewed on a regular basis to ensure the validity and relevance of the key risks included in quarterly reports.
The review covers strategic, financial, compliance and risk management controls.
These procedures are mandated and designed to manage the risk in order to ensure that the operations achieve their business objectives.
Internal audit the internal control system is independently monitored and supported by an outsourced Group internal audit function which works in conjunction with an in-house internal audit resource.
The division of responsibilities between the in-house and outsourced functions is agreed as part of an annual internal audit plan.
The internal audit function reports to management and the Audit Committee on the Groups financial and operational controls, and reviews, together with in-house internal audit functions, particularly in the UK business, the extent to which its recommendations have been implemented.
After a review of the current provision of the internal audit function, a new structure will be implemented in 2010 whereby it is proposed to move the Group internal audit function in-house, retaining a third party internal audit service provider to deliver technical and specialist audits eg for IT and treasury.
Board-level reporting on internal control during the year the Audit Committee reviews regular reports from the internal audit function, the external auditors, and executive management on matters relating to internal control, financial reporting and risk management.
The Audit Committee provides the Board with an independent assessment of the Groups financial position, accounting affairs and control systems.
In addition, the Board receives regular reports on how specific risks that are assessed as material to the Group are being managed.
40 National Express Group PLC Review of internal control effectiveness The system of internal control and risk management, described above, has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Such a system is designed to manage, rather than to eliminate, the risks inherent in achieving the Groups business objectives, and can therefore provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The effectiveness of this system has been regularly reviewed by the Directors in line with the Guidance for Directors in the Combined Code published by the Financial Reporting Council Turnbull guidance.
Where significant control failings or weakness have been identified, appropriate corrective action has been taken.
Whistle blowing policy A Group whistle blowing policy has been issued to all Group companies to ensure a consistent approach across the Group and it is also available on the Groups website www.
The Group is committed to the highest standards of quality, honesty, openness and accountability.
Employees are encouraged to raise genuine concerns under the policy either by contacting their line manager or the Company Secretary.
Any concerns raised are investigated carefully and thoroughly to assess what action, if any, should be taken and confidential records are maintained.
The Company Secretary reports any matters of significance to the appropriate committee.
In 2009 no issues of significance were raised.
Share capital Information about the share capital of the Company is included in the Directors Report on page 32.
Relations with shareholders Dialogue with institutional shareholders The Board maintains regular dialogue with its institutional shareholders and fund managers through a variety of meetings and presentations throughout the year.
Presentations are given by the Executive Directors following the full year and half year results to institutional investors, analysts and brokers which the Non-Executive Directors may attend.
In addition, the Companys brokers provide confidential feedback to the Company on the views of the major institutions following the half year and final results.
During 2009 the Company canvassed opinions of the major shareholders in advance of the Rights Issue which was announced in November 2009 and in respect of several approaches received by the Company for potential consolidations.
During the year written responses are given to correspondence received from shareholders.
The Company has introduced an electronic communications facility to enable shareholders to receive documentation such as the Annual Report and Accounts electronically and also to cast their votes by proxy electronically.
The Company has also introduced an electronic proxy appointment service for CREST members.
com, houses wide-ranging information about the Group including the Annual Report and Accounts, press releases, share price data and links to subsidiary company websites.
The Annual General Meeting The AGM provides an opportunity for all shareholders to question the Chairman and Directors on a variety of topics, and information is provided at the meeting on different aspects of the Groups activities.
All of the Companys Directors are present at the meeting.
Voting at the AGM on all resolutions is by poll on a one share, one vote basis.
The results are available on the Groups website following the meeting.
Notice of the AGM and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
