Corporate Governance As a subsidiary company of National Grid plc, NGG operates within National Grids corporate The ultimate shareholder of NGG is National Grid plc.
Two of the Directors of NGG, Nick governance framework.
NGG does not have listed shares and therefore is not subject to the Winser, and Mark Fairbairn are also Executive Directors of National Grid plc.
Through Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
participation of these Directors at the Board of both companies, the Board of NGG develops an understanding of the views of its shareholder.
National Grids corporate governance policies are described in the National Grid plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 under Corporate Governance on page 90.
The Board of NGG has established a number of committees and sub-committees which assist it in its activities.
These include the Transmission Executive Committee and the Finance The Board of National Grid plc considers that it complied in full with the Combined Code during Committee.
Internal control Board of NGG The Board of National Grid plc is responsible for internal control in National Grid including its The Board of NGG is responsible for the overall management and governance of NGG and for subsidiary companies.
Details of the internal control process are set out on page 96 of the ensuring that NGG complies with all relevant laws and regulations, including compliance with National Grid plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09. the Gas Transportation Licence.
Compliance management The Board of NGG meets 6 times a year on a bi-monthly basis.
There are no non-executive or Compliance management is undertaken on a National Grid wide basis.
Details of the independent directors.
The Board does not have a separately appointed Chairman.
Meetings compliance management process are set out on page 97 of the National Grid plc Annual Report are usually chaired by a member of the Board, Mark Fairbairn when present, otherwise as and Accounts 2008 09. appropriate.
The Board of NGG does not have a Nomination, Remuneration or Audit committee.
These Treasury activities functions are dealt with by NGG in conjunction with the relevant committee of the National Grid Treasury activities for NGG are carried out by the Treasury function of National Grid under plc Board.
policies and guidelines approved by the Finance Committees of the Boards of National Grid plc and of NGG.
Attendance Mark Fairbairn Chair 6 of 6 More information on treasury policy is provided on page 19.
Malcolm Cooper 4 of 6 Transmission Executive Committee Andy Chapman - resigned 7 July 2008 1 of 1 The Transmission Executive Committee acts within National Grids overall corporate Stuart Humphreys - appointed 7 July 2008 5 of 5 governance framework and delegated authorities and is responsible for the operational and Paul Whittaker 5 of 6 financial management of the transmission businesses.
Nick Winser 4 of 6 Adam Wiltshire 6 of 6 During the year, the Transmission Executive Committee moved from meeting monthly to meeting on a quarterly basis.
Its membership and attendance at meetings during 2008 09 is set Helen Mahy Company Secretary and general 6 of 6 counsel out below.
Attendance at meetings of the NGG Board during 2008 09, expressed as number of meetings attended out of number eligible to attend.
26 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 NGG has taken the following actions to comply with the requirements of Special Condition C20: Attendance Nick Winser Chair Executive Director of National Grid 4 of 5 established separate management for the gas transmission and gas distribution businesses, as described above: Thomas Board HR business partner - Transmission resigned 2 of 2 September 2008 appointed separate Compliance Committees for each of the gas transmission business and the gas distribution business.
Each Compliance Committee reports directly to the Andy Chapman Finance Director - Transmission 2 of 2 resigned July 2008 board of NGG and also to the Audit Committee of National Grid: and appointed a Business Separation Compliance Officer, who reports to the Compliance Louise Farnworth HR business partner - Transmission 2 of 3 appointed September 2008 Committees and twice yearly to the Audit Committee of National Grid.
Madalyn Hanley IS business partner - Transmission 4 of 5 Risk management Stuart Humphreys Finance Director - Transmission 4 of 5 Identifying, evaluating and managing risks is integral to the way we run our business.
National appointed July 2008 Grid continues to have a well established enterprise wide risk management process that Alison Kay Commercial Director - Transmission 5 of 5 ensures risks are consistently assessed, recorded and reported in a visible, structured and continuous manner, the outputs of which are primarily used as a management tool.
An output Adam Mallalieu Director of Safety, Health, Environment and 3 of 5 Security from this process is information that provides assurance to management and thus helps safeguard our assets and reputation.
NGG participates in this enterprise wide process.
Chris Murray Director of Asset Management - UK Transmission 3 of 5 The risk management process continues to be based on both bottom-up and top-down Dave Poulton Acting Director of UK Construction 2 of 2 from October 2008 assessments of operational, financial and other business or project risks.
From the bottom-up, NGGs business units prepare and maintain risk registers that capture key risks and the actions Masheed Saidi Director of US Transmission 3 of 5 being taken to manage them.
These risk registers are regularly reviewed and discussed by the Rowan Sharples Director of UK Construction 3 of 3 executive committees for those business units.
The key element in the top-down assessments resigned October 2008 of the enterprise-wide risk profile is the involvement of Directors and other senior management Chris Train Director of Network Operations - UK Transmission 5 of 5 at critical stages in the review process.
Their review and debate of bottom-up assessments produces the overall evaluations of the risks that are faced by NGG.
In addition, the Executive, Paul Whittaker UK Director of Regulation 4 of 5 the Risk & Responsibility and the Audit Committees of National Grid plc review National Grids Attendance is expressed as number of meetings attended out of number eligible to attend.
It includes attendance overall risk profile twice a year.
The Audit Committee of National Grid plc also reviews the risk by a nominated deputy.
management process at least once a year and reports on this to the Board of National Grid plc.
The Transmission Executive Committee has a number of sub-committees dealing with matters More information on National Grids risk management process can be found in the National Grid such as investment governance and coordination of operations.
plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09. Business separation Risk factors Special Condition C20 of NGGs NTS gas transporter licence requires that NGG maintains The risk management process has identified the following risk factors that could have a material managerial and operational systems such that: adverse effect on NGGs business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation.
Not the DN businesses do not gain unfair commercial advantage by reason of the way NGG all of these factors are in its control.
In addition, other factors besides those listed below may conducts its NTS business, as required by Standard Special Condition A6: and have an adverse effect on NGG.
cross-subsidy between the NTS business and the DN businesses is avoided, as required Changes in law or regulation could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.
NGG is subject to regulation by governments and other authorities.
Consequently, changes in NGGs policy on business separation is set out in its Compliance Statement.
law or regulation could adversely affect the business.
Regulatory decisions concerning, for example, whether licences or approvals to operate are granted or are renewed, whether there has been any breach of the terms of a licence or approval, recovery of incurred expenditure, and other decisions relating to the implications of energy change, the level of permitted revenues and dividend distributions for our businesses and in relation to proposed business National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 27 Corporate Governance development activities could have an adverse impact on NGGs results of operations, cash Our results of operations depend on a number of factors relating to business flows, the financial condition of our businesses and the ability to develop those businesses in performance including performance against regulatory targets and the delivery of the future.
For further information, see the Operating and Financial Review and, in particular, anticipated cost and efficiency savings.
the External market and regulatory environment and Current and future development Earnings maintenance and growth from regulated businesses will be affected by NGGs ability sections.
to meet or exceed efficiency and integration targets and service quality standards set by, or agreed with, our regulators.
In addition, from time to time, we publish cost and efficiency Breaches of, or changes in, environmental or health and safety laws or regulations could savings targets for our businesses.
To meet these targets and standards, NGG must continue expose us to increased costs, claims for financial compensation and adverse regulatory to improve operational performance, service reliability and customer service.
If NGG does not consequences, as well as damaging our reputation.
meet these targets and standards, it may not achieve the expected benefits, its business may Aspects of NGGs activities are potentially dangerous, including the transmission and be adversely affected and its performance, results of operations and its reputation may be distribution of gas.
Gas utilities also typically use and generate in their operations hazardous harmed.
and potentially hazardous products and by-products.
In addition, there may be other aspects of our operations that are not currently regarded or proved to have adverse effects but could Changes to the regulatory treatment of commodity costs may have an adverse effect on become so.
NGG is subject to laws and regulations relating to pollution, the protection of the the results of operations.
environment, and how we use and dispose of hazardous substances and waste materials.
Changes in commodity prices could potentially impact NGGs energy delivery businesses.
These expose NGG to costs and liabilities relating to our operations and our properties whether Current regulatory arrangements provide the ability to pass through virtually all of the increased current, including those inherited from predecessor bodies, or formerly owned by NGG.
costs related to commodity prices to consumers.
However, if regulators were to restrict this ability, it could have an adverse effect on NGGs operating results.
NGG is also subject to laws and regulations governing health and safety matters protecting the public and our employees.
NGG is increasingly subject to regulation in relation to climate Our reputation may be harmed if consumers of energy suffer a disruption to their supply.
NGG commits significant expenditure toward complying with these laws and NGGs gas transmission businesses are responsible for transporting available gas.
NGG regulations and to meeting our obligations under negotiated settlements.
If additional consults with, and provides information to, regulators, governments and industry participants requirements are imposed or our ability to recover these costs changes, this could have a about future demand and the availability of supply.
However, where there is insufficient supply, material impact on NGGs businesses and its results of operations and financial position.
Any NGGs role is to manage the relevant network safely which, in extreme circumstances, may breach of these obligations, or even incidents that do not amount to a breach, could adversely require it to disconnect consumers, which may damage our reputation.
affect NGGs results of operations and our reputation.
For further information about Our financial position may be adversely affected by a number of factors including environmental and health and safety matters relating to our businesses, see the Our restrictions in borrowing and debt arrangements, changes to credit ratings and adverse Responsibility section of the National Grid website at www.
changes and volatility in the global credit markets.
Network failure, the inability to carry out critical non-network operations and damage to NGG is subject to certain covenants and restrictions in relation to our listed debt securities and infrastructure may have significant adverse impacts on both our financial position and our bank lending facilities.
It is also subject to restrictions on financing that have been imposed reputation.
These restrictions may hinder it in servicing the financial requirements of its NGG may suffer a major network failure or may not be able to carry out critical non-network businesses.
Some of NGGs debt is rated by credit rating agencies and changes to these operations.
Operational performance could be adversely affected by a failure to maintain the ratings may affect both its borrowing capacity and the cost of those borrowings.
health of the system or network, inadequate forecasting of demand or inadequate record NGGs business is partly financed through debt and the maturity and repayment profile of debt keeping.
This could cause NGG to fail to meet agreed standards of service or be in breach of a used to finance investments often does not correlate to cash flows from our assets.
Accordingly, licence or approval, and even incidents that do not amount to a breach could result in adverse the Company relies on access to short-term commercial paper and money markets and longerregulatory and financial consequences, as well as harming our reputation.
In addition to these term bank and capital markets as sources of finance.
The global financial markets are currently risks, NGG may be affected by other potential events that are largely outside its control such as experiencing extreme volatility and disruption.
A shortage of liquidity, lack of funding, pressure the impact of weather or unlawful acts of third parties.
Weather conditions can affect financial on capital and extreme price volatility across a wide range of asset classes are putting financial performance and severe weather that causes outages or damages infrastructure will adversely institutions under considerable pressure and, in certain cases, placing downward pressure on affect operational and potentially business performance and our reputation.
Terrorist attack, stock prices and credit availability for companies.
NGG is not able to access capital at sabotage or other intentional acts may also damage our assets or otherwise significantly affect competitive rates, its ability to finance our operations and implement our strategy will be corporate activities and as a consequence have an adverse impact on the results of operations.
28 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 Our results of operations could be affected by deflation NGGs income under our price controls is linked to the retail price index.
Therefore if the UK economy suffers from a prolonged period of deflation, our revenues may decrease, which may not be offset by reductions in operating costs.
Future funding requirements of our pension schemes could adversely affect our results of operations.
Substantially all of the NGGs employees are members of a defined benefit pension scheme where the scheme assets are held independently of our own financial resources.
Estimates of the amount and timing of future funding for this scheme are based on various actuarial assumptions and other factors including, among other things, the actual and projected market performance of the scheme assets, future long-term bond yields, average life expectancies and relevant legal requirements.
The impact of these assumptions and other factors may require NGG to make additional contributions to these pension schemes which, to the extent they are not recoverable under our price controls, could adversely affect NGGs results of operations.
New or revised accounting standards, rules and interpretations could have an adverse effect on our reported financial results.
Changes in law and accounting standards could increase our effective rate of tax.
The accounting treatment under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European Union, of, among other things, replacement expenditure, rate regulated entities, pension and post-retirement benefits, derivative financial instruments and commodity contracts, significantly affect the way NGG reports its financial position and results of operations.
New or revised standards and interpretations may be issued which could have a significant impact on the financial results and financial position that NGG reports.
The effective rate of tax of NGG may be influenced by a number of factors including changes in law and accounting standards, the results of which could increase that rate.
Customers and counterparties to our transactions may fail to perform their obligations, or arrangements we have terminated, which could harm NGGs results of operations.
NGGs operations are exposed to the risk that customers and counterparties to transactions that owe NGG money or commodities will not perform their obligations, which could cause us to incur additional costs.
National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 29
