Corporate governance As a subsidiary company of National Grid plc, NGG operates within National Grids corporate The ultimate shareholder of NGG is National Grid plc.
Two of the Directors of NGG, Nick governance framework.
NGG does not have listed shares and therefore is not subject to the Winser, and Mark Fairbairn are also Executive Directors of National Grid plc.
Through Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
participation of these Directors at the Board of both companies, the Board of NGG develops an understanding of the views of its shareholder.
National Grids corporate governance policies are described in the National Grid plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 under Corporate Governance on page 90.
The Board of NGG has established a number of committees and sub-committees which assist it in its activities.
These include the Distribution Executive Committee and the Finance The Board of National Grid plc considers that it complied in full with the Combined Code during Committee.
Internal control Board of NGG The Board of National Grid plc is responsible for internal control in National Grid including its The Board of NGG is responsible for the overall management and governance of NGG and for subsidiary companies.
Details of the internal control process are set out on page 96 of the ensuring that NGG complies with all relevant laws and regulations, including compliance with National Grid plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09. the Gas Transportation Licence.
Compliance management The Board of NGG meets 6 times a year on a bi-monthly basis.
There are no non-executive or Compliance management is undertaken on a National Grid wide basis.
Details of the independent directors.
The Board does not have a separately appointed Chairman.
Meetings compliance management process are set out on page 97 of the National Grid plc Annual Report are usually chaired by a member of the Board, Mark Fairbairn when present, otherwise as and Accounts 2008 09. appropriate.
The Board of NGG does not have a Nomination, Remuneration or Audit committee.
These Treasury activities functions are dealt with by NGG in conjunction with the relevant committee of the National Grid Treasury activities for NGG are carried out by the Treasury function of National Grid under plc Board.
policies and guidelines approved by the Finance Committees of the Boards of National Grid plc and of NGG.
Attendance Mark Fairbairn Chair 6 of 6 More information on treasury policy is provided on page 21 Malcolm Cooper 4 of 6 Distribution Executive Committee Andy Chapman - resigned 7 July 2008 1 of 1 The Distribution Executive Committee acts within National Grids overall corporate governance Stuart Humphreys - appointed 7 July 2008 5 of 5 framework and delegated authorities and is responsible for the operational and financial Paul Whittaker 5 of 6 management of the distribution businesses.
Adam Wiltshire 6 of 6 Nick Winser 4 of 6 Helen Mahy Company Secretary and general 6 of 6 counsel Attendance at meetings of the NGG Board during 2008 09, expressed as number of meetings attended out of number eligible to attend.
28 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 Risk management Identifying, evaluating and managing risks is integral to the way NGG runs its business.
Name Attendance National Grid continues to have a well established enterprise wide risk management process Mark Fairbairn Chair Executive Director of National Grid 10 of 10 that ensures risks are consistently assessed, recorded and reported in a visible, structured and Jeremy Bending Director, Network Strategy 10 of 10 continuous manner, the outputs of which are primarily used as a management tool.
An output Jon Butterworth Director, Operations 10 of 10 from this process is information that provides assurance to management and thus helps Mike Calviou Director of Distribution Support 9 of 10 safeguard our assets and reputation.
NGG participates in this enterprise wide process.
Ian Leedham Senior Counsel Commercial 8 of 9 Helen Mahy General Counsel and Company Secretary 1 of 1 The risk management process continues to be based on both bottom-up and top-down Adam Mallalieu Director of UK Safety, Health, Environment and Security 10 of 10 assessments of operational, financial and other business or project risks.
From the bottom-up, Peter Massey Director of Transformation 5 of 5 NGGs business units prepare and maintain risk registers that capture key risks and the actions being taken to manage them.
These risk registers are regularly reviewed and discussed by the Rowan Sharples Director of UK Construction resigned October 2008 7 of 7 executive committees for those business units.
The key element in the top-down assessments Paul Whittaker UK Director of Regulation 10 of 10 of the enterprise-wide risk profile is the involvement of Directors and other senior management Adam Wiltshire Director of Finance 10 of 10 at critical stages in the review process.
Their review and debate of bottom-up assessments Denise Wilson Director of Distribution Customer Support 1 of 1 produces the overall evaluations of the risks that are faced by NGG.
In addition, the Executive, Attendance is expressed as number of meetings attended out of number eligible to attend.
It includes attendance by a nominated deputy.
the Risk & Responsibility and the Audit Committees of National Grid plc review National Grids overall risk profile twice a year.
The Audit Committee of National Grid plc also reviews the risk The Distribution Executive Committee has a number of sub-committees dealing with matters management process at least once a year and reports on this to the Board of National Grid plc.
such as investment governance and coordination of operations.
More information on National Grids risk management process can be found in the National Grid Business separation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09.
Special Condition C20 of NGGs NTS gas transporter licence requires that NGG maintains Risk factors managerial and operational systems such that: The risk management process has identified the following risk factors that could have a material the DN businesses do not gain unfair commercial advantage by reason of the way NGG adverse effect on NGGs business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation.
Not conducts its NTS business, as required by Standard Special Condition A6: and all of these factors are in its control.
In addition, other factors besides those listed below may cross-subsidy between the NTS business and the DN businesses is avoided, as required have an adverse effect on NGG.
Changes in law or regulation could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.
National Grid Gass policy on business separation is set out in its Compliance Statement.
Under NGG is subject to regulation by governments and other authorities.
Consequently, changes in Special Condition E22 of NGGs gas transporter licence in respect of its DN business, NGG is law or regulation could adversely affect the business.
Regulatory decisions concerning, for required to use its best endeavours to comply with the terms of the compliance statement.
example, whether licences or approvals to operate are granted or are renewed, whether there National Grid Gas has taken the following actions to comply with the requirements of Special has been any breach of the terms of a licence or approval, recovery of incurred expenditure, Condition C20, and hence with Special Condition E22: and other decisions relating to the implications of energy change, the level of permitted revenues and dividend distributions for our businesses and in relation to proposed business established separate management for the gas transmission and gas distribution development activities could have an adverse impact on NGGs results of operations, cash businesses, as described above: flows, the financial condition of our businesses and the ability to develop those businesses in appointed separate Compliance Committees for each of the gas transmission business the future.
For further information, see the Operating and Financial Review and, in particular, and the gas distribution business.
Each Compliance Committee reports directly to the the External market and regulatory environment and Current and future development board of NGG and also to the Audit Committee of National Grid: and sections.
appointed a Business Separation Compliance Officer, who reports to the Compliance Committees and twice yearly to the Audit Committee of National Grid.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 29 targets for its businesses.
To meet these targets and standards, NGG must continue to improve Breaches of, or changes in, environmental or health and safety laws or regulations could expose us to increased costs, claims for financial compensation and adverse regulatory operational performance, service reliability and customer service.
If NGG does not meet these targets and standards, it may not achieve the expected benefits, its business may be adversely consequences, as well as damaging our reputation.
affected and its performance, results of operations and its reputation may be harmed.
Aspects of NGGs activities are potentially dangerous, including the transmission and distribution of gas.
Gas utilities also typically use and generate in their operations hazardous Changes to the regulatory treatment of commodity costs may have an adverse effect on and potentially hazardous products and by-products.
In addition, there may be other aspects of the results of operations.
our operations that are not currently regarded or proved to have adverse effects but could Changes in commodity prices could potentially impact NGGs energy delivery businesses.
NGG is subject to laws and regulations relating to pollution, the protection of the Current regulatory arrangements provide the ability to pass through virtually all of the increased environment, and how we use and dispose of hazardous substances and waste materials.
costs related to commodity prices to consumers.
However, if regulators were to restrict this These expose NGG to costs and liabilities relating to our operations and our properties whether ability, it could have an adverse effect on NGGs operating results.
current, including those inherited from predecessor bodies, or formerly owned by NGG.
NGGs reputation may be harmed if consumers of energy suffer a disruption to their NGG is also subject to laws and regulations governing health and safety matters protecting the supply.
NGG is increasingly subject to regulation in relation to climate NGGs gas transmission and distribution businesses are responsible for transporting available change.
NGG commits significant expenditure toward complying with these laws and gas.
NGG consults with, and provides information to, regulators, governments and industry regulations and to meeting our obligations under negotiated settlements.
If additional participants about future demand and the availability of supply.
However, where there is requirements are imposed or our ability to recover these costs changes, this could have a insufficient supply, NGGs role is to manage the relevant network safely which, in extreme material impact on NGGs businesses and its results of operations and financial position.
Any circumstances, may require it to disconnect consumers, which may damage our reputation.
breach of these obligations, or even incidents that do not amount to a breach, could adversely affect NGGs results of operations and our reputation.
For further information about NGGs financial position may be adversely affected by a number of factors including environmental and health and safety matters relating to our businesses, see the Our restrictions in borrowing and debt arrangements, changes to credit ratings and adverse Responsibility section of the National Grid website at www.
changes and volatility in the global credit markets.
NGG is subject to certain covenants and restrictions in relation to our listed debt securities and Network failure, the inability to carry out critical non-network operations and damage to our bank lending facilities.
It is also subject to restrictions on financing that have been imposed infrastructure may have significant adverse impacts on both our financial position and by regulators.
These restrictions may hinder it in servicing the financial requirements of its reputation.
Some of NGGs debt is rated by credit rating agencies and changes to these NGG may suffer a major network failure or may not be able to carry out critical non-network ratings may affect both its borrowing capacity and the cost of those borrowings.
Operational performance could be adversely affected by a failure to maintain the health of the system or network, inadequate forecasting of demand or inadequate record NGGs business is partly financed through debt and the maturity and repayment profile of debt keeping.
This could cause NGG to fail to meet agreed standards of service or be in breach of a used to finance investments often does not correlate to cash flows from our assets.
Accordingly, licence or approval, and even incidents that do not amount to a breach could result in adverse the Company relies on access to short-term commercial paper and money markets and longerregulatory and financial consequences, as well as harming our reputation.
In addition to these term bank and capital markets as sources of finance.
The global financial markets are currently risks, NGG may be affected by other potential events that are largely outside its control such as experiencing extreme volatility and disruption.
A shortage of liquidity, lack of funding, pressure the impact of weather or unlawful acts of third parties.
Weather conditions can affect financial on capital and extreme price volatility across a wide range of asset classes are putting financial performance and severe weather that causes outages or damages infrastructure will adversely institutions under considerable pressure and, in certain cases, placing downward pressure on affect operational and potentially business performance and our reputation.
Terrorist attack, stock prices and credit availability for companies.
NGG is not able to access capital at sabotage or other intentional acts may also damage our assets or otherwise significantly affect competitive rates, its ability to finance its operations and implement its strategy will be adversely corporate activities and as a consequence have an adverse impact on the results of operations.
NGGs results of operations depend on a number of factors relating to business NGGs results of operations could be affected by deflation performance including performance against regulatory targets and the delivery of NGGs income under our price controls is linked to the retail price index.
Therefore if the UK anticipated cost and efficiency savings.
economy suffers from a prolonged period of deflation, our revenues may decrease, which may Earnings maintenance and growth from regulated businesses will be affected by NGGs ability not be offset by reductions in operating costs.
to meet or exceed efficiency and integration targets and service quality standards set by, or agreed with, its regulators.
In addition, from time to time, we publish cost and efficiency savings 30 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 Future funding requirements of pension schemes could adversely affect the results of NGGs operations.
Substantially all of NGGs employees are members of a defined benefit pension scheme where the scheme assets are held independently of our own financial resources.
Estimates of the amount and timing of future funding for this scheme are based on various actuarial assumptions and other factors including, among other things, the actual and projected market performance of the scheme assets, future long-term bond yields, average life expectancies and relevant legal requirements.
The impact of these assumptions and other factors may require NGG to make additional contributions to these pension schemes which, to the extent they are not recoverable under our price controls, could adversely affect NGGs results of operations.
New or revised accounting standards, rules and interpretations could have an adverse effect on NGGs.
Changes in law and accounting standards could increase NGGs effective rate of tax.
The accounting treatment under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European Union, of, among other things, replacement expenditure, rate regulated entities, pension and post-retirement benefits, derivative financial instruments and commodity contracts, significantly affect the way NGG reports its financial position and results of operations.
New or revised standards and interpretations may be issued which could have a significant impact on the financial results and financial position that NGG reports.
The effective rate of tax of NGG may be influenced by a number of factors including changes in law and accounting standards, the results of which could increase that rate.
Customers and counterparties to transactions may fail to perform their obligations, or arrangements we have may be terminated, which could harm NGGs results of operations.
NGGs operations are exposed to the risk that customers and counterparties to transactions that owe money or commodities will not perform their obligations, which could cause us to incur additional costs.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 31
