Highlights Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 33 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008 09 Corporate governance The Board, chaired by Anthony Hobson, has seven directors, Compliance comprising two executive directors and five non-executive directors.
Northern Foods is committed to the highest standards of The executive directors are Stefan Barden, Chief Executive and corporate governance throughout the Group, and seeks to Andrew Booker, Group Finance Director.
Orna Ni-Chionna is the remain at the forefront of corporate governance best practice.
The non-executive directors possess a range of skills and experience and bring independent judgement The Board has overall responsibility for corporate governance to bear on issues of strategy, performance and resources that are and is accountable to the Companys shareholders for good vital to the success of the Group.
The non-executive directors have governance.
The directors recognise the importance of this a particular responsibility to challenge constructively the strategy responsibility and can confirm that the Company has complied proposed by the executive directors: to scrutinise, and challenge fully throughout the year with the provisions set out in Section 1 performance: and to satisfy themselves that the Group maintains of the 2006 Combined Code on Corporate Governance a sound system of internal control to safeguard shareholders the Combined Code and the associated Turnbull Guidance, investment and the Companys assets.
as annexed to the Financial Services Authoritys Listing Rules.
Attendance at Board meetings and committees of the Board This review describes the Companys governance policies and The Board met nine times during the year, including one meeting explains how the Company has applied the main and supporting devoted to strategy review.
In addition, the chairman held one principles of the Combined Code.
separate meeting with the non-executive directors without the executive directors being present to discuss Board related issues including structure and succession planning.
The non-executive Directors directors also met once without the chairman present to appraise The Board his performance.
The Board holds meetings in London or The Board determines the strategic direction of the Company and Leeds and at least one meeting each year is held at one of the reviews its operating and financial position.
The Board ensures that operational sites.
In April 2008 the Board met in Naas, Ireland the necessary resources are in place in order for the Company at the site of the Green Isle Foods business.
It has a schedule of matters specifically reserved to it, which can be amended only by the Board itself and The table below shows the number of meetings of the Board, audit, which has been reviewed and updated during the financial year remuneration and nomination committees held during the year, under review.
and the number of meetings attended by each director.
The directors attended Board and committee meetings wherever These matters include approval of: possible unless personal circumstances prevented their attendance, membership of the Board and its committees: as shown below.
Where a director is unable to attend a Board or the annual and half year results and interim management committee meeting, his her views on agenda items are canvassed statements: in advance of the meeting and incorporated into the discussions.
the Group strategy, operating plans and financial policy: acquisitions and divestments: Number of the annual budget including operating and major capital meetings held 1 2 3 4 expenditure: 30 March 2008 to Board Audit Remuneration Nomination 28 March 2009 9 3 5 2 treasury and tax policies: dividend policy: Number of meetings attended material amendments to the Companys pensions schemes: S Barden 9 9 n a n a n a the overall system of control and risk management.
R J S Bell 8 9 n a 5 5 2 2 5 A M Booker 3 3 n a n a n a The schedule of matters is available on the Companys website.
A J Hobson 9 9 n a n a 2 2 All other matters relating to the management of the Company are A K Illsley 8 9 3 3 5 5 2 2 6 delegated to the Operating board within clearly defined limits of J K Maiden 6 6 n a n a n a authority.
The Board monitors the performance of management O G Ni-Chionna 9 9 3 3 5 5 2 2 and aims to ensure that the strategy, policies and procedures D T Nish 9 9 3 3 2 5 1 2 adopted are not only in the long term interest of shareholders but Notes also meet the needs of Northern Foods customers, employees, 1 A J Hobson is chairman of the Board suppliers and the local communities in which it operates.
The 2 D T Nish is chair of the audit committee Operating board is responsible to the Board for developing the 3 O G Ni-Chionna is chair of the remuneration committee 4 A J Hobson is chair of the nomination committee strategy and for the overall performance of the Group and for 5 A M Booker was appointed to the Board on 17 November 2008 managing the Groups businesses as defined by the Board.
6 J K Maiden resigned from the Board on 14 November 2008 The chairman is not a member of the remuneration and audit committees but attends by invitation.
Senior executives below Board level are periodically invited to attend Board meetings to make presentations on their areas of responsibility.
34 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008 09 Corporate governance continued Chairman and chief executive Procedures to deal with directors conflicts of interest There is a clear, written division of responsibility between the The Company has procedures in place to deal with the situation chairman and the chief executive.
The chairman is responsible where a director has a conflict of interest and intends to report for leadership of the Board, setting the agenda and ensuring annually on the effectiveness of these procedures.
He is also responsible for ensuring that the directors receive accurate, timely and clear information, and A Code of Practice on Conflicts of Interest was approved by the for effective communication with shareholders.
The chairman Board on 1 October 2008 and can be viewed on the Companys also facilitates the effective contribution of the non-executives website.
As part of this process for dealing with conflicts, the directors and ensures a good working relationship between members of the Board will endeavour to: executive and non-executive directors.
The chairmans other consider each conflict situation separately on its particular facts: significant commitments and any changes during the year keep records and board minutes of authorisations granted are detailed in his biography on page 32.
The Board is satisfied by directors and the scope of any approvals given: that the commitments of the chairman outside the Company annually review conflict authorisations.
are not such as to interfere with the performance of his duties.
The chief executive is responsible for operating the business Appointments to the Board and implementing the Boards strategies and is supported in Appointments to the Board are the responsibility of the full Board these matters by the Operating board.
on the recommendation of the nomination committee.
There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment Board balance and independence of new directors which is made on merit and against objective The Company complies with the requirement of the Combined criteria.
The criteria are set by the non-executive directors and Code that there should be a balance of executive and noninclude identifying any areas where skills are lacking and making executives, such that no one individual has unrestricted powers appointments to enhance the balance of skills and experience of decision.
There is a succession plan, approved by the Board, of the Board.
In addition, care is taken to ensure that appointees to ensure continual review of the balance of skills and experience.
have enough time available to devote to their role.
Influence is balanced within the Board by virtue of a non-executive The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive senior independent director and a further three non-executive directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered directors whose skills and business experience are invaluable office during normal business hours and at the Annual general in constructively challenging and developing the Groups strategy meeting for 15 minutes prior to, and during the meeting.
An example of the letter of appointment is available on the Northern Foods website, www.
The Board uses criteria to assist in arriving at its decision that the non-executive directors are independent.
These include: In November 2008 Andrew Booker was appointed to the Board a deep appreciation of the Groups business and activities so as group finance director following a careful selection process that a thorough evaluation of information received can be made: and the use of recruitment consultants, The Miles Partnership.
objective decision-making after debate: objective challenge of management: An executive director is permitted to hold one non-executive a clear and consistent approach demonstrating that he she directorship and retain the fees from that appointment provided has the good of the Group uppermost in his her behaviour that the Board considers that this will not adversely affect his when challenging others and defending his her viewpoints.
Any proposed appointment to the board of another company requires the prior approval of the Board.
The Following the annual review of independence, the Board is of current executive directors do not hold any such appointments.
the opinion that all of the current non-executive directors are independent by these criteria and are free from any relationship Information and professional development or circumstance which could affect, or appear to affect, their All directors have unlimited access to information regarding independent judgement.
David Nish is the Group Finance Director the Company, and to the advice and services of the company of Standard Life plc which owned 11.26% of the Companys shares secretary, whose appointment and removal requires the approval as at 27 May 2009.
The Company does not consider that this of the Board, and they may obtain external advice, as required, affects his independence, as his role at Standard Life does not at the expense of the Company.
include direct responsibility for investment decisions.
This potential conflict of interest was thoroughly reviewed by the directors at One week prior to each scheduled Board meeting, the chairman a Board meeting held in November 2008, and a resolution was and the company secretary ensure that the directors receive passed authorising the potential conflict.
However, should any all relevant papers so that they are properly appraised of the circumstances change in relation to his role at Standard Life this Companys current performance and information on any other will be reconsidered and, if necessary, appropriate action taken.
matter which is referred to the Board for consideration.
Highlights Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 35 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008 09 There is a comprehensive induction process, tailored to the needs The chairman assesses the performance of the non-executive of the individual directors, which is arranged by the company directors, after consultations with the executive directors and secretary.
This includes meetings with management and external the senior independent director.
Following this process, it was advisors so that the new director receives an appreciation of the confirmed that each individual non-executive director continued to activities of the Group, the key drivers of business performance act effectively and to fulfil the duties and responsibilities expected, and the significant current issues.
Visits to operational sites are demonstrating commitment to the role, including commitment of encouraged.
The training also covers the role of the Board and time for Board and committee meetings and other duties.
its committees, corporate governance practices and procedures, and the duties, responsibilities and liabilities of a director of a Re-election of directors public listed company.
Following his recruitment to the Board, Under the Companys Articles, all directors are subject to election Andrew Booker undertook a formal induction process which by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment and included specific training in the role and duties of a director then to re-election at intervals of no more than three years.
The induction also included prearranged directors may offer themselves for re-election.
visits to each business within the Group to meet the senior management teams.
Following his appointment as group finance director in November 2008, Andrew Booker will be seeking election by shareholders at Additional training is arranged, by the company secretary, this years Annual general meeting.
In addition, Stefan Barden and on a group or individual basis as needs arise: for example, Ronnie Bell will be standing for re-election.
The Board has set out when a non-executive director is appointed to a Board committee.
in the Notice of Annual general meeting enclosed with this report their reasons for supporting the election and re-election of these During the year, in order to assist them in their duties, the directors directors at the forthcoming Annual general meeting.
received presentations on the legislative changes implemented under the Companies Act 2006, including the codification of The biographical details of all the directors put forward for directors duties and, in particular, directors obligations in relation re-election are contained on page 32 of the Annual report and to conflicts of interests.
in the explanatory notes contained in the Notice of meeting.
Board performance evaluation Remuneration It is recognised that the effectiveness of the Board is vital to Remuneration is set out in the Remuneration report and the work the success of the Group.
In order to evaluate the effectiveness of the remuneration committee is set out on pages 41 and 42. of the performance of the Board, the chairman and its principal committees, a rigorous evaluation is undertaken annually.
This process is conducted internally, led by the chairman and Accountability and audit supported by the company secretary.
As in previous years, Financial reporting this has taken the form of obtaining completed detailed The Board is required to present a balanced and understandable questionnaires, which are updated and revised each year from assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
This all Board members, analysing the responses, and providing the responsibility extends to annual and half year reports and other opportunity for directors to comment on any issues not covered price sensitive reports.
The Company is also required to present directly by the questionnaire.
The responses were analysed and interim management statements covering the first and third quarter discussed at a meeting of the Board held in April 2009.
It was trading during each six months trading, following implementation agreed that the results confirmed that the Board and its of the Transparency Directive in January 2007.
For the financial committees continued to be effective.
year 2008 09, the Company made two such interim management statements in compliance with the regulations.
The Board evaluation process also aims to identify the areas where improvements can be made.
Following last years The Board is satisfied that it has met its obligations in presenting performance evaluation the Board requested regular exposure a balanced and clear assessment of the Companys position and to, and the opportunity to meet with, senior management, and prospects.
This assessment is provided in the Directors report this has been actioned during the course of this financial year.
which incorporates the Chief executives report, the Performance review, and the Corporate social responsibility review.
The Orna Ni-Chionna, Senior Independent Director, has analysed Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the financial responses to a detailed questionnaire designed to evaluate the statements is set out on page 56. performance of the chairman.
The results of the survey were discussed with the executive and non-executive directors when the chairman was not present.
The outcome of these discussions confirmed that the performance of the chairman was effective and that he continues to provide strong leadership to the Board.
36 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008 09 Corporate governance continued Internal control and risk management Roles and responsibilities for each area of identified risk are outlined below: The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system of internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness which Strategic delivery: through its regular meetings, the Board covers all aspects of the business.
Key risks are identified in the Performance review on pages 12 and 13 and include strategic, assesses performance against objectives.
In doing so, it considers performance data and also considers external commercial, operational and financial risks.
These risks are managed through a comprehensive internal control and risk dynamics, such as shifting customer and consumer trends, that could affect the delivery of these objectives.
management system as outlined below.
Health & safety: the Groups health & safety team sets strategy Underlying this process is the Boards aim to safeguard shareholders investments and the Companys assets.
It also aims and risk management standards.
A detailed monthly review process facilitates performance measurement against targets.
to ensure that proper accounting records are maintained, and that the financial information used within the business and for Governance is maintained through the coordination and delivery of an operationally focused audit which complies with Health & publication is accurate, reliable and fairly presents the financial position of the Company and results of its business operations.
The Group function also provides a centre of excellence to support each business and site in In line with Turnbull guidance as revised, the directors regularly working to defined risk management standards.
review the effectiveness of the Groups system of controls and risk management.
The directors believe that appropriate steps Key improvement activities are defined and assistance provided to aid the implementation of improvement activities.
are being taken to embed internal control and risk management further into the operations of the business and to identify These activities include processes such as behavioural safety programmes, safety training initiatives and site based opportunities for improvement which come to the attention of management and the Board.
The system is designed to provide improvement project support.
Networking is strongly supported through the operation of an annual best practice award scheme, reasonable not absolute assurance of effective operations and compliance with laws and regulations.
annual safety conference and the safety function contact group activities.
As part of its review process, the Board considers new and A dedicated risk management steering group identifies and emerging risks and also considers key external business drivers such as market trends and competitive activity.
The Board also manages fire risk through site audits and the implementation of recommendations and standards, together with sharing of plays an important role in driving continuous improvement in the management of risk by encouraging the sharing of best practice best practice.
Talent management and human resources: centrally driven organisational capability reviews ensure that each of the A summary of the principal control structure and processes in place across the Group is set out below.
businesses and functions regularly reviews its existing management capability and succession plans in the context Control structure and processes of the Companys strategic plans.
The Board assesses key areas of internal control and risk management and sets policy accordingly.
It tasks each business Food safety and quality: the technical services team assesses and approves raw material suppliers, audits the to identify and document each significant risk and to implement appropriate controls for that risk.
The Board also requires the quality management systems in the Group, provides guidance on compliance with food related and environmental legislation, businesses to manage, monitor and report on the effectiveness of these controls.
sets technical standards and offers expertise on food science and technology.
This expertise and governance is reflected in The businesses are supported by appropriate corporate the independent accreditation of the team as UKAS Certification Body No.
199 and UKAS Testing Laboratory No.
The management resources which provide the technical skills and expertise needed to supplement the businesses own resource dual accreditation has again continued without interruption in 2008 09, a record that is unique to Northern Foods.
and to provide overall assurance for the major areas of risk.
There are clearly defined lines of authority and accountability.
Asset management and engineering: contractors for building, The internal auditors have reviewed the overall approach adopted engineering and professional services are approved by the businesses engineering resource in conjunction with Group by the Company towards its risk management activities.
Procurement and Group Health & Safety.
The audit committee oversees both internal and external audit procedures and monitors response to any significant control Procurement: Group Procurement supports the businesses in identifying, contracting and managing strategic supply issues raised.
It plays a key role in the Groups risk management of external third party expenditure.
Highlights Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 37 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008 09 Finance: each business prepares detailed annual budgets The Board is therefore able to confirm that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant and strategic plans, which are reviewed and updated on a regular basis.
Weekly and monthly accounts are prepared risks faced by the Group, that it has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of these financial for each business and performance is monitored against the original budget, and updated forecasts.
The Groups chief statements, that it is regularly reviewed by the Board and that it accords with Turnbull guidance.
executive and group finance director meet on a formal basis each month to review the performance of each of the Audit committee and auditors businesses with its managing director and finance director.
A principle of the Combined Code is that the Board should establish formal and transparent arrangements for considering Capital expenditure planning, budgeting and approval of expenditure is performed by executive management, how it should apply the financial reporting and internal control principles and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the up to an agreed level delegated by the full Board.
These responsibilities are delegated to and are discharged by the audit committee whose work is The internal audit function reviews the standard of internal financial control and the accuracy of financial reporting through a rolling described on pages 39 and 40. cycle of audit visits under a programme of activity approved by the audit committee.
Relations with shareholders The central finance function obtains advice and provides Dialogue with shareholders adequate insurance cover for major losses with appropriate The Board attaches great importance to maintaining good levels of deductibles, through a Group programme with external relationships with all shareholders, who are kept informed of insurance brokers.
This cover is reviewed and negotiated annually.
Presentations are made of the half year and full year results, briefings are given to analysts, Financial and treasury management oversee the principal areas and other meetings to discuss Company direction are held of treasury risk including liquidity, interest and currency risk.
with institutional shareholders on a regular basis.
Significant matters relating to the trading or development of business are disseminated to the market by way of Stock Exchange Information technology: the Information Services function provides appropriate systems infrastructure and back-up announcements.
The chief executive and group finance director are closely involved in investor relations and report the views of major Legal: provides and obtains advice on a full range of legal shareholders back to the Board.
Investor meetings are arranged issues across the Group, and ensures good title to properties through the Companys broker, UBS Investment Bank, and and intangible assets.
The chairman, the senior independent director and other non-executive directors are available to meet major shareholders Corporate social responsibility: the corporate social whenever necessary, and the chairman did so during the year.
responsibility director ensures that there are effective systems in place for evaluating and managing social, environmental All material information reported to the regulatory news services is and ethical SEE risks.
Further information is provided in simultaneously published on the Companys website affording all the Corporate social responsibility review on pages 26 to 31. shareholders full access to Company announcements.
In addition, the Company has introduced an electronic communication facility Review process to allow shareholders to receive information more quickly and in An ongoing review process includes an assessment of internal a manner more convenient for them.
The Company has also taken controls, in particular, internal financial controls.
It also includes advantage of provisions under the Companies Act 2006 which reports from the internal audit function as well as the external allows the use of the website to communicate with shareholders auditor on matters identified in the course of its statutory audit work.
as an alternative to receiving hard copies.
A resolution to this effect was passed at the Companys Annual general meeting in 2007.
Businesses and specialist functions report by exception on any It was implemented in November 2007 by shareholders being matters arising during the year to the monthly Business review offered the choice of receiving communications from the meetings.
The results of formal half yearly internal reviews are taken Company either via the website or by way of hard copy.
It is forward to the audit committee, which oversees both internal and intended that this exercise will be repeated during 2009 10. external audit and monitors managements response.
38 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008 09 Corporate governance continued Constructive use of the Annual general meeting Search consultants have been used extensively in the identification of new Board appointments.
For the appointment of the group The Board regards the Annual general meeting, which will be held on Wednesday, 15 July 2009, as an opportunity to communicate finance director, the committee was supported by external executive recruitment consultants, The Miles Partnership, who directly with private investors.
Wherever possible, all directors attend the Annual general meeting.
A presentation is made to conducted a thorough search and identified a number of high quality candidates for the role.
The nomination committee reviewed shareholders at the meeting to facilitate greater awareness of the Groups activities.
Shareholders are invited to ask questions and the proposed candidates and identified Andrew Booker as the best applicant and took the recommendation to the full Board are able to meet the directors informally.
Notice of Annual general meeting is circulated to shareholders at least 20 working days for final approval.
Separate resolutions are proposed on each substantially separate issue and the number of proxy votes cast When the need for a new director is identified, the criteria in respect of the background and competencies of potential for and against each resolution, as well as the number of votes withheld, are announced to the meeting following voting on a candidates are approved by the Board before the search is started.
This specification is drawn up after consideration of the show of hands.
A poll would be called on any resolution where it was appropriate or required.
The Company offers an electronic skills, knowledge and experience of existing Board members.
The committee also ensures that candidates have enough time voting facility to investors.
available to devote to the position.
As part of the process for nominating candidates for appointment, the committee will also Details of proxy voting by shareholders, including votes withheld, are announced through the London Stock Exchange and are obtain details and review any interests the candidate may have which conflict or may conflict with the interests of the Company.
also placed on the Companys website.
If such conflict is found to exist, the committee will consider whether there are grounds for recommending the candidate for appointment and for the Board to authorise such conflict.
Board committees Each Board committee has written terms of reference which The committee also reviews annually the need for succession define the role and responsibilities of the committees and are planning, particularly for the chairman, chief executive and other reviewed annually.
The terms of reference of each committee key Board positions, and makes recommendations accordingly.
are available from the company secretary or can be viewed In formulating its succession plans, the committee takes into on the Companys website.
account the challenges and opportunities facing the Company and what skills and expertise therefore will be required on the Appointments to the committees are made on the Board and from senior management in the future.
recommendation of the nomination committee but subject to Board approval.
Membership of the committees is for periods Remuneration committee of up to three years, normally extendable by no more than two O G Ni-Chionna Chair additional three year periods.
The company secretary acts as R J S Bell secretary to the Board committees.
A K Illsley D T Nish Nomination committee A J Hobson Chair The remuneration committee, which is chaired by the senior R J S Bell independent director, consists of the non-executive directors and A K Illsley determines the broad policy and framework for the remuneration O G Ni-Chionna of executive directors and senior managers.
No director D T Nish is permitted to be present when his her own remuneration is being discussed, nor to vote on his her own remuneration.
The committee meets as required to review the structure, The committee also determines the nature and scale of size and composition of the Board and, if appropriate makes incentive performance arrangements that encourage enhanced recommendations for changes to the Board.
The committee performance and which reward individuals in a fair and leads the process for Board appointments, in both executive and responsible manner for their contribution to the success of the non-executive capacities, and the re-election and succession of business.
In setting the remuneration policy for executive directors directors.
During 2008 09 the committee met twice: i to consider and senior managers, the committee also takes into account the terms of appointment of directors, succession planning and the reward policies for managers in the marketplace generally.
Board skill and balance: and ii to consider the candidates put forward for the role of group finance director and make An integral part of the role of the remuneration committee is to recommendations to the Board.
carry out an appraisal of the performance of the chief executive.
Highlights Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 39 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008 09 Audit committee Work of the committee D T Nish Chair During 2008 09, the audit committee met on three occasions A K Illsley and reported its conclusions to the Board.
It met privately with O G Ni-Chionna the internal and external auditors without executives present.
It also met with executive management and executive directors.
The audit committee comprises three non-executive directors: each is considered to be independent as required by the The committee discharged its obligations in respect of 2008 09 Combined Code.
The chairman of the Board is invited to attend as follows: meetings of the committee.
The committee is authorised by the Board to obtain outside legal and other independent professional Financial reporting advice within its terms of reference, and to secure the attendance During the year the committee reviewed the draft half year and of advisers with relevant experience and expertise, if it considers annual financial statements prior to Board approval.
Members of the audit committee have unrestricted received a report from the external auditors setting out the access to the external auditors.
accounting or judgemental issues which required its attention.
The auditors reports were based on an independent review The main duties of the committee, set out in its terms of reference, Half year report and a full scope audit Annual report respectively.
are to: make recommendations on the appointment and remuneration The committee has also advised the Board on accounting of external auditors and to monitor their performance: policies, disclosure and controls.
approve and monitor the policy for non-audit services provided by the external auditors to ensure that the independence Internal controls and risk management of the auditors is not compromised: The committee reviews reports from internal audit at three review and advise the Board on the Companys financial meetings during the year.
These reports consider the operation statements, its accounting policies and on the control and of, and issues arising from, the Groups internal control procedures, mitigation of its financial and business risks: together with observations from the external auditors.
The review the nature and scope of the work to be performed committee monitored the effectiveness of the Groups risk by the external and internal auditors, the results of their audit management process, which considers the key risks, both work and of the response of management: financial and non-financial, facing the Group and the effectiveness review and advise the Board on the effectiveness of the of the Groups controls to manage and reduce the impact of Companys internal control environment, including its those risks.
Internal audit D T Nish took over the chair of the committee on his appointment It is the role of internal audit to advise management and the Board to the Board.
He is a member of the Institute of Chartered on the extent to which systems of internal control are effective Accountants of Scotland and is Group Finance Director of and to provide independent and objective assurance that the Standard Life plc.
He is considered to have the recent and relevant processes by which significant risks are identified, assessed financial experience required for the provisions of the Combined and managed are appropriate and effectively applied.
The other members of the committee have a wide range audit plan, which covers the scope, authority and resources of of business experience, which is evidenced by their biographical the function, is determined through a structured process of risk summaries on page 32.
The Board has reviewed the audit assessment and is approved by the audit committee.
The nature committees composition during the year and is satisfied and scope of the work of the internal audit team was reviewed that it has the expertise and resource to fulfil effectively its and approved, the reports of results received and the responses responsibilities, including those relating to any risk controls.
The plan set out at the beginning of the year was achieved and the outcome of the work was in Meetings line with expectations.
To ensure the independence of the internal The committee invites executive directors, management, audit function, the senior internal auditor has the right of direct external and internal auditors to attend meetings as it considers access to the chair of the committee and to the chairman of the appropriate for the matters being discussed.
The committee Board: this right was not invoked in the year under review.
The receives sufficient, timely and reliable information prior to each head of internal audit has a separate session with the chair of the meeting in order to reach an informed decision on any issue.
audit committee before or after a formal audit committee meeting.
40 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008 09 Corporate governance continued External audit Going concern The committee reviews auditor independence annually.
The In determining whether the Groups annual consolidated financial committee also monitors the cost effectiveness and objectivity of statements can be prepared on a going concern basis, the the external auditors.
The engagement and independence of the directors considered the Groups business activities, together with external auditors is considered annually by the audit committee the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and before it recommends its selection to the Board.
These statements are set out in the Performance review.
has satisfied itself that Deloitte LLP is independent and that there The review also includes the financial position of the Group, its are adequate controls in place to safeguard its objectivity.
To assist cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities.
The key factors in ensuring independence, the role of the audit partner on the considered by the directors were as follows: audit is rotated every five years.
The provision of non-audit services the implications of the challenging economic environment by the external auditors is considered in line with the committees and future uncertainties on the Groups revenues and profits.
The audit committee must approve all services The Group undertakes forecasts and projections of trading and of at least 100,000 and executive approval must be given for all cash flows on a regular basis.
This allows the Group to target approved services of less than 100,000.
The auditor should only performance and identify areas of focus for management: provide non-audit services where such advice does not conflict the impact of the competitive environment within which the with their statutory responsibilities and ethical guidance.
The audit Groups businesses operate: committee has sole authority to approve non-audit services from the potential actions which could be taken in the event that the external auditors.
revenues are worse than expected, to ensure that operating profit and cash flows are protected: During the year, the auditors also provided tax advice.
Auditor the Group has access to overdraft facilities and a committed objectivity and independence was safeguarded through the bank facility to meet day-to-day working capital requirements.
use of a separate tax audit partner.
In addition, the auditors report Following the refinancing of the bank facility in March 2009, the annually on the actions taken to comply with professional and Group has committed bank facilities to July 2012.
In April 2009 regulatory requirements and on current best practice required to the existing facility was reduced from 460m at March 2009 ensure independence.
The audit committee reviewed the external to 305m.
The facility will reduce to 250m in July 2010. auditors proposed plan in November 2008 and their report of May 2009 and has considered the effectiveness of the external audit.
As at the date of this report, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and Group have adequate Operating board resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
The Board delegates responsibility for the management of the Accordingly, the Annual report and financial statements for business to the Operating board, led by the chief executive.
The the 52 weeks ended 28 March 2009 have been prepared on Operating board is comprised of the chief executive, the group the going concern basis.
finance director and the five managing directors with responsibility for the individual business units.
By order of the Board Carol Williams Company Secretary 27 May 2009
