GOVERNANCE The directors recognise the importance of sound corporate the appointment of the Chief Executive, other directors governance, whilst taking into account the size and nature and the Company Secretary: of the company.
The company has fully complied with the major capital investments: annual and half yearly accounts: provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Interim Management Statements: and Corporate Governance Combined Code for the period ended 29 March 2009. acquisitions and disposals.
This statement describes how the principles of corporate Following the appointment of new directors, a full, formal and tailored induction programme is arranged.
governance in the Combined Code are applied by the company.
The board met ten times during the year and all members were in attendance with the exception of Roger Wood and The board the Chairman each of whom were unable to attend one of the The board comprises nine directors: David Newlands, the nonmeetings.
The Senior Independent Director, having discussed executive Chairman, three executive directors, Dominic Taylor, the Chairmans input with him beforehand, chaired the meeting George Earle and Tim Watkin-Rees, and five non-executive which the Chairman was unable to attend.
Where a director directors, Eric Anstee, David Morrison, Andrew Robb, Stephen is unable to attend, he provides input through discussion with Rowley and Roger Wood.
Eric Anstee and Stephen Rowley the Chairman in advance of the meeting.
were appointed as non-executive directors during the year.
Eric Anstee and Stephen Rowleys appointments were made A formal performance evaluation of the board, its committees following a formal and rigorous recruitment process.
When and individual directors took place during the year.
The considering the appointment, the Nomination Committee met, evaluation con rmed that the members of the board were with David Newlands chairing the proceedings.
Kenneth satis ed with the boards overall performance and there were Minton retired as a non-executive director on 9 July 2008. no material changes recommended.
Following Kenneth Mintons retirement, Andrew Robb was appointed as the Senior Independent Director.
The various committees carried out self-assessments to assess whether their terms of reference had been satisfactorily The board considers that David Newlands, Eric Anstee, ful lled and how their processes could be improved.
The nonAndrew Robb, Stephen Rowley and Roger Wood are executive and executive directors performance was reviewed independent for the purposes of the Combined Code.
Given by the Chairman and Chief Executive respectively, taking into the size of the company and its ownership structure, the account the views of other directors.
The performance of the board has concluded that the proportion of independent nonChairman was reviewed by the non-executive directors led by executive directors is appropriate.
Andrew Robb, the Senior Independent Director, also taking into account the views of the executive directors.
Directors All the non-executive directors bring considerable knowledge and of cers liability insurance is maintained to provide cover and experience to board deliberations.
Non-executive directors should a legal action against the companys directors occur.
do not participate in any of the companys share schemes or bonus schemes and their service is non-pensionable.
Committees of the board The following formally constituted committees deal with Biographical details of each of the directors are set out on speci c aspects of the groups affairs in accordance with the page 16.
Procedures exist to allow the directors to seek duties and responsibilities formally delegated to them by the independent professional advice in respect of their duties board.
The terms of reference for each of the committees are at the companys expense where the circumstances are available on the companys website at www.
All directors have access to the Company Secretary for advice and are subject to re-election at intervals Audit Committee of not more than three years.
The Audit Committee comprises Eric Anstee, Andrew Robb, Stephen Rowley and Roger Wood.
It met six times during The terms and conditions of appointment of the non-executive the year.
Eric Anstee was appointed Chairman of the Audit directors and the executive directors service contracts are Committee on 16 September 2008, taking over from Andrew available for inspection at the companys registered of ce Robb who now chairs the Remuneration Committee.
Following during normal business hours and will be available at the his appointment, all meetings were chaired by Eric Anstee, annual general meeting.
whom the board considers to have recent and relevant financial experience.
All members were in attendance with the The Chairman, David Newlands, chairs board meetings and exception of Roger Wood who was unable to attend one of regularly consults with the executive directors regarding the meetings.
His other signi cant commitments are disclosed in his biography on page 16.
The board considers The Audit Committee is primarily responsible for monitoring that these commitments do not hinder his ability to discharge that the financial performance of the group is properly measured his responsibilities to the company and its subsidiaries the and reported and appropriate financial control systems group effectively.
and procedures are in place.
During the year, it: reviewed reports from the auditors relating to the groups accounting The directors believe it is essential for the company to be led and internal controls: advised the board on the appointment, and controlled by an effective board which monitors progress performance, independence and objectivity of the auditors through monthly reports and management accounts.
The and the internal auditor: reviewed the effectiveness of the board has a schedule of matters reserved for its approval.
The groups systems of internal control, including fraud prevention: most signi cant of these are the approval of: reviewed the appropriateness of the internal audit programme and the reports of the internal auditors.
corporate strategy of the group and the annual operating and capital expenditure budgets: 14 2 213614 PAYPOINT P1 56 N. indd 13 13614 PAYPOINT P1 56 N. indd 13 0 02 06 2009 13:50 2 06 2009 13:50
