GOVERNANCE The directors recognise the importance of sound corporate the appointment of the Chief Executive, other directors governance, whilst taking into account the size and nature and the Company Secretary: of the company.
The company has fully complied with the major capital investments: annual and half yearly accounts: provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Interim Management Statements: and Corporate Governance Combined Code for the period ended 29 March 2009. acquisitions and disposals.
This statement describes how the principles of corporate Following the appointment of new directors, a full, formal and tailored induction programme is arranged.
governance in the Combined Code are applied by the company.
The board met ten times during the year and all members were in attendance with the exception of Roger Wood and The board the Chairman each of whom were unable to attend one of the The board comprises nine directors: David Newlands, the nonmeetings.
The Senior Independent Director, having discussed executive Chairman, three executive directors, Dominic Taylor, the Chairmans input with him beforehand, chaired the meeting George Earle and Tim Watkin-Rees, and five non-executive which the Chairman was unable to attend.
Where a director directors, Eric Anstee, David Morrison, Andrew Robb, Stephen is unable to attend, he provides input through discussion with Rowley and Roger Wood.
Eric Anstee and Stephen Rowley the Chairman in advance of the meeting.
were appointed as non-executive directors during the year.
Eric Anstee and Stephen Rowleys appointments were made A formal performance evaluation of the board, its committees following a formal and rigorous recruitment process.
When and individual directors took place during the year.
The considering the appointment, the Nomination Committee met, evaluation con rmed that the members of the board were with David Newlands chairing the proceedings.
Kenneth satis ed with the boards overall performance and there were Minton retired as a non-executive director on 9 July 2008. no material changes recommended.
Following Kenneth Mintons retirement, Andrew Robb was appointed as the Senior Independent Director.
The various committees carried out self-assessments to assess whether their terms of reference had been satisfactorily The board considers that David Newlands, Eric Anstee, ful lled and how their processes could be improved.
The nonAndrew Robb, Stephen Rowley and Roger Wood are executive and executive directors performance was reviewed independent for the purposes of the Combined Code.
Given by the Chairman and Chief Executive respectively, taking into the size of the company and its ownership structure, the account the views of other directors.
The performance of the board has concluded that the proportion of independent nonChairman was reviewed by the non-executive directors led by executive directors is appropriate.
Andrew Robb, the Senior Independent Director, also taking into account the views of the executive directors.
Directors All the non-executive directors bring considerable knowledge and of cers liability insurance is maintained to provide cover and experience to board deliberations.
Non-executive directors should a legal action against the companys directors occur.
do not participate in any of the companys share schemes or bonus schemes and their service is non-pensionable.
Committees of the board The following formally constituted committees deal with Biographical details of each of the directors are set out on speci c aspects of the groups affairs in accordance with the page 16.
Procedures exist to allow the directors to seek duties and responsibilities formally delegated to them by the independent professional advice in respect of their duties board.
The terms of reference for each of the committees are at the companys expense where the circumstances are available on the companys website at www.
All directors have access to the Company Secretary for advice and are subject to re-election at intervals Audit Committee of not more than three years.
The Audit Committee comprises Eric Anstee, Andrew Robb, Stephen Rowley and Roger Wood.
It met six times during The terms and conditions of appointment of the non-executive the year.
Eric Anstee was appointed Chairman of the Audit directors and the executive directors service contracts are Committee on 16 September 2008, taking over from Andrew available for inspection at the companys registered of ce Robb who now chairs the Remuneration Committee.
Following during normal business hours and will be available at the his appointment, all meetings were chaired by Eric Anstee, annual general meeting.
whom the board considers to have recent and relevant financial experience.
All members were in attendance with the The Chairman, David Newlands, chairs board meetings and exception of Roger Wood who was unable to attend one of regularly consults with the executive directors regarding the meetings.
His other signi cant commitments are disclosed in his biography on page 16.
The board considers The Audit Committee is primarily responsible for monitoring that these commitments do not hinder his ability to discharge that the financial performance of the group is properly measured his responsibilities to the company and its subsidiaries the and reported and appropriate financial control systems group effectively.
and procedures are in place.
During the year, it: reviewed reports from the auditors relating to the groups accounting The directors believe it is essential for the company to be led and internal controls: advised the board on the appointment, and controlled by an effective board which monitors progress performance, independence and objectivity of the auditors through monthly reports and management accounts.
The and the internal auditor: reviewed the effectiveness of the board has a schedule of matters reserved for its approval.
The groups systems of internal control, including fraud prevention: most signi cant of these are the approval of: reviewed the appropriateness of the internal audit programme and the reports of the internal auditors.
corporate strategy of the group and the annual operating and capital expenditure budgets: 14 2 213614 PAYPOINT P1 56 N. indd 13 13614 PAYPOINT P1 56 N. indd 13 0 02 06 2009 13:50 2 06 2009 13:50 PayPoint plc The committee considered the level of non-audit fees for board con rms that necessary actions would have been taken services provided by the auditors in order to satisfy itself that to remedy them.
The operational management of the group is the auditors independence is safeguarded.
The group has a delegated to senior managers who are appointed by the Chief policy which prohibits the auditors providing certain services Executive.
The responsibilities of the senior management which might impair their independence.
Proposals to use the group include the regular review of the main business risks auditors for non-audit services are approved by the Audit to the group.
The Audit Committee regularly meets the external auditors without the executive directors being The group has prepared a detailed risk register which includes present and procedures are in place which allows access at analysis of all the main operational risks identi ed by the any time of both external and internal auditors to the Audit senior management group, covering all parts of the groups Committee.
The Chairman of the committee reports the business activities.
The senior management group evaluates outcome of each meeting to the board, which is provided with and prioritises the identi ed key operational risks.
In order to the minutes of all meetings.
ensure that this process is managed effectively, members of the senior management group are asked to con rm in writing on each risk area that the potential threats in each area have Remuneration Committee been properly identi ed and recorded and the appropriate The role, composition and activities of the Remuneration action taken.
This process has been fully embedded into Committee and details of how the company applies the the operations of the business.
The Audit Committee has principles of the Combined Code in respect of directors received regular updates on the ongoing risk management, remuneration are set out in the Remuneration Committee control systems and processes which are discussed at their Report on pages 19 to 24. meetings.
Nomination Committee KPMG is the internal auditor and conducts a rigorous three The Nomination Committee comprises Eric Anstee, Andrew year internal audit programme covering all the groups key Robb, Stephen Rowley, David Morrison, Roger Wood and business areas.
The Audit Committee approved the current David Newlands, who is its Chairman.
It met twice during the programme in 2008 and each year the programme is year and all members were in attendance.
reviewed to ensure that account is taken, where necessary, of any change.
In addition, independent internal audits are The Nomination Committee is responsible for considering conducted for assessment: of compliance with ISO IEC and making recommendations on the appointment of 27001:2005 information security management, which takes additional directors, the retirement of existing directors and for place twice annually: and by LINK auditors, on an annual reviewing the size, structure and composition of the board and basis, which assesses control over LINK related ATM systems: membership of board committees.
The Nomination Committee by independent assessors for Payment Card Industry Data will be undertaking a succession planning exercise during the Security Standard compliance: and audits by our clients from current financial year.
Con icts of interest Shareholder relations The companys articles of association were amended at the The directors consider that the annual report and accounts 2008 annual general meeting, in line with the Companies Act play an important role in providing shareholders with an 2006.
The board has the power to authorise any potential evaluation of the companys position and prospects.
The con icts of interest that may arise and impose such limits board aims to achieve clear reporting of financial performance or conditions as it thinks t. A comprehensive exercise was to all shareholders.
The board acknowledges the importance undertaken to identify the potential and actual con icts of of an open dialogue with its institutional shareholders and interest of the directors and their connected persons.
The welcomes the interest of private investors.
board then reviewed these con icts and approved them excluding the director to whom the potential con ict related.
We believe that in addition to the annual report and the A register of con icts is maintained and will be reviewed at companys website, the annual general meeting is an ideal least annually to ensure all details are kept up to date.
In the forum at which to communicate with investors, and the board future, appropriate authorisation will be sought prior to the encourages their participation.
The Senior Independent appointment of any new director or if any new con icts arise.
Director is available to address unresolved shareholder concerns.
Risk management and internal control The directors are responsible for establishing and maintaining The company held brie ngs with institutional fund managers, the groups system of internal control, and for regularly analysts and other investors following the announcement of reviewing its effectiveness.
Procedures have been designed half yearly results and feedback from these has been reported to meet the particular needs of the group and its risks, to the board.
Presentations have been held at other times safeguarding shareholders investments and the companys during the year when appropriate.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
There is an ongoing process of identifying, evaluating and managing the signi cant risks faced by the group.
All procedures necessary to comply with Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code have been in place throughout the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
The directors have conducted a formal review of the effectiveness of the groups system of internal control during the year.
No signi cant failings or weaknesses were identi ed during the review: however, had there been, the 15 2 213614 PAYPOINT P1 56 N. indd 14 13614 PAYPOINT P1 56 N. indd 14 0 02 06 2009 11:58 2 06 2009 11:58
