Introduction Our strategy Our performance Our impact on society Governance Financial statements Section 5 Governance 45 Executive directors A member of the audit committee.
Rona Fairhead, chairman Robin Freestone, chief John Makinson, chairman A member of the personnel committee.
and chief executive of The financial officer, aged 51, and chief executive of The A member of the nomination Financial Times Group, aged joined Pearson in 2004 as Penguin Group, aged 55, committee.
48, joined the Pearson board deputy chief financial officer joined the Pearson board in in June 2002 as chief and became chief financial March 1996 and was finance financial officer.
She was officer in June 2006, when director until June 2002. appointed chief executive of he also joined the Pearson He was appointed chairman The Financial Times Group board.
He was previously of The Penguin Group in May in June 2006 and became group financial controller 2001.
He is also chairman of responsible for Pearson VUE of Amersham plc now part the Institute for Public Policy in March 2008.
He qualified as a Research, director of The until 2001, she served as chartered accountant with Royal National Theatre and executive vice president, Touche Ross now Deloitte.
trustee of The International group control and strategy at He is also a non-executive Rescue Committee UK.
She is also chairman of director and founder Interactive Data, a nonshareholder of eChem executive director of HSBC Limited.
Holdings plc and chairs the HSBC audit committee.
Non-executive directors Susan Fuhrman, aged 65, Ken Hydon, aged 65, CK Prahalad, aged 68, is president of Teachers is a non-executive director is a distinguished university College at Columbia of Reckitt Benckiser Group professor of corporate University, Americas oldest plc, Royal Berkshire NHS strategy and international and largest graduate school Foundation Trust and business at The University of education and president Tesco plc.
He was previously of Michigan Business School.
of the National Academy financial director of He is a non-executive of Education.
She was Vodafone Group plc and director of NCR Corporation previously dean of the of subsidiaries of Racal and Hindustan Unilever Graduate School of Electronics.
He became a Corporation and director of Education at the University non-executive director of the World Resources Institute of Pennsylvania and on the Pearson in February 2006 and The Indus Entrepreneurs.
board of trustees of the and is chairman of the He became a non-executive Carnegie Foundation for the audit committee.
director of Pearson in Advancement of Teaching.
She became a non-executive director of Pearson in July 2004.
