50 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Board governance continued The committee has written terms of reference which Personnel committee report clearly set out its authority and duties.
These can be i found on the company website at www.
com David Arculus personnel committee chairman investors  governance Members David Arculus, Terry Burns, Ken Hydon Internal control and Glen Moreno The board of directors has overall responsibility for The personnel committee has responsibility for Pearsons system of internal control, which is designed determining the remuneration and benefits packages to manage the risks facing the Group, safeguard assets of the executive directors, the chief executives of the and provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance principal operating companies and other members of the against material financial misstatement or loss.
management committee, as well as recommending the In accordance with the provisions of the Code, chairmans remuneration to the board for its decision.
the directors confirm that they have reviewed the The committee takes independent advice from effectiveness of the Groups internal control system.
No director takes part They also confirm that there is an ongoing process in any discussion or decision concerning their own allowing for the identification, evaluation and remuneration.
The committee reports to the full board management of significant business risks.
This ongoing and its report on directors remuneration, which has process accords with the revised Turnbull guidance and been considered and adopted by the board, is set out has been in place throughout 2009 and up to the date of on pages 56 to 78. approval of this annual report.
The committee met three times during the year, and The Groups internal control framework covers financial, has written terms of reference which clearly set out operational and compliance risks.
Its main features are its authority and duties.
These can be found on the described below: company website at i www.
Board The board of directors exercises its control through an On Terry Burns retirement from the board, Patrick organisational structure with clearly defined levels of Cescau will join the personnel committee.
responsibility and authority and appropriate reporting procedures.
To maintain effective control over strategic, Nomination committee report financial, operational and compliance matters the board meets regularly, and has a formal schedule of matters Glen Moreno nomination committee chairman that is brought to it, or its duly authorised committees, Members Glen Moreno, Marjorie Scardino, David Arculus, for attention.
Responsibility for monitoring financial Terry Burns, Patrick Cescau, Susan Fuhrman, Ken Hydon management and reporting, internal control and risk and CK Prahalad management has been delegated to the audit committee by the board.
At each meeting, the audit committee The nomination committee meets as and when required.
considers reports from management, internal audit The committee primarily monitors the composition and and the external auditors, with the aim of reviewing the balance of the board and its committees, and identifies effectiveness of the internal financial and operating and recommends to the board the appointment of control environment of the Group.
Operating company controls When considering the appointment of a new director The identification and mitigation of major business risks the committee reviews the current balance of skills and is the responsibility of operating company management.
Each operating company, including the corporate Whilst the chairman of the board chairs this committee, centre, maintains internal controls and procedures he is not permitted to chair meetings when the appropriate to its structure and business environment, appointment of his successor is being considered whilst complying with Group policies, standards and or during a discussion regarding his performance.
These controls include those over external financial reporting which are documented and tested in During 2009 the committee met to review succession accordance with the requirements of section 404 of the planning for non-executive and executive board Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which is relevant to our US listing.
positions, as well as board committee assignments.
