33 We take product-related consumer complaints Procurement very seriously and have, year after year, seen Our ethical purchasing policy is based a decline in the number received.
Investment on the Institute of Purchase and Supplys in the latest plant and inspection equipment, recommendation.
Our team of trained auditors better training, procedures and systems have continued working with our suppliers all contribute to this commendable record, to ensure that our needs are fully conveyed.
though it can never be taken for granted.
Our purchasing strategy has served us well, Over the last five years the index of complaints with dual supply for many key materials.
per million units produced has reduced by Where possible, the supply chain is kept 20% and we will continue to apply good to the minimum.
management controls to continue this trend.
From a continuity of supply perspective, where During 2007 our new can-line was sole supply is approved, the supplier provides commissioned in Cumbernauld, providing back-up facilities or safety stock levels to us with a state-of-the-art asset.
It had an protect us from stock shortages.
The efficiency immediate effect, in its first year, of reducing of our factories, with low down time, few errors the complaints arising from this pack-type by and low wastage levels depends upon our over 18%, compared with the same products suppliers success in providing consistent made on the older can-line.
We actively work with our key suppliers through audits and other initiatives to reduce the potential for errors and unnecessary journeys.
We continue to require our suppliers to maintain the GM-free status of our raw materials.
The Quality Please check the Corporate Responsibility Management section of our website www.
co. uk about our corporate social responsibility.
System, BS EN ISO 9001, continues to create the basis for control of our processes.
This system ensures the on-going delivery of our products to a consistent specification and service level.
34 Annual Report and Accounts January 2009 Board of Directors Board of Directors 35 From left to right: 01 JAMES S. ESPEY, B. Com.
A. Hons, ACMA 41 Joined the company in 1999 as a non-executive Joined the company as finance director director.
Currently a non-executive director in June 2008. of Fuller Smith & Turner P. L. C. 06 RONALD G. HANNA, C. A.
44 Joined the company in 2003 as a non-executive Joined the companys Project Engineering director.
Currently chairman of both BowLeven Team in June 1990.
Appointed plc and Glasgow Investment Trust and a director operations director in 2008. of Edinburgh High Income Trust.
WHITE, M. A. Hons 44 07 JONATHAN D. KEMP, B.
A. Hons 37 Joined the company in 2002 as managing Joined the company in 2003 as commercial director.
Appointed director in 1964 and chairman in 1978.
