CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL on ten occasions.
All Directors were present at All Directors are equally accountable for the COMPLIANCE each meeting they were eligible to attend with proper stewardship of the Groups affairs with the exception of Kate Mortimer who was absent the Non-executive Directors having a particular The Board is committed to the highest on two occasions out of a possible attendance responsibility for ensuring that strategies standards of corporate governance with the at three meetings.
In accordance with Group proposed for the development of the business aim of continuing to enhance its effectiveness.
policies the Board has a schedule of matters are critically reviewed.
The Non-executive The Annual Report is the principal means reserved for its decision and delegates more Directors also critically examine the operational of reporting to shareholders on the Boards detailed consideration of certain matters to and financial performance of the Group and fulfil governance policies.
This section sets out Board Committees: to the subsidiary boards of a key role in corporate accountability through how the main and supporting principles of good South West Water and Viridor: to the Executive their membership of the Committees of the corporate governance contained in Section 1 of Directors: and to the Group General Counsel & Board.
In addition the Chairman during the year the Combined Code June 2006 version and also Company Secretary, as appropriate.
Recognising holds meetings with the Non-executive Directors latest June 2008 version have been applied by this policy, the matters reserved to the Board without the Executive Directors present, to the Company in practice.
include the approval of financial statements: discuss performance and strategic issues.
acquisitions and disposals: major items of With the following exceptions between capital expenditure: authority levels for other During the year the Board put in place 15 July and 30 November 2008 inclusive, due to expenditure: risk management: and approval of a procedure for the consideration and the sad death of Kate Mortimer Independent the Strategic Plan and annual operating budgets.
authorisation of conflicts or possible conflicts Non-executive Director, the Company considers with the Companys interests.
This was that it has complied with the provisions of the The Board operates by receiving written reports introduced in accordance with Directors Code throughout the year: circulated in advance of its meetings from the interests provisions in the Companies Act 2006 Executive Directors and the Group General which came into force from 1 October 2008 and only two Directors of the Board out of five, Counsel & Company Secretary on matters followed changes made to the Companys Articles excluding the Chairman, rather than at within their respective business areas in the of Association at last years Annual General least half, were Non-executive Directors Group.
Under the guidance of the Chairman, all Meeting granting Directors authority to approve determined by the Board to be independent matters before the Board are discussed openly such conflicts subject to appropriate conditions.
3.2 and presentations and advice are received on occasions from other senior executives within Group policies allocate the tasks of giving the Remuneration Committees membership the Group or from external advisers.
detailed consideration to specified matters, consisted of only two, rather than at least to monitoring executive actions and to assessing three, independent Non-executive Directors Directors have access to the advice and reward, to the Board Committees as set out below: Code provision B.
2.1 services of the Group General Counsel & Company Secretary and the Board has AUDIT COMMITTEE the Audit Committees membership established a procedure whereby Directors, The Audit Committee was chaired by Gerard consisted of only two, rather than at least in order to fulfil their duties, may seek Connell, who has current and relevant financial three, independent Non-executive Directors independent professional advice at the experience, and the other members of the Code provision C. 3.1.
The training needs of Committee were Kate Mortimer until 15 July Directors are reviewed on a regular basis.
2008, Martin Angle from 1 December 2008 and Dinah Nichols.
During the year the Committee met THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES The Board has an internal procedure to evaluate the on six occasions and all members were present at performance of the whole Board, each Committee, each meeting they were eligible to attend with the THE BOARD the Chairman, each individual Director and the exception of Kate Mortimer who was absent on The Board of Directors at the end of the year Group General Counsel & Company Secretary.
This one occasion out of a possible attendance at two comprised the Chairman, three Executive evaluation procedure was administered for the meetings.
In discharging its Terms of Reference Directors and three Non-executive Directors.
All year by the Group General Counsel & Company the Committee receives reports and meets of the Non-executive Directors are considered Secretary seeking all participants views on a regularly in particular to: to be independent as none of the relationships range of questions which are reviewed each year or circumstances set out in paragraph A.
3.1 and are designed to ensure objective evaluation monitor the integrity of the financial of the Combined Code apply to these Nonof performance.
The participants responses were statements of the Group, including a executive Directors.
They are also considered then summarised and evaluated by the Group review of significant reporting judgements, to have the appropriate skills, experience in General Counsel & Company Secretary for the prior to approval by the Board: their respective disciplines and personality to Board to consider and determine whether any keep under review the effectiveness bring independent and objective judgement to changes were necessary for the Board to be more of the Groups internal controls, the Boards deliberations.
Gerard Connell is the effective.
Overall performance was considered to including all material financial, Senior Independent Non-executive Director.
The be satisfactory but a number of minor issues were operational and compliance controls biographies on page 42 demonstrate a broad identified where changes could be made to improve and risk management systems: range of business and financial experience.
performance including, for example, reducing monitor and review the effectiveness of There is a clear division of responsibilities through delegation the number of administrative the Groups internal audit function and between the roles of Chairman and the Chief type matters that need to be addressed by the approve the annual internal audit plan: Executives of South West Water and Viridor Board to enable the Board to concentrate more review the findings of the internal as recorded in the descriptions of the roles on strategic matters.
The Chairmans performance audit function and review and monitor approved by the Board.
All Directors are subject was evaluated separately by the Non-executive managements responsiveness to such findings: to re-election when they have held office for Directors, led by the Senior Independent Nonoversee the relationship with the external three years.
The Chairmans other significant auditors including their appointment: commitments outside the Group have not changed remuneration: re-appointment: removal: The Directors on the Board during the year were during the year and the Board is satisfied that such the monitoring of their independence and as listed in the emoluments table on page 46 commitments do not prejudice the Chairmans objectivity particularly having regard to Directors remuneration report.
The Board met performance in relation to his Group role.
the supply of any non-audit services by in accordance with its schedule of meetings the auditors: and 50 Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL AUDIT COMMITTEE continued Details of the audit and non-audit fees for CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE receive internal control reports from the 2008 09 are contained in note 6 to the financial The Corporate Responsibility Committee was external auditors and meet with them in the statements on page 72. chaired by Dinah Nichols and also comprised absence of management at least once a year Gerard Connell, Kate Mortimer until 15 July to discuss their remit and any issues arising The Executive Directors, South West Water and 2008, Martin Angle from 1 December 2008 from the audit.
Viridor Finance Directors, the Group Financial and the Chief Executives of South West Water Controller, the Group Internal Auditor and and Viridor.
It met on five occasions during the In addition the Committee periodically the external auditors attend meetings of the year at which all members were present at each reviews the arrangements for and the Committee by invitation.
Both the external and meeting they were eligible to attend, except for effectiveness of the Groups whistleblowing internal auditors have the right of direct access Kate Mortimer on one occasion out of a possible policies details of which are set out on page 34 to the Committee without the presence of any attendance at two meetings.
The Committees of the business review.
Executive Director or other senior management.
duties, in the context of the requirement for companies to conduct their business in The Committee pays particular attention to the In addition to its usual business during the year a responsible manner including in relation independence and objectivity of the auditors.
the Committee considered the guidance from Periodically a review of the provision of external the Financial Reporting Council on challenges to environmental, social and governance audit services is undertaken in accordance with for audit committees arising from current ESG matters, are to review the strategies, guidance issued by the Committee.
The last economic conditions and also received advice policies, management, initiatives, targets and review was undertaken in 2006 when the current from the Group Director of Finance on how to performance of the Pennon Group of companies auditors were appointed following the carrying manage such risks.
The Committee came to the in the areas of occupational health and safety out of a detailed competitive tender process.
conclusion that through the application of the and security: environment: workplace policies: The Committee has an established policy for the Groups risk management policy and with the corporate policies: non-financial regulatory engagement of the auditors for non-audit work internal controls in place the Group was well compliance and the role of the Group in society.
This involves the Group Director of positioned to manage the risks identified.
Finance setting out in a report to the Committee In reporting on corporate responsibility, reasons for appointing the auditors for any REMUNERATION COMMITTEE the Company has sought to comply with material work and obtaining the approval of The Remuneration Committee was chaired by Kate the Association of British Insurers Guidelines the Committee to such appointment which the Mortimer until 15 July 2008 and also comprised on Responsible Investment Disclosure.
The Committee will only grant if it is satisfied that Gerard Connell who was acting Chairman from 15 business review on pages 34 to 38 contains the auditors independence and objectivity are July until 30 November 2008, Martin Angle who details of ESG matters and additional safeguarded.
This is achieved by reviewing the was appointed to the Committee as chairman on information will be contained in the Groups appointment with the auditors as considered 1 December 2008 following his appointment to annual Corporate Responsibility Report.
appropriate and receiving from the auditors at the Board, Ken Harvey until February 2009 and The 2009 Report will be on the Companys the year-end a letter setting out how the auditors Dinah Nichols.
The Committee met on five occasions website at pennon-group.
co. uk in August 2009. believe their independence and objectivity have during the year.
All members were present at been maintained.
In addition the Companys each meeting they were eligible to attend.
The current auditors ensure that the senior partner COMMITTEES TERMS Of REfERENCE Committee is responsible for determining the responsible for the external audit of the Group Groups remuneration policy, remuneration and The Terms of Reference of the Audit, remains responsible for such audit for no more terms of engagement of the Chairman and the Remuneration, Nomination and Corporate than five years and that there is an independent remuneration and terms of employment of the Responsibility Committees are available partner who is involved in planning the audit Executive Directors and senior management of the upon request to the Company Secretary and and in the reviewing of the final accounts of the Group.
Members of the Remuneration Committee are also set out on the Companys website Company including assessing any critical matters do not participate in decisions concerning at pennon-group.
co. uk which may be identified in the audit.
The Directors report on remuneration, which also provides more It is recognised by the Committee that on information on the activities of the Remuneration INTERNAL CONTROL occasion it is necessary to appoint the auditors Committee, appears on pages 43 to 49. to do non-audit work in view of their specialist WIDER ASPECTS Of INTERNAL CONTROL knowledge on such matters as the financial NOMINATION COMMITTEE modelling of Private Finance Initiative PFI The Board is responsible for maintaining the The Nomination Committee was chaired by Ken projects.
There are a limited number of other audit Groups system of internal control to safeguard Harvey and also comprised Kate Mortimer until firms with appropriate PFI project knowledge shareholders investment and the Groups assets 15 July 2008, Martin Angle from 1 December and they are often engaged by other parties to and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system 2008, Gerard Connell and Dinah Nichols.
They would therefore be unable to is designed to manage rather than eliminate the It meets as and when required to select and act for the Company due to conflicts of interest.
risk of failure to achieve business objectives and recommend to the Board suitable candidates for The Companys current auditors were engaged to can only provide reasonable and not absolute appointment as Executive and Non-executive provide non-audit financial advice in connection assurance against material misstatement or Directors, determine the nomination process with the Greater Manchester waste PFI, the fees and review succession plans.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, for which of approximately 1.2 million will be year it met on four occasions to consider the evaluating and managing the significant risks reflected in the total non-audit fees to be paid for annual performance evaluation results for the faced by the Group that has been in place 2009 10.
The auditors are also being considered Committee, to review succession planning throughout the financial year 2008 09 and up for other non-audit work during 2009 10.
The for the Group and to agree and implement to the date of the approval of this Annual Report Committee will be keeping the balance between a selection process for a new Non-executive and Accounts.
audit and non-audit work under close review and Director which involved on external search will ensure, as stated above, that it is satisfied consultancy.
All members were present at the the auditors independence and objectivity are meetings they were eligible to attend except safeguarded before granting permission for Kate Mortimer on one occasion out of a possible non-audit work to be carried out by the auditors.
Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts 51 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL WIDER ASPECTS Of INTERNAL CONTROL d an investment appraisal process for In preparing these financial statements the continued evaluating proposals for all major capital Directors are required to: expenditure and acquisitions, with The Board confirms that it continues to apply select suitable accounting policies defined levels of approval and a system for procedures in accordance with the Combined and then apply them consistently monitoring the progress of capital projects.
Code and the Guidance on Internal Control The Turnbull Guidance which suggests means make judgements and estimates INTERNAL CONTROL REVIEW of applying the internal control part of the which are reasonable and prudent Code.
As part of these procedures the Board An evaluation of the effectiveness of overall state that the financial statements internal control compliance by the Group is has a formalised risk management policy which comply with IFRS as adopted by the provides for the identification of key risks in undertaken in respect of each financial year European Union.
relation to the achievement of the business and subsequently up to the date of this report objectives of the Group.
This policy is applied by to assist the Audit Committee in considering the The Directors confirm that they have complied all business units within the Group in accordance Group internal audit plan for the forthcoming with the above requirements in preparing the with an annual timetable.
financial year and also the business review financial statements.
The Group General Counsel & Company Secretary initially carries RISK IDENTIfICATION The Directors are responsible for keeping out the evaluation with Directors and senior A full risk and control assessment is undertaken proper accounting records which disclose with management for consideration by the Audit annually by the management of each business reasonable accuracy at any time the financial Committee and subsequently for final to identify financial and non-financial risks and position of the Group and the Company and evaluation by the Board.
Each business compiles to enable them to ensure that the financial as part of its regular management reports an statements and the Directors remuneration In addition the Audit Committee regularly enhanced and focused assessment of key risks report comply with the Companies Act 1985 reviews the operation and effectiveness of the against corporate objectives.
The Board at each and, as regards the Group financial statements, internal control framework and annually reviews meeting receives from the Executive Directors article 4 of the International Accounting the scope of work, authority and resources of details of any new high-level risks identified Standards IAS Regulation.
They are also the Companys internal audit function.
The and how they are to be managed, together responsible for safeguarding the assets of Committee reports and makes recommendations with details of any changes to existing risks the Group and the Company and hence for to the Board on such reviews.
The subsidiary Boards taking reasonable steps for the prevention and and up to the date of the approval of the of South West Water and Viridor also receive detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Annual Report and Accounts, both the Audit at each meeting similar reports in respect of Committee and the Board were satisfied with their own areas of responsibility.
All Executive the effectiveness of the risk management policy Directors and senior managers are required RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS and the internal control framework and their to certify on an annual basis that they have operation within the Group.
established effective controls to manage risks The Company maintains a regular dialogue and to operate in compliance with legislation with its institutional shareholders and has a and Group procedures.
All of these processes comprehensive investor relations programme.
GOING CONCERN serve to ensure that a culture of effective control During the year, meetings with institutional and risk management is embedded within the shareholders were held and attended by the The Directors consider, after making organisation and that the Group is in a position Group Director of Finance and the Companys appropriate enquiries, that the Company and to react appropriately to new risks as they arise.
On certain the Group have adequate resources to continue Details of key risks affecting the Group are set occasions the Chairman, the Chief Executive of in operational existence for the foreseeable out in the business review.
South West Water and the Chief Executive of future.
For this reason they continue to adopt Viridor also attended.
The Board encourages the going concern basis in preparing the INTERNAL CONTROL fRAMEWORK the participation of shareholders at the financial statements.
Annual General Meeting and complies with the As well as the risk management policy of the provisions of the Combined Code in respect Group there is an established internal control of relations with shareholders.
In particular, framework which comprises: DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES Non-executive Directors are invited to attend STATEMENT meetings with institutional shareholders and a a clearly defined structure which delegates analysts and brokers briefings.
The Group an appropriate level of authority, The Directors are responsible for preparing Director of Finance reports to the Board the Annual Report, the Directors remuneration responsibility and accountability, including regularly on major shareholders views about the responsibility for internal financial control, report and the financial statements in Company.
In addition, surveys of shareholder accordance with applicable law and regulations.
to management of operating units: opinion conducted, usually on an annual basis, b a comprehensive budgeting and reporting are evaluated and reported on to the Board.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare function with an annual budget approved by the Board of Directors, which also monitors financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared monthly results and updated forecasts for the year against budget: the Group and Company financial statements c documented financial control procedures.
in accordance with International Financial By Order of the Board KEN WOODIER, Group General Counsel Managers of operating units are required to Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the confirm annually that they have adequate European Union.
The financial statements are & Company Secretary 25 June 2009 financial controls in operation and to report required by law to give a true and fair view of the all material areas of financial risk.
Compliance state of affairs of the Group and the Company with procedures is reviewed and tested by the and of their profits and cash flows for the year.
Companys internal audit function: and 52 Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts
